

1 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 557 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths MCKEE, JAMES W

 BODY:
McKEE--James W. James W. McKee Jr. passed away February 27, 2013 in Naples, FL, after a brief illness. The son of James W. and Isabel McKee, he was born in Pittsburgh, August 19, 1922. Business relocation took the family to Montreal in 1934, where Jim graduated with distinction, first from Lower Canada College, and then from McGill University. 
During World War II he was a pilot who served initially as an instructor, before being assigned as a command pilot to the 9th Air Force in England and in France. In 1946 Jim joined Corn Products Refining Company (name changed to CPC International in 1969), a diversified food manufacturer of well known trademarks including Mazola, Hellmann's (mayonnaise), Thomas's (English Muffins), Skippy (peanut butter), and Knorr (soups and sauces), as well as the world's leading corn wet milling company. He spent his first 17 years with CPC on international assignments, primarily in Italy, Brazil and Cuba. In 1969, five years after relocating back to the United States he was appointed company president, followed by the appointment to CEO in 1972, the youngest CEO in the company's history. During his tenure as president and CEO, and until he retired in 1984, the company's sales quadrupled to exceed $4.3 billion and earnings growth compounded at just under 9% per year. In addition to CPC International, Jim served on a number of corporate boards of directors, including Marine Midland Bank, Melville Corporation, CVS, and Singer. He was president of the Conference Board; a member of the Council on Foreign Affairs; head of the Grocery Manufacturer's Association; and head of the American Chamber of Commerce in Brazil in the early 1960's. He served as a trustee for several organizations, including St. Vincents Hospital, The College of New Rochelle, and the Committee for Economic Development, among others. The government of Brazil honored him twice with the country's highest civilian award, the Cruzeiro Do Sul medals for his contributions to Brazil's economy and to Brazilian/American relations. He also received honorary citations from the Geographic Society of Brazil, and the Union Cultural, among others for outstanding contributions. He was awarded an honorary doctorate from St. John's University for his academic and professional contributions in the field of economics, in particular, operating in inflationary environments. In retirement, Jim researched the McKee family genealogy, and self published the results in 2002: The Descendents of William and Mary Wilson McKee. Among his hobbies were his golf game (three holes-in-one), his computer, visiting hardware stores, reading books and newspapers, and managing investments. Jim is survived by his beloved wife of 65 years, Jayne (Finnegan); daughter Bettina McKee of Naples, FL; son James W. McKee III (wife, Pamela) of Charlotte, NC; daughter Sheila McKee of Boston, MA; two grandsons and two great-granddaughters. He was preceded in death by his brother, Robert McKee. A Mass of Christian burial will be held on Monday, March 4, 2013 at 10am at St. William Catholic Church, 750 Seagate Drive, Naples. Interment will be in St. Mary's Cemetery in Greenwich, CT. Donations in Jim's memory may be made to NCH Healthcare System, P.O. Box 413029, Naples, FL 34101; www.NCHmd.org. Online condolences may be made at www.fullernaples.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); NUT & PEANUT BUTTER MFG (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); WET CORN & VEGETABLE MILLING (90%); DRESSING & SAUCE MFG (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (77%); GENEALOGY (77%); AIR FORCES (76%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (75%); FOOD INDUSTRY (74%); WORLD WAR II (71%); ARMED FORCES (70%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (70%); FOOD MFG (69%); COMPANY EARNINGS (65%); GOLF (64%); AWARDS & PRIZES (61%); HARDWARE STORES (50%)

COMPANY: CVS CAREMARK CORP (82%); HSBC BANK USA NA (54%)

TICKER: CVS (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS446110 PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (82%); SIC5912 DRUG STORES & PROPRIETARY STORES (82%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NAPLES, FL, USA (90%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (88%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (93%); QUEBEC, CANADA (88%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) BRAZIL (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (92%); ENGLAND (77%); FRANCE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2013



2 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 5851 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
Art
Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art. A searchable guide to these and many other art shows is at nytimes.com/events.
Museums
American Folk Art Museum: 'Artist and Visionary: William Matthew Prior Revealed' (through May 26) William Matthew Prior (1806-1873), the subject of this fascinating exhibition, painted portraits in the ''American primitive'' mode. His paintings of solemn, pie-faced tots, stiffly posed yet animated by some inner mystery, are especially compelling. But he also had the chops to paint like a well-trained academician. He was an abolitionist too. Some of his best portraits are of black people. He was also into spiritualism, and he was a savvy entrepreneur. He was, altogether, a most remarkable character. 2 Lincoln Square, Columbus Avenue at 66th Street, (212) 595-9533, folkartmuseum.org. (Ken Johnson) 
&#x2605; Brooklyn Museum: 'Life, Death and Transformation in the Americas' (continuing) For generations, one of the first things visitors to Brooklyn Museum encountered was the Hall of the Americas, the two-story rotunda right off the main lobby. And when you were in it, you knew you were home. A few years ago during renovations, the museum put the Americas material in storage, but now it's back in new galleries on the fifth floor. The look is very different -- ultraminimalist Arctic white and sky blue -- but the 102 objects, from a collection that is a jewel in Brooklyn's crown, are utterly gripping. 200 Eastern Parkway, Brooklyn, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Holland Cotter)
&#x2605; Brooklyn Museum: 'Gravity and Grace: Monumental Works by El Anatsui' (through Aug. 4) Born in Ghana and long a resident of Nigeria where he maintains a productive studio, El Anatsui has for the past decade been creating spectacularly large, fabric-like sculpture from countless numbers of liquor-bottle caps linked together with twists of copper. The work weaves together ideas about colonialism, politics and economics, and is absolutely gorgeous. The Brooklyn show, which originated at the Akron Art Museum in Ohio, also includes a number of the artist's earlier and now-overlooked carved wood pieces, which are well worth studying. 200 Eastern Parkway, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; Guggenheim Museum: 'Gutai: Splendid Playground' (through May 8) The first large, in-depth examination of Japan's best-known postwar art movement is a mind-shifting event that brings together all the mediums it encompassed, brilliantly interwoven. The eccentrically made paintings suggest that Japan produced Abstract Expressionism's strongest second generation, the artists who most convincingly and directly extended Pollock's innovative drip technique. But the show reveals little-known precedents for Happenings, Minimalism and various strains of Post-Minimalism. It should permanently dislodge any notion of postwar modernism as a strictly Western phenomenon. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Roberta Smith)
&#x2605; Guggenheim Museum: 'Zarina: Paper Like Skin' (through April 21) ''Paper is an organic material, almost like human skin,'' the artist Zarina Hashmi has said. In her exhibition at the Guggenheim, it's that and more: paper is sculpture, poetry, currency and, above all, a kind of permanent home for a nomadic spirit. Her art speaks poignantly, though sometimes opaquely, of relocation and exile; works like the 2001 woodcut ''Dividing Line'' reference the violent 1947 partition of India and Pakistan, while ''Ten Thousand Things,'' a set of small paper collages recreating works from her oeuvre, nods to Duchamp's museum-in-a-suitcase. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423 3500, guggenheim.org. (Karen Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Guggenheim Museum: 'No Country: Contemporary Art for South and Southeast Asia' (through May 22) American museums are increasingly collecting contemporary art from outside the Western Hemisphere, and the Guggenheim, supported by the financial corporation UBS is leading the pack. This inaugural show in the acquisitions campaign highlights work from South and Southeast Asia. Certain artists -- like Amar Kanwar, from India, and Araya Rasdjarmrearnsook, from Thailand -- have international reputations. Others, like the sculptor Tang Da Wu, from Singapore, and the painter Aung Myint, Myanmar, both born in 1940s, are less familiar. Nearly all the work of the roughly two dozen artists refers in partisan, political and personal ways to specific histories. The inclusion of those histories in our art museums is long, long overdue. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Cotter)
Jewish Museum: 'Sharon Lockhart/Noa Eshkol' (through March 24) Sharon Lockhart's film installation is based on the dances by Noa Eshkol (1924-2007), a little-known (in this country) Israeli choreographer who, along with the architect Avraham Wachman, developed a system that uses numbers and symbols to record body movement. Ms. Lockhart's photographs are of spherical models designed by Ms. Eshkol and Mr. Wachman; ephemera include actual notation, posters announcing Ms. Eshkol's performances and historical photographs. Textile works on display upstairs were made by Ms. Eshkol later in her life. The total functions as a new project by Ms. Lockhart and as a two-person exhibition, a combination of homage and appropriation that both recuperates a ''forgotten'' artist and respectfully presents her work and ideas, while simultaneously mining them to create a new body of artwork. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, (212) 423-3200, thejewishmuseum.org. (Martha Schwendener)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'African Art, New York, and the Avant-Garde' (through Sept. 2) Timed to the centennial of the Armory Show of 1913, this exhibition tells the story of African art's debut in cutting-edge New York museums and galleries with exceptional candor. It makes clear that early-20th-century Americans received Modern art and African art as a single import, derived from French and Belgian colonies, distilled in Paris and presented on these shores by a few tastemaking dealers and collectors. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Matisse: In Search of True Painting' (through March 17) This stunning exhibition skims across the great French modernist's long, productive career with a mere 49 stellar, often pivotal paintings arranged in pairs or groups according to subject. Examining his penchant for working in series and copying his own canvases, they shed new light on the arduous evolution of Matisse's seemingly effortless art, forming one of the most thrillingly instructive exhibitions about the artist, or painting in general, that you may ever see. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'The Path of Nature: French Paintings from the Wheelock Whitney Collection, 1785-1850' (through April 21) ''Sparkle with repose'' was the effect the British artist John Constable said he was after in his landscapes. His French contemporaries had the same idea. Today, Constable's a star. But León Pallière? Adrien Dauzats? Alexandre-Hyacinthe Dunouy? Only wonkish scholars are likely to know their names. Lucky for them, and for us, that one of those scholars is Whitney Wheelock III, who has a passion for French art from the years between neo-classicism and Romanticism, and a special love for gleaming little oil sketches done out of doors. In 2003 he gave his pictures to the Met, where 50 of them, along with some exquisitely funky genre paintings, make up this small gem of a show. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; MoMA PS1: 'Huma Bhabha: Unnatural Histories' (through April 1) In this midcareer survey, long-enduring forms from the ancient world lend some gravity to the throwaway materials that are now commonplace in contemporary sculpture. You could also say that the precariousness of recent assemblage and installation art haunts Ms. Bhabha's monstrous, totemic figures, which are typically made of Styrofoam, clay, rubber, wood scraps and wire mesh; either way, the juxtaposition is arresting. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-2084, momaps1.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; MoMA PS1: 'Thomas Lanigan-Schmidt: Tender Love Among the Junk' (through April 1) Mr. Lanigan-Schmidt makes luminous art out of trash: candy wrappers, cling wrap, reflective plastics, aluminum foil, plastic bottles, beer cans and too many other kinds of cheap refuse to list. As this four-decade retrospective reveals, his devotion to his materials and hobbylike processes has yielded an oeuvre of transcending beauty, eroticized religiosity and poignant autobiography. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-2084, momaps1.org. (Johnson)
MoMA PS1: 'Now Dig This! Art & Black Los Angeles 1960-1980' (through March 11) This exhibition of works by black artists who lived and worked in Los Angeles during a time of revolutionary changes happening in art and society had its debut at the Hammer Museum last year as part of the citywide extravaganza ''Pacific Standard Time: Art in L.A. 1945-1980.'' Focusing mainly on assemblage, the show includes pieces by Melvin Edwards, Betye Saar, David Hammons and nearly 30 others. It contributes a valuable chapter to the American art history of the last 50 years. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-2084, ps1.org. (Johnson)
&#x2605; Morgan Library & Museum: 'Drawing Surrealism' (through April 21) This sensational show of 165 works by 70 artists from 15 countries traces the movement from its early automatist stirrings to the doorstep of Abstract Expressionism. Expanding the field of players with numerous new names, it also has a wonderful clarity, organized according to the techniques that the Surrealists commandeered (collage and photography), breathed life into (frottage, decalcomania and exquisite corpse) and frequently crossbred. It may be among the best encapsulations of Surrealism you will ever see. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 685-0008, themorgan.org. (Smith)
Museum of Modern Art: 'Artist's Choice: Trisha Donnelly' (through April 8) The 10th artist invited to select an exhibition from the Modern's collection does the series proud. Installed in three far-flung galleries within the museum's vaunted painting and sculpture collection, her effort disturbs the march of masterworks by concentrating on photographs, drawings and other works on paper as well as several kinds of design. At every turn it asks what is art, who is an artist and what makes for greatness? (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)
&#x2605; Museum of Modern Art: 'Inventing Abstraction: 1910-1925' (through April 15) The pursuit of the holy grail of early modernism at its most feverish is presented as a multiple-medium, multinational effort in this dizzying, magisterial cornucopia. The 350-plus works by 84 artists encompass painting, sculpture, music, poetry, dance, film and photography; alternate between the tentative and the prescient; and capture something of both the terrors and thrills of the project, with clusters of paintings by Kazimir Malevich and Piet Mondrian among the high points. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)
&#x2605; Museum of Modern Art: 'Edvard Munch: The Scream' (through April 29) A version of Edvard Munch's ''Scream'' is on view at this museum for the next six months, having come almost straight from the auction block. Protected by a Plexiglas box, like the Mona Lisa, it has been given a prominent perch opposite van Gogh's ''Starry Night'' in the fifth-floor painting and sculpture galleries. There is talk of timed tickets. But if you can put up with all the pageantry, you'll have a rare chance to get acquainted with ''The Scream'' in person and in context. The museum has built a mini-exhibition around the work, surrounding it with Munch paintings and prints that amplify its motifs and mood. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Rosenberg)
Museum of Modern Art: 'Projects 99: Meiro Koizumi' (through May 6) It would be hard to find another work of contemporary art that protests war with such soulful grace as Meiro Koizumi's ''Defect in Vision'' (2011), the main attraction of this small show. This 12-minute, black-and-white video dramatizes a final conversation between a kamikaze pilot and his wife, both of whom are blind, as they eat together in a small, old-world-style dining room. It is a riveting meditation on the doomed, myth-saturated mind of Japan's warrior class in the last days of World War II. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Johnson)
Museum of Modern Art: 'Wolfgang Laib: Pollen From Hazelnut' (through March 11) Mr. Laib is the honeybee of the international art world. Since the 1970s, his trademark activity has been gathering pollen from trees and plants in the countryside near his home in southern Germany. He puts the pollen in bottles and flies to distant places around the world to create ephemeral installations of yellow dust on museum and gallery floors and inseminate the minds of his viewers with thoughts of harmony between human civilization and nature. ''Pollen From Hazelnut,'' in MoMA's atrium, is his largest pollen field to date. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Johnson)
Museum of Modern Art: 'Performing Histories (1)' (through Aug. 5) An awareness of the uprisings, protests, occupations and revolutions erupting around the globe is present in ''Performing Histories (1),'' a show of video, film and photographic work recently acquired by MoMA. Insurrection and resistance pervade the Romanian artist Ion Grigorescu's film ''Dialogue With Ceausescu'' (1978), while the feminist personal as political is employed in Martha Rosler's ''She Sees in Herself a New Woman Every Day'' (1976) and Sharon Hayes's four-channel video ''The Interpreter Project'' (2001). Andrea Fraser's two videos connect politics and the museum. In one she describes how scientific philanthropy in the 19th century directed wealth to museums and other public institutions rather than the poor, while another video delves into how MoMA itself interacted with revolutionaries and communists, like the Mexican muralist Diego Rivera. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Schwendener)
Neue Galerie: 'German Expressionism 1900-1930: Masterpieces From the Neue Galerie Collection' (through April 22) German Expressionism was a messy, complicated movement, with numerous stylistic and philosophical variations. It's not easily corralled into a tidy overview, despite the best efforts of the Neue Galerie in this collection show. The installation sorts everything into two groups, using the rubrics of ''primitivism'' and ''modernity.'' ''Primitivism'' seems to mean the gallery of jarringly bright, vigorously brushy paintings by members of the Brücke and the Blaue Reiter; under ''modernity'' are Neue Sachlichkeit portraits by Otto Dix, George Grosz, Christian Schad and others, made with caustic humor and an eye for the grotesque. 1048 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street, (212) 628-6200, neuegalerie.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; New Museum: 'NYC 1993: Experimental Jet Set, Trash and No Star' (through May 26) History is written by the winners, which in contemporary art usually means the market. It's often also written by people who weren't on the scene and have to take the winners' word for what happened and what mattered. Such is the case with this retrospective show that too often favors the currently best-selling survivors of a fraught era over many now less well-known on-the-ground players. There's good art here, but the spirit of a furiously skeptical utopian moment -- very high, very low -- rarely breaks through the institutional nostalgia. And the chance to probe some market myths -- exactly how political was that 1993 ''political'' Whitney Biennial? -- is lost. Like all surveys of the immediate past, ''NYC 1993'' will get everyone kvetching, and it's a must-see, if only to find ways to bring the story into the present differently. Nari Ward's 1993 installation ''Amazing Grace'' in the New Museum's next-door space is for the ages. 235 Bowery, at Prince Street, Lower East Side, (212) 219-1222, newmuseum.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; Rubin Museum of Art: 'Radical Terrain' (through April 29) The third and last of three beautifully produced, back-to-back mini-surveys in the series Modernist Art From India, this exhibition combines landscape painting done in India in the years following independence in 1947 with recent work by young artists -- some South Asian, most not -- that corresponds to or comments on the older art. Small in size and unfamiliar in content, the show is large with history. 150 West 17th Street, Chelsea, (212) 620-5000, rmanyc.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; South Street Seaport Museum: 'Compass: Folk Art in Four Directions' (through March 31) The American Folk Art Museum presents some 200 works from its unparalleled collection in this beautifully orchestrated exhibition. Paintings, sculpture, textiles, scrimshaw, painted furniture and much, much more are arrayed along themes that reflect the history of Lower Manhattan -- seafaring, commerce, social life and that all-important factor, the weather -- but not too tightly. Poetic license is taken, yielding an intricate constellation of connected artworks, histories and concerns that highlights one of the city's great treasures. 12 Fulton Street, Lower Manhattan, (212) 748-8600, southstreetseaportmuseum.org; folkartmuseum.org. (Smith)
&#x2605; Studio Museum in Harlem: 'Fore' (through March 10) In 2001 the Studio Museum in Harlem opened a dynamite group exhibition called ''Freestyle,'' which turned out to be the first in a series of shows introducing emerging artists of African-American descent. In the latest edition, ''Fore,'' organized by three young staff curators, Lauren Haynes, Naima J. Keith and Thomas J. Lax, covers the waterfront in terms of media, which it samples and mixes with turntablist flair, and in its contents, ranging from abstract to personal to political, sometimes combining all three. Firelei Báez, Sadie Barnette, Crystal Z. Campbell, Zachary Fabri, Yashua Klos, Akosua Adoma Owusu, Valerie Piraino and Nikki Pressley are some of the names to look for. 144 West 125th Street, (212) 864-4500, studiomuseum.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; Whitney Museum of American Art: 'Sinister Pop' and 'Dark and Deadpan: Pop in TV and the Movies' (through March 31) The dark and truculent mood of this collection show is conversant with recent presentations of Warhol's death-and-disaster paintings, but the curators make plenty of room for other artists (including photographers). The point is not to cast a pall over Pop as we know it; it's to find common ground between the winking consumerism of early-1960s art and the antiwar, anti-corporate sentiment of work made later in the decade and into the 1970s. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Whitney Museum of American Art: 'Blues for Smoke' (through April 28) As a musical category blues is hard to pin down, and this show makes the job harder, which seems to be its point. It's saying: blues isn't a thing; it's a set of feelings, a state of mind, maybe a state of grace. In origin, it's African-American, developing with gospel and jazz, and folding into R&B, funk and hip-hop. But it has long since become a transethnic, transcultural phenomenon bigger than music, an enveloping aesthetic that includes art. And when you have art by the likes of Zoe Leonard, Kerry James Marshall, Rachel Harrison, Martin Wong, William Pope.L, Alma Thomas, Wu Tsang and David Hammons, you cannot go wrong. Whitney Museum of American Art, (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Cotter)
Galleries: Uptown
A.R. Penck: 'New Paintings' (through next Friday) The most visionary and accessible German Neo-Expressionist painter is showing his best new work in several years, building on his well-known pictographic universe in new ways. It is variously magnified and abstracted, fusing cave painting, Constructivism and Morse code; pulled apart and upholstered with bright colors and elaborated into connected networks that suggest Stuart Davis. ''Land-scape -- Remote'' is especially strong, but the whole show suggests an artist at his ease, with nothing to lose. Michael Werner, 4 East 77th Street, Manhattan, (212) 988-1623, michaelwerner.com. (Smith)
Galleries: Chelsea
Paul Laffoley: 'The Boston Visionary Cell' (through March 9) Judging by his mandala-type compositions on usually square canvases, Mr. Laffoley has yet to encounter a system of mystical thought he could not absorb into his own project. Profusely annotated with press-on vinyl letters, his works refer to a dizzying array of mental adventurers from Socrates to the Theosophist charlatan Madame Blavatsky. This show is an excellent introduction to one of the most unusual creative minds of our time. Kent Fine Art, 210 West 11th Avenue, between 24th and 25th Streets, (212) 365-9500, kentfineart.net. (Johnson)
&#x2605; 'Jean-Michel Basquiat' (through April 6) It is not true that only the good die young, but Jean-Michel Basquiat did at 27 in 1988. He was not only good; at his best he was one of the most original artists of his generation. If that sounds like an extravagant claim, have a look at the high-quality selection of 59 of his bristling, faux-primitive paintings in this show. There is not a lot of art from the '80s that feels this alive today. Gagosian Gallery, 555 West 24th Street, (212) 741-1111, gagosian.com. (Johnson)
&#x2605; 'Distance and Desire: Encounters with the African Archive (Part II: Contemporary Reconfigurations)' (through March 9) Africa is an unstinting source of new photography, of which New York would see little were it not for a few commercial galleries and the Walther Collection. Last fall the Walther, a German foundation with a project space in Chelsea, initiated a series of three consecutive exhibitions under the umbrella title ''Distance and Desire: Encounters With the African Archive.'' The first show included European ethnographic photography. The current one illustrates how much a product of invention and fantasy ethnography can be. The Walther Collection Project Space, 526 West 26th Street, Suite 718, (212) 352-0683, walthercollection.com. (Cotter)
&#x2605; Charlotte Dumas: 'Anima' (through March 9) The sitters for this beautiful show of portraits are Army horses used to pull caissons in military funerals at Arlington National Cemetery. They've been photographed after their workday is over, when they are back in the stable, settling down for the night. Seen under soft light in shadowy stalls they have an archaic, monumental beauty. Classical examples of the portrait genre, the pictures also convey a sense of deep interspecies connection. Julie Saul Gallery, 535 West 22nd Street, sixth floor, (212) 627-2410, saulgallery.com. (Cotter)
&#x2605; Dieter Roth. Björn Roth (through April 13) Concentrating on the collaborations of the Swiss-German maverick Dieter Roth (1930-98) and his son Bjorn, this sprawling show adds a veneer of class to the inauguration of Chelsea's latest oversize trophy gallery. Numerous large, messy works noisily navigate the border between art and life. But the best does so quietly: the 128-monitor video piece ''Solo Scenes'' simply records the elder Roth living out life in his studio-home in Basel. Hauser & Wirth, 511 West 18th Street, (212) 790-3900, hauserwirth.com. (Smith)
Galleries: SoHo
&#x2605; 'Frozen Lakes' (through March 24) The 1977 ''Pictures'' show at Artists Space caught a trend in the bud, with work based on images pulled, with cool detachment, from films, television and magazines. ''Frozen Lakes'' is ''Pictures'' updated for the digital age. Pop culture, drama and coolness are still in play, but the source for much of the imagery is now the Internet. And the emphasis is less on where the images come from than on where they're going and how: everywhere, in continuous data streams. Among the several interesting young artists, Ed Atkins, Charlotte Prodger and James Richards are standouts. Artists Space, 38 Greene Street, at Grand Street, (212) 226-3970, artistsspace.org. (Cotter)
Alexandre Singh: 'The Pledge' (through March 13) One of the first projects done in the United States by the French-born, British-raised artist Alexandre Singh was a sprawling, delirious collaboration with Jonah Freeman and Justin Lowe titled ''Hello Meth Lab in the Sun,'' installed at the Ballroom Marfa in Texas. Mr. Singh's solo exhibition at the Drawing Center is another full-gallery, somewhat psychedelic installation, albeit a considerably more subdued one. Black-and-white inkjet prints of collages that Mr. Singh made in response to interviews with artists and scientists are arranged like maps and schematics on the gallery's walls. It's a sleek display, vibrating with art historical references. But despite the high-tone interview subjects and visual references the show is unsparingly vapid, about as exciting as paging through a design magazine. 35 Wooster Street, Soho, (212) 219-2166, drawingcenter.org. (Schwendener)
&#x2605; 'We Buy White Albums: Rutherford Change' (through March 9) The artist Rutherford Chang has temporarily turned Recess into a record shop, though only one title is in stock, the Beatles's 1968 ''White Album,'' and the shop is buying copies, not selling them, with more than 700 accumulated. Along with the scuff marks of time and use, many of the blank-slate covers carry words and drawings added by past owners. Mr. Chang's project is both an exercise in archiving and an act of creation. He photographs each album on arrival, and after the show is over he will produce a composite image from all the pictures: a new sedimented visual record of a cultural artifact. Recess, 41 Grand Street, (646) 863-3765, recessart.org. (Cotter)
Galleries: Other
'Beat Memories: The Photographs of Allen Ginsberg' (through April 6) During two periods in his life -- from the early 1950s to about 1964 and from the early '80s until his death in 1997 -- the poet Allen Ginsberg made photographs and added handwritten captions. Images of his now famous pals, including the writers Jack Kerouac, William Burroughs and Gregory Corso, as well as Neal Cassady, their logorrheic muse, make this show required viewing for Beat fans. Grey Art Gallery, New York University, 100 Washington Square East, Greenwich Village, (212) 998-6780, nyu.edu/greyart. (Johnson)
'The Eye Is Part of the Mind: Drawings From Life and Art by Leo Steinberg' (through March 9) As a precocious adolescent, the fabled art historian Leo Steinberg studied drawing at the Slade School of Fine Art in London and continued to draw almost up to the time of his death two years ago, at 90. He pooh-poohed his draftsmanship as conservative, but he also preserved examples and brought them out to share with colleagues and friends. Now two of those collegial friends, David Cohen and Graham Nickson, have selected some 60 figurative drawings for a tribute. The exhibition takes its title from a 1953 essay in which Steinberg argued against formalist abstraction, then dominant, as the be-all of art, and for the continuing connection of art to life. He practiced what he preached in his work. Here's the proof. New York Studio School, 8 West Eighth Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 673-6466, nyss.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; Simon Dinnerstein: 'The Fulbright Triptych' (ongoing) This little-known masterpiece of 1970s realism was begun by the young Simon Dinnerstein during a Fulbright fellowship in Germany in 1971 and completed in his hometown, Brooklyn, three years later. Incorporating carefully rendered art postcards, children's drawings and personal memorabilia; a formidable worktable laid out with printmaking tools and outdoor views; and the artist and his family, it synthesizes portrait, still life, interior and landscape and rummages through visual culture while sampling a dazzling range of textures and representational styles. It should be seen by anyone interested in the history of recent art and its oversights. German Consulate General, 871 United Nations Plaza, First Avenue, at 49th Street, (212) 610-9700, germany.info. (Smith)
Out of Town
&#x2605; Massachusetts Museum of Contemporary Art: 'Oh, Canada' (through April 8) Seesawing between bigness and intimacy, the personal and the communal, this 62-artist survey of contemporary art in the Great White North may tell you more about Canada's identity crisis than it does about Canadian art. A sense of place, if not nationhood, does emerge in stark photographs of Newfoundland by Ned Pratt and Kim Morgan's hanging latex cast of a lighthouse on Prince Edward Island. Elsewhere, cartoonlike pencil drawings by Annie Pootoogook and Shuvinai Ashoona depict contemporary Inuit life and the artist Amalie Atkins stars in a prairie fairy tale involving musical wolves and bears with golden teeth. 87 Marshall Street, North Adams, (413) 662-2111, massmoca.org. (Rosenberg)
Smithsonian American Art Museum: 'The Civil War and American Art' (through April 28) On the surface, this probing, perspective-altering exhibition, one of many events commemorating the 150th anniversary of the Emancipation Proclamation, looks straightforward, even ordinary. We know most of the paintings and photographs on sight; they're classics. What we know less well is their meaning within the context of the nation's single greatest internal catastrophe, and that's what the show is about. It travels to the Metropolitan Museum of Art this spring, running from May 21 to Sept. 2. Eighth and F Streets NW, Washington, (202) 633-7970, americanart.si.edu. (Cotter)
&#x2605; Smithsonian American Art Museum: 'Nam June Paik: Global Visionary' (through Aug. 11) Including a large and fascinating trove of material from the Nam June Paik archive, acquired by the Smithsonian from the artist's estate in 2009, this survey of the avant-garde musician, multimedia wizard and video art pioneer (1932-2006) looks startlingly current despite the preponderance of analog televisions and other obsolete hardware. It makes clear that contemporary artists like Christian Marclay, Jon Kessler, Cory Arcangel, Ryan Trecartin and Haroon Mirza owe a great deal to Mr. Paik's tweaked TV sets and frenetic, technically innovative videos. Eighth and F Streets NW, Washington, (202) 633-1000, americanart.si.edu. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Yale University Art Gallery (continuing) In a museum era dominated by vying forces of bad economics and compulsive building, it's a miracle when something comes out right, which makes the opening of the splendidly renovated and expanded Yale University Art Gallery a happy event. The angels of art, design and budgetary planning were on duty. Everything worked. The country's oldest university art museum has arrived at a kind institutional ideal of opposites in balance: an encyclopedic teaching museum, big enough to get lost in, small enough for intimate art encounters. New galleries of Indo-Pacific art are a particular attraction, but so are other collections, including one of the countries premier holdings in American art and a small, matchless display of very early Italian Renaissance painting. A special exhibition, ''Societe Anonyme: Modernism for America,'' made up of Yale-owned material, is on view through July 14. 1111 Chapel Street, New Haven, (203) 432-0600, artgallery.yale.edu. (Cotter)
Last Chance
Gayleen Aiken: 'Cousins, Quarries and a Nickelodeon' (closes on Saturday) The self-taught artist Gayleen Aiken (1934-2005) has been called the Grandma Moses of Vermont. In paintings, drawings and notebooks, she chronicled life in her hometown, Barre. Local quarries; grand old houses; musical instruments; festive gatherings; domestic disasters; children with maniacal toothy smiles: how many of these and other subjects were real and how many fictitious is hard to say, but she conjured her small-town world with charming conviction. Luise Ross, 511 West 25th Street, Chelsea, (212) 343-2161, luiserossgallery.com. (Johnson)
Martin Soto Climent: 'Mariposas Migratorias (Migratory Butterflies)' (closes on Saturday) Martin Soto Climent, who is from Mexico City, is a Conceptual sculptor in the mold of Gabriel Orozco and Damián Ortega; his works, like theirs, often produce succinct poetry from the slightest recontexualizations, juxtapositions and alterations of found objects. That's almost the case in his latest solo show, where the primary material (automobile windshields) and the key metaphor (migratory butterflies) never quite connect. Clifton Benevento, 515 Broadway, between Spring and Broome Streets, SoHo, (212) 431-6325, cliftonbenevento.com. (Rosenberg)
Song Dong: 'Doing Nothing' (closes on Saturday) The artist's first New York gallery show (spread through two of Pace Gallery's three spaces on West 25th Street) mostly retraces his early days as a pioneer of the Chinese branch of international Conceptualism with competent if generic videos and photographic pieces that seem slicked up for their current presentation. Best is a quasi-stop-action video of ''Doing Nothing,'' the wonderful temporary earthwork Mr. Song contributed to last summer's Documenta 13. Some artists are strongest in the festival format. Pace Gallery, 534 West 25th Street, Chelsea, (212) 929-7000, pacegallery.com. (Smith)
&#x2605; Giorgio Griffa: 'Fragments, 1968-2012' (closes on Saturday) This Italian painter's second New York gallery show comes 43 years after his first, reintroducing his subtle, stripped-down works on raw, unstretched, visibly folded canvas. With cryptic batches of repeating lines and strokes in glowing colors, they test how little it takes for something to qualify as a painting. Their spare, idiosyncratic beauty expands the history of Arte Povera and resonates with much abstract painting today. Casey Kaplan, 525 West 21st Street, Chelsea, (212) 645-7335, caseykaplangallery.com. (Smith)
'Mara Held' (closes on Saturday) Ms. Held's abstract paintings are jammed with multilayered patterns -- floral, watery, geological and gridded -- and irradiated within by spacey colored lights. Reflecting an eclectic array of aesthetic inspirations, including Art Nouveau, Japanese woodcuts, Paul Klee, Op Art and psychedelic posters, they have a lithe, improvisational fluidity, each one an adventure for the senses and the imagination. Gary Snyder, 529 West 20th Street, Chelsea, (212) 929-1351, garysnyderart.com. (Johnson)
&#x2605; 'Sure Sure Davi Det Hompson: 1976-1995' (closes on Saturday) This mini-retrospective of Davi Det Hompson (a nom d'art for David E. Thompson, who died in 1996 at 57), a Fluxus text and mail artist turned abstract painter, mixes wry text pieces from the 1970s with later paintings in encaustic on shaped slabs of concrete or burlap-covered wood. The texts feature conversations among artists, collectors and academics; they are appropriately sardonic, but also, in their way, inspirational. ZieherSmith, 516 West 20th Street, Chelsea, (212) 229-1088, ziehersmith.com. (Rosenberg)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (97%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); PAINTING (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); SCULPTURE (79%); EXHIBITIONS (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); AKRON, OH, USA (51%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (90%); GHANA (76%); NIGERIA (76%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2013



3 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1122 words

HEADLINE: European Union Moves Toward Bonus Cap for Bankers

BYLINE: By JAMES KANTER and DAVID JOLLY. 
David Jolly contributed reporting from Paris.

 BODY:
BRUSSELS -- The European Union took a big step Thursday toward putting strict limits on the bonuses paid to bankers, hoping to discourage the risk-taking behavior that set off the financial crisis.
If the measure, opposed by the British government, becomes European law, the coveted bonuses that many bankers receive would be capped at no more than equal to their annual salaries, starting next year. Only if a bank's shareholders approved could a bonus be higher -- and even then it would be limited to no more than double the salary.
The move, part of a package of banking regulations known as Basel III that is aimed at reducing the danger of big bank failures, was hailed Thursday by some European lawmakers.
''We've achieved the most comprehensive banking reform in the European Union,'' said Othmar Karas, an Austrian member of the European Parliament who helped find a compromise in a late-night negotiating session with representative from E.U. member states and the European Commission. 
A majority of the Union's 27 member nations would need to approve the rules for them to take effect.
The agreement, which would also apply to those working at overseas offices of European banks, is a potential blow to Britain. Its economy partly relies on generous remuneration packages to ensure that the City of London remains the biggest financial center in Europe and serves as an overseas base for big banks from the United States and Asia.
''We need to make sure that regulation put in place in Brussels is flexible enough to allow those banks to continue competing and succeeding while being located in the U.K.,'' David Cameron, the British prime minister, said Thursday while visiting Riga, the capital of Latvia.
Mr. Cameron said Britain would ''look carefully'' at the final proposal before deciding how it would address the issue with other European governments.
The agreement on the proposed banking rules reflects the global backlash against the lavish compensation in the financial sector that many politicians say rewarded risky trading and investments that triggered the financial crisis. Voters in Switzerland, which is not an E.U. member, will go to the polls this weekend for a referendum that will decide whether shareholders should have more control over executive compensation.
The limits on bonuses would also apply to bankers employed by E.U. banks but working outside the bloc, in New York, for example. The E.U. authorities are drafting separate rules that could restrict remuneration at private equity firms and hedge funds.
''This legislation was resisted tooth and nail by the industry,'' said Philippe Lamberts, a Belgian member of the Parliament's Green bloc.
While the battle has often been portrayed as pitting Britain against the Continent, Mr. Lamberts said, the reality has been that ''many in Paris, as well as Frankfurt and Berlin, were not too happy'' about what was happening in Parliament, but were glad to let Britain take the heat for leading the opposition.
The law is intended to reduce the financial incentives that led bankers to take risky bets, like those made on subprime housing debt in the United States during the credit bubble. But some critics of the legislation have warned that institutions might defeat the intent of the legislation by simply raising bankers' base pay.
Mark Boleat, the policy chairman at the City of London Corp., which is the voice of London's financial center, said Thursday that ''removing flexibility from pay arrangements in this highly cyclical industry would seem counterintuitive, especially if it leads to higher fixed salaries.''
Some bankers said the rule posed the question of why the bonus cap would not apply to other industries where staff members stand to gain large bonuses. Stephen Hester, the chief executive of Royal Bank of Scotland, told BBC radio on Thursday morning that he did not think ''bankers should be treated as special creatures in any way.''
''Perhaps one of the problems of the past was bankers got to a point where they thought they were special creatures,'' Mr. Hester said. ''So I think we should apply rules to anyone whatever these rules may be.''
One senior executive based at a major European bank in Hong Kong, who declined to be identified by name because he was not authorized to speak to the news media, said a move to higher base salaries might have unintended consequences for employees, as it ''would make us less flexible and in the event of a downturn we could end up having to put more people out into the street.''
Before the proposal can become law, a majority of E.U. states must give their final approval, and there are expected to be more discussions about important details by the European Parliament and individual governments.
Mr. Karas, of Austria, acknowledged that more work lay ahead, with a need for technical working groups to put it into a text that ''holds water legally.'' Legislators said they would work to ensure that bankers did not get around the rules by using signing bonuses, exit payments or contract buyouts.
Michael Noonan, the finance minister of Ireland, which holds the rotating E.U. presidency, said Thursday that he would present the plan at a meeting of European finance ministers next week.
As it stands, the proposal would mandate a maximum bonus-to-salary ratio of one to one as the standard remuneration limit. That could be raised to two to one if approved by shareholders.
An E.U. diplomat emphasized that a significant amount of technical work needed to be done before the rules were made final by governments. The diplomat, who spoke on the customary condition of anonymity, said the final rules would contain a review clause requiring the authorities to assess whether the rules were damaging the banking sector.
The diplomat said that no date had been fixed for the review, but that it could be done over the coming weeks.
To address concerns that putting a cap on bonuses could mean that bankers would migrate elsewhere, lawmakers emphasized that the proposal would monitor any such side effects and, if necessary, allow scope for remedies.
''If the bonus cap is shown to cause bankers to begin relocating outside the E.U., then we will have the ability to swiftly look again at the provisions in place through an early review,'' said Vicky Ford, a member of the British Conservatives in the European Parliament.
Alex Beidas, a lawyer based in London with the law firm Linklaters, warned that the legislation signified ''a major disadvantage in the global market'' for banks, and she said there was ''a real danger that this will result in bankers moving to the U.S. and Asia.''
David Jolly reported from Paris. Julia Werdigier contributed reporting from London and Neil Gough from Hong Kong.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EUROPEAN UNION (93%); BANKING & FINANCE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); BANKING LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); APPROVALS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (76%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (73%); POLITICS (73%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); REFERENDUMS (67%); PRIVATE EQUITY (62%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (56%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (55%)

PERSON: DAVID CAMERON (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (91%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); BASEL, SWITZERLAND (79%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); BELGIUM (93%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); AUSTRIA (79%); FRANCE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); ASIA (79%); LATVIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2013



4 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 839 words

HEADLINE: The Learning Virtues

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
Jin Li grew up in China during the Cultural Revolution. When the madness was over, the Chinese awoke to discover that far from overleaping the West, they were ''economically destitute and culturally barren.'' This inspired an arduous catch-up campaign. Students were recruited to learn what the West had to offer.
Li was one of the students. In university, she abandoned Confucian values, which were then blamed for Chinese backwardness, and embraced German culture. In her book, ''Cultural Foundations of Learning: East and West,'' she writes that Chinese students at that time were aflame -- excited by the sudden openness and the desire to catch up. 
Li wound up marrying an American, moved to the States and became a teacher. She was stunned. American high school students had great facilities but didn't seem much interested in learning. They giggled in class and goofed around.
This contrast between the Chinese superstudent and the American slacker could be described with the usual tired stereotypes. The Chinese are robots who unimaginatively memorize facts to score well on tests. The Americans are spoiled brats who love TV but don't know how to work. But Li wasn't satisfied with those clichés. She has spent her career, first at Harvard and now at Brown, trying to understand how Asians and Westerners think about learning.
The simplest way to summarize her findings is that Westerners tend to define learning cognitively while Asians tend to define it morally. Westerners tend to see learning as something people do in order to understand and master the external world. Asians tend to see learning as an arduous process they undertake in order to cultivate virtues inside the self.
You can look at the slogans on university crests to get a glimpse of the difference. Western mottos emphasize knowledge acquisition. Harvard's motto is ''Truth.'' Yale's is ''Light and truth.'' The University of Chicago's is ''Let knowledge grow from more to more; and so be human life enriched.''
Chinese universities usually take Confucian sayings that emphasize personal elevation. Tsinghua's motto is ''Strengthen self ceaselessly and cultivate virtue to nurture the world.'' Nanjing's motto is ''Be sincere and hold high aspirations, learn diligently and practice earnestly.''
When Li asked Americans to randomly talk about learning they used words like: thinking, school, brain, discovery, understand and information. Chinese, on the other hand, tended to use phrases common in their culture: learn assiduously, study as if thirsting or hungering, be diligent in one's learning.
In the Western understanding, students come to school with levels of innate intelligence and curiosity. Teachers try to further arouse that curiosity in specific subjects. There's a lot of active learning -- going on field trips, building things. There's great emphasis on questioning authority, critical inquiry and sharing ideas in classroom discussion.
In the Chinese understanding, there's less emphasis on innate curiosity or even on specific subject matter. Instead, the learning process itself is the crucial thing. The idea is to perfect the learning virtues in order to become, ultimately, a sage, which is equally a moral and intellectual state. These virtues include: sincerity (an authentic commitment to the task) as well as diligence, perseverance, concentration and respect for teachers.
In Chinese culture, the heroic scholar may possess less innate intelligence but triumphs over hardship. Li cites the story of the scholar who tied his hair to a ceiling beam so he could study through the night. Every time his head dropped from fatigue, the yank of his hair kept him awake.
Li argues that Westerners emphasize the Aha moment of sudden insight, while Chinese are more likely to emphasize the arduous accumulation of understanding. American high school students tease nerds, while there is no such concept in the Chinese vocabulary. Western schools want students to be proud of their achievements, while the Chinese emphasize that humility enables self-examination. Western students often work harder after you praise them, while Asian students sometimes work harder after you criticize them.
These cultures are surprisingly enduring, Li notes, even with all the cross-pollination that goes on in the world today. Each has its advantages. I'm mostly struck by the way the intellectual and moral impulses are fused in the Chinese culture and separated in the West.
It's easy to see historically why this came about. Hellenic culture emphasized skeptical scientific inquiry. With us, religion and science have often been at odds. We're a diverse society, so it's easier to teach our common academic standards in the classroom and relegate our diverse moralities to the privacy of the home.
I'd just note that cultures that do fuse the academic and the moral, like Confucianism or Jewish Torah study, produce these awesome motivation explosions. It might be possible to champion other moral/academic codes to boost motivation in places where it is absent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (77%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%) JIANGSU, CHINA (58%); ILLINOIS, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2013



5 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 981 words

HEADLINE: Bills on Cuts Compete, and Both of Them Lose

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WEISMAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Senate on Thursday shot down competing bills to undo -- or at least mitigate the impact of -- across-the-board spending cuts in a desultory bit of political theater that ensured the cuts would go into force Friday with a partisan blame game in full tilt.
The votes were all but designed to fail. Democrats assembled legislation to replace $85 billion in cuts this year with a mix of tax increases on the rich, corporate taxes and cuts to military and agriculture subsidies with no consultations with Republicans. Republicans, internally divided but desperate for some alternative to the Democratic approach, offered legislation that would have locked in the cuts but would have given President Obama near carte blanche to decide how to mete them out. 
And fail they did. The Republican bill received only 38 votes out of the 60 needed to be considered for final passage, losing 9 Republican senators. The measure failed, 62 to 38, with two Democrats voting yes. The Democratic bill barely garnered a majority, 51 votes, but needed 60 under the rules adopted beforehand.
Even if either had passed, House leaders had sent members home for the weekend by lunchtime and would not have been available to approve a final deal.
''I cannot tell you how disgusted I am that when it comes time to cut, because a bunch of politicians can't get an agreement, we fire the soldiers, keep the politicians,'' said Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, who voted against both bills.
That, too, was theater. The cuts that will hit Friday expressly spare uniformed military personnel. But by the time the final tally was called, no one was taking seriously efforts to head off the cuts. Even a scheduled meeting Friday at the White House between Congressional leaders and the president seemed more about going through the motions than finding a quick solution.
''I'm happy to talk to the president. I'm happy to work with the president, but the House has done its job,'' Speaker John A. Boehner said Thursday, pointing to two bills passed by the last Congress that are technically defunct. He reiterated his position on further tax increases: ''The revenue issue is now closed.''
The president tried to keep the pressure on ahead of the Friday meeting, even after the Senate votes. ''As a nation, we can't keep lurching from one manufactured crisis to another,'' he said in a statement. ''Middle-class families can't keep paying the price for dysfunction in Washington. We can build on the over $2.5 trillion in deficit reduction we've already achieved, but doing so will require Republicans to compromise. That's how our democracy works.''
Attention instead turned to the next Washington budget deadline, March 27, when the current stopgap spending measure expires and the government runs out of money.
House Republican leaders, eager to avert a government shutdown that would only compound the effects of the across-the-board cuts, plan to vote next week on a measure to finance the government through the rest of the fiscal year at the levels of the cuts, known as sequestration, or roughly $970 billion.
That leaves Senate Democrats with a difficult choice: Go along with the House's legislation and keep the government open, or insist that the next spending measure address the across-the-board cuts and risk a shutdown.
Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, said he would wait to see what the House produces next week, but suggested that he would like to use the March 27 deadline to revisit the sequestration cuts. ''It would be so easy to do,'' he said.
In fact, nothing has been easy. With time running out, Republicans and Democrats denounced the cuts, but divisions made action impossible. By Thursday, so many Republicans were wedded to the depth of the cuts, if not how they should be distributed, that party leaders settled on legislation that would have given Mr. Obama extraordinary powers to set the course of the federal government over the next seven months, as long as he hit the $85 billion target and Congress did not veto his broad plan.
Democrats and the White House rejected it as a buck-passing exercise intended to saddle Mr. Obama with the political consequences of the cuts.
''While no amount of flexibility can avoid the fact that middle-class families will bear the brunt of the cuts required by this bill, nothing is asked of the wealthiest Americans,'' the White House said. ''There is no way to cut spending this dramatically over a seven-month period without drastically affecting national security and economic priorities.''
But Republican defense hawks were incensed by it, too.
''We're going to go through a charade here,'' Senator John McCain of Arizona said.
The Republican bill lost pro-defense senators like Mr. McCain and Mr. Graham but also strict readers of the Constitution, like Ted Cruz of Texas, Mike Lee of Utah and Rand Paul of Kentucky, Republicans who saw it as an unconstitutional transfer of power to the executive.
The Democratic position was not much more realistic. The bill ostensibly replaced this year's cuts with a new minimum tax on income over $1 million, other smaller tax measures, eliminating some farm subsidies and cutting defense in 2014, after most troops are out of Afghanistan.
But the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office ruled that the bill would increase budget deficits by $7.2 billion over 10 years, relative to sequestration.
''It isn't a plan at all,'' said Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader. ''It's a gimmick. For the president and his allies, that's the point. They want it to fail, so they can go around the country blaming Republicans.''
Three Democrats voted no: Senators Kay Hagan of North Carolina, Mary L. Landrieu of Louisiana and Mark Pryor of Arkansas, all of whom are up for re-election next year. Mr. Reid later switched his vote to no for parliamentary reasons.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: From top, Senators Lindsey Graham of South Carolina and John McCain of Arizona, both Republicans, and Harry Reid of Nevada, the Democratic leader. Mr. Graham declared he was ''disgusted.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES
 CHRISTOPHER GREGORY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); APPROVALS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); FAMILY (66%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (55%); AGRICULTURE (55%)

PERSON: LINDSEY GRAHAM (78%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); HARRY REID (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (57%); JOHN BOEHNER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2013



6 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 786 words

HEADLINE: Many Steps to Be Taken When 'Sequester' Is Law

BYLINE: By MICHAEL D. SHEAR

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- At some point on Friday (no one will say precisely when), President Obama will formally notify government agencies that an obscure process known as sequestration is in effect, triggering deep, across-the-board budget cuts that will force federal spending to shrink.
At that moment, somewhere in the bowels of the Treasury Department, officials will take offline the computers that process payments for school construction and clean energy bonds to reprogram them for reduced rates. Payments will be delayed while they are made manually for the next six weeks. 
Hours later, employees at the Environmental Protection Agency will open e-mails notifying them of the bad news: a forced furlough of up to 13 days in the weeks ahead.
And over at the Department of Housing and Urban Development, officials will spend the weekend mailing out letters to governors in all 50 states showing how much their grants will be reduced in the coming days and weeks.
Created by desperate politicians in Washington to force themselves to find a smarter way to cut government, the ''sequester'' will instead become the law of the land as a result of a failure of Mr. Obama and congressional Republicans to compromise.
But the law does not create an immediate spending crisis or government shutdown like the ones that have loomed over so many of the previous budget fights in Washington. On Friday, the immediate impact on most Americans will be exactly nothing.
Federally funded day care programs will continue to operate. National parks will stay open. Government employees will continue to report to work. Border patrol agents will do their best to prevent illegal crossings. Experts do not expect the stock market to flinch.
It will be, Mr. Obama said Wednesday night, more of a ''tumble downward'' than a quick descent into budgetary nightmare. ''It's conceivable that in the first week, the first two weeks, the first three weeks, the first month, a lot of people may not notice the full impact of the sequester,'' Mr. Obama told a group of business officials.
That might not be entirely true, as Mr. Obama noted, for some pockets of American society: companies who do business directly with the Defense Department, families who live near military installations and parents who rely on federally funded child care will be affected. Federal workers may soon face effective cuts of 10 percent or more in their salaries this year.
But even there, officials conceded this week, the specific impacts are more fuzzy than the aggregate ones. Ask officials about which contracts will be cut or which services will be trimmed back, and there are long pauses and blank looks.
''The impacts of sequester are real,'' Jay Carney, the White House press secretary, said again and again to reporters on Thursday. ''These are about real issues. These are about the concrete effects of policies on people's lives.''
But who? Which agencies? What contracts?
Under the barrage of questions, Mr. Carney managed to come up with reduced funding for school children in Ohio.
But which children? Those who live in Columbus or Cincinnati? Officials at the White House, the Office of Management and Budget and the Education Department cannot answer with that kind of specificity.
White House officials become indignant with suggestions that Mr. Obama and his top lieutenants might have hyped the devastation wrought by the automatic cuts. At his briefing, Mr. Carney insisted that the administration had been transparent.
''You know, we've been very clear,'' he said. ''What the president said last night is that -- you know, and I think what other people have said -- is that this will be a rolling impact, an effect that will build and build and build.''
Strategists in the West Wing are betting that the growing impact of the budget cuts -- including what they expect will be a hit to the nation's already slow economic growth rate -- will eventually bring Republicans to the table for a deal.
It may take some time. Even the most direct impact on federal workers -- the forced furloughs -- will not happen in most cases for 30 or 60 days, after government managers have concluded negotiations with the unions that represent workers.
A letter sent to employees at the Justice Department, for example, is filled with legalese. ''This memorandum notifies you that the Department of Justice (DOJ) proposes to furlough you no earlier than 30 days from receipt of this notice,'' it said.
More letters like that are coming once Mr. Obama signs the letter making sequestration official.
And when, exactly, will that happen?
''It has to be done by 11:59 p.m. tomorrow,'' Mr. Carney told reporters, joking that it would be at ''11:59 and 59 seconds, because he's ever hopeful.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (77%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (76%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (73%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); FAMILY (73%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); NATIONAL PARKS (70%); BORDER CONTROL (70%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (65%); CITIES (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2013



7 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1612 words

HEADLINE: In California, What Price Water?

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER

 BODY:
CARLSBAD, Calif. -- On a calm day, a steady rain just about masks the sound of Pacific Ocean water being drawn into the intake valve from Agua Hedionda Lagoon. Listen hard, and a faint sucking sound emerges from the concrete openings, like a distant straw pulling liquid from a cup.
At the moment, the seawater is being diverted from the ocean to cool an aging natural-gas power plant. But in three years, if all goes as planned, the saltwater pulled in at that entryway will emerge as part of the regional water supply after treatment in what the project's developers call the newest and largest seawater desalination plant in the Western Hemisphere.
Large-scale ocean desalination, a technology that was part of President John F. Kennedy's vision of the future half a century ago, has stubbornly remained futuristic in North America, even as sizable plants have been installed in water-poor regions like the Middle East and Singapore. 
The industry's hope is that the $1 billion Carlsbad plant, whose builders broke ground at the end of the year, will show that desalination is not an energy-sucking, environmentally damaging, expensive white elephant, as its critics contend, but a reliable, affordable technology, a basic item on the menu of water sources the country will need.
Proposals for more than a dozen other seawater desalination plants, including at least two as big as Carlsbad -- one at Huntington Beach, 60 miles north of here, and one at Camp Pendleton, the Marine Corps base -- are pending along shorelines from the San Francisco Bay Area southward. Several of these are clustered on the midcoast around Monterey and Carmel.
The San Diego County Water Authority has agreed to buy at least 48,000 acre-feet of water from the plant each year for about $2,000 an acre-foot. An acre-foot equals about 326,000 gallons, roughly enough for two families of four for a year. The authority has made a long-term bet that those costs -- now double those of the most readily available alternative -- will eventually be competitive. But it still means the authority will pay more than $3 billion over 30 years for only about 7 percent of the county's water needs.
As Sandra Kerl, the deputy general manager of the authority, said in a recent interview, ''There's a lot of eyes on this.''
The technology used in the Carlsbad plant, known as reverse osmosis, was developed decades ago. It involves pushing the water through a series of microscopic sieves rolled up into larger cylindrical filters. The energy-intensive process separates pure water from both salt molecules and impurities. The filters, some of which are made locally, are cheaper and more durable than they were a decade ago, industry accounts say, bringing down the overall price of the plant and its operations.
In the Western United States, where the complexities of water law and heavily subsidized federal and state water projects have complicated the economics of water delivery and hamstrung any widespread development of water markets, the Carlsbad plant offers a peek into a future when water prices reflect the actual cost of procurement and delivery. David Moore, a managing director of Clean Energy Capital, financial advisers to the San Diego County authority, said the water authority had ''made the call that over time this water is going to be more affordable than other sources. That was the fundamental risk of the transaction.'' The price of water the authority now gets from the Metropolitan Water District of Southern California is about $1,000 an acre-foot.
The bet on this technology was not an obvious one; the recent history of desalination in the United States and Australia has been mixed, at best. Some recently constructed Australian plants are flourishing while others stand idle some of the time. In this country, technological missteps, delays and bankruptcies dogged the first big plant, which finally opened in Tampa in 2007.
''Tampa was a buzz kill for the sector,'' Mr. Moore said.
So the Carlsbad plant is being watched not just for its performance or its effect on the local marine environment, but for its financial architecture.
Mr. Moore and other financial advisers are trying to make investors and bondholders comfortable with the technology by mimicking the financial approach of a merchant power plant -- for instance, substituting a ''water purchase agreement'' for a ''power purchase agreement,'' to show that Carlsbad's water has a guaranteed market.
The water purchase agreement was signed by the San Diego authority and the plant's developer, Poseidon Resources, of Stamford, Conn., in late November. Poseidon bears the responsibility for completing the plant and operating it; the authority does not pay for any water that is not delivered.
The project's costs are financed by two bond offerings totaling $734 million and a $189 million equity investment. In addition, the water authority is committing about $80 million to other capital needs. All of these arrangements have interlocking guarantees and risks, with the costs of constructing the plant borne by the project developers and the water authority responsible for constructing a 10-mile pipeline to send the water on its way to San Diego's taps.
The public water authority did not want its ratepayers to be responsible for paying for water that was never delivered; it will pay only for water that meets its standards and goes into its reservoirs. That said, when the water is flowing in 2016 the county must pay as much as $113 million annually, which could rise over time.
Late last year, this financial picture prompted Fitch Ratings to give the project's bond issue a BBB- rating, the lowest for investment grade debt. For Fitch executives, familiar with the unexpected obstacles in deployment of desalination technology, the water purchase agreement was a critical factor leading to a rating above junk level.
The cost comparison remains ugly for desalination right now, but the water agency has calculated that, given the history of annual rate increases from the Metropolitan Water District of Southern California, the desalinated water could be cheaper than the current supply by 2024.
Then there is the question of reliability. Water supplied by the Southern California water district comes from Northern California transfers and Colorado River diversions. Climate change is likely to cut into both sources over time. And San Diego and the Southern California district have a history of antagonism; the Carlsbad plant, which would supply as much as 7 percent of the region's needs, is the most recent of several San Diego efforts at diversification.
But water policy experts and local environmental activists are skeptical about the value of desalination compared with conservation and reuse. They will be watching the plant from a very different perspective.
Heather Cooley, a senior research associate with the Pacific Research Institute, an Oakland-based nonprofit group specializing in water supply questions, said that even if the Carlsbad plant worked well, a new rush to desalination was hardly certain.
It depended, she said, on whether ''water demand continues to grow, as was likely in the past, or whether, as we've seen in the past 15 years, it stays the same or even declines, based on efficiencies and conservation and the structure of the economy.''
She added that by promising to buy at least 48 million gallons a day from the plant, the county water authority has less incentive to step up its push for water conservation, or to invest further in water reuse.
The environmental group the Surfrider Foundation, which has fought the Carlsbad plant at every turn, expects the plant to be an object lesson in how not to guard against water shortages. Among other things, the foundation emphasizes the energy needs of the plant, which will consume 5,000 kilowatt-hours of electricity to produce an acre-foot of water.
As electricity costs go up over time, the county's water bill -- already estimated to be $5 to $7 a month higher for each customer by 2016, thanks to Carlsbad -- will rise in tandem.
But authority officials noted that water delivered from the Southern California district also required energy, and its cost, too, would go up in such circumstances.
The costs have been one focus of opponents.
''If the county had taken a holistic, practical approach to water management and water supply needs, it would never have done something so costly,'' said Belinda Smith, a member of Surfrider.
She and her colleagues see the surface water intake valve as the plant's Achilles' heel. The current state permit covering the intake's operations expires when the Encina natural gas power plant is no longer using cooling water. If the new permit required expensive changes -- if, for instance, the entire intake had to be moved below the surface -- the cost to ratepayers, and particularly to Poseidon, could increase significantly.
The county and the developers said this eventuality was covered in the financial planning.
But for the moment, Poseidon officials are energized by the prospect of beginning construction, after a decade of delays. Peter M. MacLaggan, a senior vice president at Poseidon, referred to the experience of the company's desalination technology partners when he said, ''We're at desal 3.0 or 4.0 here at Carlsbad.''
He added that the need for new water supplies could provide a ready market for the technology, if it is effective. ''Water in California has been cheap and plentiful. And that's no longer the case,'' he said. In San Diego, he said, ''We're facing it. The rest of California is facing it to different degrees. We're all challenged in finding new water supplies.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Agua Hedionda Lagoon in Carlsbad, Calif., where a $1 billion desalination plant expected to supply 7 percent of the county's water is being built. (B1)
 Peter MacLaggan, a senior vice president at Poseidon Resources, at the Carlsbad site. The plant will be next to an existing power facility, above. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY T. LYNNE PIXLEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (90%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); POWER PLANTS (76%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (76%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (76%); INTERVIEWS (74%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (71%)

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); PACIFIC OCEAN (91%) UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2013



8 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ART REVIEW; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1338 words

HEADLINE: The Colors and Joys of the Quotidian

BYLINE: By ROBERTA SMITH

 BODY:
PORTLAND, Me. -- Lois Dodd paints with an insistent, sometimes daring economy. She has spent some 60 years making images of her immediate surroundings, and each painting seems to go emphatically as far as she thinks it should and no further. No frills attached.
''Lois Dodd: Catching the Light,'' the modest retrospective of Ms. Dodd's work at the Portland Museum of Art here is populated by paintings of landscapes, interiors and river views; of flowers, garden sheds and lawns; of compact clapboard houses and barns, by the light of the moon or sun; of wood-slat doors and steep farmhouse steps; and, quite often, of reflection-catching four-pane windows.
This list may sound conventional, even pedestrian, but the paintings hold your attention. Many seem at first glance slightly unnerving: awkward, brusque or even unfinished. While they seduce the eye with light and color, they challenge it with an assortment of brush strokes, spatial complexities and compositional quirks, teetering in different ways on the cusp between abstract and representational.
Behind their veneer of homey familiarity, these paintings are tough and unruly. Their main attitude seems to be a blithe, independent-spirited ''Take it or leave it.'' 
So far the art establishment has mostly left it. Ms. Dodd is 86, and this is her first museum retrospective. It is being staged some distance from the New York art world, on whose edges she has quietly lived and worked for decades.
Organized by Barbara O'Brien, chief curator at the Kemper Museum for Contemporary Art in Kansas City, Mo., where it was first shown last year, this exhibition covers 55 years with 46 paintings, supplemented by a dozen of the small, deft oil studies that Ms. Dodd began making on thin sheets of aluminum in 1990. It is making its second, and final, stop here in Maine, where Ms. Dodd has spent summers since 1951, and has been expertly installed by Jessica May, the Portland Museum's curator of modern art, even though the galleries are less than felicitous.
It is a loss that no New York museum could find room for this revelatory show. But then, Ms. Dodd is a painter at a time when ephemeral, performative and activist art forms are highly favored, and paintings are often dismissed as marketable trinkets.
In addition, Ms. Dodd, who was born and grew up in Montclair, N.J., and attended the Cooper Union in Manhattan, has neither star quality nor much of an art world profile. Her main brush with history is that she was a founding member of Tanager, the first gallery on the block of East 10th Street that became the Greenwich Village epicenter of Abstract Expressionism. She had her first solo show at Tanager in 1954.
Ms. Dodd's main goal has been simply to paint, every day, what she sees in -- or from -- her studio or, when she ventures forth, in the city, her yard or some patch of woods. She has a loft on the Lower East Side in New York; a small house in Cushing, Me., some 70 miles up the coast from here; and another in Blairstown, N.J., which she bought in 1976 to be near the Delaware Water Gap, a favorite subject of hers in wintertime.
In this show's catalog, her friend the painter Alex Katz pinpoints her dedication, recalling a moment in the late 1950s when Ms. Dodd was painting, and her young son, Eli, tied her leg to a table leg. ''Lois was surprised,'' Mr. Katz writes, ''but she kept on painting.''
As impressive as the Portland show is, I suspect an even better one could be done. Rather than select her best paintings, this one too carefully accounts for all five and a half decades of work and a full range of subject matter.
Still, there is plenty to look at, starting with two canvases from the 1950s that hint at Ms. Dodd's ability and certainly demonstrate her confidence, but also show her squarely in thrall to the improvisatory style of Willem de Kooning, whose studio was near Tanager. Except: Their loosely worked surfaces harbor steep landscapes and several cows and calves. In ''Pasture'' (1955) they are seen standing up or lying down -- from fore, aft or the side -- all shaded by a wonderfully clunky if barely intimated tree.
In the mid-60s, Ms. Dodd forsook the cows and hit her stride. In 20 paintings from 1967 to 1979, she diversifies her subjects and establishes that she will always be adjusting her style and paint handling, in restless, not-so-subtle ways, often on the same canvas. The scarcity of paint in ''Wild Geraniums'' (1967), with its thin green lawn and seemingly dry-brushed plants and blossoms, is startling: barely an image and possibly a riff on Color Field painting.
''View Through Elliot's Shack Looking South'' (1971) is a veritable lexicon of techniques. One of several paintings in which a window is nearly congruent with the canvas's edges, it gleefully confounds the Renaissance notion of the canvas as a window onto another space by multiplying it. We look into the darkened shack through a white-frame window to a second window in the shack's opposite wall and out that to a few crisply painted sunlit tree trunks -- a painting within a painting. But the glass of the first window provides another such painting; it is confusingly splashed with big, blurry strokes of green and brown, the reflection of the trees behind the painter (and us). Thus a sandwich of planes and spaces is made.
Adding to the complexity of Ms. Dodd's work is her continuing conversation with the history of painting. Her 1995 ''Sunset at Quarry'' communes convincingly with Cézanne, as does, in its own way, ''Ice in the Trees,'' from 1981. The squeezed space of her ''Door, Staircase'' (1981) -- a subtle play of yellow, lavender and white -- and ''Green Door and Bed'' (1994) evoke the architectural Americana of Charles Sheeler and Walker Evans.
Her austere views of a men's shelter seen from her New York window evoke the abbreviated Precisionism of George Ault, just as the pale reflected sunburst of ''Winter Sunset, Blair Pond,'' echoes Arthur Dove's visionary moons. In ''Late Water Gap'' (1991) and ''Baisley's Shacks'' (2003), she converses with Minimalism, specifically with the clean, curved shapes of Ellsworth Kelly and the boxy volumes and open spaces of Donald Judd.
Ms. Dodd loves the observable world, the vagaries of nature and the specificities of old Maine houses: the way they cleave to the ground, or fill the picture frame, or shine, lights on or off, in the moonlight. She always searches out the underlying geometry but also the underlying life, and the sheer strangeness of it all. The prime example of this approach is ''Apple Tree and Shed'' (2007), with hallucinatory, slightly Cubist orbs of white blossoms and, intruding from the right, the flat, almost collagelike face of a shack in lichen-green clapboard.
Ms. Dodd's paintings are noticeably devoid of people, except for a few profoundly weird images of nudes that parody the Arcadian tradition. And three paintings here offer deprecating self-portraits of a sort: in one the artist is present as a reflection in a window, painting, stretching her paintbrush toward an unseen easel; in another she casts a comical shadow on the lawn, accompanied by an easel, in a loopy work that gets better each time I see it.
But Ms. Dodd appears in the flesh, relatively speaking, only in a small 1989 work in which she peers through overly large glasses from beneath the brim of a black top hat. Her hair is awry, her expression dubious, her skin rendered in faintly lurid shades of lavender, green, orange and yellow -- perhaps the effects of Christmas tree lights. The slightly carnivalesque result reads as an unintentional tribute to her unstinting honesty as an artist, one who paints it as she sees it, secure in her knowledge of the artistic gift of the passing days and seasons.
As this marvelous show demonstrates, a painter who looks carefully and trusts herself can never paint the same thing the same way twice.
''Lois Dodd: Catching the Light'' continues through April 7 at the Portland Museum of Art, Portland, Me.; (207) 775-6148, portlandmuseum.org.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''Lois Dodd: Catching the Light,'' now at the Portland Museum of Art in Portland, Me., is the first retrospective of Ms. Dodd's career, with 46 of her paintings.
 The show includes, clockwise from above: ''Four Nudes and Woodpile'' (2001-2), ''View Through Elliot's Shack Looking South'' (1971), and a self-portrait from 1989. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHERYL SENTER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PAINTING (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); EXHIBITIONS (77%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, ME, USA (92%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (71%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%) MAINE, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2013



9 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 553 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Economy Expanded Slightly in 4th Quarter

BYLINE: By CATHERINE RAMPELL

 BODY:
Breathe a tiny sigh of relief, if not exactly contentment: the American economy grew just barely in the last quarter of 2012.
Output expanded at an annual rate of 0.1 percent, which is basically indistinguishable from no growth at all and which is far below the growth needed to get unemployment back to normal. But at least the economy did not shrink, as the Commerce Department estimated in January, when the first report suggested that output had contracted at an annual rate of 0.1 percent.
The department's latest estimate for economic output, released on Thursday, showed that growth was depressed by declines in military spending (possibly in anticipation of the across-the-board spending cuts that are to begin on Friday) and in how much companies restocked shelves. 
''The good news with business inventories is that what they take away in one quarter they tend to add to the next,'' said Paul Ashworth, chief North American economist at Capital Economics, referring to the measure of this restocking process. ''So there's a good chance that first-quarter numbers will be better than originally thought.''
The growth in output was revised upward from the original estimate partly thanks to updated, and improved, data on business investment and net trade. Imports were lower than previously reported and exports were higher.
Economists expect government spending to continue to drag on the economy this year, especially if Congress does not avert the spending cuts, which would shave around 0.6 percentage point off growth. Many hope that even if the cuts go through, Congress will quickly reverse them.
''They can always change their minds when they have to renew the continuing budget resolution at the end of this month or in April or May,'' said Mr. Ashworth. ''My expectation is that at most the cuts stay a month or two, and in most departments, with a wink or a nod, they won't do anything crazy.''
Even if government does lop off $85 billion in the so-called sequester, as current law states, the private sector will offset most of this drag, thanks to the housing recovery and other sources of strength. Forecasts for the first quarter call for annual growth of 2.4 to 3 percent.
Monetary stimulus from the Federal Reserve, while under fire from some Republicans, is also helping offset the fiscal contraction.
''With monetary policy working with a lag and still being eased, the boost to the economy is probably still growing,'' said Jim O'Sullivan, chief United States economist at High Frequency Economics.
The combination of monetary expansion and fiscal tightening has helped lead to a painfully slow decline in the unemployment rate. The jobless rate stood at 7.9 percent in January. The recent end of the payroll tax holiday is also expected to hold back consumer spending and with it job growth.
The Labor Department reported on Thursday that first-time claims for unemployment benefits decreased by 22,000, to 344,000, last week. The less-volatile four-week moving average fell to 355,000 from 361,750.
''I think it's largely steady as she goes for employment,'' said Jay Feldman, an economist at Credit Suisse, of the indications from the latest growth report. ''I still think we're in kind of a 175,000-jobs-a-month clip for a while, but with some downside risks later in the year from the sequester.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An ArcelorMittal Steel galvanizing line in Cuyahoga Heights, Ohio. The first-quarter growth rate is forecast at 2.4 to 3 percent. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK DUNCAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHARTS: Real Economic Growth: Annual rate of change in the gross domestic product, based on quarterly figures adjusted for inflation and seasonal fluctuations. (Source: Commerce Department)
 Jobless Claims: Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time. (Source: Labor Department, via Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); STATISTICS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); APPROPRIATIONS (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); TAX RELIEF (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); DEFENSE SPENDING (69%); MONETARY POLICY (60%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%)

PERSON: WILLIAM P SULLIVAN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2013



10 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 

LENGTH: 869 words

HEADLINE: Zero Dark Zero

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN

 BODY:
NEW YORK -- A minister in the outgoing Israeli government put it to me bluntly during a recent visit to Israel: ''For the first time in these elections, the Palestinians did not come into it.''
Israelis for the most part are comfortable enough to ignore their neighbors. If they are on the Titanic they prefer not to think about it. 
It has become the received wisdom, in the White House and beyond, to suggest the current situation is unsustainable -- the 46-year-old Israeli occupation of the West Bank, the undefined borders, the simmering conflict, the oppression. This may be no more than wishful thinking.
Israel's situation feels sustainable. The economic miracle that makes swathes of the country feel like southern California can go on: Israel's diplomatic loneliness does not amount to commercial isolation. Military domination will grow with U.S. support. A strong Israeli nationalist current -- we won all the land on the battlefield, so it's ours! -- will prevail over the peace-talk fatigue among Israeli liberals and a splintered Palestinian movement.
Stepping across the wall-fence into the West Bank already feels like time travel back 30 years. Soon, given current momentum, it will feel like 40 years. Perhaps half a million Israelis living beyond the Green Line hardly know what it is: The two-state solution based around the 1967 borders, give or take agreed land swaps, is then a diplomatic and intellectual fiction.
Yes, Israel on all the land of Eretz Israel (a biblical term widely used to refer to the area between the Mediterranean Sea and the Jordan River, encompassing all of the West Bank) is sustainable. The status quo is not static. On balance, despite demographic patterns that favor the Palestinians, power tilts Israel's way. Vitality trumps demography.
''Many years will pass without anything,'' Tom Segev, the distinguished Israeli historian, told me. ''We will go on oppressing; they will go on trying to fight. Most Israelis now feel their security is assured without giving up anything. That is the problem. The oppression of Palestinians is appalling. But the situation is calm. So Israelis don't realize this everyday oppression. Nobody believes in peace any more.''
On the Palestinian side, too, believers in a two-state peace agreement have become harder to find. Settlement expansion with U.S. acquiescence has led to the conviction that there will be no viable Palestinian state in the West Bank and Gaza.
''Israel is not interested in permitting one and the U.S., who is subsidizing this effort, is unable and unwilling to change that because of domestic politics,'' Yousef Munayyer, the executive director of the Washington-based Palestine Center wrote in an e-mail. He said Palestinians had lost faith in American mediation. Palestinians were likely to ''re-strategize away from a state-based separatist struggle toward a rights-based struggle (already happening)'' as ''Israeli colonization'' had ''destroyed the territorial integrity of a would-be state.''
In other words, Palestinians will seek their rights -- including that of return -- within one state, rather than pursuing the establishment of their own national state. The only trouble is that, as the Israeli novelist Amos Oz told me recently, ''The right of return is a euphemism for the liquidation of Israel. Even for a dove like myself this is out of the question.''
As Omar Barghouti, a leader of the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions movement against Israel, once put it: ''If the refugees were to return, you would not have a two-state solution, you'd have a Palestine next to a Palestine.''
One state equals the end of Israel as a Jewish national state. It is not going to happen. It cannot be allowed to happen. Palestinian pursuit of that goal equals acceptance of eternal conflict. Jews, after the experience of the 20th century, are not going to give up the homeland they have battled so hard to build.
For any liberal Zionist -- and I am one -- convinced of the need for the two-state outcome envisaged in the United Nations resolution of 1947 establishing the modern state of Israel, both the religious-nationalist Israeli push to keep all the land and the Palestinian refusal to abandon the untenable, unacceptable ''right of return'' (there is no such right in history, just ask the Jews) are causes for deep despondency.
I said Israel's situation is sustainable. It is in physical terms. It is not in ethical terms. This is a state whose Declaration of Independence in 1948 says it will ''be founded on the principles of freedom, justice and peace in the spirit of the visions of the Prophets of Israel; will implement equality of complete social and national rights for all her citizens without distinction between religion, race and gender; will promise freedom of religion, conscience, language, education and culture.'' The West Bank dominion over 2.6 million humiliated Palestinians runs counter to every word of this.
President Obama will soon visit Israel and the West Bank. He has zero cause for hope. Peace lies beyond the eye of a rusty needle. The limitlessness of Israeli strength and of Palestinian victimhood has narrowed the path to the well-known compromises needed to end the conflict.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (73%); RELIGION (64%); HISTORY (61%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MEDITERRANEAN SEA (79%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (97%); ISRAEL (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); JORDAN (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2013



11 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1134 words

HEADLINE: Uncertainty Mounts Over Hungarian Central Bank Chief

BYLINE: By JACK EWING and DAN BILEFSKY

 BODY:
FRANKFURT -- The change coming at the top of the Hungarian central bank has raised fears that monetary policy could soon be subverted to politics, with the government resorting to printing money to revive its slumping economy.
The results of looser money, many economists say, could pose risks not just for the country but for Eastern Europe and even the euro zone.
Prime Minister Viktor Orban is expected to appoint a successor to Andras Simor, whose term as governor of the Hungarian central bank is expiring, as early as Friday. The front-runner appears to be Gyorgy Matolcsy, the Hungarian economics minister, a maverick who is close to Mr. Orban and whose statements often cause the forint, the country's currency, to gyrate on money markets.
Mr. Orban might also turn to Mihaly Varga, a former finance minister and ally who led Hungary's negotiations with the International Monetary Fund for financial support. 
Whoever gets the job is expected to be in step with Mr. Orban and pursue unorthodox policies designed to jolt the Hungarian economy out of recession in time to help the government win re-election next year.
The appointment would also consolidate Mr. Orban's control of one of the nation's last independent institutions.
''There is no doubt that the last institution in Hungary that has been able to withstand Orban's pressure is the central bank,'' said Peter Rona, an economist and senior fellow at Oxford University who is a member of the Hungarian central bank's supervisory board. ''If that goes under his control, the last point of resistance is gone.''
Mr. Matolcsy's past statements suggest he would be willing to throw out the rule book of central banking if he got the job.
''He is wholly inappropriate for this position, as he has neither the professional background nor the temperament to guide the bank,'' Mr. Rona said.
Mr. Matolcsy, or another Orban appointee, is expected to try to emulate the quantitative easing used by the U.S. Federal Reserve or Bank of England. But policies designed to stimulate growth in big countries like the United States or Britain could be disastrous when applied to a small country like Hungary that cannot finance itself without foreign capital, economists said.
Dismay about Mr. Orban's economic policies have already contributed to the flight of capital from the country. Funds equal to 2 percent of gross domestic product, or about &#x20ac;4 billion, left Hungary in the third quarter of 2012, according to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
Along with Slovenia, which is in the middle of a banking crisis, Hungary suffered the worst capital flight of any country in Eastern Europe or the Balkans.
Since becoming prime minister in 2010, Mr. Orban has used his two-thirds majority in Parliament to expand his control over the judiciary and the media.
That he would do the same to the central bank has raised concerns because it would violate the fundamental principle that monetary policy should not be dictated by politics.
''A key prerequisite for a credible monetary policy is the independence of the central bank,'' Mario Draghi, the president of the European Central Bank, said in Budapest in December, in a clear expression of his concern about developments there.
But foreign central bankers may have little room to criticize unorthodox policies by the Hungarian central bank when they have themselves stretched the boundaries of monetary policy.
People loyal to Mr. Orban already hold a majority on the central bank committee that sets monetary policy. They have cut the benchmark interest rate to 5.25 percent from 7 percent last year. That is still well above the E.C.B. benchmark rate of 0.75 percent.
Though wary of criticizing Mr. Matolcsy directly, local bankers have expressed concern.
''Will he stick to the fundamental objectives of the central bank, or will he try to get out of this box to get more in alignment with the government?'' asked Heinz Wiedner, head of the Hungarian unit of Raiffeisen Bank, an Austrian lender. ''We have to see.''
Mr. Matolcsy, 57, has already created plenty of controversy as economics minister. He helped impose the highest bank levy in Europe and nationalized private pension funds.
Those steps helped push the government deficit below 3 percent of gross domestic product, allowing Hungary to sell $3.25 billion in 5-year and 10-year government bonds this month.
But the I.M.F. and other critics have said the government's methods of deficit reduction are not sustainable. And the taxes have alienated foreign banks and led to the withdrawal of capital.
After taking up his post in 2010, Mr. Matolcsy spoke against government austerity, and warned against depending on the I.M.F., which had extended a &#x20ac;20 billion, or $26 billion, aid package to Hungary in 2008.
But in 2011, the government did an about-face and asked the I.M.F. for help to shore up the country's finances. Now the talks are on hold again indefinitely.
Mr. Matolcsy has his supporters. Gyorgy Barcza, an economic advisor to the government, said Mr. Matolcsy had done a responsible job at shepherding the economy, including lowering the budget deficit. He added that Mr. Orban was merely following the law in naming a new governor.
''The system of appointing the governor of the central bank has been in place for 20 years, and Mr. Orban is just following procedure,'' he said.
Zoltan Pogatsa, a professor of economics at the University of Western Hungary, said the main concern about Mr. Matolcsy was that he could prove overzealous in using monetary policy to devalue the forint.
While a weaker forint could stimulate growth, it could also backfire, he said, since many Hungarians hold mortgages denominated in Swiss francs. If the forint is worth less, people may have serious problems making their loan payments.
The other concern, Mr. Pogatsa said, was that Mr. Matolcsy would use the reserves of the central bank to buy government bonds, thereby driving bond yields down and increasing government debt. Mr. Matolcsy has denied he would do this.
Some economists doubt whether such measures would get very far, because the reaction of international financial markets would be swift. Any attempt to use the central bank to buy Hungarian government bonds could alienate foreign investors, driving up interest rates.
In addition, Hungary's shallow market for corporate bonds and other securities would make it difficult in practice to emulate the quantitative easing used by the Fed. Short of simply handing out forints to Hungarian citizens, which would fuel inflation, the government lacks vehicles for increasing the money supply.
''There is very little room for any unconventional measures,'' said Zsolt Darvas, a research fellow at Bruegel, a research institute in Brussels. ''Printing money is not as easy as it sounds.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC POLICY (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); POLITICS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); RECESSION (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); MONETARY UNIONS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); EURO ZONE (73%); BANK FAILURES (73%); GOVERNORS (58%)

COMPANY: BANK OF ENGLAND (52%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (52%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (92%) HUNGARY (97%); EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (88%); SLOVENIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (78%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2013



12 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WAY OF THE WORLD; Pg. 

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: When Supercitizens Pull Up the Opportunity Ladder

BYLINE: By CHRYSTIA FREELAND | REUTERS

 BODY:
MIAMI -- Louis D. Brandeis, the American jurist, famously warned: ''We may have democracy, or we may have wealth concentrated in the hands of a few, but we can't have both.''
Brandeis's cri de coeur was inspired by an indignant observation of the shenanigans of America's robber barons during the Gilded Age. Today, we live in a data-driven age, and some careful students of the connection between money and politics have now amassed a powerful body of evidence to support Brandeis's moral claim. A lot of it is assembled in a report by the progressive research organization Demos, published this week.
One of the most striking findings is the extent to which economic power translates into political power. 
Institutionally, this is an era of unprecedented democracy -- one of the triumphs of the 20th century has been the extension of voting rights to all adults in a lot of the world.
But even in the United States, the country that thinks of itself as being the world's leading democracy, it turns out that those rights do not translate into much actual political power. David Callahan, co-author of ''Stacked Deck,'' the Demos report, describes the superrich as ''supercitizens, with an outsized footprint in the public square.''
''I think most Americans believe in the idea of political equality,'' Dr. Callahan told me. ''That idea is obviously corrupted when in 2012, one guy, Sheldon Adelson, can make more political donations than the residents of 12 states put together.''
The Demos study draws in part on the quantitative research of Martin Gilens, a professor of politics at Princeton University, in New Jersey, and author of ''Affluence and Influence: Economic Inequality and Political Power in America.'' Dr. Gilens, who focused on the divide between the top 10 percent and everyone else, found a high degree of what he calls political inequality.
''I looked at lots of survey data that indicated what people at different income levels wanted the government to do, and then I looked at what the government did,'' Dr. Gilens explained.
''For people at the top 10 percent, you could predict what the government would do based on their preferences,'' he said. ''But when the preferences of people at lower income levels diverged from the affluent, that had no impact at all on the policies that were adopted. That was true not only for the poor but for the middle class as well.''
Dr. Gilens is a social scientist who is careful to stick to his data. But he told me he was ''definitely surprised by the extent of the inequality.''
''If you value democracy, if you value the ability of people at all levels of income to shape government, which is what it means to be a democracy, then, yes, you should be very worried,'' he said.
One reason this ''political inequality'' is significant is that it turns out the rich and the rest have different political preferences. These do not split easily along traditional partisan lines -- in fact, one of Dr. Gilens's findings is that political inequality persists whether Democrats or Republicans are in charge. And in certain areas, like defense policy, there is no class divide.
But on an important set of economic issues -- deficit reduction, the minimum wage, free trade, regulation and progressive taxation -- the affluent are more conservative than everyone else.
''None of this might matter if the wealthy and the rest of the public had the same public policy preferences,'' Dr. Callahan said. ''But as we document, the wealthy do have very different policy preferences, particularly in the sphere of economic and fiscal policy and on trade and globalization. You see this on issues like taxation, or the minimum wage, or the general role of the government in society.''
This gap in policy preferences, the Demos report argues, is the explanation for one of the most puzzling and worrying consequences of rising income inequality -- its correlation with falling social mobility. Alan B. Krueger, the head of President Barack Obama's Council of Economic Advisers, calls this the Great Gatsby Curve, and it is the most compelling reason to be worried about the growing chasm between the top and everyone else.
That link, which has best been documented by the Canadian economist Miles Corak, is mysterious. After all, a lot of today's rising inequality has been driven by benign forces like the technology revolution and, as a result, today's plutocrats are more likely to be self-made than they were three decades ago.
But once they become rich supercitizens, the Demos report argues, those at the top of the economic heap use their power to support policies that diminish social mobility. This is not because of malign intent -- there is no cabal of fat cats in top hats smoking cigars and plotting how to keep the proletariat down. Indeed, education, a key to social mobility, is a stated priority for the affluent.
The catch comes when there is a choice between personal self-interest, often in the form of lower taxes, and the expensive institutions of greater social mobility. And that is when the supercitizens opt to pull up the opportunity ladder behind them.
Beyond the campus green, Americans can be squeamish about viewing policy choices through the prism of economic self-interest. It is much more comforting to imagine the country is engaged in a high-minded and technocratic debate about what works best to serve the common good.
But that's not what's happening. The supercitizens are very effectively pursuing their own self-interest. Social opportunity, and even democracy, are under threat as a result.
Chrystia Freeland is editor of Thomson Reuters Digital.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (75%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (75%); WRITERS (74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (71%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2013



13 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 745 words

HEADLINE: Wojciech Inglot, 57, Polish Cosmetics Maker

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY

 BODY:
Wojciech Inglot, a Polish chemist and cosmetics executive who developed a ''breathable'' nail polish that found an unexpected market among Muslim women, died on Feb. 23 in Przemysl, Poland. He was 57.
The cause was internal hemorrhaging, said Marek Skulimowski, the director of United States operations and marketing for Inglot Cosmetics.
In 2009, more than 20 years after Mr. Inglot started his company in cold war Poland, he introduced O2M, a nail polish he hoped would improve nail health because it let oxygen and moisture pass through it. Yet the product was expensive, $14 per bottle, and for several years its sales lagged even as the success of other Inglot products helped the company expand around the world, opening stores in the United States, among other countries. 
Then last fall, a Muslim cleric and academic in Southern California who was working on a book about purification and prayer learned that some Muslim women were trying to determine whether O2M's porous properties might make it acceptable for wearing during prayer. Muslim women who wear nail polish often remove it as part of a ritual, called wudu, that involves washing with water before daily prayers.
''There are several sisters who don't know that nail polish prevents wudu, and probably just as many who don't care and will wear it anyways,'' the cleric, Shaykh Mustafa Umar, wrote on his blog, The Evolution of Ideas, in November. ''But for those who do care, this analysis might help clarify things.''
Mr. Umar, who is director of education and outreach at the Islamic Institute of Orange County, noted that one of his students tested the polish and determined that it was sufficiently porous. He went on to declare that O2M was ''good news'' for women concerned about the issue. His post was soon cited by bloggers and news organizations.
''It went completely viral,'' Mr. Umar said.
Inglot noticed the online conversation -- and an increase in sales. Soon, citing Mr. Umar's work, Inglot issued a news release saying its product had been ''Halal certified.''
Inglot has not compensated Mr. Umar in any way for his statements of support, both Mr. Skulimowski and Mr. Umar said.
''It's like a service to the Muslim community,'' Mr. Umar said.
O2M was just one product developed by Mr. Inglot, a chemist by training. Born on June 11, 1955, in Przemysl, he received his chemistry degree from Jagiellonian University and first worked for a state-owned chemical company.
Using equipment he bought from the government, he started his own company in the early 1980s, first making a liquid used to clean the heads of cassette tape players, then an underarm deodorant. He moved into cosmetics in the late 1980s, just as communism was falling and Poland began transitioning to a more robust market economy.
Economic change brought opportunity and challenge: consumers were eager to buy products, and international competitors began arriving in Poland to compete for them.
Inglot not only survived but grew and expanded overseas, opening almost 200 stand-alone shops -- they are shipped ready to assemble from Poland and can be set up in about a day -- in 47 countries, among them Dubai, Saudi Arabia, England, Spain, Argentina and Canada. More than two dozen shops are in the United States.
Inglot is known for its broad range of colors and for creating new ways for cosmetics to be packaged and applied, including using painterlike palettes for eye shadow. Its shops are typically in shopping malls and large department stores.
Inglot makes its own products, instead of outsourcing manufacturing as some companies do, and Mr. Inglot was closely involved with developing products. The O2M polish is free of many chemicals that are in other polishes and instead includes the same acrylic and silicone resins used in some contact lenses.
''Traditional nail polish, wearing it day by day, week by week, isn't necessarily healthy,'' Mr. Inglot said not long after O2M was introduced. Religious value was never considered, he said.
In a Feb. 7 update to his original post, Mr. Umar, the cleric, noted that ''permeability may be affected by wearing more than one layer.'' Inglot is currently conducting tests to determine the effect of adding layers; the company also makes breathable base and top coats.
''We need to be careful in this market,'' Mr. Skulimowski said, ''not to hurt anyone's feelings.''
Mr. Inglot's survivors include a sister, Elzbieta Inglot-Kobylanski; a brother, Zbigniew; and his mother, Bronislawa.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COSMETICS (92%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (90%); TOILETRIES MFG (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (86%); WOMEN (78%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (78%); RELIGION (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (71%); ACADEMIC TESTING (68%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (62%); CHEMICALS MFG (50%); CHEMICALS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); POLAND (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2013



14 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: Ben Bernanke, Hippie

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
We're just a few weeks away from a milestone I suspect most of Washington would like to forget: the start of the Iraq war. What I remember from that time is the utter impenetrability of the elite prowar consensus. If you tried to point out that the Bush administration was obviously cooking up a bogus case for war, one that didn't bear even casual scrutiny; if you pointed out that the risks and likely costs of war were huge; well, you were dismissed as ignorant and irresponsible.
It didn't seem to matter what evidence critics of the rush to war presented: Anyone who opposed the war was, by definition, a foolish hippie. Remarkably, that judgment didn't change even after everything the war's critics predicted came true. Those who cheered on this disastrous venture continued to be regarded as ''credible'' on national security (why is John McCain still a fixture of the Sunday talk shows?), while those who opposed it remained suspect. 
And, even more remarkably, a very similar story has played out over the past three years, this time about economic policy. Back then, all the important people decided that an unrelated war was an appropriate response to a terrorist attack; three years ago, they all decided that fiscal austerity was the appropriate response to an economic crisis caused by runaway bankers, with the supposedly imminent danger from budget deficits playing the role once played by Saddam's alleged weapons of mass destruction.
Now, as then, this consensus has seemed impenetrable to counterarguments, no matter how well grounded in evidence. And now, as then, leaders of the consensus continue to be regarded as credible even though they've been wrong about everything (why do people keep treating Alan Simpson as a wise man?), while critics of the consensus are regarded as foolish hippies even though all their predictions -- about interest rates, about inflation, about the dire effects of austerity -- have come true.
So here's my question: Will it make any difference that Ben Bernanke has now joined the ranks of the hippies?
Earlier this week, Mr. Bernanke delivered testimony that should have made everyone in Washington sit up and take notice. True, it wasn't really a break with what he has said in the past or, for that matter, with what other Federal Reserve officials have been saying, but the Fed chairman spoke more clearly and forcefully on fiscal policy than ever before -- and what he said, translated from Fedspeak into plain English, was that the Beltway obsession with deficits is a terrible mistake.
First of all, he pointed out that the budget picture just isn't very scary, even over the medium run: ''The federal debt held by the public (including that held by the Federal Reserve) is projected to remain roughly 75 percent of G.D.P. through much of the current decade.''
He then argued that given the state of the economy, we're currently spending too little, not too much: ''A substantial portion of the recent progress in lowering the deficit has been concentrated in near-term budget changes, which, taken together, could create a significant headwind for the economic recovery.''
Finally, he suggested that austerity in a depressed economy may well be self-defeating even in purely fiscal terms: ''Besides having adverse effects on jobs and incomes, a slower recovery would lead to less actual deficit reduction in the short run for any given set of fiscal actions.''
So the deficit is not a clear and present danger, spending cuts in a depressed economy are a terrible idea and premature austerity doesn't make sense even in budgetary terms. Regular readers may find these propositions familiar, since they're pretty much what I and other progressive economists have been saying all along. But we're irresponsible hippies. Is Ben Bernanke? (Well, he has a beard.)
The point is not that Mr. Bernanke is an unimpeachable source of wisdom; one hopes that the collapse of Alan Greenspan's reputation has put an end to the practice of deifying Fed chairmen. Mr. Bernanke is a fine economist, but no more so than, say, Columbia's Joseph Stiglitz, a Nobel laureate and legendary economic theorist whose vocal criticism of our deficit obsession has nonetheless been ignored. No, the point is that Mr. Bernanke's apostasy may help undermine the argument from authority -- nobody who matters disagrees! -- that has made the elite obsession with deficits so hard to dislodge.
And an end to deficit obsession can't come a moment too soon. Right now Washington is focused on the idiocy of the sequester, but this is only the latest episode in an unprecedented run of declines in public employment and government purchases that have crippled our economy's recovery. A misguided elite consensus has led us into an economic quagmire, and it's time for us to get out.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); BUDGETS (87%); IRAQ WAR (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); BUDGET DEFICITS (70%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (70%); NATIONAL DEBT (69%); TERRORISM (65%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (65%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (65%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (89%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (57%); JOHN MCCAIN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2013



15 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 509 words

HEADLINE: After a Sturdy Start, The Market Falls Back

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Stocks ended flat on Thursday, giving up modest gains late in the session and denying the Dow a chance to inch closer to a record high.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index still managed to close out February with a fourth consecutive month of gains. J. C. Penney was the day's biggest loser, falling 17 percent to $17.57 after reporting a steep drop in sales. 
The nation's economy grew slightly in the fourth quarter, a turnaround from an earlier estimate showing contraction, according to the Commerce Department. A decline in new claims for unemployment benefits last week added to a batch of data suggesting that the economy continued its sluggish improvement.
The Dow was within striking distance of its record high after a gain of more than 7 percent this year. The Dow's record closing high, set on Oct. 9, 2007, stands at 14,164.53, while the Dow's intraday record high, set on Oct. 11, 2007, stands at 14,198.10.
The 20-stock Dow Jones Transportation Average, seen as a bet on future growth, is up 12.9 percent this year. It hit a record intraday high on Thursday.
''To push through to new highs, you would have to see consistent positive economic data in the U.S. and have Europe stabilize -- those are two pretty big requirements,'' said Jeff Morris, head of United States equities at Standard Life Investments in Boston.
''It wouldn't surprise me to see us bounce around as we have the past couple of weeks,'' he added.
After a strong January with gains of more than 5 percent, both the Dow and the S.& P. tempered increases in February. Minutes from the Federal Reserve's January meeting caused concerns that the central bank would pull back on its stimulus measures sooner than expected, while looming United States budget cuts and turbulent Italian elections tamped investors' aggressiveness.
The Dow Jones industrial average shed 20.88 points, or 0.15 percent, to 14,054.49 at the close. The S.& P. lost 1.31 points, or 0.09 percent, to 1,514.68. The Nasdaq fell 2.07 points, or 0.07 percent, to end at 3,160.19.
For the month, the Dow rose 1.4 percent, the S.& P. 500 gained 1.1 percent and the Nasdaq advanced 0.6 percent.
Limited Brands and Netflix were among the best-performing consumer stocks. Shares of Limited Brands, the parent of the retailers Victoria's Secret and Bath & Body Works, gained 2.3 percent to $45.52. The stock of the video-streaming service Netflix climbed 2 percent to $188.08.
In contrast, shares of Groupon fell on weak revenue, with the daily deals company tumbling 24.3 percent to $4.53.
Cablevision slumped 9.6 percent to $13.99 after the cable provider reported more than $100 million in costs related to Hurricane Sandy and posted deeper video customer losses than expected.
On a positive note, the generic drugmaker Mylan gained 3.6 percent to $29.61 after it posted a 25 percent rise in fourth-quarter profit and said it would buy a unit of India's Strides Arcolab for $1.6 billion. The benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose 6/32, to 101 3/32, and its yield fell to 1.88 percent, from 1.90 percent late on Wednesday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKET OPEN CLOSE (99%); STOCK INDEXES (94%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); BUDGETS (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); RETAILERS (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (70%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (67%); CENTRAL BANKS (62%); DAILY DEAL WEBSITES (62%); BUDGET CUTS (50%); STREAMING MEDIA (50%)

COMPANY: BATH & BODY WORKS LLC (51%); NETFLIX INC (51%); VICTORIA'S SECRET CATALOG (51%); GROUPON INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%)

TICKER: NFLX (NASDAQ) (51%); GRPN (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS446120 COSMETICS, BEAUTY SUPPLIES & PERFUME STORES (51%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (51%); NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (51%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (51%); NAICS541860 DIRECT MAIL ADVERTISING (50%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2013



16 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1316 words

HEADLINE: Easing U.S., Slowly, Out of Home Financing

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and the economy at nytimes.com/economix.

 BODY:
Can the American mortgage market ever function again without Uncle Sam guaranteeing that lenders will be repaid?
It is amazing just how few people think it can.
''For the foreseeable future, there is simply not enough capacity on the balance sheets of U.S. banks to allow a reliance on depository institutions as the sole source of liquidity for the mortgage market,'' stated a report on the American housing market this week, issued by a group that was filled with members of the housing establishment.
The panel, which included Frank Keating, the president of the American Bankers Association and a former governor of Oklahoma, does not see that as an indictment of the American banking system, which would much rather trade leveraged derivatives than keep a lot of mortgage loans on its books.
''Given the size of the market and capital constraints on lenders, the secondary market for mortgage-backed securities must continue to play a critical role in providing mortgage liquidity,'' added the report, issued by a housing commission formed by the Bipartisan Policy Center, a group that was begun by former Senate majority leaders from both parties. The group thinks investors will not be willing to finance enough mortgages -- particularly 30-year fixed-rate loans -- without a government guarantee. 
The report does an excellent job of analyzing the history of the American housing finance system, as well as looking at the government's efforts over the years to promote and subsidize rental housing. It calls for changes in those policies as well, aimed at assuring that those with very low incomes ''are assured access to housing assistance if they need it.''
But those rental proposals are unlikely to lead to legislation any time soon, said Mel Martinez, one of four co-chairmen of the housing panel. Mr. Martinez, a former Republican senator from Florida and housing secretary under President George W. Bush, said in an interview that any proposal calling for spending government money, as this one does, would face tough sledding in Congress.
But he said it was possible that changes in the housing finance system, which is widely criticized on both sides of the aisle, had a better chance of getting approval.
Certainly, one principle enunciated by the panel will get wide support: ''The private sector must play a far greater role in bearing housing risk.'' But the details show that the panel still thinks sufficient money can be found for housing only if Uncle Sam remains the ultimate guarantor for most home mortgages.
Currently, the government backs about 90 percent of newly issued mortgages, more than ever before. The proportion fell in the years leading up to 2007 as subprime loans proliferated and then soared after that market collapsed.
Since then, the Federal Housing Administration has expanded its role in backing home loans on the low end of the scale. But most mortgages are purchased by either Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac, the government-sponsored enterprises that the government took over after the housing bubble burst.
So-called jumbo mortgages, that is, mortgages too large to qualify for purchase by Fannie or Freddie, account for most of the rest. Some mortgages are put into securitizations that have no government guarantee, but many jumbo mortgages end up being owned by the banks for the long term.
The F.H.A. appears to be more cautious than it used to be. The report notes that last year the average FICO score for an F.H.A. or Department of Veterans Affairs loan was close to 720 on a range of 300 to 850. That is about what the average Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac borrower had in 2001.
The commission, whose other co-chairmen were George J. Mitchell, the former Senate Democratic leader; Christopher S. Bond, a former Republican senator; and Henry Cisneros, who served as housing secretary under President Bill Clinton, wants to preserve the F.H.A., but orient it more to those who need the most help. It would phase out Fannie and Freddie -- something that is politically necessary -- but replace them with something that sounds sort of similar.
The new organization would be called a ''public guarantor.'' It would guarantee that investors in mortgage-backed securitizations would not lose money, much as Fannie and Freddie now do. But its responsibility would come after that of a ''private credit enhancer,'' which sounds like a monoline insurer that would make payments to securitization holders if the underlying mortgages were performing badly. That organization would be regulated by the public guarantor, and only after it goes broke -- something that should happen only if housing prices fall more than they did in the recent crisis -- would the public guarantor be responsible for making investors whole.
The public guarantor would only guarantee mortgage securitizations, not issue them as Fannie and Freddie do. But it would regulate the issuance. It would collect a guarantee fee, as would the ''private credit enhancer,'' which the commission says would raise the cost of mortgages to some extent.
In addition, the commission foresees lowering the maximum loan size that the government will guarantee, thus pushing more loans into the genuinely private market. Mr. Martinez said he thought that eventually the F.H.A. would be guaranteeing 10 to 15 percent of new mortgages, and the public guarantor would back another 35 to 45 percent, leaving 40 to 50 percent to be financed exclusively by private capital without any government guarantee.
Back in the 1980s, Mr. Martinez said, something like 75 percent of all loans were made by banks that held on to them. Why can't we go back to something like that?
There seem to be two reasons. The first is that bank regulators would have to push the banks hard to devote capital in that way. As it happens, the politicians who most dislike government involvement in the mortgage market also don't like regulation.
The second reason is that banks learned some lessons in the 1980s. When that decade began, there was a group of banks, called thrifts, whose primary purpose was to make long-term, fixed-rate mortgage loans. Such loans left the lender with a lot of interest rate risk. That is because a 30-year mortgage can be repaid at any time. If rates go down, homeowners will refinance. If rates go up, they will not.
When the Federal Reserve Board under Paul Volcker pushed interest rates to high levels that bankers had never thought possible, a lot of banks were left with assets -- mortgage loans -- paying lower rates of interest than the banks had to pay for deposits. That was a recipe for going broke, and many did. Congress then made it worse by saying the banks could invest in higher-risk assets, while engaging in accounting tricks to mask the fact they were insolvent. The result was that more banks went under, and by the end of the cycle there was no longer a group of banks dedicated to home loans.
Mortgage securitizations found ways to slice up the cash flows from a group of mortgages in ways that persuaded private investors to shoulder the interest rate risk. But the commission says there is not enough private capital willing to take on both the interest rate risk and the credit risk of homeowners defaulting. Hence the public guarantor.
Could Congress get the government out of financing homes for normal, creditworthy borrowers? The answer is that to do so the country would probably have to move away from 30-year fixed-rate mortgages, going instead to adjustable-rate mortgages that would leave homeowners facing higher monthly bills when rates rose.
In the end, we can have a government-dominated mortgage system, with the risks inherent in that -- risks that we saw in the need to bail out Fannie and Freddie. Or we can abandon the 30-year fixed-rate mortgage, leaving homeowners at risk when rates rise, as they are in much of the world. But it is hard to see how we can have it both ways.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mel Martinez, a former senator, was a co-chairman of the housing commission. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATT STROSHANE/GETTY IMAGES) (B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); PUBLIC HOUSING (89%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); SECONDARY MARKET FINANCING (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (76%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); MARKET SIZE (68%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%); GOVERNORS (57%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (57%)

PERSON: MEL MARTINEZ (75%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2013



17 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: Liu Denounces Inquiry Into His Fund-Raising

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO; David W. Chen contributed reporting.

 BODY:
John C. Liu, New York City's comptroller, turned his performance at a neighborhood forum for mayoral candidates into an ultimatum to federal officials investigating his campaign fund-raising, demanding on Thursday night that they ''put up or shut up already'' after a multiyear inquiry.
Mr. Liu's forceful critique of the federal agents looking into the legality of his donations, unprompted by a moderator or his rivals, captured his mounting frustration with an investigation that has cast a shadow over his fledgling campaign. 
''Despite my record and despite my vision for the city, which I think is the right vision, there are still whispers about this cloud hanging over my head,'' Mr. Liu said in his closing statement at the forum, focused on poverty and income inequality.
His voice rising in anger, Mr. Liu listed his grievances: ''Three years of investigating. They wiretapped my phones for 18 months. They reviewed a million documents and messages. They interrogated thousands of my supporters. And yet, what do they have to show for it? It's time to put up or shut up already. Because I have an election to win!''
The investigation dates back to 2009 and has resulted in the arrest of two associates -- Mr. Liu's former 2013 campaign treasurer and a fund-raiser. Both are accused of conspiring to illegally funnel campaign contributions to Mr. Liu through ''straw donors,'' or people whose contributions are reimbursed by others. Their trial is set to begin on April 15.
Mr. Liu has not been accused of wrongdoing, but documents and interviews have raised unflattering questions about his management style and integrity.
His decision to raise arguably his biggest political liability at a forum focused on issues like the minimum wage clearly caught his rivals by surprise.
''I was shocked,'' Tom Allon, a Republican candidate, said in an interview afterward. He compared Mr. Liu's sentiment to a dare.
''Catch me if you can,'' Mr. Allon said.
Mr. Liu's remarks, which drew loud applause from a crowd that seemed to be filled with his supporters, capped a lively and at times raucous forum at the First Corinthian Baptist Church in Harlem.
The City Council speaker, Christine C. Quinn, the perceived front-runner in the race, endured pointed and bipartisan barbs about her unwillingness to allow for a vote on paid sick leave and her fund-raising ties to developers.
Both Bill de Blasio, the city's public advocate and a Democratic mayoral candidate, and Mr. Allon demanded that Ms. Quinn reverse her position on legislation that would require many employers to provide paid sick leave to workers across the city. Ms. Quinn, who has kept the legislation from reaching the floor of the Council, has argued that such a requirement would hurt small businesses at a time when the economy is fragile.
''You have to give us a vote,'' Mr. de Blasio told Ms. Quinn.
Mr. Liu joined in on the jabbing. ''There is no conclusive research,'' he said of Ms. Quinn's argument, ''that paid sick leave is actually detrimental to the economy.''
At one point, the moderator of the forum, Brian Lehrer, asked whether there was anyone on stage besides Ms. Quinn who opposed paid sick leave now. No one raised their hand.
Ms. Quinn said she was carefully studying when the city might be ready for such a measure, which she supports in theory. But when Mr. Lehrer asked her which specific economic metric she would use to determine the right time, she replied, ''We are evaluating that; I can't tell you that there is one.''
All but one of the candidates said that New York should follow President Obama's plan to raise the minimum wage to $9 an hour. Mr. Liu, to ferocious applause, called for the state to raise the minimum wage to $11.50 an hour over the next few years, over the current $7.25.
Two major Republican candidates, Joseph J. Lhota and John Catsimatidis, did not attend, a fact that Mr. Lehrer noted.
The night was filled with unexpected glimpses into the candidates' personal lives. William C. Thompson Jr., the Democratic mayoral nominee in 2009 and a candidate again this year, recalled warning his 15-year-old stepson how to react if he were stopped and frisked by the police.
''If I am not doing anything wrong,'' Mr. Thompson recalled the boy asking, ''why would I be stopped?'' Mr. Thompson said that the police tactic ''has been misused and abused.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Candidates in the New York mayoral primary at a forum on Thursday at First Corinthian Baptist Church in Harlem, from left: John C. Liu, Bill de Blasio, Christine C. Quinn, William C. Thompson Jr., Tom Allon, Adolfo Carrión Jr. and Sal F. Albanese. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUNDRAISING (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); CITIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CONSPIRACY (75%); WIRETAPPING (73%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); INTERVIEWS (68%); MINIMUM WAGE (62%); SMALL BUSINESS (60%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (60%); SICK LEAVE (60%)

PERSON: ADOLFO CARRION JR (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2013



18 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 6222 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
Theater
Approximate running times are in parentheses. Theaters are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of current productions, additional listings, showtimes and ticket information are at nytimes.com/theater. A searchable, critical guide to theater is at nytimes.com/events.
Previews and Openings
'Ann' (in previews; opens on Thursday) Not many people could play both Nancy Reagan and Ann Richards, but Holland Taylor is not most people. Long before she cornered the market on feisty WASPdom on television shows like ''Two and a Half Men'' and ''The Practice,'' Ms. Taylor was racking up theater credits in shows like ''Butley'' and ''The Cocktail Hour.'' (And, yes, ''Moose Murders.'') Now she returns to Broadway in a one-woman tribute (which she also wrote) to the larger-than-life former governor of Texas, who, when she was the state treasurer of Texas, had some choice comments for Mrs. Reagan's husband in her keynote address at the 1988 Democratic National Convention. Vivian Beaumont Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 239-6200, lct.org. (Eric Grode) 
'As You Like It' (opens on Friday) Shakespeare's pastoral, gender-swapping comedy is never far from the New York stage, but the kiddie-courting New Victory has a few ringers in place. The well-traveled Acting Company, which counts Kevin Kline and Jesse L. Martin among its alumni, can always be counted on to field an impressive roster of young talent. And the director is an eye-opener: Dan Rothenberg, whose work with Pig Iron and other companies has yielded gutsy fare like ''Chekhov Lizardbrain'' and ''Zero Cost House.'' New Victory Theater, 209 West 42nd Street, (646) 223-3010, newvictory.org. (Grode)
'Belleville' (in previews; opens on Sunday) Amy Herzog's plays continue to take on darker shadows, as family-focused works like ''After the Revolution'' and ''4000 Miles'' give way to ''The Great God Pan,'' which looked at repressed childhood memories, and now this examination of a fraying American couple in Paris. Maria Dizzia and Greg Keller return to the roles they originated at Yale Repertory Theater in 2011, when Charles Isherwood, in his review for The New York Times, called it ''a thrillingly good play.'' It is directed, as it was in 2011, by Anne Kauffman (''The Thugs,'' ''Maple and Vine''), who does creepy naturalism better than just about anyone. New York Theater Workshop, 79 East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 279-4200, nytw.org. (Grode)
'Breakfast at Tiffany's' (previews start on Monday; opens on March 20) No, you will not get to hear ''Moon River.'' And more important, no, this is not the infamous 1966 musical version that counted Edward Albee and Mary Tyler Moore among the casualties. This latest incarnation of the beloved film, itself based on a Truman Capote novella, features a script by Richard Greenberg (''Take Me Out'') and the ''Game of Thrones'' star Emilia Clarke as the gold-digging gamine Holly Golightly. Featuring Cory Michael Smith (''The Whale'') as Fred and George Wendt (''Cheers'') as Joe Bell. Cort Theater, 138 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Grode)
'Detroit '67' (in previews; opens on March 12) The Public Theater's smaller-scale Public Lab series has teamed up with the always intriguing Classical Theater of Harlem to present this world premiere by Dominique Morisseau. Motown released more than 100 singles in 1967 -- and just about every one made the charts -- but reality would soon interrupt in the form of one of the worst riots in American history. Ms. Morisseau's play contains both of these threads and much more. Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, publictheater.org. (Grode)
'The Flick' (in previews; opens on March 12) Underpaid young workers in small-town New England certainly paid off for Annie Baker and her frequent director, Sam Gold, in 2010 with their critical smash ''The Aliens.'' Now the formidable duo, who also collaborated on ''Circle Mirror Transformation'' and Ms. Baker's ''Uncle Vanya'' translation, have turned their attention to three undermotivated employees of a rundown Massachusetts movie theater. The news release promises ''tiny battles and not-so-tiny heartbreaks.'' The track record promises a good bit more than that. Playwrights Horizons, 416 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200, ticketcentral.com. (Grode)
'Hands on a Hardbody' (in previews; opens on March 21) Despite a megaplex's worth of movies making their way to Broadway as musicals, one genre that rarely makes the jump is documentaries. ''Grey Gardens'' was a rare example, and that musical's book writer, Doug Wright, is handling the same task on this project, based on a 1997 film about (ready for this?) an endurance competition to see who can keep his or her hand on a pickup truck the longest. The music was composed by Amanda Green (''Bring It On'') and a curious newcomer to Broadway: Trey Anastasio of the jam band Phish. The cast includes Keith Carradine, Mary Gordon Murray, Hunter Foster and Connie Ray. Brooks Atkinson Theater, 256 West 47th Street, (877) 250-2929, ticketmaster.com. (Grode)
'Henry IV, Part 1' (in previews; opens on Sunday) Following the Pearl Theater's last show, the one-man ''In Acting Shakespeare,'' comes a more straightforward take on the playwright. (''Henry V'' is scheduled for next season.) Shakespeare is old hat for the Pearl cast by now, but the choice of director is an intriguing one: Davis McCallum. He has earned a sterling reputation for directing new plays, most recently ''Water by the Spoonful'' and ''The Whale,'' but the classics are a relatively uncharted territory for him. Pearl Theater, 555 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 563-9261, pearltheatre.org. (Grode)
'Hit the Wall' (in previews; opens on March 10) The West Village is rich with cultural milestones, and one of the biggest came on June 28, 1969. That's when a police raid on the Stonewall Inn, a gay bar, exploded into a riot that would serve as a catalyst for the gay rights movement. Ike Holter's new play, which made its debut last year as part of Steppenwolf's Garage Rep series, blends history and mythology as it puts audiences on the periphery of that epochal conflict. Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street, at Seventh Avenue South, West Village, (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com. (Grode)
'The (*) Inn, *Empty, Vacant, Abandoned; Usually Translated as 'Haunted' ' (previews start on Thursday; opens on March 11) When Target Margin Theater dives into a topic, it doesn't bother with the shallow end. Its two-year exploration of Yiddish theater continues with this curiosity by Peretz Hirschbein (1880-1948), who founded a theater company in Odessa but also found time to do some farming in Argentina and the Catskills. Look for chicken plucking, an arranged marriage, S&M lust, body-snatching wedding guests and David Greenspan. Abrons Arts Center, 466 Grand Street, at Pitt Street, Lower East Side, (212) 352-3101, abronsartscenter.org. (Grode)
'Jackie' (in previews; opens on Tuesday) When the Austrian playwright and novelist Elfriede Jelinek was awarded the Nobel Prize for Literature in 2004, it occasioned all sorts of hand-wringing over her trenchant, often graphic writings. One member of the Nobel Committee resigned in protest. New York theater audiences will get a rare chance to see her work in this Women's Project production, which is being called an ''intensely theatrical dissection'' of the myths surrounding Jackie Kennedy Onassis. Hold on to your pillbox hats. City Center Stage II, 131 West 55th Street, (212) 581-1212, nycitycenter.org. (Grode)
'Kinky Boots' (previews start on Sunday; opens on April 4) Cyndi Lauper has been a fixture in the New York theater community for so long that it's hard to believe that she's never written for Broadway. (She has performed there, in the 2006 revival of ''The Threepenny Opera.'') Here she collaborates with two men who have more than two dozen Broadway credits between them, the book writer Harvey Fierstein and the director-choreographer Jerry Mitchell. Here they take on the feel-good 2005 film about a drag queen (played onstage by Billy Porter) who takes on the task of saving a failing shoe factory. Al Hirschfeld Theater, 302 West 45th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Grode)
'The Last Five Years' (previews start on Thursday; opens on April 2) This two-character 2002 musical by Jason Robert Brown has become a juggernaut in terms of regional productions (more than 500) and audition songs (seemingly limitless). It also went a long way toward cementing the careers of its original New York stars, Norbert Leo Butz and Sherie Rene Scott, so theater buffs may be curious to see what the new cast -- Adam Kantor (''Rent'') and Betsy Wolfe (''The Mystery of Edwin Drood'') -- will do with this show, which uses a curious narrative structure to chart a disintegrating marriage. Second Stage Theater, 305 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 246-4422, 2st.com. (Grode)
'Lucky Guy' (previews start on Friday; opens on April 1) In New York City in the mid-1980s, the sight of the thick-mustached Irishman Mike McAlary squinting out from a newsstand was a sign that he had unearthed yet another scandalous tidbit from the police beat. Nora Ephron, who worked at The New York Post before McAlary did, was there to see it all; so was George C. Wolfe, then just beginning his ascent in the New York theater world. Ephron finished this sprawling play about the muckraking columnist before she died last year, leaving it in the hands of Mr. Wolfe, who directs, and a cast led by Tom Hanks (making his Broadway debut). Broadhurst Theater, 235 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Grode)
'The Lying Lesson' (in previews; opens on March 13) Craig Lucas likes to play with shifting identities, as he did via the chat-room shenanigans in ''The Dying Gaul'' and the body swapping of ''Prelude to a Kiss.'' Here the playwright looks at one of the more fixed personas in Hollywood history: Bette Davis (played by Carol Kane). Her seemingly clueless young assistant is quickly embroiled in a series of cat-and-mouse games -- a form of theatrical combat in which the director, Pam MacKinnon (''Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?''), has become an expert. Linda Gross Theater, 336 West 20th Street, Chelsea, (212) 279-4200, atlantictheater.org. (Grode)
'Matilda the Musical' (previews start on Monday; opens on April 11) This musical take on Roald Dahl's beloved 1988 children's novel features four young actresses each having a go at Matilda, the telekinetic little girl with beastly parents and an even worse headmistress, Miss Trunchbull (Bertie Carvel, in his Broadway debut, repeating his best actor Olivier Award-winning London performance). A draw for the parents may be Tim Minchin, an Australian musician and comedian who wrote the music and lyrics. Shubert Theater, 225 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Grode)
'The Mound Builders' (in previews; opens on March 17) A highlight of the Signature Theater's longstanding relationship with Lanford Wilson was the 2003 revival of ''Fifth of July.'' That was directed by Jo Bonney, who returns a decade later to stage Wilson's 1975 drama about a vexed archaeological dig in the Midwest. Signature Center, 480 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 244-7529, signaturetheatre.org. (Grode)
'Neva' (previews start on Friday; opens on March 11) One advantage of having the Public Theater host the annual Under the Radar Festival is seeing some of those global artists find subsequent employment at the Public. Such is the case with the Chilean provocateur Guillermo Calderón, whose beguiling ''Diciembre'' turned heads at the 2011 festival. He's back with the English-language premiere of ''Neva,'' which depicts Olga Knipper, Chekhov's widow, preparing to rehearse ''The Cherry Orchard'' in 1905 amid violent unrest on the streets. Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, publictheater.org. (Grode)
'The North Pool' (in previews; opens on Wednesday) After several well-received Off Broadway plays, Rajiv Joseph hit the big time in 2011 when Robin Williams starred in his ''Bengal Tiger at the Baghdad Zoo'' on Broadway. Now Mr. Joseph heads back downtown with this psychological thriller about a game of cat and mouse conducted between a high school principal and a transfer student from the Middle East. Giovanna Sardelli, who has directed nearly all of Mr. Joseph's other Off Broadway pieces, does the same here. Vineyard Theater, 108 East 15th Street, Manhattan, (212) 353-0303, vineyardtheatre.org. (Grode)
'The Old Boy' (in previews; opens on Tuesday) Playwrights as prolific as A.R. Gurney tend not to pick favorites among their works. Who can remember them all? That said, Mr. Gurney has referred to this 1991 play, about a politician who confronts some unexpected demons when he returns to his New England prep school, as ''a favorite but somewhat neglected child.'' Enter the Keen Company to bestow a little attention. Mr. Gurney has also done a bit of revisiting, as the script is being billed as ''newly revised.'' Clurman Theater at Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Grode)
'Old Hats' (in previews; opens on Monday) There are few details about this piece, but here's all you really need to know: Bill Irwin and David Shiner are together again. The duo created stage magic in various iterations of the uproarious ''Fool Moon,'' and now they and their director, Tina Landau, promise more of the same: mime, magic, music (courtesy of Nellie McKay) and mayhem. Mr. Irwin's more recent stage performances have included convincing takes on Albee, Shakespeare and even Beckett, but he still presumably has a good pratfall or three left in him. Signature Center, 480 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 244-7529, signaturetheatre.org. (Grode)
'Rodgers & Hammerstein's Cinderella' (in previews; opens on Sunday) The 1957 television musical of ''Cinderella'' was a runaway smash and almost immediately began spawning stage incarnations, starring Eartha Kitt, Everett Quinton and Jean Stapleton (though they weren't cast in the title role). But this staging is the property's first appearance on Broadway, complete with a new book by Douglas Carter Beane (''Sister Act,'' ''The Little Dog Laughed'') and four fairly obscure songs from the Rodgers and Hammerstein catalog. Laura Osnes stars as Cinderella, and she is surrounded by three formidable scene stealers: Harriet Harris, Victoria Clark and Ann Harada. Broadway Theater, 1681 Broadway, at 53rd Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Grode)
'Saga' (previews start on Thursday; opens on March 9) What would a 3-inch puppet and a 10-foot puppet, along with more than two dozen others, find to talk about? The Icelandic financial crisis, of course. The downtown troupe Wakka Wakka Productions has earned a reputation for employing baroque visual means to tell vibrant, moving stories, and this modern-day Icelandic tale by Kirjan Waage and Gwendolyn Warnock appears to be no exception. Baruch Performing Arts Center, 55 Lexington Avenue, at 25th Street, (866) 811-4111, wakkawakka.org. (Grode)
&#x2605; 'Saint Joan' With just four actors playing 24 characters, Bedlam's wonderfully high-spirited production of Shaw's 1920 semi-tragedy leads its audience into, out of and all over the space. Eric Taylor's inventive direction and the four superb performers make it well worth the schlep. This production returns with a preview on Wednesday, and will run in repertory with the Bedlam company's ''Hamlet'' (3:00). Access Theater, 380 Broadway, at White Street, fourth floor, TriBeCa, (866) 811-4111, theatrebedlam.org. (Grode)
'Talley's Folly' (in previews; opens on Tuesday) Two years after his death, Lanford Wilson is beginning to receive his due on New York stages. The Signature's revival of his ''Mound Builders'' opens in a few weeks, but first comes Mr. Wilson's 1980 Pulitzer Prize winner, a wistful 1940s romance between a Jewish immigrant (Danny Burstein) and a Protestant nurse (Sarah Paulson) in rural Missouri. Laura Pels Theater, Harold and Miriam Steinberg Center for Theater, 111 West 46th Street, (212) 719-1300, roundabouttheatre.org. (Grode)
'Trevor' (in previews; opens on Saturday) After teaming up to virtuosic effect on the potty-mouthed-sock-puppet play, ''Hand to God,'' Moritz von Stuelpnagel is once again directing Steven Boyer. This time they're working with a volatile 200-pound chimpanzee who dreams of a comeback in showbiz. The author, Nick Jones, turned his own share of heads with the potty-mouthed-pirate-puppet play, ''Jollyship the Whiz-bang,'' so this looks to be a fruitful pairing. Theater for the New City, 155 First Avenue, at Ninth Street, East Village, (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com. (Grode)
'Vanya and Sonia and Masha and Spike' (previews start on Tuesday; opens on March 14) The longtime Christopher Durang collaborators Sigourney Weaver, Kristine Nielsen and David Hyde Pierce have taken Mr. Durang's modern-day, curiously chipper riffs on Chekhov (complete with Maggie Smith impersonations, Snow White costumes and anti-technology screeds) to Broadway. John Golden Theater, 252 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Grode)
Broadway
'Annie' James Lapine's revival of the singing comic strip from 1977 is merely serviceable. But its smiley-faced mixture of hope and corn scratches an itch in a city recovering from a recession and a hurricane. Theatergoers may feel the urge both to mist up and throw up, but Lilla Crawford is a nigh irresistible Orphan Annie. With Katie Finneran and Anthony Warlow (2:25). Palace Theater, 1564 Broadway, at 47th Street, (877) 250-2929, ticketmaster.com. (Ben Brantley)
'Cat on a Hot Tin Roof' A four-alarm urgency infuses Scarlett Johansson's performance in Rob Ashford's oxygen-starved revival of Tennessee Williams's 1955 drama of sex and lies. If Ms. Johansson is oddly un-feline as Maggie the Cat, she sure has presence. The rest of the cast, including Benjamin Walker and Ciaran Hinds, gets lost in the heavy atmospherics (2:40). Richard Rodgers Theater, 226 West 46th Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com. (Brantley)
&#x2605; 'The Mystery of Edwin Drood' A boisterous, well-cast revival of Rupert Holmes's Tony-winning 1986 musical, which gives the audience the chance to choose the identity of the killer of the titular hero. Chita Rivera lends an air of authentic glamour, Jim Norton is a cutup as the music-hall proprietor, and the young cast sings the lovely score with great skill (2:35). Studio 54, 254 West 54th Street, (212) 719-1300, roundabouttheatre.org. (Charles Isherwood)
'Newsies' This Disney musical -- adapted from the 1992 movie and inspired by the newsboy strike of 1899 -- markets Urchin Appeal with extra! extra! enthusiasm. Jeff Calhoun directs a cast of comely, if overgrown, ragamuffins. The largely interchangeable songs are by Alan Menken and Jack Feldman (2:20). Nederlander Theater, 208 West 41st Street, (866) 870-2717, newsiesthemusical.com. (Brantley)
'Nice Work if You Can Get It' Every now and then a bubble of pure, tickling charm rises from the artificial froth of this pastiche 1920s musical, directed by Kathleen Marshall and featuring songs by George and Ira Gershwin. But mostly the production, starring Matthew Broderick and Kelli O'Hara, registers as a shiny, dutiful trickle of gags and production numbers (2:30). Imperial Theater, 249 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
&#x2605; 'Once' This gentle musical, set in Dublin, about a love affair that never quite happens -- based on the 2006 movie -- inventively uses songs (by Glen Hansard and Marketa Irglova) and dance to convey a beautiful shimmer of might-have-been regret. Staged by John Tiffany and Steven Hoggett (''Black Watch''), the production stars the immensely appealing Steve Kazee and Cristin Milioti (2:15). Bernard B. Jacobs Theater, 242 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
Off Broadway
&#x2605; 'All in the Timing' One of the zestier plates of theatrical tapas to be had. This 20th-anniversary production of David Ives's popular anthology of mini-plays, directed by John Rando, leaves you feeling lighter, but not emptier. There's nutrition in these sketches about (gulp!) relativity and randomness, and surprising substance in their silliness. Carson Elrod leads a bouncy cast (1:45). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200, primarystages.org. (Brantley)
'Bunnicula: A Rabbit Tale of Musical Mystery' Charles Busch livens up this fun adaptation of the kid's novel about a family enduring some turmoil after adopting a rabbit that may be a vampire (1:05). DR2 Theater, 103 East 15th Street, Manhattan, (212) 239-6200, dr2theatre.com. (Jason Zinoman)
'Clive' Jonathan Marc Sherman's adaptation of ''Baal,'' an early Brecht play about a poète maudit, has the potential to electrify. But the current that flows through this version, directed by and starring Ethan Hawke, is oddly sluggish. Brecht's tale of a degenerate society assumes the air of a wearily confirmed prophecy. Vincent D'Onofrio, a great wild-card actor, provides some electricity (1:45). Acorn Theater at Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Cougar the Musical' Three older women find themselves attracted to younger men, two against their better judgment. The concept seems made for bus tours, but imagination, appealing numbers with original melodies and theme-transcending jokes lift this show well above the level of ''Menopause: The Musical'' and its ilk (1:30). St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Anita Gates)
'The Dance and the Railroad' The Signature Theater Company's David Henry Hwang season continues with this modest, somewhat soporific two-hander about two Chinese immigrants (Yuekun Wu and Ruy Iskandar) laboring on the transcontinental railroad in 1867 (1:10). Signature Center, 480 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 244-7529, signaturetheatre.org. (Isherwood)
'Donnybrook!' This revival of Johnny Burke and Robert E. McEnroe's 1961 musical (itself an adaptation of ''The Quiet Man,'' the 1952 St. Patrick's Day perennial about an Irish-American boxer's fraught courtship of a redheaded spitfire), jettisons the most dated, disturbing and indulgent elements of the movie but retains the essential sentimental blarney. With a fine cast and crisp direction by Charlotte Moore, the result is as fresh as a morning after rain in the west of Ireland (2:15). Irish Repertory Theater, 132 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 727-2737, irishrep.org. (Andy Webster)
&#x2605; 'Forbidden Broadway: Alive and Kicking' Gerard Alessandrini's essential satirical cheat sheet to Broadway musicals returns after a three-year absence, packing polished brass knuckles. A precisionist cast of four provides vocal cartoons as evocative as Al Hirschfeld's caricatures. This show not only tickles but also pierces the Achilles' heels of the productions under scrutiny (1:40). At the 47th Street Theater, 304 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Forever Dusty' If Kristen Holly Smith turned up to your costume party in Dusty Springfield drag and started singing, there would be no mistaking the woman she was channeling. But doing a passable impersonation is a far cry from capturing the essence of one of the most distinctive female vocalists of all time, as this amateurish inflated cabaret act demonstrates. Written in by-the-numbers basics by Ms. Smith and Jonathan Vankin, and directed with minimal finesse by Randal Myler, this misconceived bio-musical is a soulless tribute to the platinum-haired, panda-eyed queen of white soul. She deserves better (1:40). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, foreverdusty.net. (David Rooney)
&#x2605; 'Fried Chicken and Latkes' Rain Pryor, the daughter of the comedian Richard Pryor (who died in 2005), stars in this effervescent solo show, which recounts her upbringing in a biracial household (her mother is Jewish) in Beverly Hills, Calif. Ms. Pryor, who sings and portrays a range of characters (including, poignantly, her father in a spot-on impression) is an ebullient performer with a robust singing voice. She lives in Baltimore now, but her outsize personality is built for Broadway (1:30). Actor's Temple Theater, 339 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Webster)
'From White Plains' Tracing the ramifications of homophobic bullying, Michael Perlman's tightly devised, terrifically acted play delves into thorny emotional and psychological issues. It's upsetting material -- yet full of pleasures for the audience (1:30). Signature Center, 480 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200, ticketcentral.com. (Claudia La Rocco)
'Hamlet' The Bedlam company presents a four-person, stripped-down production that is modest and sensitive to the sound of the poetry of the play (3:30). Access Theater, 380 Broadway, at White Street, TriBeCa, (866) 811-4111, theatrebedlam.org. (Zinoman)
'Isaac's Eye' A young Isaac Newton, played by Haskell King, stirs it up with a senior physicist, Robert Hooke (Michael Louis Serafin-Wells), in Lucas Hnath's quirky take on scientific history and male rivalry. The figures may be ye olde, but the language is strictly contemporary and stylized (2:10). Ensemble Studio Theater, 549 West 52nd Street, Clinton, (866) 811-4111, ensemblestudiotheatre.org. (Isherwood)
'Jesus in India' Lloyd Suh's playful but thin coming-of-age tale features a teenage Jesus who's a runaway and a stoner. In India, he joins a band. Mr. Suh's jokey irreverence wears thin after a while, mostly because Jesus never seems like Jesus -- he's just another teenage rebel. Like its hero, this play, a Ma-Yi Theater Company production, still seems to be searching for meaning (1:35). Theater at St. Clement's, 423 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 352-3101, ma-yitheatre.org. (Rachel Saltz)
'Last Man Club' Randy Sharp's atmospheric, expertly structured one-act drama does almost too good a job of making the audience feel as if it is living through the Dust Bowl of the 1930s. This production, about people who stay behind in their devastated hometowns and the men who try to fool them, can be hypnotic; that's a compliment and a problem (1:25). This return engagement starts on Thursday. Axis Theater, 1 Sheridan Square, off Seventh Avenue, West Village, (212) 352-2101, axiscompany.org. (Gates)
'Love in the Time of Cholera' Directed by José Zayas and performed by an efficient four-actor crew, Caridad Svich's adaptation of the Gabriel García Márquez novel is pleasing but lightweight. A production cannot live on romance alone. In Spanish with subtitles (2:00). Gramercy Arts Theater, 138 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 889-2850, repertorio.org. (La Rocco)
'Luck of the Irish' Kirsten Greenidge's play, about race, class and real estate, is set in the 1950s and the 2000s. The plot turns on the disputed possession of a house in a lush Boston suburb. Thoughtful but diffuse (2:10). Claire Tow Theater, Lincoln Center, 150 West 65th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com, lct3.org. (Isherwood)
'The Madrid' Edie Falco, whose face usually seems like an open window, pulls down the blinds in Liz Flahive's muted, murky play about a runaway kindergarten teacher, directed by Leigh Silverman. Ms. Flahive has a poet's hand for echoing imagery. But this production often feels paralyzed in its contemplation of the mystery of everyday lives (2:10). City Center Stage I, 131 West 55th Street, Manhattan, (212) 581-1212, nycitycenter.org. (Brantley)
'Much Ado About Nothing' The splendid Jonathan Cake is an exuberant, witty Benedick opposite Maggie Siff's Beatrice in an otherwise mostly zest-free production of Shakespeare's romantic comedy, directed by Arin Arbus for Theater for a New Audience (2:40). The Duke on 42nd Street, 229 West 42nd Street, (646) 223-3010, dukeon42.org. (Isherwood)
'My Name Is Asher Lev' Aaron Posner's adaptation of Chaim Potok's novel feels like a well-made play from the era in which the story takes place -- the 1950s. Set in a Hasidic community in Brooklyn, this tale of an artistic prodigy has been directed with an attention to emotional nuance by Gordon Edelstein and features strong performances from its three-person cast: Ari Brand, Mark Nelson and Jenny Bacon (1:30). Westside Theater/Upstairs, 407 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Saltz)
'Old Jews Telling Jokes' With old jokes, a few songs and a little schmaltz, this winning revue is simple, effective entertainment executed with obvious affection (1:20). Westside Theater, 407 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Zinoman)
'Really Really' The young playwright Paul Downs Colaizzo shows an assured appreciation of the addictive power of ambiguity in this merciless state-of-a-generation play, set on a college campus. Yet because of its blanket bleakness, nothing in it surprises us. Zosia Mamet is excellent as an upwardly mobile college student who becomes both victim and predator. The talented David Cromer directs (2:10). Lucille Lortel Theater, 121 Christopher Street, West Village, (212) 352-3101, mcctheater.org. (Brantley)
'Women of Will' Mixing casually delivered scholarly exposition with intensely rendered performance, this impassioned exploration of Shakespeare's heroines by Tina Packer traces their evolution through their language. When Ms. Packer and her co-star, Nigel Gore, get down to the business of acting, it's not just poetry in motion, it's thought made flesh. Eric Tucker directs (2:30). Gym at Judson, Judson Memorial Church, 55 Washington Square South, Greenwich Village, (866) 811-4111, judson.org/The-Gym. (Brantley)
Off Off Broadway
&#x2605; 'Patti Issues' In his funny, tender coming-of-age monologue, Ben Rimalower traces the obsessive Patti LuPone fandom that provided him with an empowering role model. That inspiration proved perhaps most useful to Mr. Rimalower in processing the fallout after his father kicked down the closet door and bailed on the family. While on one hand, this is the story of many young gay men's propensity for diva worship, the tartly observed show goes several steps further by exploring the wide-eyed experiences that result when the acolyte gets to interact with his idol (1:00). Wednesdays only. Duplex Cabaret Theater, 61 Christopher Street, at Seventh Avenue, Greenwich Village, pattiissues.brownpapertickets.com. (Rooney)
'Totally Tubular Time Machine' This show is less a play or musical than a big, campy, drinking party, with a little bit of singing thrown in. Held at an '80s-theme dance club in Midtown, it features celebrity impersonators who wander through the crowd handing out party favors (lollipops from Katy Perry, trucker hats from Justin Bieber) and taking turns at karaoke. The impersonations come with varying degrees of similitude and singing talent (2:00). Saturdays only. Culture Club, 20 West 39th Street, (212) 921-1999, totallytubularnyc.com. (Catherine Rampell)
Long-Running Shows
'Avenue Q' R-rated puppets give lively life lessons (2:15). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'The Berenstain Bears Live! In Family Matters, the Musical' This adaptation of three of Stan and Jan Berenstain's children's books is pleasant enough, but the cubs are showing their age. Saturday and Sunday only (:55). Marjorie S. Deane Little Theater, 5 West 63rd Street, (866) 811-4111, berenstainbearslive.com.
'Black Angels Over Tuskegee' The tear-jerker story of these trailblazing African-American pilots (2:30). Actors Temple Theater, 339 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
Blue Man Group Conceptual art as entertainment (1:45). Astor Place Theater, 434 Lafayette Street, East Village, (800) 258-3626, ticketmaster.com.
'The Book of Mormon' Singing, dancing, R-rated missionaries proselytize for the American musical (2:15). Eugene O'Neill Theater, 230 West 49th Street, (800) 432-7250, telecharge.com.
'Chicago' Jazz Age sex, murder and razzle-dazzle (2:25). Ambassador Theater, 219 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'En el Tiempo de las Mariposas' Caridad Svich's Spanish-language adaptation of Julia Álvarez's novel (''In the Time of the Butterflies'') about the Mirabal sisters, who opposed the Dominican dictator Rafael Trujillo and died as a result (2:00). Repertorio Español at Gramercy Arts Theater, 138 East 27th Street, (212) 225-9999, repertorio.org/mariposas.
'The Fantasticks' Boy meets girl, forever (2:05). Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.
'Fuerza Bruta: Look Up' A sensory bath aimed at clubgoing college kids in search of cultural diversion (1:05). Daryl Roth Theater, 20 Union Square East, at 15th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Gauguin!' George Fischoff's one-man musical about Paul Gauguin. Saturday only (1:00). Nola Studios, 250 West 54th Street, Clinton, (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com.
'Jersey Boys' The biomusical that walks like a man (2:30). August Wilson Theater, 245 West 52nd Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'The Lion King' Disney's call of the wild (2:45). Minskoff Theater, 200 West 45th Street, (800) 870-2717, ticketmaster.com.
'Mamma Mia!' The jukebox musical set to the disco throb of Abba (2:20). Cadillac Winter Garden Theater, 1634 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Perfect Crime' The murder mystery that has been investigated since 1987 (1:30). Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.
'The Phantom of the Opera' Who was that masked man anyway? (2:30). Majestic Theater, 247 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Rock of Ages' Big hair, thrashing guitars and inspired humor fuel this jukebox musical (2:25). Helen Hayes Theater, 240 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Silence! The Musical' An ''unauthorized parody'' of the grisly movie with the Hannibal Lecter character crooning noxious songs and a hilarious sendup of Jodie Foster's intense Clarice Starling. Not as funny as it needs to be (1:30). Elektra Theater, 674 Eighth Avenue, at 42nd Street, (212) 352-3101, silencethemusical.com.
'Sistas: The Musical' Black women reflect on their lives, with songs (1:30). St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Sleep No More' A movable, murderous feast at Hotel Macbeth (2:00). The McKittrick Hotel, 530 West 27th Street, Chelsea, (866) 811-4111, sleepnomorenyc.com.
'Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark' Web surfing with music (2:45). Foxwoods Theater, 213 West 42nd Street, (800) 745-3000, spidermanonbroadway.marvel.com.
'Stomp' And the beat goes on (and on), with percussion unlimited (1:30). Orpheum Theater, 126 Second Avenue, at Eighth Street, East Village, (800) 982-2787, ticketmaster.com.
'Wicked' Oz revisited (2:45). Gershwin Theater, 222 West 51st Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.
Last Chance
'Iphigenia in Aulis' (closes on Sunday) Puppetlike masks! Comic-book drawings! A rock band! There's a lot going on in this new adaptation of Euripides' tragedy about the sacrifice of a young virgin required before the Greeks can set sail for Troy. Unfortunately, this is a case where the whole is lesser than the sum of its parts. A lot of talented people have contributed a lot of cool design elements, but the director hasn't successfully synthesized those contributions into a better play (1:30). First Floor Theater at La MaMa, 74A East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 475-7710, untitledtheater.com. (Rampell)
'Mary Poppins' (closes on Sunday) The British supernanny has made her home on the Broadway stage since 2006, dispensing life lessons with her theatrical magic. Based on the P.L. Travers books and the 1964 Disney movie (2:30). New Amsterdam Theater, 214 West 42nd Street, (800) 870-2717, ticketmaster.com. (Brantley)
'The Other Place' (closes on Sunday) Laurie Metcalf gives a captivating, complicated performance in Sharr White's clever puzzle of a drama, portraying a woman grappling with sudden onset of a mysterious illness at the same time as her personal life -- disloyal husband (Bill Pullman), estranged daughter (Zoe Perry) -- threatens to implode. Joe Mantello's nimble direction ratchets up the suspense (1:10). Friedman Theater, 261 West 47th Street, (800) 432-7250, mtc-nyc.org. (Isherwood)
'The Vandal' (closes on Sunday) The playwriting debut of the actor Hamish Linklater is a modest comedy-drama of two lonely souls, a widow (the wonderful Deirdre O'Connell) and a widower (Zach Grenier, ditto), brought together by a talky youngster played by the puckish Noah Robbins. Smoothly directed by Jim Simpson (1:15). Flea Theater, 41 White Street, TriBeCa, (212) 226-2407, theflea.org. (Isherwood)
&#x2605; 'Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?' (closes on Sunday) Pam MacKinnon's shattering 50th-anniversary revival of Edward Albee's hair-raising drama of marital discord stars an electrifying Tracy Letts (of ''August: Osage County'' fame) as George and Amy Morton (ditto) as Martha, ably supported by Carrie Coon and Madison Dirks as the young couple they use as cannon fodder. Not to be missed (3:05). Booth Theater, 222 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); THEATER (79%); THEATER COMPANIES (79%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (72%); GOVERNORS (67%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (66%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (55%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (52%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (52%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (52%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (63%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2013



19 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; INSIDE ART; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: Matthew Barney Heads to the Morgan Library

BYLINE: By CAROL VOGEL

 BODY:
Try as it might, the Morgan Library & Museum has never been a magnet for the art world's young and trendy set. That may change, at least temporarily, when its big show ''Subliming Vessel: The Drawings of Matthew Barney'' opens on May 10. Mr. Barney, an artist with a cultlike following, produces films and videos, most of which he performs in. He also makes sculptures and objects, as well as photographs, books and installations derived from the films. He fashions his sculptures out of unusual materials like tapioca (dumbbells) and petroleum jelly (a weight bench). His drawings are the least known of his works. But to a place like the Morgan they are also the most intriguing.
''There will be many people who will be surprised to see a Matthew Barney exhibition here,'' said William M. Griswold, the museum's director. ''But his drawings are central to what we do. Many of them explore aspects of his technical innovations and his process, which makes a show like this ideal. For many people it will be a real revelation.'' 
The exhibition, organized by Isabelle Dervaux, the Morgan's curator of modern and contemporary art, and Klaus Kertess, an independent curator, will be on view through Sept. 2. It will then travel to the Bibliothèque Nationale de France in Paris, where it is scheduled to open in October.
It is the first museum retrospective devoted to Mr. Barney's drawings and will consist of about 100 works. They range from the late 1980s, when he was still an undergraduate at Yale University, to those he created in conjunction with his five-part ''Cremaster'' film cycle, produced between 1994 and 2002, to his current project, ''River of Fundament,'' his film and live performance collaboration with the composer Jonathan Bepler that was inspired by Norman Mailer's novel ''Ancient Evenings.''
Loans for the exhibition are coming from museums here and in Europe as well as from private collections. Besides the drawings, Ms. Dervaux said, the show will include some of Mr. Barney's storyboards. To show the kinds of myths and legends that inspire his work he has chosen books and manuscripts from the Morgan's own collection, like a 2,000-year-old Egyptian Book of the Dead, a medieval zodiac and a copy of Walt Whitman's ''Leaves of Grass.'' (When the show moves to Paris, Mr. Barney will choose a different set of works from the Bibliothèque Nationale's collection.) He will also create a new ''Drawing Restraint,'' the 20th in a chronicle he began in college and is still adding to, usually in conjunction with a museum exhibition.
ROCKEFELLER ART RESUMES
Rockefeller Center has been the backdrop for Jeff Koons's giant terrier puppy, fashioned from 70,000 flowering plants; Louise Bourgeois's nine-ton bronze spider; and Takashi Murakami's 30-foot Buddha-like figure with multiple arms and pointed head. It has also been home to a 61,000-pound fountain made of steel, neon tubing and 3,390 LED bulbs by the British artists Tim Noble and Sue Webster. These artworks -- and many more -- have been popular attractions for the thousands of people who pass through Rockefeller Center every day. In 2008, when the economy soured, the art stopped, and people noticed.
''We were working on major restorations inside many of the buildings, like the murals at 30 Rockefeller Center,'' said Jerry I. Speyer, chairman and co-chief executive of Tishman Speyer Properties, owners of Rockefeller Center. ''Back then the mood was not so great, and a lot of people felt that using money for public art wasn't the right thing to do.''
''It's a much more optimistic time now,'' Mr. Speyer said. So this spring art will be back where the Christmas tree stands every year. The first exhibition, ''Human Nature,'' organized with the assistance of the Public Art Fund, will be an installation of nine human-shaped sculptures by the Swiss artist Ugo Rondinone, on view from April 23 through June 7.
The sculptures, 16 to 20 feet tall, are made of bluestone from a quarry in Pennsylvania, the same region that supplied many of the stone sidewalks around Rockefeller Center. Mr. Rondinone purposely left the stone as he found it, with the surfaces rough and weathered, scored by quartz veins. He then cut them into slabs and blocks, which he formed into human figures. ''These are my first standing figures,'' Mr. Rondinone said.
Nicholas Baume, director of the Public Art Fund, called it a ''site-responsive'' project, adding, ''Ugo spent a lot of time at Rockefeller Center and has created what will be a forest of giants.''
A WARRIOR FOR BOSTON
The photograph of a black warrior blown up more than 30 feet high on the facade of the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum's year-old wing is not your typical banner on the exterior of a museum. It is not a banner at all; nor is it an image one would readily associate with a staid Boston institution like the Gardner.
The installation, which goes on view for six months beginning April 17, is the work of the Conceptual artist Adam Pendleton, and it is sure to turn heads. The portrait, taken in 1905, depicts a bare-chested man wearing a traditional warrior's cap that is found on many Fang sculptures. Making the installation more intriguing still, Mr. Pendleton has set the male image against a background of 18th-century silk damask from the Gardner's collection, which is decorated with vines, roses and hyacinths. He assembled the elements, photographed them and created a collage which was then printed on a mesh fabric and will hang on the building's exterior.
''I found the photograph in a book about African sculpture in a bookshop in London,'' Mr. Pendleton said. ''It's about what's not in the Gardner's collection, about its colonial past and colonial future juxtaposed with fabric that is from the Gardner.''
''If I had used an image of pretty flowers,'' he added, ''people would have walked on by.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Drawings by Matthew Barney, including the one above, will be exhibited at the Morgan Library & Museum
left, part of ''Human Nature,'' by Ugo Rondinone, which will be shown at Rockefeller Center. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PRIVATE COLLECTION
COURTESY OF THE ARTIST AND GLADSTONE GALLERY
 JASON WYCHE/PUBLIC ART FUND, NEW YORK) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBRARIES (90%); SCULPTURE (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); FILM (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (76%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%) NEW YORK, USA (73%) FRANCE (90%); UNITED STATES (73%); EUROPE (54%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2013



20 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 848 words

HEADLINE: Woodward Is New Hero For the Right (Yes, Really)

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUGHNEY and BRIAN STELTER

 BODY:
For nearly 40 years, Bob Woodward has been considered a near-saint by many journalists for helping break the Watergate scandal and a scourge by conservatives for doing the same. This week, that flipped after Mr. Woodward publicly criticized the White House, saying he had been told he would ''regret'' his reporting on the fiscal impasse.
His feud with an unnamed official, first reported in Politico, which said Mr. Woodward clearly saw the administration's choice of words ''as a veiled threat,'' initially drew cheers from many conservative commentators and bewilderment from many Washington reporters who wondered whether Mr. Woodward was being a tad oversensitive. 
In an interview later on Thursday, Mr. Woodward emphasized that he had not said he felt threatened. ''I never said it was a threat,'' he said, but added that he still had concerns about how the administration handled criticism. ''We live in a world where they don't like to be challenged, particularly when the political stakes are so high,'' he said.
The dust-up started last Friday, when The Washington Post published an op-ed article by Mr. Woodward that said Mr. Obama was ''moving the goal posts'' by insisting that a substitute for the Congressionally mandated automatic spending cuts include new revenue. ''That was not the deal he made'' back in 2011, Mr. Woodward wrote.
The staff of the House speaker, John A. Boehner, circulated the article to reporters immediately. By Sunday, when the article appeared in print, the headline of Politico's widely read Playbook newsletter read ''Woodward v. White House!''
On Wednesday Mr. Woodward attracted streams of new conservative friends when he said that an unnamed senior White House official had yelled at him ''for about a half-hour'' and warned that he would ''regret this.'' After Politico published his comments under the headline ''Woodward at War,'' Twitter lighted up with vigorous debate.
To some Republican politicians and conservative activists, Mr. Woodward's assertions were new evidence of their belief that the Obama administration exerts tremendous pressure on a mostly cowed news media. Representative Steve Stockman, Republican of Texas, said in a statement, ''Even Bob Woodward accuses Obama of 'madness.' '' The Fox News host Steve Doocy defended Mr. Woodward and said, ''This White House is one of the most thin-skinned White Houses ever.''
But in the worlds of politics and journalism, a consensus was forming around the suggestion -- supported by people close to the White House -- that Mr. Woodward had overreacted.
''Arguing with press aides and senior officials'' might as well be part of the job description for White House correspondents.
''In fairness to the White House, the First Amendment applies to them as well,'' said Ed Henry, the chief White House correspondent for Fox News.
As reporters badgered the White House for comments about whether a threat had been conveyed, details about the discussion between Mr. Woodward and his source began to leak out. BuzzFeed reported that the official was Gene Sperling, the director of Mr. Obama's National Economic Council.
On Thursday morning Politico published their e-mail exchange, which seemed remarkably polite. Mr. Sperling started by saying: ''I apologize for raising my voice in our conversation today. My bad.'' He later said ''perhaps we will just not see eye to eye here'' and ''as a friend, I think you will regret staking that claim.'' Mr. Woodward responded: ''You do not ever have to apologize to me. You get wound up because you are making your points and you believe them.''
Mr. Woodward would not say whether this White House was more sensitive about being challenged than the past administrations he has covered. But he said, ''I can't recall an instance when somebody in the White House said I was going to 'regret staking out' a position that they disagreed with, but were not that factually challenging.''
Other veteran reporters said on Thursday, in essence, ''We've heard worse.'' Major Garrett, the chief White House correspondent for CBS, said that he thought the flare-up was ''a completely ridiculous story'' and that conflict came with the White House beat. ''Every reporter knows when a source is angry about something you're working on, you're on the right track,'' he said. ''Just get on with it.''
Jake Tapper, who recently joined CNN from ABC, where he covered the White House, recalled unpleasant conversations with both Republicans and Democrats and called it part of the job. ''In my experience,'' he said, ''neither side has had a premium on tones that may not be soothing, or words that may not be suitable for children.''
Martha Joynt Kumar, a political scientist at Towson University who studies presidential communications, said a truer measure of the relationship between the White House and the press corps was whether journalists were prevented from doing their jobs.
''People are not prevented from reporting,'' she said. ''There's no enemies list. That's the threat that I would see, not a case of Gene Sperling writing the e-mail he did to Bob Woodward.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Conservatives leapt to share Bob Woodward's account of a dispute with the White House. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WATSON/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); JOURNALISM (89%); POLITICS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (78%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (62%); WASHINGTON POST CO (55%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (62%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (62%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (55%)

PERSON: STEVE STOCKMAN (79%); BARACK OBAMA (77%); JOHN BOEHNER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2013



21 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2013

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 478 words

HEADLINE: IHT Quick Read: March 1

BYLINE: THE INTERNATIONAL HERLAD TRIBUNE


HIGHLIGHT: Pope Benedict XVI retires; rebel-held Syrian towns experiment with self-government; the E.U. proposes capping bankers&#8217; bonuses; and a muay Thai star returns to the ring in Bangkok. 

 BODY:
 NEWS As the sun set on Rome and on his turbulent eight-year papacy, Pope Benedict XVI, a shy theologian who never seemed entirely at home in the limelight, was whisked by helicopter into retirement on Thursday. Rachel Donadio reports from Vatican City. 
As President Obama and congressional Democrats have tried to force U.S. House Speaker John Boehner back to the table for talks to head off the automatic budget cuts set to take effect on Friday, Mr. Boehner has instead dug in deeper, refusing to even discuss an increase in revenue and insisting in his typical colorful language that it was time for the Senate to produce a measure aimed at the cuts. Ashley Parker reports from Washington.
Local councils in rebel-held towns are trying to set up courts, police forces and social services, amounting to Syria's first experiments in self-government after years under the Assads. David Kirkpatrick reports from Tilalyan, Syria.
In South Africa, where violent crime, vigilante attacks and police brutality are daily fare, a cellphone video of a man being dragged behind a police truck has incited outrage for its brazen and outsize cruelty. Lydia Polgreen reports from Johannesburg.
A U.S. soldier, Pfc. Bradley Manning, on Thursday confessed in open court to providing vast archives of military and diplomatic files to the antisecrecy group WikiLeaks, saying that he had released the information to help enlighten the public about "what happens and why it happens" and to "spark a debate about foreign policy." Charlie Savage reports from Fort Meade, Maryland.
Jean-Claude Duvalier, the former dictator known as Baby Doc, walked into a muggy, packed Haitian courtroom on Thursday, sat down next to shocked victims and for the first time answered questions in a court of law about his brutal 15-year reign. Isabeau Doucet reports from Port-au-Prince, and Randal C. Archibold from Mexico City.
The European Union took a big step Thursday toward putting strict limits on the bonuses paid to bankers, hoping to discourage the risk-taking behavior that set off the financial crisis. But the proposal to cap bankers' bonuses must still be approved by a majority of the E.U.'s members. James Kanter reports from Brussels and David Jolly from Paris.
 FASHION Alexander Wang's debut collection for Balenciaga was a promising start. Suzy Menkes reviews from Paris.
 ARTS Historians will soon release a report on the Vienna Philharmonic's links to Nazi activity in the 1930s and '40s. James R. Oestreich reports.
 SPORTS Somluck Kamsing became a muay Thai star 20 years ago. Now, at age 40, he's back at his home ring and trying to bring artistry back to the sport. Joseph Hincks reports from Bangkok.
Under the owner Roman Abramovich, no manager of Chelsea can expect to last long, but Rafael Benítez took exception at being labeled "interim" from day one. Rob Hughes reports from London.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); RESIGNATION OF POPE BENEDICT XVI (90%); RELIGION (90%); MARTIAL ARTS (83%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); POLICE FORCES (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); BUDGETS (76%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (75%); VIOLENT CRIME (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); WIKILEAKS CONTROVERSIES (71%); APPROVALS (71%); BUDGET CUTS (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (67%); FOREIGN POLICY (65%); EUROPEAN UNION (64%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (63%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (61%); HISTORY (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (52%) IHT Rendezvous

PERSON: POPE BENEDICT XVI (90%); JOHN BOEHNER (71%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); ROMAN ABRAMOVICH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGKOK, THAILAND (93%); ROME, ITALY (90%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (71%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (71%) MARYLAND, USA (79%) SYRIA (94%); THAILAND (93%); ITALY (90%); HAITI (79%); EUROPE (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); MEXICO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); HOLY SEE (73%); BELGIUM (71%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (67%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2013



22 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1312 words

HEADLINE: Shocked, Shocked, Over Hospital Bills

BYLINE: UWE E. REINHARDT


HIGHLIGHT: It should not be impossible to restrain hospitals from charging so much, but few attempts have been made, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Uwe E. Reinhardt is an economics professor at Princeton. He has some financial interests in the health care field. 
Capt. Louis Renault's famous line in the movie "Casablanca" comes to mind as I behold the reaction to the journalist Steven Brill's 36-page report "Bitter Pill: Why Medical Bills Are Killing Us," published in a special issue of Time last week. Mr. Brill was swiftly invited to appear on "The Daily Show with Jon Stewart" and on "Charlie Rose."
Americans are shocked, just shocked. But what they should have known for years is that in most states, hospitals are free to squeeze uninsured middle- and upper-middle-class patients for every penny of savings or assets they and their families may have. That's despite the fact that the economic turf of these hospitals - for the most part so-called nonprofit hospitals - is often protected by state Certificate of Need laws that bestow on them monopolistic power by keeping new potential competitors at bay. 
As George Bernard Shaw, whose works include "The Doctor's Dilemma," might have put it, that any lawmaker would grant hospitals monopolistic powers plus the freedom to price as they see fit is enough to make one despair of political humanity.

Mr. Brill vividly illustrates the harsh financial mauling that the hospitals covered in his report - all nonprofits - visit on uninsured middle-class Americans stricken with serious illness. 
Often these people operate small businesses or are entrepreneurs in start-ups and cannot afford anything other than skimpy health insurance with strict upper limits on coverage. When they fall ill and require hospitalization, they become easy marks for what I think of as "extreme billing." 
In fairness, let me note that we cannot be sure whether the vignettes Mr. Brill presents are representative of the entire hospital industry or the policies of the proverbial few bad apples, a line that may well be taken by representatives of the hospital industry. 
It does not take away from Mr. Brill's brilliant journalism - especially his use of the Form 990 on which nonprofit hospitals must report their financial performance to the Internal Revenue Service - nor from Time's brilliant marketing to note that the practices Mr. Brill reports have been well known to health-policy analysts and health-policy makers for at least a decade. And they should have been known to broad segments of the public as well - certainly to news organizations. 
As early as 2003, Marilyn Werber Serafini's "Health Care - Sticker Shock" was published in The National Journal, which is well known to Congressional lawmakers and their staffs.
Also in 2003, The Wall Street Journal began publishing on its front page a series of investigative reports by a staff reporter, Lucette Lagnado. In she reported on patients being hounded by collection agencies and their lawyers, only to end up in jail for failing to make court appearances in connection with their hospital bills. 
Yale-New Haven Hospital, prominently mentioned in Mr. Brill's report, was featured in one of Ms. Lagnado's sad stories. I wish Yale University, where I received my doctorate, would withdraw its hallowed name from that legally independent hospital.
In 2008, The Wall Street Journal published an article by Barbara Martinez with a vignette at the M.D. Anderson Cancer Center, based in Texas, that is eerily similar to Mr. Brill's depiction of the center, although the articles are about different patients. 
As these earlier reporters and Mr. Brill underscore, all manner of amazing behavior can hide under the pious label of "nonprofit." A giant, inscrutable economic sector, in command of trillions of dollars in resources, nonprofits are governed by nonelected, self-perpetuating boards and virtually no effective accountability to any "owners" or the general public. By comparison, for-profit institutions are paragons of good corporate governance, transparency and accountability; I shall comment more on that in a future post. (Allow me to disclose that in the past I have served on the boards of both nonprofit and for-profit hospitals.)
The articles on extreme hospital billing practices that appeared in 2003-4, especially those so prominently displayed in The Wall Street Journal, led to a flurry of activities in Washington at that time. 
There was a hearing on the issue by a House subcommittee. The American Hospital Association developed a set of principles and guidelines on hospital billing and collection practices. Brandeis University established the "Access Project" to focus on this issue. The Washington-based Center for Studying Health System Change weighed in with a lengthy paper, "Balancing Margin and Mission."
In short, there was much ado, as there often is in response to disturbing news reports or calamitous events. But in the end, after the stories and events fade into memory, not much happens. How else could Mr. Brill have come up with this stunning set of vignettes today?
Part of the problem was that the issue in 2004 was framed in Washington as the charitable activities performed by nonprofit hospitals - that is, whether they rendered sufficient "community benefits" for the tax exemption they enjoyed. Instead, the focus should have been on the general pricing policy of hospitals, which has never attracted the public scrutiny it warrants.
Similarly, by focusing as much as Mr. Brill does on the compensation paid the executives of the hospitals, he may inadvertently seduce readers to the view that this the crux of the problem. It is not. 
It should be possible to compensate hospital executives well without treating middle-class uninsured people like lemons to be squeezed fiscally. After all, as Mr. Brill shows, these so-called nonprofit hospitals typically have ample profits that would permit humane comportment in billing the uninsured while paying executives enough to retain them.
Finally, in the "Changing Choices" section on his policy recommendations, Mr. Brill once again illustrates why dubious policies such as he describes can persist. He offers a bewildering potpourri of little tweaks here and there, including huge taxes on the salaries of hospital executives and hospital profits, capping profits on lab services, changes in patent laws and, of course, the eternal stalwart, malpractice reforms. 
That is a scattershot response to the central problem he lays bare: the pricing of hospital services in general and to uninsured middle-class people in particular. 
Here is a simpler approach. Why not make it illegal for hospitals to charge uninsured people more than X percent of what Medicare pays for a procedure? That maximum price would certainly cover the true incremental cost of serving uninsured middle-class people, with handsome contribution margins to overhead and, most probably, to profits as well. 
Could this be done? Yes. It was done in 2008 by former Gov. Jon Corzine of New Jersey and the state Legislature, when they enacted Assembly Bill No. 2609. (Disclosure: I was chairman of Governor Corzine's Commission on Rationalizing Health Care Resources, which produced a href="http://www.state.nj.us/health/rhc/finalreport/documents/entire_finalreport.pdf">a report in 2008.) The bill limits what New Jersey hospitals can charge uninsured New Jersey residents with gross incomes up to 500 percent of the federal poverty level: no more than 115 percent of the applicable payment under the federal Medicare program. 
To be sure, a family of four with a gross income above $117,750 could still be fleeced royally by New Jersey hospitals; I can only hope they would resist the temptation. 
In my next post, I shall describe how this law came about.

        
Reader Response: Medicare Options and Quality of Care
        
The Complexities of Comparing Medicare Choices
        
Medicare Spending Isn't Out of Control
        
How One Hospital Bent the Cost Curve
        
Determining the Level of Payments in Health Care

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); HOSPITALS (90%); JOURNALISM (89%); HEALTH CARE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); WRITERS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); NEWS REPORTING (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); SMALL BUSINESS (64%) Health Insurance and Managed Care; Hospitals; Nonprofit Organizations; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Todays Economist

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (50%)

PERSON: JON STEWART (79%); CHARLIE ROSE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2013



23 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The New Old Age)

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2013

SECTION: HEALTH

LENGTH: 1358 words

HEADLINE: Why Can't I Live With People Like Me?

BYLINE: JANE GROSS


HIGHLIGHT: Professional affinity communities, which I find most appealing, are few and far between. 

 BODY:
"Aging in place" is the mantra of long-term care. Whether looking at reams of survey data, talking to friends or wishing on a star, who among us wouldn't rather spend the final years - golden or less so - at home, surrounded by our cherished possessions, in our own bed, no cranky old coot as a roommate, no institutional smells or sounds, no lukewarm meals on a schedule of someone else's making? 
That works best, experts tell us, in dense cities, where we can hail a cab at curbside, call the superintendent when something breaks and have our food delivered from Fresh Direct or countless takeout restaurants. We'd have neighbors in the apartment above us, below us, just on the other side of the wall. Hearing their toilets flush and their children ride tricycles on uncarpeted floors is a small inconvenience compared to the security of knowing they are so close by in an emergency. 
Urban planners, mindful that most Americans live in sprawling, car-reliant suburbs, are designing more elder-friendly, walkable communities, far from "real" cities. Houses and apartments are built around village greens, with pockets of commerce instead of distant strip malls. Some have community centers for congregate meals and activities; others share gardens, where people can get their hands in the warm spring dirt long after they can push a lawn mower. 
All of this is a step in the right direction, despite the Potemkin-village look of so many of them. But it doesn't take into account those who are too infirm to stay at home, even in cities or more manageable suburban environments. Some are alone, others with a loving spouse who by comparison is "well" but may not be for long, given the rigors of care-taking. It doesn't take into account people who can't afford a home health aide, who don't qualify for a visiting nurse, who have no adult children to help them or whose children live far away. 
But by now, aging in place, unrealistic for some, scary or unsafe for others and potentially very isolating, has become so entrenched as the right way to live out one's life that not being able to pull it off seems a failure, yet another defeat at a time when defeats are all too plentiful. Are we making people feel guilty if they can't stay at home, or don't want to? Are we discouraging an array of other solutions by investing so much, program-wise and emotionally, in this sine qua non? 
Regular readers of The New Old Age know that I am single, childless and terrified of falling off a ladder while replacing a light bulb, breaking a hip and lying on the floor, unattended, until my dog wails so loudly a neighbor comes by to complain. A MedicAlert pendant is not something that appeals to me at 65, but even if I give in to that, say at 75, I'm not sure my life will be richer for digging my heels in and insisting home is where I should be. 
So I spend a lot of time thinking about the alternatives. I know enough to distinguish between naturally-occurring-retirement communities, or NORCs (some of which work better than others); age-restricted housing complexes (with no services); assisted living (which works fine when you don't really need it and not so fine when you do); and continuing care retirement communities (which require big upfront payments and extensive due diligence to be sure the place doesn't go belly up after you get there). 
What I find so unappealing about all these choices is that each means growing old among people with whom I share no history. In these congregate settings, for the most part, people are guaranteed only two things in common: age and infirmity. Which brings us to what is known in the trade as "affinity" or "niche" communities," long studied by Andrew J. Carle at the College of Health and Human Services at George Mason University in Fairfax, Va. 
Mr. Carle, who trains future administrators of senior housing complexes, was a media darling a few years back, before the recession, with the first baby boomers approaching 65 and niche communities that included services for the elderly - not merely warm-weather developments adjacent to golf courses - expected to explode. In newspaper interviews as recently as 2011, Mr. Carle said there were "about 100 of them in existence or on the drawing board," not counting the large number of military old-age communities. 
Mr. Carle still believes that better economic times, when they come, will reinvigorate this sector of senior housing, after the failure of some in the planning stages and others in operation. In an e-mail exchange, Mr. Carle said there were now about 70 in operation, with perhaps 50 of those that he has defined as University Based Retirement Communities, adjacent to campuses and popular with alumni, as well as non-alumni, who enjoy proximity to the intellectual and athletic activities. Among the most popular are those near Dartmouth, Oberlin, the University of Alabama, Penn State, Notre Dame, Stanford and Cornell.
At the height of the "affinity" boom, L.G.B.T.-assisted living communities and nursing homes were all the rage, seen as a solution to the shoddy treatment that those of different sexual orientations in the pre-Stonewall generation experienced in generic facilities. A few failed, most never got built and, by all accounts, the only one to survive is the pricy Rainbow Vision community in Sante Fe, N.M. 
A handful of nudist elder communities, and ones for old hippies, also fell by the wayside, perhaps too free-spirited for the task. According to Mr. Carle, despite the odds, at least one group of RV enthusiasts has added an assisted-living component to what began as collections of transient elderly, looking only for a parking spot and necessary water and power hook-ups for their trailers. Native Americans have made a go of an assisted-living community in Montana, and Asians have done the same in Northern California. 
But professional affinity communities, which I find most appealing, are few and far between. 
The storied Motion Picture & Television Country House and Hospital, a sliding-scale institution in the San Fernando Valley since 1940, survived near-closure in 2009 as a result of litigation, activism by the Screen Actors Guild and the local chapter of the Teamsters, and news media pressure. Among film legends who died there - along with cameramen, back-lot security guards and extras - were Mary Astor, Joel McCrea, Yvonne De Carlo and Stepin Fetchit. 
New York State's volunteer firefighters are all welcome to a refurbished facility in the Catskill region that offers far more in the way of care and activities, including a state-of-the-art gym, than when I visited there five years ago. At that time, the residents amused themselves by activating the fire alarm to summon the local hook and ladder company, which didn't mind a bit. 
Then there is Nalcrest, the retirement home for unionized letter carriers. Even as post offices nationwide are preparing to eliminate Saturday service, and snail mail becomes an artifact, the National Association of Letter Carriers holds monthly fees around the $500 mark, is located in central Florida so its members no longer have to brave rain and sleet to complete their appointed rounds, and bans dogs, the bane of their existence. 
So why not aged journalists? We surely have war stories to embroider as we rock on the porch. Perhaps a mimeograph machine to produce an old-fashioned, dead-tree newspaper, which some of us will miss once it has given way to Web sites like this one. Pneumatic tubes, one colleague suggested, to whisk our belongings upstairs when we can no longer carry them. Other colleagues wondered about welcoming both editors and reporters. How can these two groups, which some consider natural adversaries, complain about each others' tin ears or missed deadlines if we're not segregated? 
I disagree. The joy of this profession is its collaboration. We did the impossible day after day when young. We belong together when old.

        
Forced to Choose: Nursing Home vs. Hospice
        
Managing the Assisted Living vs. Hospice Dilemma
        
On Dining Room Restrictions and More
        
Happier Staffers at Nonprofit Nursing Homes
        
More on the Nursing Home Exodus

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (90%); SUBURBS (87%); AGING (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (78%); RESTAURANTS (76%); BONE FRACTURES (75%); FAST FOOD (71%); VISITING NURSES (62%); NURSES & NURSING (61%); RETAILERS (51%) affinity communities; Andrew J. Carle; Gross, Jane; Elder Care; Nursing Homes; Retirement Communities and Assisted Living; George Mason University; National Assn of Letter Carriers; Housing

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF LETTER CARRIERS OF THE USA (84%) George Mason University; National Assn of Letter Carriers

PERSON: Gross, Jane

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2013



24 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2013

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 125 words

HEADLINE: Friday Reading: Getting Into College Without the S.A.T.

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS


HIGHLIGHT: Getting into college without the S.A.T., a bill seeks more data rights for online consumers, a smaller and cheaper Furby toy and other consumer-focused news from The New York Times. 

 BODY:

        
The United States offers broad support for gay marriagerights. (National)
        
Genetic risk factors shared for five mental disorders. (National)
        
Use of e-cigarettes grows. (National)
        
The Department of Agriculture may approve horse slaughterplant. (Business)
        
Shocked, shocked over hospital bills. (Economix)
        
Porsche recalls 911 models for exhaust problem. (Wheels)
        
Bill seeks more data rights for online consumers. (Bits)
        
A smaller and cheaper Furby toy. (Gadgetwise)
        
What's the point of Chromebook Pixel? (Pogue's Posts)
        
Why failing med students don't get failing grades. (Well)
        
Why can't I live with people like me? (The New Old Age)
        
Getting into college without the S.A.T. (The Choice)
        
On the road, with your mother. (Booming)
        
Whole Journeys heads to Turkey. (In Transit)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: GENETIC DISEASE FACTORS (88%); MARRIAGE (73%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (73%); MENTAL ILLNESS (72%) Today in Your Money

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2013



25 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Ross Douthat)

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: Three Arguments for the Sequester


HIGHLIGHT: From the left, the right, and the D.C. housing market. 

 BODY:
First, Matt Yglesias, from the left:
... on the merits it seems to me that while sequestration is hardly optimal budget policy, it really isn't all that bad in the scheme of things, and really going through with it would be better than repealing it. The key reason is that fully half the cuts are cuts to "defense" spending, and yet nobody from either party is seriously trying to maintain that America will be left defenseless in the wake of this reduced military spending. The specific sequestration mechanism is clearly awkward and clumsy, but again nobody's saying the Mexican army is going to come swarming over the border to reconquer Santa Fe, that the Taliban is now going to be able to outspend the Pentagon, or that America's NATO allies are now left unable to fend off a Russian invasion. That's half the cuts with basically zero real public policy harm.
So then you look at the domestic side. Your basic transfer payments to poor people are spared, your transfer payments to the elderly are basically spared, and then everything else gets cut willy-nilly. That leads to some real policy harms. Valuable research grants are going to not happen. We'll see some real bottlenecks at regulatory agencies. But obviously there's some waste and fat in this domestic discretionary spending. 
Long story short, if you're a defense dove like me and have a nonutopian view of the domestic discretionary budget, then this looks like we're mostly talking about harmless spending cuts. It is very true that the current moment is not an optimal time to cut wasteful government spending ... But in the grand scheme of things, wasting resources on low-value programs is not a great idea, and there's more to life than timing.
Then Ben Domenech, from the right:
From the first public argument about the sequester, the overwhelming attitude from both sides in the commentariat has been acceptance that the approach to cuts within it are inherently unwise and unfair, cutting fat and muscle alike. But is this really true? Consider that we live in an era when there is enormous disagreement about what is muscle and what is fat between right and left, and even within right and left, isn't the fairest thing to do to cut in a common sense across the board manner? Of course it would be preferable to prioritize agencies to get rid of permanently, but only if you favor smaller government. If you don't, then recognize that the budget priorities of prior agreements are already baked into the sequestration approach - this haircut is just coming on top of those agreements.
... The real problem is that no one at Defense or elsewhere really took these cuts seriously. They assumed an eleventh hour solution would arise. They still are! That's why you see these promises of furloughs from the agencies - because they'd rather rotate 47,000 TSA employees through furloughs than actually fire a couple hundred people ... This dramatically inflates the number of people effected, because rather than making smaller but necessary cuts, they're putting entire systems on hold, waiting for a return to business as usual where they can lobby for taxpayer cash again. It's time to break that system, and the sequester cuts are a common sense way to do so, given the climate on Capitol Hill today.
The meat cleaver is small, and it may be dull, but it may also be the only way to cut.
And then finally this, from a real estate website in our nation's capital:
The highest priced home to be listed for sale in Trinidad has found a buyer. The six-bedroom house on Florida Avenue went under contract on Monday.
After initially hitting the market for $926,500 on January 31st, the listing's price was reduced on Valentine's Day to $898,400 and then found a buyer five days later.
That would be this Trinidad, where the median home price just three years ago was ... $179,403.
I understand the macroeconomic case for postponing spending cuts a little longer, and I would prefer to swap the sequester for real entitlement reform, whether modest or sweeping. I would also prefer a Congress - and, yes, particularly a Republican Party - that was non-dysfunctional enough to make deals that target deficit reduction more effectively. And as a D.C. homeowner who doesn't live that far from gentrification's frontiers, I obviously have a personal stake in keeping the money flowing into our fair city.
But having watched my adopted city grow steadilyfatter while the rest of the economy stagnates for going on a decade now, I can also see the case for giving the cleaver a try.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); ARMIES (77%); HOUSING MARKET (74%); TALIBAN (70%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); MEXICO (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (72%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2013



26 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 412 words

HEADLINE: The Immorality of the Interest Rate Hawks

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Boys will be boys, so no jobs for you. 

 BODY:
Business Insider reports on an interview with hedge fund legend Stan Druckenmiller that helped crystallize in my mind what, exactly, I find so appalling about people who say that we must tighten monetary policy to avoid bubbles - even in the face of high unemployment and low inflation. 
Druckenmiller blames Alan Greenspan's loose-money policies for the whole disaster; that's a highly dubious proposition, in fact rejected by all the serious studies I've seen. (Remember, the ECB was much less expansionary, but Europe had just as big a housing bubble; I vote for Minsky's notion that financial systems run amok when people forget about risk, not because central bankers are a bit too liberal). But props to Druckenmiller for being explicit about what he thinks should have happened: after the dot-com bubble burst,
instead of taking a recession and having the cleanup...they needed an offset. So they created the housing bubble. So now by hindsight, everybody says, 'Well, you had these horrible Wall Street actors,' and I'm sure there were quite a few horrible Wall Street actors. And I don't doubt that they were part of the problem. In fact, I know they were part of the problem. But I also know it was negative real interest rates for 12 outta 20 years that enabled these actors to do the things they were doing and incented, yes, incented them to go out and gamble the way they were gambling.
So, we should have had a recession - or, since we actually had one, a much longer and deeper recession - to "clean up" Wall Street's excesses; and if Wall Street went on to engage in much bigger excesses, well, boys will be boys, and it's really that foolish preoccupation with full employment that deserves the blame.
Think about that: he's saying that ordinary workers and families who have nothing to do with financial speculation should suffer severely - because that's what happens in a recession - in order to curb the irrational exuberance of a handful of incredibly well-paid financial industry types. This is as opposed to, just to make a wild suggestion, actually regulating financial markets the way we used to, giving rise to a half-century without major financial bubbles.
Bear in mind that this is what everyone saying that we should tighten monetary policy now because of bubbles is really saying: that ordinary Americans should lose their jobs because otherwise the boys on Wall Street, bless their hearts, might get a bit overexcited.
The ugliness is awesome.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HOUSING BUBBLE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (89%); RECESSION (89%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); HEDGE FUNDS (73%); LAYOFFS (72%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (70%); INTEREST RATES (70%)

PERSON: STANLEY DRUCKENMILLER (90%); ALAN GREENSPAN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2013



27 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 353 words

HEADLINE: A Taste for Whole Foods (or Roman Tubs)

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: Consumer tastes differ greatly by geography and by socioeconomic class, and often those two forces interact in ways that are not captured by cost-of-living indexes. 

 BODY:
A couple weeks ago I wrote about the cost of living in different cities, and how one of the challenges for intercity comparisons is that the basket of goods the typical consumer buys varies from place to place. Tastes differ greatly by geography and by socioeconomic class, and often those two forces interact in ways that are not captured by cost-of-living indexes. 
Trulia, a real estate Web site, illustrated that nicely in a recent semantic analysis of housing ads from the start of 2012 through late November. The company's chief economist, Jed Kolko, looked at the phrases associated with particular markets to find features that were at least 10 times more likely to appear in listings in a particular metro area than they were nationally:
These are not the kind of things items that are likely to show up in a traditional cost-of-living index, but they do say a lot about what residents in different areas value and are likely to spend money on.
I love, for example, that "mirrored closet doors" are so attractive to homeowners in Southern California (and am admittedly confused about the "Roman tub" preference in my birthplace of West Palm Beach). But perhaps one of the most telling items on the list is "Whole Foods" in San Francisco. As Mr. Kulko writes:
Some hyperlocal phrases appear in a particular metro not because it's unique to that metro - San Francisco is hardly the only place in the country with a Whole Foods - but because that feature appears to be especially important to house hunters there. Southern Californians might like to admire themselves in their mirrored closet doors, but many San Franciscans would be happier living next to - or even directly above - Whole Foods.
San Francisco is undoubtedly expensive if you're poor. But maybe it's not so expensive if you're rich and have standard rich-person tastes for high-end products like organic food, given how many Whole Foods and related competitors are nearby and willing to compete for your business.

        
A Place That Makes New York Real Estate Look Cheap
        
New-Home Sales Soar - and Remain Low
        
Bundled Households
        
Movin' Out
        
Republican Homes Bounce Back

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COST OF LIVING (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); NEW HOME SALES (76%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (76%); HOMEOWNERS (75%); ORGANIC FOODS (65%) Advertising and Marketing; Real Estate and Housing (Residential); Trulia.com

COMPANY: TRULIA INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Trulia.com

TICKER: TRLA (NYSE) (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2013



28 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2013

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 197 words

HEADLINE: On Our Radar: Asian Dust and California Snow

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: Even when two storm systems in the Sierra Nevada carry the same amount of water vapor, scientists found, the presence of dust from Asia in one will cause far more precipitation. 

 BODY:
High-altitude dust blown thousands of miles across the Pacific from Asian and African deserts can cause it to rain and snow in the Sierra Nevada, new research shows. [The Los Angeles Times] 
The Department of Agriculture is expected to approve the opening of a horse slaughtering plant in New Mexico that would allow equine meat for human consumption to be produced in the United States for the first time in six years. [The New York Times]. 
Energy consumption relative to the nation's gross domestic product will decline steadily over the next three decades, the Energy Information Administration projects. Residential "energy intensity" alone is expected to register a 27 percent decline by 2040 from 2005 levels. [Energy Information Administration]
The deadly bat fungus known as white nose syndrome has spread to Illinois, state officials report. It is the 20th state where bats have been found to be afflicted with the fungus since it was first detected in New York in 2006. [Associated Press]

        
Is Your Building Gobbling Energy?
        
Philips Brightens Its LED Lineup
        
If Flying Isn't Green, Can the Airport Wait Be?
        
Pushing the Energy Envelope With China
        
An Efficient Way to Play Madden Football

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (90%); HORSE MEAT (90%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (90%); CONSUMPTION (90%); WEATHER (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); HORSES (77%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (76%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (76%); FOOD & BEVERAGE CONSUMPTION (76%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (75%); APPROVALS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); EMISSIONS (70%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (70%) Bats; energy consumption; Energy Efficiency; energy intensity; horse meat; Illinois; precipitation; Sierra Nevada; white nose syndrome; Efficiency; Emissions Reduction; Health and Safety; Research/Studies; Science; Weather Extremes; wildlife

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (91%); ASSOCIATED PRESS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2013



29 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2013

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: A Snapshot of Drilling on a Park's Margins

BYLINE: LESLIE MACMILLAN


HIGHLIGHT: A photographer seeks to drive home the proximity of fracking to Glacier National Park. 

 BODY:
More on the fracking front:
Two years ago, the photographer Tony Bynum, whose images of Big Sky country have graced the covers of magazines like Field and Stream, embarked on a different type of photodocumentary project. His goal was to create an interactive map to illustrate the oil and gas boom in his own backyard on the eastern edge of Glacier National Park in Montana.
Mr. Bynum hired a pilot and conducted aerial flights to map the drill pads, oil wells, pumps and power lines that snake along the Rocky Mountain Front there. He said he was seeking to "get the word out that one of America's most pristine ecosystems is on the cusp of becoming industrialized." 
The Anschutz Exploration Corporation has been drilling exploratory wells for hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, on the Blackfeet Indian Reservation, immediately east of Glacier National Park, for over two years.

Now a subsidiary of the company, Xanterra Parks and Resorts, is bidding on a contract to operate all concessions in Glacier National Park for 16 years.
That Anschutz could gain another foothold in Glacier has rattled environmentalists and concerned tribal groups and citizens, who already worry that the drilling next door could permanently alter the landscape. Glacier is home to three of the nation's largest watersheds and to endangered species, including grizzly bears.
Xanterra is the nation's largest park concessionaire. It manages lodges and retail operations in several national parks, including Yellowstone. Its parent company is owned by the billionaire Philip F. Anschutz, one of the wealthiest men in America. He is possibly one of the few able to afford the initial investment of $33 million required to take on Glacier's crumbling infrastructure and run the park's retail operations.
Those operations include an aging fleet of tourist buses, historic lodges and roads that are routinely battered by winter storms. Glacier is accepting bids until April 2.
Michael Jamison of the National Parks Conservation Association, an environmental group, said his organization had appealed to Anschutz to conduct such a study on the cumulative environmental impacts of future drilling on the reservation.
A consulting company hired by Anschutz is conducting environmental impact assessments on each individual well under a process regulated by the Bureau of Land Management and the Bureau of Indian Affairs.
"Right now, all the studies have been done well by well," Mr. Jamison said. "There's never been a discussion about what would happen if you string together wells, power lines, water treatment facilities, pipelines and roads. We would like to see a study that analyzes the effects of this level of infrastructure."
A spokeswoman for Glacier National Park, Denise Germann, said the park's previous superintendent, Chas Cartwright, who retired in December, had requested a federal environmental review of current and future drilling in the area. "We want them to look at the entire operation," she said, adding that park officials were concerned about impacts on night skies, migration corridors, air quality and water quality.
A spokesman for Anschutz, Jim Monaghan, was reached briefly by phone this week but did not return phone calls posing more specific questions.
Jack Gladstone, a Blackfeet singer and member of the advocacy group the Blackfeet Headwaters Alliance, said that if Anschutz did not conduct such a study, his organization could "persuade them to do so in court." Mr. Gladstone, who has performed tribal songs at Glacier Park, says that he is not opposed to fracking but that he wants the Blackfeet to know what they're getting into. "Right now, we're driving in a fog bank with our foot on the accelerator," he said.
Mr. Gladstone said there was a dire need need for jobs on the Blackfeet reservation, where unemployment hovers around 70 percent. But Mr. Bynum argues that while fracking promises revenue, it could threaten the park, the lifeblood of the region.
"On the one hand, Montana has this huge tourism budget to bring people here, but on the other, you have all this development going on," he said. "Who wants to go hang out in oil fields?"

        
In Drilling Safety Debate, Hydrofracking's Not the Only Target
        
A Base Line for Methane in Water Supplies
        
From Engineering Marvels, a Turnaround in U.S. Oil Output
        
A Summer of Humans vs. Grizzlies
        
Fracking Oversight Raises Staffing Questions

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (92%); NATIONAL PARKS (92%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (91%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); NATIVE AMERICANS (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (88%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (88%); PARENT COMPANIES (88%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (77%); OIL EXPLORATION (77%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (77%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (77%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (77%); MOUNTAINS (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (76%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (75%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (75%); RESORTS (74%); BIOLOGY (74%); MAMMALS (74%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (73%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LAW (73%); WATER POLLUTION (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); LAND USE PLANNING (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); WATER QUALITY (67%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (58%) Anschutz; Blackfeet; fracking; Glacier National Park; Hydraulic Fracturing; Maps; Xanterra Parks and Resorts; Glaciers; Infrastructure (Public Works); National Parks, Monuments and Seashores; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Wells; Glacier National Park (Mont); Montana; Business; Living; Natural Gas; Oil; Parks; Politics and Policy; Water Pollution

PERSON: PHILIP ANSCHUTZ (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTANA, USA (94%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Glacier National Park (Mont); Montana

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2013



30 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2013

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 730 words

HEADLINE: Q and A: The Angry Economist

BYLINE: LISA PALMER


HIGHLIGHT: Because of its natural gas boom, the United States is ahead of Europe in fixing climate change, the Oxford economist Dieter Helm argues. 

 BODY:
Dieter Helm has long been frustrated that, despite more than two decades of international negotiations, the world has failed to tackle climate change. So he got angry, he said, and decided to write a book about it: "The Carbon Crunch: How We're Getting Climate Change Wrong - and How to Fix It." 
Dr. Helm, a professor of energy policy at Oxford and an economic adviser to Britain's secretary of state for energy and climate change, recently discussed what he views as America's lucky break with natural gas and what we can learn from Europe's energy policy mistakes. Following are excerpts, edited for brevity and clarity. 
 Q. 
 Why has the world failed to tackle climate change? 
 A. 
It's not for want of trying. We tried very hard. But if you look at the Kyoto framework [a climate pact to which the European Union was party] between 1990 and today, there's a continuously upward increase in carbon emissions from two parts per million in 1990 to three parts today. Kyoto has had no effect whatsoever. Kyoto is fatally flawed. 
What we did in Europe was essentially shut down deteriorating rust-bucket manufacturing, swap production from energy-intensive industries and import the stuff from China. In Europe, Britain did the best and drove down carbon emissions from 1990 to 2005 by 15 percent. If you factor in imports, our emissions on a consumption basis went up 19 percent in the same period. 
Kyoto is a framework to make Europe look good. That's the climate merry-go-round. It was badly structured and bound to fail. It has failed. And as soon as possible it should be taken off life support.
 Q. 
 Is the United States in a better position than Europe to reduce carbon dioxide emissions?
 A. 
The paradox of all this is the Europeans put all this effort into global leadership on carbon emissions, and that has failed. And the Americans arguably have no sensible energy policy at all, and no climate change policy, and have done much better. The reason has got nothing to do with policy. Gas arrived. America has as a result got out of coal and into gas. As gas is half the emissions of coal, you see this really sharp fall in emissions.
 Q. 
 What do Europeans think about America's switch to natural gas? 
 A. 
Europeans are in denial. The Europeans believed that oil and gas prices would go up sharply, and they bet on expensive renewables. In that world, they pity the poor Americans. They were going to be lumbered with all this fossil fuel and all this energy-intensive industry and would end up flocking to Europe, where we had all these cheap wind farms available. 
Now, the ratio of gas costs between the United States and Europe is 1 to 5. America, it's extraordinary. Gas. The lucky country! You know? It's like having a frontier again in American history. Natural gas gives America an excuse not to do anything now. 
That will be a big mistake because gas is only a transitionary fuel. But compared with Europe? You've got competitiveness, you've got cheap energy, you've got an economic recovery, and you've got falling carbon emissions. And in Europe, it's just denial. [In the Europeans' view], this is the land of the evil Bush who wouldn't do anything about climate change.
 Q. 
 What would you really have to do to address climate change? 
 A. 
Current renewables cannot do it. There isn't enough land to do it. There isn't enough land for biomass. There isn't enough land for wind farms or for solar panels in their current form. They are just low-density power sources. You can't run a modern economy on wind farms and rooftop solar. They have a role to play, but the only way to crack climate change is with new technologies. 
There are only four ways of moving to low carbon: solar, geothermal, nuclear and gravity - -that's essentially hydro. There are remarkable changes taking place in all those areas and with electric cars, with batteries, etc. Now, what's America's strength? It's the home of technology. It's the home of the Internet. 
This isn't rocket science. We've already started to split the light spectrum to bring infrared into the mix. There are enormous developments on this front. America is capable of putting money and resources into a serious research program.

        
On Not Reaching Carbon Goals
        
U.S. Greenhouse Gas Emissions Projected to Grow Slowly
        
Methane Losses Stir Debate on Natural Gas
        
Natural Gas: It's Not Easy Being Green
        
A Crystal Ball for Electricity

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (91%); EMISSIONS (91%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (78%); WIND ENERGY (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); EUROPEAN UNION (76%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); BIOFUELS (72%); HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (70%); GASOLINE PRICES (70%); WIND POWER PLANTS (61%) Carbon Dioxide; Dieter Helm; Economics; European Union; fracking; Kyoto Protocol; Natural Gas; Q&A; Renewable energy; United States; Alternative and Renewable Energy; Global Warming; Europe; Biofuels; Business; Emissions Reduction; Fossil Fuels; Politics and Policy; Q & A

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (91%) European Union

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); CHINA (79%) Europe; United States

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2013



31 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Dot Earth)

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 416 words

HEADLINE: State Department Again Sees No Environmental Barriers to Keystone Pipeline

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN


HIGHLIGHT: The State Department finds no significant environmental barriers to approval of the Keystone XL pipeline. 

 BODY:
The State Department's revised supplemental environmental impact statement on the proposed 1,700-mile Keystone XL pipeline is out, and offers very little that Secretary of State John Kerry or President Obama might use as a reason to reject the plan. 
You can best gauge the reaction of various factions on Twitter using the #noKXL and #keystoneXL tags.
The voluminous report includes this blunt conclusion on the inconsequential nature of the pipeline if one's interest is in reducing extraction and use of oil from the Alberta deposits, or anywhere else for that matter: 
Based on information and analysis about the North American crude transport infrastructure (particularly the proven ability of rail to transport substantial quantities of crude oil profitably under current market conditions, and to add capacity relatively rapidly) and the global crude oil market, the draft Supplemental EIS concludes that approval or denial of the proposed Project is unlikely to have a substantial impact on the rate of development in the oil sands, or on the amount of heavy crude oil refined in the Gulf Coast area.
Here's the core section from John Broder's news article in The Times:
The lengthy document...draws no conclusions on whether the pipeline is in the United States's economic and energy interests, a determination to be made later this year by President Obama. But it will certainly add a new element to the already robust climate change and energy debate around the $7 billion proposed project.
The study will help guide the president's decision, but it does not make the politics any easier. 
Environmental advocates and landowners along the route have mounted noisy protests against the project, including a large demonstration in Washington last month, and view Keystone as a test of Mr. Obama's seriousness about addressing global warming.
The president faces equally strong pressure from industry, the Canadian government, many Republicans and some Democrats in Congress, local officials and union leaders, who say the project will create thousands of jobs and provide a secure source of oil that will replace crude from Venezuela, Saudi Arabia and other potentially hostile suppliers.

        
Is There Room for Varied Approaches to Energy and Climate Progress?
        
Keystone Protests Resume, But None Against Oil Imports from Nigeria?
        
Will Storm's Wall Street Impact Influence U.S. Carbon Policy?
        
Keystone Oil Pipeline Decision Moved After Election
        
Obama's Chance for a Fresh Start on a Climate-Smart Energy Quest

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL PERMITS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (89%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (89%); POLITICS (89%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (89%); EMISSIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (76%); ENERGY MARKETS (75%); OIL SANDS (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (74%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (74%); GLOBAL WARMING (73%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (70%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (68%); IMPORT TRADE (68%); JOB CREATION (65%); GREENHOUSE GASES (64%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (50%) Global Warming; Greenhouse Gas Emissions; Keystone Pipeline System; McKibben, Bill; Obama, Barack; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Pipelines; activism; Climate Change; energy; oil; politics; pollution

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (90%); BARACK OBAMA (89%) McKibben, Bill

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBERTA, CANADA (76%) UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%); NIGERIA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2013



32 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1163 words

HEADLINE: Can Democrats Turn Texas and Arizona Blue by 2016?

BYLINE: MICAH COHEN


HIGHLIGHT: Does an increasingly diverse electorate mean that Democrats can turn deep red states blue? Or will it just solidify their advantage in other crucial states? 

 BODY:
Since President Obama's re-election in 2012, Republicans have worried about what an increasingly diverse electorate will mean for their future as a national party. Democrats, meanwhile, have startedtalking about turning ruby red states like Arizona and Texas blue.
How worried should Republicans be? And how realistic are those Democratic aspirations? A new study released on Thursday - based on data from the Census Bureau's American Community Survey - points toward some answers: Republicans should be worried, but Democrats in Austin and Phoenix shouldn't stock up on confetti just yet.
The study, from the left-leaning Center for American Progress, projects the growth in eligible voters in 12 states by 2014 and 2016. The projections - which broke down the eligible voter growth by race - show that fast-paced minority growth coupled with slow or negative growth among non-Hispanic whites has a substantial impact on the eligible voter makeup of the 12 states that the center examined. 
According to the center's projections, 600,000 Hispanics will be newly eligible to vote in Florida in 2016. Over the same period, fewer than 125,000 new white voters will be eligible in Florida. In Arizona, more than 175,000 Hispanics will enter the voter pool as roughly 10,000 white voters leave it. In Texas, 185,000 new white eligible voters will be overwhelmed by the roughly 900,000 Hispanics expected to enter the electorate.
The report - by Patrick Oakford, a research assistant, and Vanessa Cárdenas, the director of the the center's Progress 2050 - chose states that were crucial electoral battleground, home to rapid nonwhite population growth, or both. In each state the center analyzed, the white share of eligible voters decreased in 2014 and again in 2016.
The center used the the American Community Survey's one-year population estimates to work out the annual growth rate for each demographic group from 2008 to 2011. It then projected that into 2014 and 2016. The projections assume that each demographic group will grow or shrink by the same percentage each year. That means that groups that are growing, like Hispanics, will have rising numbers of new eligible voters each year (like compounding interest). 
Of course, there is inherent uncertainty in forecasting population change. It's possible that minority growth could be more linear. That is, the number of Hispanics that enter the eligible voter pool each year could remain constant instead of increasing. Hispanic and Asian-American growth may even slow. Then again, it could exceed these forecasts.
But more important, a change in the eligible voter population is not the same as a change in the likely voter population.
So what would the 2012 presidential election have looked like with the more diverse electorate projected by the Center for American Progress? The impact is not as big as might be implied by the change in the eligible voter makeup.
The number of new, nonwhite eligible voters may be staggering, but not all those eligible voters actually go to the polls. There are not yet solid turnout rate estimates for these demographic groups for 2012 (that will come in the spring, when the Census Bureau publishes it biannual supplement on voting). But according to a Pew analysis of the Census Bureau's report on the 2008 election, the turnout rate that year was 66 percent for non-Hispanic whites, 50 percent for Hispanics, 65 percent for blacks and 47 percent for Asian-Americans.
While there are indications that Hispanic, African-American and Asian-American turnout increased in 2012, it still lagged far behind that of non-Hispanic whites.
As a result, the fast-growing Hispanic and Asian-Americans communities continue to "punch below their weight." For example, if a Democrat wins 70 percent of the Hispanic vote (roughly what Mr. Obama earned nationally in 2012) but just half of eligible Hispanics go to the polls, then a Democrat gains a net of only two votes over their Republican opponent for every 10 new eligible Hispanic voters.
If we rerun the 2012 election with the center's new eligible voters added in, and apportion the voters in each demographic group to Mitt Romney and Mr. Obama according to exit polls, we can get a rough sense for how big an effect these new voters might have.
For states where the 2012 exit poll results of some demographic groups were not reported because of small sample size, that demographic group's partisan breakdown was determined according to the national exit polls. Exit polls were not conducted in Alabama, Georgia, New Mexico or Texas.
The more diverse electorate solidifies Mr. Obama's advantage in several crucial battleground states. He gains a single percentage point in Colorado, Iowa and Virginia, three states that are usually close enough that one percentage point matters. Mr. Obama's margin of victory in Florida grows from almost 75,000 to more than 300,000.
Nevada, following the path of New Mexico, moves from looking like a battleground state to a more solidly blue one. And North Carolina shifts from going marginally to Mr. Romney to essentially a tossup. With the new voters, Mr. Obama would have carried the Tar Heel State by about 20,000 votes.
But while Mr. Obama gains several percentage points in Arizona and Texas, both remain firmly in Mr. Romney's column. Moreover, the Texas projections are likely somewhat generous toward Democrats. There were no exit polls in Texas in 2012, so the new voters were apportioned according to national exit polls. In the past, however, Texas Hispanics have been less overwhelmingly Democratic leaning than the national average.
So while the continued growth of minority voters is likely to harden the Democrats' advantage in vital swing states, it is far less likely in the near future to upend the entire game board by putting Texas's 38 electoral votes and Arizona's 11 in play.
One wildcard may be immigration reform. If legislation is passed that gives some undocumented immigrants a path to citizenship, millions of new minority voters might enter the electorate. Some of the most significant influxes of new citizens are likely to come in Texas and Arizona (although even if legislation is passed, it is unlikely to go into effect in time to affect the 2016 election).
The other variable is turnout. Democrats could speed the rate at which Arizona and Texas become competitive if they could accelerate the rise of Hispanic turnout rates. So far, however, Hispanic turnout has increased incrementally.
Still, that should be small comfort to Republicans with Oval Office ambitions. Mr. Obama won re-election comfortably in 2012 without Texas and Arizona, and in many critical swing states, the demographic trend is still moving - slowly - away from the G.O.P.

        
Aug. 1: Obama Extends Electoral College Advantage
        
Arizona Is (Probably) Not a Swing State
        
Aug. 18: Obama Leads Big - Among Those Least Likely to Vote
        
What Obama's Immigration Decision Might Mean for 2012
        
Advantage Romney in February, but Risks Abound

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); POPULATION GROWTH (89%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (78%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (76%); CENSUS (72%); INTEREST RATES (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%) 2014; 2016; Arizona; Center for American Progress; Electoral College; exit polls; Hispanics; Pew; Presidential Election of 2012; swing states; Texas; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Hispanic-Americans; Polls and Public Opinion; Presidential Election of 2016; Politics

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (57%) Center for American Progress

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (58%) TEXAS, USA (95%); ARIZONA, USA (95%); FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2013



33 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Off the Dribble)

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2013

SECTION: SPORTS; basketball

LENGTH: 638 words

HEADLINE: Teams Trailing Late in Games Play More Efficiently, Paper Suggests

BYLINE: JIM CAVAN


HIGHLIGHT: Teams that were behind were shown to exhibit more efficiency while teams that were ahead tended to shoot less efficiently and shun 3-pointers more than they should. 

 BODY:
 This year marks the seventh installment of the M.I.T. Sloan Sports Analytics Conference. Held in Boston, the conference - which is expected to draw in excess of 2,500 attendees - represents the cutting edge of statistical, economic and technological information in the world of sports, with dozens of papers, panels and presentations giving attendees a first-hand look at the future of our most cherished pastimes. 
It's a situation that's no doubt familiar to N.B.A. fans: Your team is down eight with just over two minutes left in regulation. The fans are raucous and rowdy, the stakes ceiling high - particularly if it's a playoff game. 
Being in desperate need of points, how does the losing team determine what the optimal mix of 2- and 3-point attempts should be?
In a paper delivered at the Sloan Sports Analytics Conference on Friday, Matthew Goldman - a doctoral candidate at the University of California, San Diego - argued that teams trailing late in games tend to choose their shots - and make them - more efficiently.
Using four years of play-by-play data, Goldman - along with Justin Rao, a research partner - are undertaking a basketball equivalent of behavioral economics, a branch of study that seeks to understand how people react in certain situations. How much emphasis should a team place on shooting 3-pointers versus 2-pointers? If your team is leading, should you avert seemingly risky 3s at any cost?
Beginning with a determination of each shot's "win value" (that is, how much more or less likely a particular shot is likely to contribute to a victory), Goldman uncovered some interesting trends in how teams behave late in games. Teams that were behind were shown to exhibit more efficiency - and grab more offensive rebounds - while teams that were ahead tended to shoot less efficiently, and shun 3-pointers more than they should, according to Goldman.
Goldman's conclusion is as compelling as it is self-evident: losing motivates. Denied the burden of protecting a lead and the overthinking, Goldman argues, teams that find themselves trailing in a game's waning moments tend to play more freely.
That might seem counterintuitive. After all, the possibility of losing can't make for the most relaxed of nerves. But Goldman's numbers seem to suggest otherwise: that losing teams that "adhere to the price of risk," in Goldman's words, tend to have a leg up on the team in the lead, which the presenter sees as being far too risk-averse. Rather than eschew the long shot completely, Goldman shows that the relative worth of 3-pointers can be greater for teams in the lead later in games than earlier.
While some may see the findings as affirming the criticism of basketball that "the first three quarters don't matter," Goldman says it's incumbent on the team with the lead to be less risk-averse in their offensive execution.
Goldman's research is illustrative of the N.B.A. stats movement writ large: how teams react to and incorporate data is just as fascinating as the findings themselves. As more franchise's become privy to the same analytics, the decision to adopt certain strategies - teams in the lead being more open to shooting 3-pointers, for example - risks being thwarted by the knowing opponent. The chess match now a wash, how will teams use even newer data to move the knight or pawn?
The papers and panels conducted at Sloan might not answer all these questions, but nor do they pretend to. As papers like Goldman's illustrate, the growth and development of sports is inextricably linked not to how analytics answer all the questions, but how they ask the right ones.

        
Searching for a New Way to Measure Defensive Production
        
Unexpected Detour Leads to a New Home: Israel
        
King's Case for Hall of Fame Still a Good One
        
Best Dunk and 3-Point Specialists? No Contest
        
Section 15: A Soccer Fan Transformed

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (92%); SPORTS BUSINESS (91%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); SPORTS FANS (78%); TOURNAMENTS (78%); TRENDS (77%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (66%); BEHAVIORAL FINANCE (65%) Basketball; Massachusetts Institute of Technology; Matthew Goldman; National Basketball Assn; Sloan Sports Analytics Conference

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (91%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%) Massachusetts Institute of Technology; National Basketball Assn

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (75%); BOSTON, MA, USA (73%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2013



34 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1210 words

HEADLINE: In His Annual Letter, Buffett Plays Up Newspapers

BYLINE: PETER LATTMAN and CHRISTINE HAUGHNEY


HIGHLIGHT: Warren Buffett also struck a patriotic tone, telling his fellow chief executives &#8220;that opportunities abound in America.&#8221; 

 BODY:
Over the last half-century, Warren E. Buffett has built a reputation as a contrarian investor, betting against the crowd to amass a fortune estimated at $54 billion.
Mr. Buffett underscored that contrarian instinct in his annual letter to shareholders published on Friday. In a year when Mr. Buffett did not make any large acquisitions, he bought dozens of newspapers, a business others have shunned. His company, Berkshire Hathaway, has bought 28 dailies in the last 15 months.
"There is no substitute for a local newspaper that is doing its job," he wrote.
Those purchases, which cost Mr. Buffett a total of $344 million, are relatively minor deals for Berkshire, and just a small part of the giant conglomerate. Mr. Buffett bemoaned his inability to do a major deal in 2012. "I pursued a couple of elephants, but came up empty-handed," he said. "Our luck, however, changed earlier this year." 
Mr. Buffett was making a reference to one of his largest-ever deals. Last month, Berkshire, along with a Brazilian investment group, announced a $23.6 billion takeover,of the ketchup maker H. J. Heinz.
Written in accessible prose largely free of financial jargon, Berkshire's annual letter holds appeal far beyond Wall Street. This year's dispatch contained plenty of Mr. Buffett's folksy observations about investing and business that his devotees relish.
"More than 50 years ago, Charlie told me that it was far better to buy a wonderful business at a fair price than to buy a fair business at a wonderful price," Mr. Buffett wrote, referring to his longtime partner at Berkshire, Charlie Munger.
Mr. Buffett also struck a patriotic tone, directly appealing to his fellow chief executives "that opportunities abound in America." He noted that the United States gross domestic product, on an inflation-adjusted basis, had more than quadrupled over the last six decades.
"Throughout that period, every tomorrow has been uncertain," he wrote. "America's destiny, however, has always been clear: ever-increasing abundance."
The letter provides more than entertainment value and patriotic stirrings, delivering to Berkshire shareholders an update on the company's vast collection of businesses. With a market capitalization of $250 billion, Berkshire ranks among the largest companies in the United States.
Its holdings vary, with big companies like the railroad operator Burlington Northern Santa Fe and the electric utility MidAmerican Energy, and smaller ones like the running-shoe outfit Brooks Sports and the chocolatier See's Candies. All told, Berkshire employs about 288,000 people.
The letter, once again, did not answer a question that has vexed Berkshire shareholders and Buffett-ologists: Who will succeed Mr. Buffett, who is 82, as chief executive?
Last year, he acknowledged that he had chosen a successor, but he did not name the candidate.
He has said that upon his death, Berkshire will split his job in three, naming a chief executive, a nonexecutive chairman and several investment managers of its publicly traded holdings.
In 2010, he said that his son, Howard Buffett, would succeed him as nonexecutive chairman.
Berkshire's share price recently traded at a record high, surpassing its prefinancial crisis peak reached in 2007 and rising about 22 percent over the last year.
The company reported net income last year of about $14.8 billion, up about 45 percent from 2011. Yet the company's book value, or net worth - Mr. Buffett's preferred performance measure - lagged the broader stock market, increasing 14.4 percent, compared with the market's 16 percent return.
Mr. Buffett lamented that 2012 was only the ninth time in 48 years that Berkshire's book value increase was less than the gain of the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. But he pointed out that in eight of those nine years, the S.& P. had a gain of 15 percent or more, suggesting that Berkshire proved to be a most valuable investment during bad market periods.
"We do better when the wind is in our face," he wrote.
For Berkshire's largest collection of assets, its insurance operations, the wind has been at its back. We "shot the lights out last year" in insurance, Mr. Buffett said.
He lavished praise on the auto insurer Geico, giving a special shout-out to the company's mascot, the Gecko lizard.
Investors also keep a keen eye on changes in Berkshire's roughly $87 billion stock portfolio. Its holdings include large positions in iconic companies like International Business Machines, Coca-Cola, American Express and Wells Fargo. He said Berkshire's investment in each of those was likely to increase in the future.
"Mae West had it right: 'Too much of a good thing can be wonderful,' " Mr. Buffett wrote.
He also complimented two relatively new hires, Todd Combs and Ted Weschler, who now each manage about $5 billion in stock portfolios for Berkshire. Both men ran unheralded, modest-size money management firms before Mr. Buffett plucked them out of obscurity and moved them to Omaha to work for him.
He called the men "a perfect cultural fit" and indicated that the two would manage Berkshire's entire stock portfolio once he steps aside. "We hit the jackpot with these two," Mr. Buffett said, noting that last year, each outperformed the S.& P. by double-digit margins.
Then, sheepishly, employing supertiny type, he wrote: "They left me in the dust as well."
A former paperboy and member of the Newspaper Association of America's carrier hall of fame, Mr. Buffett devoted nearly three out of 24 pages of his annual report to newspapers.
While Mr. Buffett has been a longtime owner of The Buffalo News and a stakeholder in The Washington Post Company, he told shareholders four years ago that he wouldn't buy a newspaper at any price.
But his latest note reflects how much his opinion has turned. His buying spree started in November 2011, when he struck a deal to buy The Omaha World-Herald Company, this hometown paper, for a reported $200 million. By May 2012, he bought out the chain of newspapers owned by Media General, except for The Tampa Tribune. In recent months, he continued to express his interest in buying more papers "at appropriate prices - and that means a very low multiple of current earnings."
"Papers delivering comprehensive and reliable information to tightly bound communities and having a sensible Internet strategy will remain viable for a long time," wrote Mr. Buffett.
Mr. Buffett said in a telephone interview last month that he would consider buying The Morning Call of Allentown, Pa., a paper that the Tribune Company is considering selling. But Mr. Buffett said he had not contacted Tribune executives.
"It's solely a question of the specifics of it and the price," he said about the Allentown paper. "But it's similar to the kinds of communities that we bought papers in."
Mr. Buffett has plenty of cash to make more newspaper acquisitions. To cover his portion of the Heinz purchase, Mr. Buffett will deploy about $12 billion of Berkshire's $42 billion cash hoard. That leaves a lot of money for Mr. Buffett to continue his shopping spree for newspapers - and more major deals like Heinz.
"Charlie and I have again donned our safari outfits," Mr. Buffett wrote, "and resumed our search for elephants."

        
Weighing Down Heinz With Debt
        
In Heinz Takeover, a New Path for Deals

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SHAREHOLDERS (89%); EXECUTIVES (86%); TAKEOVERS (78%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (76%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (72%); DIVESTITURES (72%); CONFECTIONERY MFG (71%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (71%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNERS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (60%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (60%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (50%) Berkshire Hathaway Inc; Buffett, Warren E; Insurance; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Newspapers; Berkshire Hathaway Inc|BRK.A|NYSE; Financial Services; Mergers & Acquisitions

COMPANY: BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (90%); H J HEINZ CO (55%); BURLINGTON NORTHERN SANTA FE CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Berkshire Hathaway Inc

TICKER: BRK.B (NYSE) (90%); BRK.A (NYSE) (90%); HNZ (NYSE) (55%) Berkshire Hathaway Inc; BRK.A; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (90%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (90%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (90%); NAICS311941 MAYONNAISE, DRESSING & OTHER PREPARED SAUCE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311421 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING (55%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (55%); SIC2035 PICKLED FRUITS & VEGETABLES, VEGETABLE SAUCES & SEASONINGS, & SALAD DRESSINGS (55%); SIC2033 CANNED FRUITS, VEGETABLES, PRESERVES, JAMS, & JELLIES (55%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (51%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (51%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (94%) Buffett, Warren E

GEOGRAPHIC: BIHAR, INDIA (53%) UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (53%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2013



35 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2013

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 556 words

HEADLINE: IHT Quick Read: March 2

BYLINE: THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE


HIGHLIGHT: Concern about ivory trade; joblessness rises in Europe; challenge for Syrian rebel leader; and Swiss consider compensation laws. 

 BODY:
 NEWS To the growing outrage of international conservation groups and the embarrassment of Chinese law enforcement agencies, the international ivory trade is booming, with much of the smuggled ivory ending up as statuary and jewelry in Chinese showrooms and private collections. Critics say the Chinese government is not doing enough to stem the illicit ivory trade, which has exploded in the five years since conservationists and governments agreed to a program of limited ivory sales intended to stifle poaching and revive a centuries-old handicraft. In the past year, more than 32,000 elephants have been illegally killed, according to the Born Free Foundation, a wildlife organization, and conservationists say the vast majority of ivory sold in China is of questionable origin. Dan Levin reports from Puzhai, China. 
The unemployment rate in the euro zone edged up in January to a new record, official data showed Friday, as the ailing European economy continued to weigh on the job market. That, and new data showing a decline in inflation in the euro zone, could prompt the European Central Bank to take steps to stimulate the economy when its Governing Council meets this week, analysts said. David Jolly reports from Paris.
Much of Syria's future rests on General Salim Idris's success on the battlefield. The leader of the Syrian rebels, he faces the daunting task of forging a cohesive force from the thousands of fractious, fiercely independent rebel brigades arrayed against the still formidable military of President Bashar al-Assad. Neil MacFarquhar reports from Antakya, Turkey.
For Thomas Minder, a decade-long crusade against "fat cats" is coming to a head. The Swiss are set to vote Sunday on whether to adopt his proposal to impose some of the world's most severe restrictions on executive compensation. The prospect is opposed by the banks and other multinational companies that have long spearheaded Switzerland's economy, who say the rules will damage the country's business-friendly climate. Raphael Minder reports from Geneva.
President Obama and congressional leaders failed on Friday to stop deep, automatic cuts in federal spending that will immediately shrink the size and ambition of government, even as they vowed an end to the rolling fiscal battles that have repeatedly threatened government shutdowns and economic crisis over two years. Michael D. Shear and Jonathan Weisman report from Washington.
 ARTS The art scene in Kosovo reflects the country - fragmented, young and just beginning to define itself. Countries like Russia, China and Spain do not recognize Kosovo, which declared independence from Serbia five years ago. Kosovo's participation as a country pavilion at one of the world's premier art events is certain to ruffle some feathers. Ginanne Brownell reports.
 SPORTS From the moment last Saturday's Premier League game between Arsenal and Aston Villa began, goalkeeper Brad Guzan was in constant motion. For Guzan, every moment on the field is golden. He was a backup for most of the past four seasons, a holding pattern that tested his persistence and cost him his place on the United States national team. This season he has finally established himself as Aston Villa's starter, but the journey has been long and hard and, at times, even a little embarrassing.Ravi Ubha reports from London.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); 2011 SYRIAN UPRISING (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); SMUGGLING (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); WILDLIFE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); MAMMALS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (73%); MONETARY UNIONS (73%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); EMPLOYMENT (70%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (69%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (69%); ATHLETES (68%); US PRESIDENTS (64%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (62%); SOCCER (62%); SPORTS (61%); SPORTS & RECREATION (61%) IHT Rendezvous

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (69%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (55%)

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (50%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (79%) CHINA (95%); EUROPE (94%); SYRIA (94%); SERBIA (94%); KOSOVO (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); SPAIN (79%); TURKEY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2013



36 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Diner's Journal)

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2013

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 175 words

HEADLINE: Film on Hunger in America Opens

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: The documentary &#8220;A Place at the Table,&#8221; featuring Jeff Bridges, opens on Friday. 

 BODY:
One out of every two children today will be on at some point. Children are not hungry because of a shortage of food, but because of poverty. Those are some of the points made in "A Place at the Table," a film that opens today that examines how hunger poses economic, social and cultural implications for the country. The directors of the documentary, Kristi Jacobson and Lori Silverbush, and the founder of Share Our Strength, Bill Shore, took part in a TimesTalk discussion this week about how they made the project. Also participating were the chef Tom Colicchio, who was the film's executive producer, and Jeff Bridges, the actor and activist who appears in the film. 
Mr. Bridges riffed on the power of his celebrity to bring attention to the cause. "The Dude wants to end childhood hunger," he said, a reference to his character in the movie "The Big Lebowski."

        
Front Burner
        
Back to the Future, in the Kitchen
        
Reviewing Craft
        
Tom Colicchio's Secret Farm, Right Next to the F.D.R. Drive
        
Tom Colicchio to Open the Lot on Tap, and Curate High Line Food Trucks

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (90%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (90%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%); CELEBRITIES (76%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (76%); FILM DIRECTORS (76%); MOBILE FOOD SERVICES (72%) A Place at the Table (Movie); Bridges, Jeff; Colicchio, Tom; Documentary Films and Programs; hunger; Silverbush, Lori

PERSON: Bridges, Jeff; Colicchio, Tom; Silverbush, Lori

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2013



37 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: Poison Pill Politics

BYLINE: By CHARLES M. BLOW

 BODY:
The deadline has passed. The sequester is in effect. And Congress is not in session.
We now know that our political system is broken beyond anything even remotely resembling a functional government.
The ridiculous bill was designed as a poison pill, but Republicans popped it like a Pez. Now the body politic -- weak with battle fatigue, jerked from crisis to crisis and struggling to recover from a recession -- has to wait to see how severe the damage will be.
(The director of the Congressional Budget Office estimates that the sequester could cost 750,000 jobs in 2013 alone.) 
This is all because Republicans have refused to even consider new revenue as part of a deal. That includes revenue from closing tax loopholes, a move they supposedly support.
As Speaker John Boehner said after his Congressional leaders met with President Obama on Friday:
''Let's make it clear that the president got his tax hikes on Jan. 1. This discussion about revenue, in my view, is over.''
Boehner's intransigence during the talks drew ''cheers,'' according to a report in The New York Times, from his chronically intransigent colleagues. But their position is a twist of the truth that is coming dangerously close to becoming accepted wisdom by sheer volume of repetition. It must be battled back every time it is uttered.
Let's make this clear: it is wrong to characterize the American Taxpayer Relief Act as a ''tax hike.'' In reality, much of what it did was allow 18 percent of the Bush tax cuts -- mostly those affecting the wealthiest Americans -- to expire while permanently locking in a whopping 82 percent of them.
But of course, that misrepresentation fit with the tired trope of Democrats as tax-and-spend liberals. It also completely ignores that it was Bush-era spending that dug the ditch we're in.
Republicans have defined their position, regardless of how reckless: austerity or bust. However, as economists have warned, austerity generally precedes -- and, in fact, can cause -- bust. Just look at Europe.
But Republicans are so dizzy over the deficits and delighted to lick the boots of billionaires that they cannot -- or will not -- see it. They are still trying to sell cut-to-grow snake oil: cut spending and cut taxes, and the economy will grow because rich people will be happy, and when rich people are happy they hire poor people, and then everyone's happy.
This is the vacuous talk of politicians trying to placate people with vacation homes, not a sensible solution for people trying to purchase, or simply retain, their first homes.
Now the president is trying to make the best of a bad situation and bring expectations in line with what is likely to happen.
When Gallup this week asked Americans to use one word to describe the sequester, negative words outnumbered good words four to one. The top three negative words or phrases were ''bad,'' ''disaster'' and ''God help us.''
At a news conference after Friday's meeting with Congressional leaders, the president tried to tamp down some of the most dire predictions about the sequester's impact. He said:
''What's important to understand is that not everyone will feel the pain of these cuts right away. The pain, though, will be real.''
The president knows well that if the sequester's effects are so diffused that the public -- whose attention span is as narrow as a cat's hair -- doesn't connect them to their source, people might think the administration cried wolf.
That's why he said, and will most likely continue to say for months, ''So every time that we get a piece of economic news over the next month, next two months, next six months, as long as the sequester's in place we'll know that that economic news could have been better if Congress had not failed to act.''
He must yoke this pain to the people who invited it. It's not as though most Americans don't already think poorly of Republicans anyway.
A Pew Research Center report released this week found that most Americans think the Republican Party, unlike the Democratic Party, is out of touch with the American people and too extreme. And most Americans did not see Republicans as open to change or looking out for the country's future as much as Democrats.
The president said Friday that ''there is a caucus of common sense up on Capitol Hill'' that includes Congressional Republicans who ''privately at least'' were willing to close loopholes to prevent the sequester.
Those privately reasonable Republicans might want to be more public before their party goes over another cliff and takes the country with them.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC: Republican Image Problem: Most Americans have negative opinions of the Republican Party, according to a report this week by the Pew Research Center. The report also found that ''Republicans are more critical of their party than Democrats are of theirs on most issues.'' (Source: Pew Research Center survey of 1,504 adults, conducted Feb. 13-18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (88%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); TAX INCREASES (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); US PRESIDENTS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (57%)

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (73%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2013



38 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 966 words

HEADLINE: A Comedian As Nice Guy Next Door?

BYLINE: By JASON ZINOMAN

 BODY:
John Mulaney seems like the kind of stand-up comic you could take home and introduce to your parents.
He's clean-cut, wears a tie and is handsome, but not so much so that he makes you think that he is probably a jerk. He rarely curses, and I've even seen him use the word ''swell'' without raising an eyebrow. The guy exudes levelheaded sanity. On his Twitter account he describes himself as ''a nice, 30-year-old comedian.''
Mr. Mulaney typically jokes about material that most people can relate to: childhood, dating, ''Back to the Future.'' On his most recent Comedy Central special, ''New in Town,'' he includes an endearing video of two comics sitting on a couch with him, ridiculing his act, joke by joke. ''Is there any taboo subject that you will touch?'' one of them, Anthony Jeselnik, asks. 
Mr. Mulaney is a nimble, jaunty performer whose work displays pinpoint timing and sturdy craftsmanship, but in a comedy scene filled with eccentrics in niches, it's his broad likability that stands out. It doesn't seem forced or calculated, but make no mistake: there's serious commercial potential there.
A prolific stand-up comic and writer, Mr. Mulaney recently signed a deal to write and star in an NBC sitcom pilot based on his life, with Lorne Michaels among the executive producers. It's about a young comic who writes jokes for a game show host (Martin Short is reportedly in talks for the part). It's not out of the realm of possibility to imagine that Mr. Mulaney could one day be his generation's Jerry Seinfeld.
Mr. Mulaney works regularly in New York and is to perform three nights next week at the Comedy Cellar. But it was in the middle of a joke skewering the ridiculousness of a hackneyed expression -- a classic Seinfeld tactic -- at Carolines last weekend that he showed telling range.
The target was a familiar argument for staying single: ''Why buy the cow when you can get the milk for free?'' Mr. Mulaney, who mentions his girlfriend in his act, builds this bit's foundation by repeating that question, following it each time with a punch line.
The jokes -- which sometimes extend the metaphor -- build until he throws a curve. ''Why buy the cow when you can get the milk for free?'' he asks, leaning his delicately thin frame forward. ''Because you love her. Yes, she's a bossy, little Jew, but you don't want to be 50 years old, saying, 'Seen any loose milk?' ''
What initially jars here is the simple expression of love. Such sentiment is refreshing in a coolly witty set, and mixing drops of emotion into cerebral fun can help connect with an audience. Then it's the Jewish joke, delivered with the mischievousness of a kid getting away with something. Both are elements that Mr. Seinfeld would think of but probably not put into his act.
Mr. Mulaney, who has said he started work in a sketch troupe at 7, often slows the quick pace of his speech before the punch line, and when the audience is expecting the laugh, he may play with the cadence to add a kick to a joke. His first album, ''The Top Part'' (2009), could occasionally make such veteran maneuvers sound mechanical, but his style has become more seamless, even effortless now.
He also appears to have benefited from his experience writing sketches for ''Saturday Night Live,'' including the beautifully sharp jokes for Bill Hader's popular character Stefon.
While his act has the feel of a friendly guy telling his favorite jokes, it is carefully constructed. Characters like his parents are woven throughout in a way that makes the jokes hit harder. His dad in particular is vivid: a dryly stubborn lawyer who drives a van full of kids dreaming of Big Macs up to a McDonald's take-out window and proceeds to order just one black coffee. Mr. Mulaney expresses his childhood outrage, then moves to his adult perspective, which finds the order hilarious.
In longer bits, like a joke in which he imagines the pitch meeting for ''Back to the Future,'' he writes economical dialogue and plays distinct parts: the executive and the guy with the idea. (''So he's a teenager whose best friend is a disgraced nuclear physicist,'' Mr. Mulaney says, adding that the movie never explains this odd fact.) Mr. Mulaney is not a great mimic, but he can do a few voices and has the writer's confidence to know that sometimes it's best to end a scene on an odd note.
The risk for Mr. Mulaney is that he becomes too safe or predictable. (If he is Seinfeld, who is his Larry David?) The areas he covers are not that original. Jokes about the benefits of being born white and the way children bluff will inevitably recall the work of other, better-known comedians. In a pop culture crowded with comedy options, what will make him distinct?
You see strong hints of an answer in his characters. Imagining how adults would fake their way through a speech the way that kids do in school, he runs through several precise impressions. He first goes to a lockjawed news anchor's hollow pronouncements (Mr. Mulaney also has a superb satirical analysis of New York Post headlines), before doing an ad pitch he calls ''the Don Draper stuff.'' His handle on these smooth, assured types is firm. He nicely plays the extremely appealing con man who knows less than you think but gets by on charm, a grin and quick wits. Mr. Mulaney would make a great Harold Hill.
Like that lovable liar from ''The Music Man,'' he is charismatic if a little aloof, a peddler of jokes whose good cheer may hide something darker from his past. Mr. Mulaney does sometimes mention a history of alcoholism, confessing that he used to get blackout drunk.
''That surprises a lot of audiences, because I don't look like someone who used to do anything,'' Mr. Mulaney said on ''New in Town.'' ''I look like I was just sitting in a room on a chair eating saltines for, like, 28 years.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The comic John Mulaney performing at Carolines on Sunday. Next week he is at Comedy Cellar. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TINA FINEBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (75%); WRITERS (65%); MILK (65%)

PERSON: JERRY SEINFELD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2013



39 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 467 words

HEADLINE: A Range of Economic News, and Most of It Good

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Busier factories and growing optimism among consumers this year could help the economy withstand the drag from government spending cuts and tax increases, data released on Friday suggested.
Manufacturing grew in February at the fastest pace in 20 months, according to a report from the Institute for Supply Management. And a survey from the University of Michigan showed that consumer sentiment rose last month to its highest level since November. 
Other data showed strength in job growth and the housing market. Americans spent a bit more in January compared with December, despite a sharp drop in income that partly reflected higher taxes.
''Consumers are spending, confidence is rising and manufacturing activity is accelerating,'' Joel Naroff, president of Naroff Economic Advisors, said in a note to clients. ''Just about all of today's reports point to an economy on the rise.''
Businesses and consumers appear to be shrugging off changes in federal policy that will probably slow the still-weak economy.
In January, Congress and the White House struck a deal that raised income taxes on the nation's top earners but also allowed a temporary cut in Social Security taxes to expire.
Across-the-board spending cuts were set to begin Friday. The cuts could reduce government purchases and lead to temporary layoffs of government employees and contractors. The reductions were expected to shave about a half-percentage point from economic growth this year.
The economic data Friday was mostly positive.
The Institute for Supply Management said its index of factory activity rose last month to 54.2, the highest since June 2011, from 53.1 in January. Any reading above 50 indicates growth. The report showed a jump in new orders, higher production and more hiring at factories. Manufacturing has grown for three consecutive months, indicating that factories could help the economy after slumping through most of 2012.
Separately, the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan consumer sentiment index rose to 77.6, the second consecutive monthly increase, from 73.8 at the end of January. The rebound suggests that some people have begun to adjust to smaller paychecks stemming from the restoration of the full Social Security tax.
The Commerce Department reported that consumers increased spending 0.2 percent in January from December but cut back on big purchases like cars and appliances. Income plunged 3.6 percent, though it followed a jump in December driven by dividends and bonuses that were paid early to avoid higher income taxes.
In a separate report, the Commerce Department said that spending on construction projects fell in January by 2.1 percent, the largest amount in 18 months. But the decline followed a nearly 10 percent increase in construction spending in 2012, the first annual gain in five years.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A work site in Portland, Tenn. Construction spending has dropped, but other indicators, like factory orders and hiring, were up. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN DUNHAM/THE MESSENGER-INQUIRER, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHARTS: Personal Income: Total personal income before taxes, at a seasonally adjusted annual pace.
 Construction Spending: Total construction spending at a seasonally adjusted annual rate. (Sources: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX LAW (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); NEW ORDERS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (91%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (93%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2013



40 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 984 words

HEADLINE: Despite the Dysfunction, Congress Still Has Fans

BYLINE: By ANNIE LOWREY

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- On Friday, $85 billion in spending cuts intended to be so painful and stupid that they would never come into effect started to come into effect.
There is plenty of blame to go around, but the so-called sequestration looks set to only add to the unpopularity of what has become one of America's most loathed political institutions: Congress.
In a recent New York Times/CBS News poll, Americans gave the House and Senate just a 12 percent approval rating, up barely a smidgen from its all-time low. Dozens of other polls conducted in the past year or two have shown Congress to be deeply despised. But even Congress has its supporters, and not just paid staff members or blood relatives, as Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, likes to joke. After all, one in eight Americans still gives the institution a thumbs-up. 
In follow-up interviews, those respondents to the Times poll gave a complicated and contradictory set of reasons for looking at Congress through rose-colored glasses. Several backtracked or qualified their support when asked to describe what they found so appealing about the institution. The words ''idiots'' and ''ninnies'' came up. One respondent described his positive response as accidental. Another mentioned she had been recovering from a recent surgery.
But the small group of people who really did approve of Congress generally seemed to fall into two broad camps, which might be termed the ''natural optimists'' and the ''Obama haters.''
Take the second group first. Several respondents said they believed that Congress -- which is divided between a Republican-controlled House and a Senate where Democrats are in the majority but are generally unable to pass legislation because they lack 60 votes to overcome an almost automatic filibuster by the minority party -- was trying its hardest in difficult circumstances, but was repeatedly frustrated by a hubristic White House with a my-way-or-the-highway attitude.
That was the opinion of Bruce Hamer, a self-described Reagan Republican and Southern California engineer. He applauded Congress for coming together to work on immigration and at least trying to tackle the country's finances. He mostly blamed President Obama for undermining the institution.
''As dysfunctional as it might seem, I see Congress as trying to grapple with the diversity of this country, and a president who's trying to demonize people,'' Mr. Hamer said. ''There's tremendous polarization, and I don't understand where the spirit of conceding and cooperating is. A leader that's negative is not going to be successful in a government that's got to win consensus.''
A fiscal conservative from the other side of the country, Joseph Menzel, a retired research and development laboratory technician who lives in central New York, had much the same opinion. ''They're blocked at every turn,'' he said of lawmakers on Capitol Hill.
Mr. Menzel said that he thought that the House was doing a better job than the Senate, and that Republicans were performing better than Democrats in general. But for real change to come to Washington, he said -- turning Mr. Obama's original campaign slogan on its head -- the White House needs to get out of the way. ''Even my cat dislikes Obama when we watch him on television,'' Mr. Menzel said, a glimmer of sarcasm in his voice. ''The cat doesn't like to be lied to either.''
The other camp of respondents just tended to be looking on the brighter side of things: focusing on the future, crediting Congress with trying, and offering some qualified thanks for the effort.
Take Helen Larsen, a wife and mother who lives in coal country in Utah. ''If I had to explain it, I'd say that they're putting money where it needs to go,'' she said of Congress, mulling over her thoughts on Thursday morning. ''They're putting it towards our future and our children's future, and maybe a little bit more into helping Social Security and Medicaid and Medicare.''
A loosely affiliated Democrat who comes from a family of coal miners, Ms. Larsen said that she focused most of her attention on local issues: whether gambling institutions might help revive Utah's economy, when and how the local shops and restaurants could serve liquor, safety in the coal mines.
Of her local representatives, she had a mixed opinion. ''It's like: Let's make some money for Utah!'' she said, urging them to bring home more bacon despite the nation's fiscal woes. She mentioned that she thought Mr. Obama was out of touch with real people and was wasting his time trying to persuade Congress to pass gun legislation.
''I'd love to bring him to Utah and bring him through a couple of coal mines for a day, walking through waist-deep water, instead of sitting in a suit behind a desk,'' Ms. Larsen said.
Brenda Carroll, a schoolteacher and political independent who lives near Seattle, also said she approved of Congress, though she had some reservations. She described it this way: ''Sit and think about your family. When you're born, you can't choose who's in your family. So you better, A, learn how to get along, and B, learn to avoid certain topics. That's how I see it.''
She recalled that at one point politicians had wanted to make George Washington something like a king, and argued that when it comes to political incompetence, other countries have it far worse than the United States.
Other answers were simpler. Clyda Mellett of Tennessee, who described Medicare as her top political interest, offered an unqualified thumbs-up. ''I think they're doing great,'' she said.
Such sentiments, of course, remain a distinct minority. Some analysts, however, see a silver lining in Congress's generally bleak approval ratings. Take this January analysis from Frank Newport of Gallup: ''In the broadest sense, one bit of good news for the new Congress is that its current job approval ratings are so low that they have practically nowhere to go but up.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); FILIBUSTER (76%); POLITICS (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); LEGISLATION (71%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); IMMIGRATION (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%); JOHN MCCAIN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2013



41 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1281 words

HEADLINE: Washington Fails To Reach A Deal To Head Off Cuts

BYLINE: By MICHAEL D. SHEAR and JONATHAN WEISMAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama and Congressional leaders failed on Friday to stop deep, automatic cuts in federal spending that will immediately shrink the size and ambition of government, even as they vowed an end to the rolling fiscal battles that have repeatedly threatened government shutdowns and economic crisis over two years.
Emerging from an Oval Office meeting with the lawmakers, the president called the cuts ''just dumb.'' He said they would slow the economic recovery and spoke emotionally about their impact on people who would feel the consequences of government layoffs and disruptions in public services.
''I don't anticipate a huge financial crisis, but people are going to be hurt,'' Mr. Obama said during a 35-minute news conference at the White House, in which he acknowledged that his campaign of highlighting fallout from the cuts had failed to persuade Republicans to consider tax increases as part of a package to avert the $85 billion in reductions over the next seven months. 
But both the president and his Republican adversaries said they would not carry the fight over the cuts into a coming legislative effort to finance the government through Sept. 30, essentially declaring a cease-fire in the budget wars that have dominated Washington since 2011.
The showdown in December over the so-called fiscal cliff yielded $620 billion in tax increases over 10 years. The across-the-board spending cuts now going into force will cut deficits an additional $1.2 trillion.
Both sides indicated that for now, that may be enough -- a fiscal peace through political exhaustion.
After locking in nearly $3.6 trillion in spending cuts and tax increases since 2011, the receding budget wars have left their mark on the nation's balance sheet, said Alice Rivlin, a former White House budget director and former vice chairwoman of the Federal Reserve. But, she said, those successive budget deals have done nothing to address the nation's long-term financial troubles as the population ages. They have, however, hurt the economy.
''It does not get us on a track to stabilizing the debt, mostly because it's the wrong kind of cut,'' Ms. Rivlin said. ''No, it makes things worse.''
The two parties will now move to a broader argument over the right level of taxes and spending as they seek to develop a new budget for the coming year and beyond. Republicans said they welcomed a return to a more orderly budget process but warned they would not give in on their basic principles.
''I will not be part of any back-room deal, and I will absolutely not agree to increase taxes,'' said Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader.
After a public relations blitz lasting weeks that was aimed at stopping the cuts, Mr. Obama said he is prepared to extend a stopgap law that finances the government to March 27 if Republicans stick to an agreement worked out in 2011 about the level of federal spending. The decision will most likely allow the across-the-board spending reductions to remain in place for months if not years.
White House officials and Senate Democrats had considered making one last stand around the March 27 deadline, declaring the Senate would not pass another government spending plan unless it undid the across-the-board cuts. But Senate Democrats were leery. The first furloughs are likely to hit in April, and the Democrats feared that little political pressure would have built on Republicans before the current stopgap spending law expired.
''The president has made it clear he does not want to shut down the government,'' Senator Patty Murray of Washington, the Senate Budget Committee chairwoman, said Friday. ''None of us do. That is another disruption that we just can't afford right now.''
After the White House session, the House speaker, John A. Boehner, Republican of Ohio, said that he wanted to avoid a shutdown and that the House would begin advancing a financing measure next week. ''I'm hopeful that we won't have to deal with the threat of a government shutdown while we're dealing with the sequester at the same time,'' he told reporters.
Republicans told the president during Friday's meeting that they would not accept any new tax increases as an alternative to the across-the-board cuts, known as the sequester, and Mr. Obama said he did not intend to force the issue.
''Until Congress takes the sequester away, we'd have to abide by those additional cuts,'' Mr. Obama conceded. ''But there's no reason why we should have another crisis by shutting the government down in addition to these arbitrary spending cuts.''
At the Pentagon, the new defense secretary, Chuck Hagel, took a conciliatory tone, stepping away from months of dire predictions of disruption issued by the Defense Department.
''Today America has the best fighting force in the world, capable of responding to any challenge,'' Mr. Hagel said. ''This unnecessary budget crisis makes that job much harder. But we will continue to ensure America's security.''
For Republicans, who lost a battle with the president over raising taxes at the end of last year, the agreement probably enshrines the lower levels of government spending for the remainder of the fiscal year, which ends Sept. 30. And it gives Mr. Boehner a victory to crow about with his increasingly conservative members.
But the president will probably benefit from the cold peace, too. He said he was ready to move beyond the repeated fiscal debates in the past several years to the broader agenda he spelled out in the State of the Union address, including gun control measures, universal preschool, a higher minimum wage, an immigration overhaul and changes to the nation's system of voting.
''We can't let political gridlock around the budget stand in the way of other areas where we can make progress,'' Mr. Obama said.
In that sense, the White House meeting on Friday signaled a new political order after the deep divisions brought on by the Tea Party wave of 2010. The meeting was subdued, according to aides, with none of the tension of last November and December, when the president was locked away with Mr. Boehner, trying to head off huge automatic tax increases. Much of the session was devoted to the prosaic issue of keeping the government financed.
All that appears left to do in the short run may be a modest measure to give the Obama administration more discretion over how to mete out the cuts. That effort is already under way, led by Senators Mark Udall, Democrat of Colorado, and Susan Collins, Republican of Maine.
A ''regular order'' process to finance the government through 2014 will start quickly. The House Appropriations Committee will unveil legislation on Monday to cover spending through Sept. 30 at post-sequestration levels, with detailed spending instructions for the military to loosen some of the current spending strictures. That measure is expected to pass the House by Thursday, and lawmakers from both parties indicated they expected a quick resolution with the Senate.
By mid-March, Senator Murray and her House Budget Committee counterpart, Representative Paul Ryan of Wisconsin, will produce broad blueprints for spending and tax policy over 10 years, the next vehicles for bipartisanship on the deficit -- if those budget plans can be reconciled.
That is doubtful. Mr. Ryan has said his plan will try to balance the budget within 10 years, without raising taxes and without any abrupt hits to Social Security and Medicare. His plan will lock in the savings from the across-the-board cuts but will shift the targets away from defense.
In contrast, Ms. Murray said, the Senate plan will undo the cuts beyond this fiscal year with a mix of tax increases and other spending reductions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Obama on Friday called automatic cuts ''just dumb.'' Speaker John A. Boehner said he wanted to avoid a shutdown. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1)
 Nancy Pelosi, the House minority leader, spoke to reporters on Friday after President Obama and Congressional leaders met. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHER GREGORY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX INCREASES (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); LAYOFFS (72%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (72%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); NANCY PELOSI (58%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2013



42 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1163 words

HEADLINE: The Presence of Leadership

BYLINE: By NADER MOUSAVIZADEH

 BODY:
Alongside the perennial lament about ''uncertainty'' in global markets and politics, nothing is decried quite as often as ''lack of leadership.'' From the euro-zone crisis to intervention in internal conflicts to Britain's place in Europe, and on to America's crisis of governance and China's rising nationalism, the purported absence of leadership is regularly cited as a primary cause of our global economic and political malaise.
Looking back over Europe's past six months, however, a curious picture emerges, one that suggests a realization on the part of some its leaders that the time for prevarication must come to an end.
Angela Merkel's steadfast refusal to succumb to the false choice of fast-forwarded federalism or inevitable break-up of the European Union; Mario Draghi's come-what-may affirmation of the European Central Bank's commitment to the common currency; François Hollande's perilous intervention in Mali at its hour of Islamist danger; and David Cameron's bold combination of a call for genuine reform of the E.U. with a promise of an in-out referendum for the British people -- whatever else may be said about these decisions, they are object lessons in leadership. 
Nothing makes this clearer than the findings of a recent poll that only one in three Britons would vote to stay in the E.U. if given an in-out choice in a referendum. This is a nightmare prospect for the British prime minister, not least in light of the eloquent case he made in his Europe speech last month for a strong and vital role for Britain in an open, diverse and competitive Europe.
Given the history of referendums as captives of populist politics, the poll result cannot come as a surprise. What Cameron's speech makes clear -- and where he was willing to demonstrate genuine leadership -- is that the true starting point for debate has to be recognition of the rapidly changing global economy and the need to think in aggressive and innovative ways about how to keep Britain, and the E.U., competitive for the next generation.
What Cameron referred to as a ''global race of nations'' is a very real phenomenon, however unwelcome the prospect may be in some of the more unreconstructed corners of Europe. Faced with this reality, reform of the E.U. is not just an opportunity, but a necessity, unless the aging and shrinking societies of Europe are prepared to doom themselves to a state of accelerating decline.
This Cameron understands, and so does a far greater number of business and political leaders on the Continent than the reaction to his speech would suggest. A ''coalition of the willing'' for a more multifaceted, more flexible, more engaged E.U. -- with Britain as a core member alongside a pivotal Germany -- is waiting to be built.
This is the leadership challenge -- and opportunity -- that Cameron has set himself.
You'd think a French president faced with as acute a long-term economic crisis as any on the Continent would have better things to do than commit blood and treasure to stopping an Islamist takeover of an African state of little strategic consequence.
Yet faced with the prospect of Qaeda-linked jihadist groups sweeping the state of Mali and imposing an internally brutal and externally destabilizing form of rule, Hollande acted -- for France, and for Africa. That he did so at the request of the Malian government, and that France enjoyed the support of Mali's neighbors and an endorsement from the United Nations Security Council, only underscores the risks of reversal should the situation on the ground grow difficult, as it most likely will.
Creating long-term stability in the Sahel and defeating the militant groups operating with near-impunity throughout the region's ungoverned spaces are noble objectives that few would call remotely realistic. The shadows of Afghanistan, Iraq and Libya will continue to bedevil proponents of intervention everywhere -- as will its glaring absence in the far more strategically significant case of Syria.
Yet Hollande refused to make the best the enemy of the good, and sent in the military. For a man suffering from invidious comparisons with his hyperactive predecessor, this was not a case of cowardice.
At stake in Mario Draghi's promise last summer to do ''whatever it takes to preserve the euro'' was not so much lives as livelihoods, and yet it was of no less significance to the future viability of the European project. For those more inclined to respond to widening sovereign spreads than to the consistent message from Berlin that Europe, for Germany, was always as much a political project as an economic one, Draghi's statement came as a shock -- and a very costly one to those on the other side of the trade.
What Draghi did was to cut through the endless debates about debt and inflation and the internal logic of the single currency to back his deeds with an unshakeable statement of intent.
This was not a case of promises with uncertain actions to follow. Draghi acted before he finally spoke, with the introduction of a long-term refinancing operation for banks and the subsequent plan to an unlimited, if conditional, E.C.B. bond-buying program.
In many respects, Draghi perfected the art of ''showing force in order not to use it,'' to use Kofi Annan's phrase from a different context. Yet the recent economic data showing that the economies of France, Italy, Spain and Holland all shrank in the fourth quarter of last year -- along with the deepening trans-Atlantic anxiety about how Europe and the United States can manage a successful exit from the era of easy money -- suggest that Draghi's achievement was but the first of a series of necessary and controversial further steps to come.
No one has shown a steadier hand -- or a more impregnable composure -- in the face of Europe's existential crisis than the German chancellor. In many respects an uninspiring domestic politician, Angela Merkel has nevertheless emerged as a singular leader in Europe, just as powerfully defined by what she refused to do as by what she was willing to concede in the heat of the moment.
Balancing a recognition of the reality of market forces with a principled refusal to let speculators define the Continent's political fate, Merkel has led Europe through the crisis in the only way a German can be allowed to -- through shrewd coalition-building, insistence on fiscal responsibility, a willingness to reap the whirlwind of populist backlash, and an unflinching focus on the long view that a united and peaceful Europe with Germany at its core is not a matter of choice for Berlin, but a cause worthy of the exercise of its immense power.
The decisions taken in Berlin, London, Paris and Frankfurt may not deliver the intended results, and the leaders who took them may not be rewarded -- Mario Monti's grim fate in this week's Italian election results makes that plain. There are perils aplenty in the calls Draghi, Hollande, Cameron and Merkel made. But at least they cannot be accused of a lack of leadership.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MONETARY UNIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); EURO (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); REFERENDUMS (87%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CURRENCIES (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (76%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (73%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (68%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (83%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (56%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (56%)

PERSON: DAVID CAMERON (79%); ANGELA MERKEL (54%); FRANCOIS HOLLANDE (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (98%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); MALI (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2013



43 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1246 words

HEADLINE: Showdown on Executive Pay in Switzerland Goes to a Vote

BYLINE: By RAPHAEL MINDER

 BODY:
GENEVA -- For Thomas Minder, a decade-long crusade against ''fat cats'' is coming to a head.
The Swiss are set to vote Sunday on whether to adopt his proposal to impose some of the world's most severe restrictions on executive compensation. The prospect is opposed by the banks and other multinational companies that have long spearheaded Switzerland's economy, who say the rules will damage the country's business-friendly climate.
Mr. Minder, an entrepreneur and member of the Swiss Parliament (with no relation to the reporter), has taken the opposite view.
''If this gets voted, it will be the best export advertisement possible, because investors put their money where they have the most to say, and that will clearly then be Switzerland,'' he said. The changes, he added, would guarantee that ''investors will no longer have to worry about ridiculous backdoor deals.'' 
If Mr. Minder's proposal is adopted, shareholders of companies listed in Switzerland would have a binding say on compensation for executives and board members, and the plan would obligate pension funds to participate in all such votes.
Mr. Minder's proposal would also ban departure packages like the $78 million payout that Novartis, the pharmaceutical company, agreed to give its departing chairman, Daniel Vasella. The payout set off a political storm and brought intense criticism from some investors, prompting Mr. Vasella to tell shareholders last week that the plan had been a mistake.
Those who violate the new rules would be subject to fines worth as much as their salaries for six years and prison sentences as long as three years.
The vote on Mr. Minder's proposal comes after the United States and Germany, among other countries, authorized shareholders to cast nonbinding votes on executive pay. Such actions have been taken in response to Occupy Wall Street and other movements that have attacked corporate abuses that fueled the world financial crisis. On Thursday, the European Parliament proposed to limit bankers' bonuses to twice their salaries.
The latest opinion polls suggest that voters will endorse his project, and Mr. Minder said the Novartis controversy had illustrated exactly why tougher rules were needed.
''There is something completely sick in a board like that of Novartis, where everybody is just friends with everybody,'' he said. As to Mr. Vasella's U-turn, Mr. Minder said, ''It's easy to renounce something which should in any case never have belonged to you.''
Still, Switzerland's business lobby is warning of dire consequences if voters approve the proposals. While Switzerland is home to 7.5 million people, it punches far above its weight in economic terms, thanks largely to multinationals in sectors including banking, watches, food, pharmaceuticals and engineering. Many of these companies have most of their shareholding outside Switzerland.
''Switzerland risks becoming one of the most restrictive places for management in the world,'' said Meinrad Vetter, an official from EconomieSuisse, the Swiss business federation. For foreign companies, he added, Mr. Minder's proposal would ''clearly be a very bad signal in terms of choosing Switzerland as a location to do business, because Switzerland has in fact always been a country that had been seen as very business friendly.''
Neither have many institutional investors endorsed the plan. The Ethos Foundation, based in Geneva, which is owned by 141 pension and other funds, recognized that Mr. Minder had pinpointed a genuine problem in Switzerland in terms of weak shareholders' rights. But Mr. Minder's proposal would push Switzerland ''from one extreme to the other,'' said Christophe Hans, head of communications at Ethos.
Mr. Hans also warned that Mr. Minder's proposal could create a new set of managerial problems.
''You cannot give the board the right to choose the C.E.O. but then not make it able to finalize the hiring contract,'' Mr. Hans said. ''Which employee, let alone a C.E.O., would accept a job offer without first having the salary guaranteed?''
And even if companies are unlikely to leave Switzerland in droves if voters approve Mr. Minder's initiative, ''some family-controlled companies would delist,'' Mr. Hans predicted.
While Mr. Vasella and Novartis have focused recent attention on the issue, much of Mr. Minder's criticism is aimed at the Swiss banks whose earnings and shares have tumbled in recent years, even as the rest of the Swiss economy has remained relatively unscathed by the financial crisis.
Mr. Minder said bankers like Marcel Ospel, the former chairman of UBS, had brought to Switzerland ''the wrong and harmful banking spirit,'' learned while previously working on Wall Street. Five years ago, Mr. Minder had to be restrained by Mr. Ospel's bodyguards when he tried to storm the podium at a UBS shareholders' meeting.
Mr. Minder also suggested that Switzerland's growing reliance on foreign executives had helped inflate compensation. He cited as an example Brady Dougan, an American banker who took charge of Credit Suisse in 2007 and has been among the top earners in Switzerland.
''I want Swiss people on the boards of Swiss companies, not foreigners with the wrong culture,'' he said. The difference, Mr. Minder said, is ''whether you believe money is everything or whether you can also understand that Switzerland has direct democracy and a sense of balance.''
Two other possible Swiss referendums are looming, both linked to salary issues.
One concerns setting a minimum wage and the other is a so-called 1 for 12 initiative, to ensure that the top salary in a company does not exceed the lowest one by more than 12 times.
If Mr. Minder's initiative is rejected Sunday, Swiss voters will still automatically be approving a government counterproposal, which would give shareholders a vote on executive pay, though not necessarily a binding vote. Mr. Minder, however, warned that this alternative would not ''prevent in any way backdoor deals.''
At the top of Mr. Minder's list of such deals is the one a decade ago that brought about his personal fight against what he terms rip-off merchants. His family-owned business, Trybol, which supplied toothpaste, mouthwash and other body care products to Swissair, found itself holding the bag when the Swiss flag carrier ran out of money in 2001.
Swissair had decided to pay its new chief executive, Mario Corti, 12 million Swiss francs in advance when he was hired in 2001. Mr. Corti then left his job and Switzerland for the United States shortly after Swissair's grounding in October 2001. A Swiss court eventually acquitted Mr. Corti and other former Swissair directors of any mismanagement charges. Even so, the fact that Mr. Corti never returned the wages he had been paid upfront ''should still be seen as criminal,'' Mr. Minder said.
Mr. Minder eventually received the money he had been owed by the airline and then stepped up his campaign against what he considers excessive executive compensation. He gathered increasing public support after the onset of the world financial crisis, which also exposed management failures at UBS and other leading Swiss institutions.
Mr. Minder portrayed his campaign as ''a fight for the people'' against the behemoths of Swiss business.
''Many millions have been spent to defeat me,'' he said. At the same time, he would not disclose how much he had spent on his own campaign, nor any financial data related to Trybol.
Such financial transparency, he said, should apply only to listed companies.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Thomas Minder, a member of the Swiss Parliament, calls his campaign against ''fat cats'' a ''fight for the people.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBEN SPRICH/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); FINES & PENALTIES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); EUROPEAN UNION (75%); LOBBYING (72%); APPROVALS (72%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (71%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (62%); SENTENCING (50%); JAIL SENTENCING (50%)

COMPANY: NOVARTIS AG (85%)

TICKER: NVS (NYSE) (85%); NOVN (SWX) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3851 OPHTHALMIC GOODS (85%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (90%) SWITZERLAND (97%); CENTRAL EUROPE (89%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2013



44 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1036 words

HEADLINE: South Korea's New Leader Exhorts the North to Tread a 'Path of Change'

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN

 BODY:
SEOUL, South Korea -- Addressing her two biggest foreign policy challenges, South Korea's new president, Park Geun-hye, urged Japan on Friday to acknowledge its aggressive past, while pressing North Korea to engage peacefully and abandon its pursuit of nuclear weapons.
''While provocations by the North will be met by stronger counterresponses, the North's willingness to make the right choice and walk the path of change will be answered with more flexible engagement,'' Ms. Park said in her first national speech after her inauguration on Monday. ''I urge the North to hasten efforts to normalize inter-Korean relations and open an era of happiness on the Korean Peninsula together with us.'' 
The South Korean president traditionally addresses the nation on March 1, the anniversary of the 1919 uprising against Japan's colonization of the Korean Peninsula. The event gave Ms. Park an early opportunity to express her thoughts on North Korea and Japan.
South Korea's testy relations with the North have grown much more antagonistic in recent months as the North has tested both a long-range rocket and a nuclear device. And the North, an isolated yet highly militarized country, threatened to conduct further tests if Washington and its allies pushed for more sanctions against it. That complicated the agenda of Ms. Park, South Korea's first female president, even before she started her single five-year term.
During her election campaign, Ms. Park suggested that she would end inter-Korean tensions that were prolonged under the hard-line policies of her predecessor, Lee Myung-bak, during whose tenure the North carried out two nuclear tests and three long-range rocket tests, and was blamed for two military attacks that killed 50 South Koreans in 2010. But she also appealed to her conservative power base by stressing that she would not tolerate the nuclear weapons program and military provocations of the North.
On Friday, American and South Korean forces started their annual Key Resolve and Foal Eagle military exercises, while in the North, the leader, Kim Jong-un, has been visiting military bases, warning of war and calling for ''miserable destruction'' of the American and South Korean militaries.
''North Korea must realize that nothing will be gained from nuclear development or provocations save for greater isolation and hardship,'' Ms. Park said. ''When North Korea abandons its nuclear ambitions and ceases its provocations, it will be able to become a responsible member of the international community. Only then will the path toward shared development by South and North be opened to us, and only then will the trust-building process on the Korean Peninsula begin in earnest.''
Her idea of first building trust as a basis for vigorous economic cooperation with the North is popular among conservative South Koreans. But she has yet to elaborate on how she will reconcile that with the policy of Washington and her predecessor, Mr. Lee, a fellow conservative whose insistence on the North's denuclearization as a precondition of greater economic largess was met only with more provocations from the North.
Her emphasis on both retaliation and ''flexible engagement'' and the notable absence in her speech of any mention of human rights for North Koreans -- a major concern of South Korean conservatives -- suggested that she was biding her time as leaders in the region were formulating a response to the North's Feb. 12 nuclear test.
''She is telling North Korea not to aggravate the situation any further, while keeping the door open,'' said Kim Yong-hyun, a North Korea analyst at Dongguk University in Seoul.
Ms. Park was less equivocal on Japan, whose 36-year colonization of Korea from 1910 until its defeat in World War II has overshadowed a thriving economic relationship between the two neighbors.
''The historic dynamic of one party being a perpetrator and the other party a victim will remain unchanged even after a thousand years have passed,'' Ms. Park said, calling for Japan to have ''a correct understanding of history.''
''In order for our two nations to heal the wounds of the past as soon as possible and march together toward a future of shared progress,'' she added, ''it is necessary for the Japanese government to change unreservedly and behave in a responsible manner.''
Ms. Park came to office after South Korea's relations with Japan deteriorated over a longstanding dispute over a set of small islands. In August, Mr. Lee became the first Korean leader to land on the islets, controlled by South Korea and claimed by Japan.
South Korean officials said Mr. Lee's visit was driven partly by Japan's refusal to come to terms with the plight of Korean and other Asian women who, historians say, were forced or lured into working in military-run brothels for Japanese soldiers during World War II.
South Koreans have grown more wary of Japan after Shinzo Abe, a right-wing politician whose nationalist comments had often enraged South Koreans, returned as prime minister after his party's landslide election victory in December. During his campaign, Mr. Abe angered South Koreans by suggesting that he would roll back Japan's past statements of apology to the Asian sex slaves and for its colonial rule.
Last week, his government received a rebuke from South Korea after sending a senior government official to attend a ceremony in Shimane Prefecture in Japan that was held to highlight its territorial claim to the disputed islands.
But Mr. Abe has also tried to reach out to Ms. Park, calling for a better relationship with South Korea. While speaking at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington last week, he said that his grandfather was ''best friends'' with Ms. Park's father, President Park Chung-hee, the military dictator who ruled South Korea for 18 years until his assassination in 1979.
That remark was met with caution in South Korea, where people are divided over the background of Mr. Park, a former officer in Japan's Imperial Army, under whom South Korea re-established ties with its former colonial master. Mr. Abe's grandfather was Prime Minister Nobusuke Kishi, who served in the wartime Japanese government and was despised by many South Koreans.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Park Geun-hye's speech was viewed on screens at a ceremony in Seoul, South Korea, on Friday. She urged the North to end its pursuit of nuclear arms. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KIM HONG-JI/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); CONSERVATISM (88%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (86%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ANNIVERSARIES (68%); MILITARY BASES (68%)

PERSON: LEE MYUNG-BAK (59%); KIM JONG UN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (89%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (98%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); JAPAN (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2013



45 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 558 words

HEADLINE: A Volatile Week Ends With Modest Gains

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Stocks advanced modestly on Friday, leaving the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index with slight gains after a volatile week, as strong economic data overshadowed growth concerns in China and Europe and let investors discount the impact of federal spending cuts.
Data reported early in the day showed that Asian factories were slowing and European output was falling, setting off a sharp drop at the beginning of trading in New York. But most of the losses evaporated after a report showed that United States manufacturing activity had expanded in February at the fastest pace in 20 months. Consumer sentiment also rose in February as Americans turned more optimistic about the job market. 
As $85 billion in government budget cuts took effect on Friday, President Obama blamed Republicans for the lack of a compromise to avert the so-called sequester. But the stock market appeared to have already priced in legislators' failure to reach an agreement.
''We were able to dig out of that hole, but not make any great strides on it either,'' said Peter M. Jankovskis, co-chief investment officer at OakBrook Investments in Lisle, Ill. ''We will probably be in a holding pattern pending some big development on a broader budget deal.''
The Dow Jones industrial average gained 35.17 points, or 0.25 percent, to 14,089.66. The S.& P. 500 rose 3.52 points, or 0.23 percent, to 1,518.20. The Nasdaq composite index advanced 9.55 points, or 0.3 percent, to 3,169.74.
For the week, the Dow rose 0.64 percent, the S.& P. 500 edged up 0.17 percent and the Nasdaq gained 0.25 percent.
It was a bumpy road to the week's slight gains. The markets slid on Monday after inconclusive elections in Italy revived concerns about the euro zone, only to rebound in the next two sessions after the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, defended the central bank's stimulus measures.
The low interest rates from the Federal Reserve's monetary policy have helped equities continue to attract investors. The Dow is less than 1 percent away from its nominal intraday record of 14,198.10. Declines have been shallow and short-lived, with investors jumping in to buy when the market dips.
Advancing stocks outnumbered declining ones on the New York Stock Exchange by a ratio of about 17 to 13, while on the Nasdaq, about seven stocks rose for every five that fell.
Shares of Intuitive Surgical jumped 8.5 percent on Friday, to $553.40, after a Cantor Fitzgerald analyst, Jeremy Feffer, upgraded the stock, saying a slide of more than 11 percent on Thursday had been a gross overreaction to a news report.
Groupon shares surged 12.6 percent, to $5.10, a day after the company fired its chief executive in response to weak quarterly results.
Gap stock rose 2.9 percent, to $33.87, after the company reported fourth-quarter earnings that beat analysts' expectations and raised its dividend by 20 percent.
Salesforce.com posted sales that beat forecasts, driving its stock up 7.6 percent, to $182.
Chesapeake Energy shares fell 2.4 percent, to $19.67, after the Securities and Exchange Commission escalated its investigation of the company and its chief executive, Aubrey McClendon, over a perk that granted him a share in each of the natural gas producer's wells.
The benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose 10/32, to 101 13/32, and its yield fell to 1.85 percent from 1.88 percent late on Thursday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (69%); EMPLOYMENT (68%); MONETARY POLICY (66%); CENTRAL BANKS (66%); MONETARY UNIONS (62%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

COMPANY: UNITED STATES MANUFACTURING CO (PASADENA, CA) (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (51%); INTUITIVE SURGICAL INC (51%); CANTOR FITZGERALD LP (50%); GROUPON INC (50%)

TICKER: ISRG (NASDAQ) (51%); GRPN (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (57%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (51%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (51%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (50%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (50%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); NAICS541860 DIRECT MAIL ADVERTISING (50%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (57%); BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2013



46 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1043 words

HEADLINE: Deep Philosophical Divide Underlies the Impasse

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Let's play truth or consequences with the budget sequestration that took effect on Friday.
That can be difficult through the fog of political war that has hung over this town. But a step back illuminates roots deeper than the prevailing notion that Washington politicians are simply fools acting for electoral advantage or partisan spite.
Republicans don't seek to grind government to a halt. But they do aim to shrink its size by an amount currently beyond their institutional power in Washington, or popular support in the country, to achieve. 
Democrats don't seek to cripple the nation with debt. But they do aim to preserve existing government programs without the ability, so far, to set levels of taxation commensurate with their cost.
At bottom, it is the oldest philosophic battle of the American party system -- pitting Democrats' desire to use government to cushion market outcomes and equalize opportunity against Republicans' desire to limit government and maximize individual liberty.
And they are fighting it within a 21st-century political infrastructure that impedes compromise.
Those government initiatives include Social Security from F.D.R.'s New Deal, Medicare and Medicaid from L.B.J.'s Great Society, and the 2010 national health care law. President Obama wants to keep them in roughly their current forms -- even as the wave of baby boom retirements makes them costlier than ever.
His Republican opponents are the philosophic heirs of conservatives who opposed their creation in the first place. Beginning in 2009, they gained fresh momentum in the quest to roll them back.
While the Great Recession depressed tax revenues, the Wall Street bailout and stimulus bill gave Americans sticker shock; deficits topped $1 trillion annually. So in 2011, the newly elected Republican House began pushing President Obama backward in budget fights that forced significant slowing of federal spending and some significant spending cuts.
Their climactic showdown over the debt limit in 2011 damaged the nation's credit rating. With both sides battered and exhausted, Republicans joined Democrats in seizing the so-called sequester as the means to end the impasse.
Then Mr. Obama stopped backing up -- and moved to generate momentum of his own.
The right's soft spot, as Ronald Reagan and Newt Gingrich learned amid the conservative ascendancy of the 1980s and early '90s, is the popularity of expensive ''entitlements'' serving the elderly.
''Cut spending,'' as a general invocation, is popular. ''Cut spending for your mother's Medicare'' is not.
Mr. Obama used his re-election campaign to isolate and attack that vulnerability. Acknowledging the need for some entitlement cuts, he offered voters this budgetary choice: his smaller cuts combined with tax increases on affluent Americans, or the Republicans' bigger ones without tax increases.
More Americans, as polls have repeatedly shown, prefer Mr. Obama's approach. He won the election.
Now the president is trying to wield his public opinion advantage as a club to back Republicans down.
The budget cuts of 2011, like sequestration now, targeted smaller ''discretionary'' programs that don't command the support Medicare and Social Security do. Mr. Obama argues, and some Republicans agree, that Washington has cut most of what it can from those.
He continues to advocate comparatively modest Medicare cuts focused on reimbursements to doctors and hospitals -- more near-term cuts, in fact, than Republicans have been willing to specify. But at one high-profile event after another, in Washington and across the country, he accuses Republicans of preferring reduced benefits for old and vulnerable Americans over higher taxes on the affluent.
Opponents blast him for ''campaigning'' instead of governing. Yet those events have become his method of seeking outcomes that negotiations with Republican leaders haven't produced.
It worked soon after the election when he forced Republicans to accept some tax increases in the ''fiscal cliff'' deal. It worked again when Republicans declined to fight anew over the debt limit until May, at the earliest.
That doesn't mean it will work again by making Republicans accept a second tax increase.
Over the last generation, polarization has melted away the alloy that once narrowed differences between Republicans and Democrats, leaving both as masses of near-pure ideological ore.
The Republican rank-and-file is purer -- more conservative than the Democratic rank-and-file is liberal.
Resisting tax increases is a matter of such deep conviction that some senior Republicans believe House colleagues would fire John A. Boehner as House speaker for conceding to Mr. Obama again. For less ideological Republicans, the partisan composition of their districts and states can make following national opinion riskier (against a more conservative primary challenger) than defying it (against a Democratic general-election foe).
The difficulty of winning a second tax increase may ultimately make the president regret the fiscal-cliff deal, which brought only half the new revenue he considers necessary.
For now, he seeks to grind down his opposition as the impact of sequestration mounts for air travelers, education programs and the Pentagon. Against Republicans' solid edge on the issue of spending restraint (in this week's NBC News-Wall Street Journal poll), he wields wide Democratic advantages on helping the middle class and protecting Medicare, and a narrow one on handling taxes.
The survey showed 50 percent of Americans approve of Mr. Obama's job performance. Only 29 percent expressed a positive view of the Republican Party.
Among demographic groups, the only one viewing Mr. Boehner's party more positively than negatively was white Southerners (by just 39 percent to 35 percent at that). More than twice as many Americans credited Mr. Obama, as compared with Republicans, with emphasizing themes of bipartisan unity.
Even if numbers like those don't threaten the House Republican majority in 2014, they alarm party strategists who've watched their nominees lose the popular vote in five of the past six presidential elections. Mr. Obama's hope: the fact that Congressional Republicans are insulated from national opinion doesn't make them impervious to it.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A leaden sky hung over Washington on Friday. The political climate is viewed as one that limits the possibility of compromise. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); MEDICARE (89%); BUDGETS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (88%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); CREDIT CRISIS (76%); SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (74%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (74%); DEBT CEILING (74%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (71%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); SENIOR CITIZENS (68%); HEALTH CARE LAW (66%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (63%); MEDICAID (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); NEWT GINGRICH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2013



47 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 564 words

HEADLINE: Save That MetroCard! A New One Will Now Cost $1

BYLINE: By MATT FLEGENHEIMER

 BODY:
They are the subway's plastic yellow orphans.
But beginning on Sunday, the empty MetroCard -- that oft-discarded remnant of the rails -- may begin to recede from view.
The Metropolitan Transportation Authority will begin charging $1 to buy a new card, a move that transit officials predict will lead riders to save and refill their existing passes.
The change will come on a day that travelers have braced themselves for since December, when the authority voted to raise fares and tolls on its subways, buses and major crossings. By Sunday morning, a MetroCard swipe will cost $2.50, up a quarter. A 30-day unlimited use card will cost $112, an $8 increase. 
Across New York City's subway stations, though, the new $1 surcharge may yield a more visible shift.
The cards have long clustered on platforms, at newsstand entrances and, most often, beside the turnstiles that delivered riders the bad news that theirs were empty.
They have even spawned an underground economy, as the destitute mine station floors, hoping riders flicked their passes to the ground too soon.
''They just drop it,'' said Gloria Benitez, a station cleaner, hauling trash at the 14th Street station on Eighth Avenue, ''as if it was a candy wrapper.''
The transportation authority has sought to frame the new policy in environmental terms, arguing that it will curtail littering. In a letter to board members before the change was approved, the agency's chairman at the time, Joseph J. Lhota, called the surcharge ''a fee that no one needs to pay.''
Officials said the measure would reduce production costs, which total roughly $10 million annually, if the system required fewer cards. (The authority said it had been making nearly 160 million MetroCards a year.)
Of course, the provision has also created a new revenue stream, from which the authority expects to reap about $20 million a year.
And while old habits may be difficult to break, MetroCards are not.
''It's a good marketing technique,'' Angelo Spagnolo, 25, a sculptor and musician from Williamsburg, Brooklyn, said at the 14th Street station. ''They make something disposable and still make you pay for it every time.''
The authority emphasized that broken or expired cards, including unlimited-ride cards, could be traded in, with no surcharge, at a vending machine or with a station agent. The surcharge also does not apply to people who buy MetroCards from vendors outside the subway system, those who receive them directly from employers or benefit providers, or riders who buy a combination of railroad and MetroCard tickets.
Some riders suggested that the new rule had already begun to influence behavior.
Carlton Gilliam, 56, a maintenance worker from Harlem, said he would no longer buy new cards. ''I'm a New Yorker,'' he said, pulling nine MetroCards -- most of them entirely or nearly empty -- from his pocket. ''A dollar makes a difference.''
Ms. Benitez, the station cleaner, said she had not noticed as many abandoned MetroCards as she made her rounds recently.
''People are picking them up,'' she said.
But a scan of the station suggested that cards had not disappeared entirely. Some were scattered across the tracks, among an iced tea bottle, a rubber ball and a soda cup that appeared too big for Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's New York. Several more could be found behind a vending machine near the turnstiles at 14th Street, caked in dust and grime.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: When transit riders discover a MetroCard has no rides left, ''they just drop it,'' a station cleaner said, ''as if it was a candy wrapper.'' Starting on Sunday, there will be a price for replacing the empty cards. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (78%); VENDING MACHINES (73%); APPROVALS (72%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (70%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2013



48 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 873 words

HEADLINE: Capitalists for Preschool

BYLINE: By JOHN E. PEPPER Jr. and JAMES M. ZIMMERMAN. 
John E. Pepper Jr. is a former chairman and chief executive of Procter & Gamble and a former chairman of the Walt Disney Company. James M. Zimmerman is a former chairman and chief executive of Macy's.

 BODY:
IN his State of the Union address, President Obama called for making preschool available to every 4-year-old in America, opening a welcome discussion on whether and how to make the investments needed to realize this vision.
As two longtime corporate executives who have been engaged in education for decades, we have no doubt about the answer to this question. Children who attend high-quality preschool do much better when they arrive in kindergarten, and this makes an enormous difference for their later success. The data on preschool is overwhelmingly positive. Although some studies suggest that the positive impact decreases over time, this is mainly attributable to differences in the quality of preschool and of the schooling that follows -- not a deficiency in preschool itself. 
The effectiveness of quality early childhood education has been affirmed by many business-related groups, including ReadyNation, a coalition of business leaders, organized in 2006.
The Institute for a Competitive Workforce, an affiliate of the United States Chamber of Commerce, found in a 2010 report that ''for every dollar invested today, savings range from $2.50 to as much as $17 in the years ahead.'' Research by the University of Chicago economist James J. Heckman, a Nobel laureate, points to a 7- to 10-percent annual return on investment in high-quality preschool.
Local examples of the impact of early childhood education abound. In greater Cincinnati, a program called Success by 6 has raised the proportion of children testing as ''ready to read'' upon entering kindergarten to 57 percent, from 44 percent in the 2006-7 academic year. Of those children, 85 percent still read at (or above) age level at the end of third grade -- compared with only 43 percent of the children who do not test as ''ready to read'' when they start kindergarten.
In short, early educational interventions really matter, and have long-term consequences. Children who are not proficient in reading by third grade are four times more likely to drop out of high school than children who read at or above grade level -- and 13 times more likely, if they live in poverty. A child's brain grows to roughly 85 percent of its full capacity in the first five years of life. These are also the years when a child's sense of what is possible is being formed.
The connections from preschool to reading proficiency to high school completion -- a bare-minimum requirement in today's economy -- could not be clearer.
And it shouldn't take scientific research to reach this conclusion. Families who can afford quality preschool don't generally consider long-term cost-effectiveness when they enroll their children. Indeed, among affluent families in which both parents have full-time careers, there is strong demand for quality learning environments as early as age 2.
To be sure, the debate over preschool is also partly a debate over inequality. Our nation is becoming divided: an America of well-off, well-educated families, who can afford pre-K education, and struggling families who are living in poverty or close to it (often, even while holding down full-time jobs), have modest educations, living in challenged circumstances, and can't.
Do we really think it is fair to predetermine children's chances for success in life based on what ZIP code they live in? Doesn't every child deserve as close to the same chance to develop her or his abilities as any other child?
Universally available prekindergarten is not only the right thing to do, but the smart thing to do. Raising lifetime wages (and thereby tax revenues) and reducing the likelihood that children will drop out of school, get involved in crime, and become a burden on the justice system more than make up for the costs of early childhood education.
Other countries have realized this. China reportedly has set a goal of giving 70 percent of all children three years of prekindergarten education -- far ahead of the modest one year proposed by President Obama -- by the year 2020. Our greatest deficit in this country -- the one that most threatens our future as a nation -- is our education deficit, not our fiscal one.
Some will ask where the money will come from, at a time when states and localities are even more strapped than the federal government. While there are a variety of financing proposals, we do not believe higher taxes will be necessary in every jurisdiction.
Rather, we believe the right approach will be to rebalance and optimize the money we are spending now. The amount of money being spent on early childhood education is so small currently that we are confident it is possible to achieve the efficiencies needed to shift money from other areas of investment.
Last year, only 2 percent of Ohio's general-fund budget went to early childhood education. We believe that, with proper planning, that amount could be doubled without compromising other financing streams.
We have spent most of our careers in business and have come to support quality prekindergarten for all children, especially those whose families cannot afford it, because we know these programs work. The only question is how to bring them to a huge scale. Our nation's future demands it. If there ever was a nonpartisan issue, this is it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (90%); CHILDREN (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (89%); FAMILY (89%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (77%); POOR POPULATION (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); CHILD POVERTY (71%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (70%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (70%); SCIENCE NEWS (70%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (67%); NOBEL PRIZES (66%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (70%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (70%) ILLINOIS, USA (70%); OHIO, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2013



49 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 965 words

HEADLINE: Report May Ease Path for New Pipeline

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER; Dan Frosch contributed reporting from Denver.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The State Department issued a revised environmental impact statement for the 1,700-mile Keystone XL pipeline on Friday that makes no recommendation about whether the project should be built but presents no conclusive environmental reason it should not be.
The 2,000-page document also makes no statement on whether the pipeline is in the United States' economic and energy interests, a determination to be made later this year by President Obama. 
But it will certainly add a new element to the already robust climate change and energy debate around the $7 billion proposed project. The new report does not make any policy recommendations, but its conclusion that the environmental and climate change impacts are manageable could provide Mr. Obama political cover if he decides to approve the pipeline.
Although the study will help guide the president's decision, it does not make the politics any easier. Environmental advocates and landowners along the route have mounted spirited protests against the project, including a large demonstration in Washington last month. They say they view Keystone as a test of Mr. Obama's seriousness about addressing global warming.
The president faces equally strong pressure from industry, the Canadian government, most Republicans and some Democrats in Congress, local officials and union leaders, who say the project will create thousands of jobs and provide a secure source of oil that will replace crude from Venezuela, Saudi Arabia and other potentially hostile suppliers.
The draft report, which updates a 2011 study that essentially gave the project a green light, weighs the impacts of the pipeline, which would carry about 800,000 barrels a day of heavy crude oil from tar sands formations in Alberta across the Great Plains to Gulf Coast refineries.
In January 2012 President Obama rejected the original route proposed by the pipeline operator, TransCanada, because of potential adverse impacts on sensitive grasslands and aquifers in Nebraska. The new environmental statement looks at a revised route submitted by TransCanada last spring.
The new impact statement says that extracting, shipping, refining and burning oil from the tar sands produces more climate-altering greenhouse gases than most conventional oil, but less than many of the project's critics claim. The State Department study says that tar sands oil produces 5 percent to 19 percent more greenhouse gas emissions than other crude, depending on what oil was compared and who performed the calculations.
It predicts that Canada and its oil industry partners will probably continue to develop the oil sands even if the Keystone XL pipeline is not built. It states that building or not building the pipeline will have no significant impact on demand for heavy crude in the United States.
And it says that alternate means of transporting the oil -- rail, truck and barge -- also have significant environmental and economic impacts, including higher costs, noise, traffic, air pollution and the possibility of spills. The study does not say that one method is better for the environment than another. It does say that a spill is more likely for rail transport, although the report says that the volume of oil spilled from a pipeline is likely to be greater.
Kerri-Ann Jones, assistant secretary of state for oceans and international environmental and scientific affairs, said the report was careful not to pre-empt policy decisions that Mr. Obama and Secretary of State John Kerry will make on the pipeline. She said the report was designed to analyze technical issues and serve as the basis for public debate.
''I think it's premature at this point to try to come down with strong conclusions, and we want to make sure we have a lot of comments and a full public debate on the document,'' Ms. Jones said in a conference call with reporters.
Publication of the document next week starts a 45-day public comment period and then a protracted review before a final impact statement is issued, meaning a presidential decision on the project is still months away.
Jane Kleeb, director of Bold Nebraska, an advocacy organization that is adamantly opposed to the pipeline, said her group had wanted a 120-day period for Nebraskans to be able to comment on the supplemental environmental report. She said 45 days was not enough time, especially because local cattle ranchers were in the middle of calving season.
Ms. Kleeb said that federal reviews of the pipeline have not yet addressed longstanding concerns about spills and the overall impact of Keystone XL on the environment.
She also disputed the conclusion that the oil sands would be exploited regardless of whether the Keystone XL pipeline is built.
''The State Department's assumption that tar sands development does not change with or without this pipeline is wrong and laughable,'' she said in an e-mail message. ''Why would TransCanada spend billions on building the pipeline and millions on lobbying unless this piece of infrastructure is the -- not a -- but the linchpin for the expansion of tar sands?''
State environmental officials in Nebraska conducted a review of the revised route and said that the risks to the state's land and waters were relatively minor. Based on that report, Gov. Dave Heineman, a Republican, has voiced support for the pipeline and urged the Obama administration to approve it.
The American Petroleum Institute, a strong backer of the project, said the new report made the case for building the pipeline.
''No matter how many times KXL is reviewed, the result is the same: no significant environmental impact,'' said Marty Durbin, the institute's executive vice president. ''The latest impact statement from the State Department puts this important, job-creating project one step closer to reality.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sections of the 1,700-mile Keystone XL pipeline. President Obama has yet to approve the $7 billion project. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LARRY W. SMITH/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL PERMITS (89%); OIL SANDS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); EMISSIONS (78%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (78%); OIL & GAS PIPELINE CONSTRUCTION (77%); POLITICS (76%); RESEARCH REPORTS (75%); APPROVALS (75%); GREENHOUSE GASES (75%); JOB CREATION (71%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (70%); GLOBAL WARMING (70%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (70%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (67%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (64%); AIR POLLUTION (60%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEBRASKA, USA (79%); ALBERTA, CANADA (70%) UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2013



50 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 537 words

HEADLINE: As the Cuts Hit Home

 BODY:
House Republicans were elated this week when their leader, John Boehner, made it clear that deep, automatic spending cuts would begin as scheduled on Friday. Incredibly, some consider the decision a victory. 
As the cuts take effect, they will inflict widespread hardship. But some Americans will be hurt more than others, and the people who will be hurt the most are those who are already struggling. In the months ahead, an estimated 3.8 million Americans who have been unemployed for more than six months face a cut in federal jobless benefits of nearly 11 percent -- or about $32 a week -- all from the recent average weekly benefit of $292. And an estimated 600,000 low-income women and toddlers will be turned away from the federal nutrition program for women, infants and children, known as WIC.
It should not be this way. Deficit reduction should not occur on the backs of the poor and vulnerable. At the insistence of Democrats, most major programs that help the needy have been exempted from the cuts, including food stamps and Medicaid. Democrats also won exemptions for beneficiaries of programs that are not explicitly aimed at low-income Americans but that are crucial to keeping many retirees out of poverty or near-poverty, notably veterans' pensions, Social Security and Medicare. Still, smaller, vital programs will fall under the knife, in part because they are in spending categories deemed dispensable under the unthinking rules for across-the-board cuts.
FEDERAL UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS By the end of the fiscal year, on Sept. 30, the Labor Department estimates that $2.3 billion will be cut from federal jobless benefits. Those benefits provide 14 to 47 weeks of aid after state-provided benefits run out, generally after 26 weeks. The support is critical. The share of unemployed workers who have been out of work for more than six months was 38.1 percent in January, with the worst levels of long-term unemployment occurring among workers 45 or older. That group is likely to have substantial family and financial obligations, even as it is often shunned by employers. According to an Urban Institute survey last year, workers in their 50s are about 20 percent less likely to be rehired than workers ages 25 to 34.
It will probably take the states, which administer the benefits, at least until April to make the program changes. While that will postpone the immediate pain, it means that the cuts, when they come, will be concentrated over an even shorter period.
NUTRITION AID The federal government has yet to issue specific guidance on how states should handle an estimated cut to the WIC program of $340 million this fiscal year. Little will happen until April, but, after that, priority is likely to be given increasingly to pregnant and breast-feeding women and to infants, while women not breast-feeding are put on an indefinite wait list, along with many children over 1 year old. The cutbacks to mothers would affect African-Americans disproportionately, because their breast-feeding rates are lower than other groups'. The cuts in aid to children will fall disproportionately on Hispanic families, who tend to have more children.
Why are the Republicans are so happy when they should be ashamed?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US WOMEN INFANTS & CHILDREN PROGRAM (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MATERNAL & CHILD HEALTH PROGRAMS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (89%); BREASTFEEDING (89%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (88%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (76%); MEDICARE (75%); VULNERABLE HEALTH POPULATIONS (74%); WOMEN (74%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (73%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (70%); NUTRITION (69%); MEDICAID (55%)

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2013



51 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 396 words

HEADLINE: Better Care for Young Offenders

 BODY:
It took four years. But the Obama administration has finally filled an important post at the Justice Department's Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention, which oversees juvenile justice policy and distributes federal grants to encourage reform at the state and local levels. 
The new department administrator, Robert Listenbee Jr., is a respected trial lawyer and public defender from Philadelphia who has been extensively engaged with juvenile justice policy issues at both the state and national level. If he uses the office to full advantage, Mr. Listenbee can build on recent policy advances and push more states to humanize their juvenile justice systems.
Research has increasingly shown that locking up young people has negative effects. It places them at higher risk of dropping out of school and of being unemployed, and it makes it more likely that they will become permanently entangled with the criminal justice system.
By contrast, dealing with young low-level offenders through community-based programs keeps them more closely connected to their families and to local institutions, while also cutting recidivism.
As more states have gotten this message -- sometimes after being sued for mistreating children in custody -- the number of young offenders held in confinement has begun to go down. The Annie E. Casey Foundation, which focuses on disadvantaged children, reported this week that the number of young people locked away has recently reached a 35-year low, dropping from over 107,000 in 1995 to under 71,000 in 2010, the most recent year for which federal statistics are available. Crime has also declined, vindicating these policy changes.
An analysis of federal data by the Justice Policy Institute, a research group, singled out five states -- Arizona, Connecticut, Louisiana, Minnesota and Tennessee -- that cut their confined youth populations 50 percent or more by changing policies that steered children into locked facilities and by investing in community alternatives to incarceration.
Despite these recent improvements, the United States still leads the developed world in the number of young people it locks up. Mr. Listenbee should encourage the states to lock up fewer young people. He should also make sure that those for whom community placements may be inappropriate are kept safe and are provided the rehabilitative services they need.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUVENILE JUSTICE (96%); JUVENILE CRIME (90%); CHILDREN (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RECIDIVISM RATES (78%); ALTERNATIVE SENTENCING (78%); GRANTS & GIFTS (77%); LITIGATION (76%); PUBLIC DEFENDERS (76%); FAMILY (72%); LAWYERS (71%); STATISTICS (70%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (69%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (66%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (84%); OFFICE OF JUVENILE JUSTICE & DELINQUENCY PREVENTION (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2013



52 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 771 words

HEADLINE: Singing the Sequester Soap Opera

BYLINE: By JOE SCARBOROUGH. 
Joe Scarborough, a Republican representative from Florida from 1995 to 2001, is the host of NBC's ''Morning Joe.''

 BODY:
THERE are cracks in time when history bends and for an instant it seems as if the world itself stops turning, from that Sunday afternoon when our parents learned Pearl Harbor had been bombed to the football drill I was in the middle of coaching in Pensacola, Fla., when I first got the news that the Challenger had exploded. We may not agree on many things in this era of reflexive polarization, but here is one: nobody will remember where they were and what they were doing when the Great Sequester of 2013 kicked in.
Despite the rhetoric from the White House, years from now, historians will not be sifting through the cultural wreckage that is America and discover the remnants of what some in both parties see as some cataclysmic fiscal event. Alan Jackson need not begin to tune his guitar to ask us all again where we were when the world stopped turning. 
Americans who endured the grimmest warnings from President Obama and his administration need not fear that the cuts will jeopardize military readiness; limit our nation's ability to forecast hurricanes; compromise food safety; lead to outbreaks of E. coli; undermine airport security; and cause older Americans to go hungry.
This ''meat-cleaver approach,'' we were warned, would kill jobs and compromise national security. Pentagon officials' warnings were especially dire. Leon E. Panetta, the former defense secretary, spoke of a ''doomsday mechanism,'' while his deputies talked of ''fiscal castration'' and ''assisted suicide.''
Since today's Republican Party knows a thing or two about assisted suicides, you would think its leadership would have taken to heart Mr. Obama's warnings and struck a deal before their abysmal approval ratings sank even lower. Should the G.O.P. enter into yet another budget showdown with Mr. Obama in which they appear to be intransigent, eager to slash spending programs for the poor and determined to secure tax breaks for the rich? My theory: perhaps, in spite of the president's best efforts to frame the debate in that way, Republicans are finally on the winning side of a fight.
For once, Mr. Obama seems to be the one who has overplayed his hand.
His predictions of a crippled military, contaminated food and unforeseen hurricanes will pack a political punch only if those projections come to pass. Republicans can be forgiven for asking what hardships most Americans can expect to face if sequestration actually allows spending to rise another $15 billion next year. How compromised will federal agencies' missions really be, given that their budgets increased sizably during Mr. Obama's first term?
How much pain will voters inflict on Republicans for following through on the Obama-originated plan to force automatic spending ''cuts'' that nonetheless maintain the dollars flowing from taxpayers to Washington? For all the warnings from the Pentagon, it's worth noting that the defense budget will continue to grow even after the sequestration.
All this is not to say that such a crude approach to spending cuts isn't shortsighted. And recklessly cutting discretionary spending does little to address America's long-term debt crisis -- which is supposedly why we pushed ourselves into the sequester in the first place.
But it is also a fact that this year's reductions will not do great damage to domestic and defense programs. Congress will have $85 billion less to spend this year, but the Congressional Budget Office projects that the actual cuts implemented this year will amount to only $42 billion out of a $3.5 trillion budget. That means that politicians will have to cut a little more than a penny out of every dollar that it spends this year.
Does Mr. Obama really want to claim that his administration, which has added $6 trillion to the national debt, is unable to save a penny out of every dollar it spends? Does he really expect Americans to believe -- after four years, the banking and auto bailouts, several stimulus bills and a run of record deficits -- that our $16 trillion economy cannot absorb $42 billion of spending reductions?
Even if the White House believes that such posturing is good politics, it's a strategy that adds up to a fiscal Russian roulette and cheapens the debate.
And neither side can afford to do that. Democrats and Republicans need to retarget these cuts in a smarter way before they double next year. They also need to confront the debt-ceiling debate, which has been pushed ahead by a few months. If they fail to do so, Americans might not remember where they were when the sequester happened, but historians will record the dismal legacy that the president and Congress are leaving behind.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOMBINGS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (86%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); HISTORY (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (72%); WEATHER (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); E COLI (71%); FOOD SAFETY (71%); AIRPORTS (66%); AVIATION SECURITY (66%); SUICIDE (64%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); LEON E PANETTA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENSACOLA, FL, USA (73%) FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2013



53 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; COMMON SENSE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1648 words

HEADLINE: Refusing To Be Late On Gay Marriage

BYLINE: By JAMES B. STEWART

 BODY:
When the Human Rights Campaign approached Lloyd Blankfein, Goldman Sachs's chairman and chief executive, a few years ago about making a short commercial in support of same-sex marriage, Mr. Blankfein said he had the impression he'd be one of a number of prominent business executives taking a public stand.
As it turned out, he was the only one. ''It was a little lonely out there,'' he said.
It's not lonely anymore. This week, Goldman Sachs was one of more than 100 corporations that lodged their support for same-sex marriage in two briefs filed with the Supreme Court. ''I think people wanted to attach themselves to what may be the last great civil rights issue of our time,'' Mr. Blankfein said. 
Even the authors of the briefs seemed surprised by the wave of corporate support. ''What's remarkable is how fast this happened,'' Joshua Rosenkranz, a partner at Orrick Herrington & Sutcliffe, told me as his brief was about to be filed on Thursday. ''When I first started working on this issue, people said gay marriage was an idea whose time hadn't yet come. Even people in the gay rights community said that. When we started to try to get corporate support, I was a little apprehensive. But I've been bowled over. Corporate America is not only already there, but they're passionate about it. For them, it's not just a human rights issue, it's a business imperative.''
P. Sabin Willett, a partner at Bingham McCutchen and an author of the other brief, said his group, too, had to turn away companies. ''I'd say this really metastasized during the last week,'' he said. ''Companies were calling and asking to join. We got a call from a Fortune 50 company on Monday. I said, 'Can you get everything done in an hour?' We could have had many more with another week.'' The deadline for filing the briefs was Thursday.
Historians told me there is little, if any, precedent for such early and extensive corporate support of a civil rights issue that remains, in at least many quarters, highly controversial. ''By and large, corporations were not leaders but laggards in this process,'' said Gavin Wright, professor of American economic history at Stanford and author of ''Sharing the Prize,'' an economic history of the civil rights movement. ''They supported a public accommodations law only after sit-ins and boycotts inflicted heavy losses and it became clear that these pressures were not going to fade away as the latest student fad. On employment, even leading textile firms resisted and dragged their feet, certainly not testifying in support of civil rights legislation.'' But that changed, he said, ''when they found that desegregation actually worked.''
Corporations largely steered clear of the Equal Rights Amendment, and played little role decades ago in the early stages of the women's movement. And while many companies have joined in Supreme Court briefs in recent years supporting affirmative action and diversity in the workplace, those moves came long after landmark Supreme Court cases like Bakke in 1978, in which a white male student challenged affirmative action in admission at the medical school at the University of California, Davis. No companies filed briefs in the Bakke case, and the United States Chamber of Commerce filed one opposing affirmative action.
By contrast, corporations are weighing in on the gay marriage issue in the first cases to reach the Supreme Court.
Given corporations' traditional reluctance to challenge the status quo, this early stand is all the more surprising. Until now, many large consumer companies seemed to fear that taking a stand might prompt organized boycotts. Of course, given the presence on the briefs of so many companies like Armani, Abercrombie & Fitch, eBay, Estée Lauder, Facebook, Google, Nike, Office Depot and Tiffany, it might be hard for protesters to know where to begin.
''I think you'll find that, historically, most companies have had a policy against taking a stand or filing amicus briefs, and then only if there is a direct business impact,'' Mr. Willett said. ''They don't want to get involved in social issues. To see this many businesses rallying behind this cause tells you that it's a real business issue.''
Michael J. Klarman, professor of constitutional law at Harvard Law School and author of ''From the Closet to the Altar,'' a legal history of same-sex marriage, said, ''They wouldn't have signed this even five years ago,'' and added that the briefs might have a significant impact. He said a brief signed by Fortune 500 companies supporting affirmative action in a 2003 Supreme Court case may have influenced Justice Sandra Day O'Connor, who supported race-based affirmative action after having consistently opposed it before then.
Plaintiffs in the latest cases are seeking to overturn the Defense of Marriage Act, which denies federal benefits and recognition to married same-sex couples, and to declare unconstitutional California's ban on gay marriage. In one case, Goldman was one of 278 signers, most of them businesses, and in the other, it was one of 100 major corporations that signed. They include some of America's largest and best-known corporations -- from ''Apple to Zynga,'' as one lawyer put it.
This, in part, reflects the rapid and broad public shift in support of same-sex marriage, and the companies signing the briefs are concentrated in states where such marriages are now legal, or in relatively liberal states like California. (The only North Carolina company to sign the briefs is Replacements Limited, which I wrote about last year after North Carolina approved a constitutional amendment banning gay marriage.)
Still, even a few years ago, such support would have seemed unthinkable. After Mr. Blankfein appeared in the Human Rights Campaign video, Goldman Sachs lost at least one client, a large institution with religious ties. Mr. Blankfein became the go-to chief executive on the issue, speaking at events and on panels, traveling to Minnesota last summer in advance of that state's vote on a constitutional amendment to ban same-sex marriage.
''I wouldn't normally speak out on something like this,'' Mr. Blankfein told me. ''People are only interested in what I have to say because of my position at Goldman Sachs, and I don't believe it's appropriate for me to express my personal views as being those of the firm. But in this case, this is a business issue. We're a people business. They're the single most important thing to us. We have a very important gay community at the firm, including members of senior management and people on the management committee. We want to treat our people fairly and equally. This happens to coincide with my personal views, but that's not why we're doing this.''
Mr. Blankfein said Theodore Olson, a solicitor general under George W. Bush and one of the lawyers who will be arguing the California case before the Supreme Court, spoke on the case at a Goldman town hall meeting. ''There was an overflow crowd and it was one of the best meetings we've ever had,'' he said. Others in the firm ''have been overwhelmingly supportive.''
Lawyers writing the amicus briefs have hewed closely to the business issues in the case, leaving social and political issues to others. Among them are tax and benefits issues, administrative costs, employee morale and the ability to attract gay employees and to move them to locations where gay marriage is prohibited. ''We leave the constitutional issues to the litigants,'' Mr. Willett said. ''We want to show the perspective that DOMA is bad for business. It undermines teamwork, efficiency and causes needless distractions.'' Mr. Rosenkranz added, ''I wanted to capture vividly that marriage equality is now a mainstream American issue, and demonstrate that corporate America embraces equality.''
In statements, several companies signing the briefs offered ringing endorsements of this view. Citigroup said it supports a ''work environment where diversity is embraced and where our differences are valued and respected.''
A Levi Strauss spokeswoman said, ''We believe that the success of a business depends on the ability to recruit and retain the best employees in a global market for talent -- regardless of their gender, race or sexual preference.''
A spokeswoman for Johnson & Johnson said, ''We believe that all lawfully married employees should be treated by our company in the same way.''
But even with hundreds of companies expressing such views, a majority of the Fortune 500, and even more of the smaller companies in broader measures like the Wilshire 5000, didn't sign the briefs and haven't taken any position on the issue. Among them is the world's largest company by market capitalization, Exxon Mobil, whose shareholders last year overwhelmingly defeated a proposal to extend employee benefits to same-sex partners.
The conservative Family Research Council, which filed a brief opposing gay marriage, blamed ''a corporate environment dictated by wealthy, pro-homosexual activists'' for the growing corporate support of same-sex marriage and added, ''We applaud Exxon Mobil for refusing to cede the moral high ground to the special interests of the left.'' A spokesman for the council told me he thought that the business issues cited in the briefs were ''trivial'' and that companies signing the briefs were ''motivated by political correctness, pure and simple.''
Still, as of Thursday's deadline, no businesses had filed a brief opposing gay marriage or trying to counter the business arguments put forward in the corporate briefs.
Whether the briefs will have any influence on members of the Supreme Court remains to be seen. ''Nobody wants to declare victory,'' Mr. Blankfein said. ''We have a conservative Supreme Court. But look at the wedding announcements in The Times. It seems like every third one is a gay couple. Everybody seems happy and life is going on. I think the time has come.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Hundreds gathered last month at the Minnesota State Capitol in St. Paul to lobby lawmakers to legalize same-sex marriage. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM MONE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (93%); GAYS & LESBIANS (92%); MARRIAGE (91%); EXECUTIVES (90%); HISTORY (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (89%); LGBT RIGHTS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); BOYCOTTS (60%); TEXTILES (50%)

COMPANY: ORRICK HERRINGTON & SUTCLIFFE LLP (83%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); BINGHAM MCCUTCHEN LLP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: HUMAN RIGHTS CAMPAIGN (91%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (83%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (83%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: LLOYD BLANKFEIN (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (74%) MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2013



54 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1228 words

HEADLINE: In His Annual Letter, Buffett Plays Up Newspapers

BYLINE: By PETER LATTMAN and CHRISTINE HAUGHNEY

 BODY:
Over the last half-century, Warren E. Buffett has built a reputation as a contrarian investor, betting against the crowd to amass a fortune estimated at $54 billion.
Mr. Buffett underscored that contrarian instinct in his annual letter to shareholders published on Friday. In a year when Mr. Buffett did not make any large acquisitions, he bought dozens of newspapers, a business others have shunned. His company, Berkshire Hathaway, has bought 28 dailies in the last 15 months.
''There is no substitute for a local newspaper that is doing its job,'' he wrote.
Those purchases, which cost Mr. Buffett a total of $344 million, are relatively minor deals for Berkshire, and just a small part of the giant conglomerate. And Mr. Buffett has begun this year with a bang, announcing last month his takeover, along with a Brazilian investment group, of the ketchup maker H. J. Heinz for $23.6 billion. 
Despite the Heinz acquisition, Mr. Buffett bemoaned his inability to do a major deal in 2012. ''I pursued a couple of elephants, but came up empty-handed,'' he said, adding that ''our luck, however, changed early this year'' with the Heinz purchase.
Written in accessible prose largely free of financial jargon, Berkshire's annual letter holds appeal far beyond Wall Street. This year's dispatch contained plenty of Mr. Buffett's folksy observations about investing and business that his devotees relish.
''More than 50 years ago, Charlie told me that it was far better to buy a wonderful business at a fair price than to buy a fair business at a wonderful price,'' Mr. Buffett wrote, referring to his longtime partner at Berkshire, Charlie Munger.
Mr. Buffett also struck a patriotic tone, directly appealing to his fellow chief executives ''that opportunities abound in America.'' He noted that the United States gross domestic product, on an inflation-adjusted basis, had more than quadrupled over the last six decades.
''Throughout that period, every tomorrow has been uncertain,'' he wrote. ''America's destiny, however, has always been clear: ever-increasing abundance.''
The letter provides more than entertainment value and patriotic stirrings, delivering to Berkshire shareholders an update on the company's vast collection of businesses. With a market capitalization of $250 billion, Berkshire ranks among the largest companies in the United States.
Its holdings vary, with big companies like the railroad operator Burlington Northern Santa Fe and the electric utility MidAmerican Energy, and smaller ones like the running-shoe outfit Brooks Sports and the chocolatier See's Candies. All told, Berkshire employs about 288,000 people.
The letter, once again, did not answer a question that has vexed Berkshire shareholders and Buffett-ologists: Who will succeed Mr. Buffett, who is 82, as chief executive?
Last year, he acknowledged that he had chosen a successor, but he did not name the candidate.
He has said that upon his death, Berkshire will split his job in three, naming a chief executive, a nonexecutive chairman and several investment managers of its publicly traded holdings.
In 2010, he said that his son, Howard Buffett, would succeed him as nonexecutive chairman.
Berkshire's share price recently traded at a record high, surpassing its prefinancial crisis peak reached in 2007 and rising about 22 percent over the last year.
The company reported net income last year of about $14.8 billion, up about 45 percent from 2011. Yet the company's book value, or net worth -- Mr. Buffett's preferred performance measure -- lagged the broader stock market, increasing 14.4 percent, compared with the market's 16 percent return.
Mr. Buffett lamented that 2012 was only the ninth time in 48 years that Berkshire's book value increase was less than the gain of the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. But he pointed out that in eight of those nine years, the S.& P. had a gain of 15 percent or more, suggesting that Berkshire proved to be a most valuable investment during bad market periods.
''We do better when the wind is in our face,'' he wrote.
For Berkshire's largest collection of assets, its insurance operations, the wind has been at its back. We ''shot the lights out last year'' in insurance, Mr. Buffett said.
He lavished praise on the auto insurer Geico, giving a special shout-out to the company's mascot, the Gecko lizard.
Investors also keep a keen eye on changes in Berkshire's roughly $87 billion stock portfolio. Its holdings include large positions in iconic companies like International Business Machines, Coca-Cola, American Express and Wells Fargo. He said Berkshire's investment in each of those was likely to increase in the future.
''Mae West had it right: 'Too much of a good thing can be wonderful,' '' Mr. Buffett wrote.
He also heaped praise on two relatively new hires, Todd Combs and Ted Weschler, who now each manage about $5 billion in stock portfolios for Berkshire. Both men ran unheralded, modest-size money management firms before Mr. Buffett plucked them out of obscurity and moved them to Omaha to work for him.
He called the men ''a perfect cultural fit'' and indicated that the two would manage Berkshire's entire stock portfolio once he steps aside. ''We hit the jackpot with these two,'' Mr. Buffett said, noting that last year, each outperformed the S.& P. by double-digit margins.
Then, sheepishly, employing supertiny type, he wrote: ''They left me in the dust as well.''
A former paperboy and member of the Newspaper Association of America's carrier hall of fame, Mr. Buffett devoted nearly three out of 24 pages of his annual report to newspapers.
While Mr. Buffett has been a longtime owner of The Buffalo News and a stakeholder in The Washington Post Company, he told shareholders four years ago that he wouldn't buy a newspaper at any price.
But his latest note reflects how much his opinion has turned. His buying spree started in November 2011, when he struck a deal to buy The Omaha World-Herald Company, this hometown paper, for a reported $200 million. By May 2012, he bought out the chain of newspapers owned by Media General, except for The Tampa Tribune. In recent months, he continued to express his interest in buying more papers ''at appropriate prices -- and that means a very low multiple of current earnings.''
''Papers delivering comprehensive and reliable information to tightly bound communities and having a sensible Internet strategy will remain viable for a long time,'' wrote Mr. Buffett.
Mr. Buffett said in a telephone interview last month that he would consider buying The Morning Call of Allentown, Pa., a paper that the Tribune Company is considering selling. But Mr. Buffett said he had not contacted Tribune executives.
''It's solely a question of the specifics of it and the price,'' he said about the Allentown paper. ''But it's similar to the kinds of communities that we bought papers in.''
Mr. Buffett has plenty of cash to make more newspaper acquisitions. To cover his portion of the Heinz purchase, Mr. Buffett will deploy about $12 billion of Berkshire's $42 billion cash hoard. That leaves a lot of money for Mr. Buffett to continue his shopping spree for newspapers -- and more major acquisitions like Heinz.
''Charlie and I have again donned our safari outfits,'' Mr. Buffett wrote, ''and resumed our search for elephants.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Warren Buffett led small deals in 2012. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICHOLAS KAMM/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHAREHOLDERS (89%); TAKEOVERS (78%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (76%); CONFECTIONERY MFG (73%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (72%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (71%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNERS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); EXECUTIVES (62%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (60%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (60%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (50%)

COMPANY: BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (90%); H J HEINZ CO (70%); BURLINGTON NORTHERN SANTA FE CORP (51%)

TICKER: BRK.B (NYSE) (90%); BRK.A (NYSE) (90%); HNZ (NYSE) (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (90%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (90%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (90%); NAICS311941 MAYONNAISE, DRESSING & OTHER PREPARED SAUCE MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS311421 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING (70%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (70%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (70%); SIC2035 PICKLED FRUITS & VEGETABLES, VEGETABLE SAUCES & SEASONINGS, & SALAD DRESSINGS (70%); SIC2033 CANNED FRUITS, VEGETABLES, PRESERVES, JAMS, & JELLIES (70%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (51%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (51%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BIHAR, INDIA (53%) UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (53%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2013



55 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 758 words

HEADLINE: Wojciech Inglot, 57; Solved a Problem for Muslim Women

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY

 BODY:
Wojciech Inglot, a Polish chemist and cosmetics executive who developed a ''breathable'' nail polish that found an unexpected market among Muslim women, died on Feb. 23 in Przemysl, Poland. He was 57.
The cause was internal hemorrhaging, said Marek Skulimowski, the director of United States operations and marketing for Inglot Cosmetics.
In 2009, more than 20 years after Mr. Inglot started his company in cold war Poland, he introduced O2M, a nail polish he hoped would improve nail health because it let oxygen and moisture pass through it. Yet the product was expensive, $14 per bottle, and for several years its sales lagged even as the success of other Inglot products helped the company expand around the world, opening stores in the United States, among other countries. 
Then last fall, a Muslim cleric and academic in Southern California who was working on a book about purification and prayer learned that some Muslim women were trying to determine whether O2M's porous properties might make it acceptable for wearing during prayer. Muslim women who wear nail polish often remove it as part of a ritual, called wudu, that involves washing with water before daily prayers.
''There are several sisters who don't know that nail polish prevents wudu, and probably just as many who don't care and will wear it anyways,'' the cleric, Shaykh Mustafa Umar, wrote on his blog, The Evolution of Ideas, in November. ''But for those who do care, this analysis might help clarify things.''
Mr. Umar, who is director of education and outreach at the Islamic Institute of Orange County, noted that one of his students tested the polish and determined that it was sufficiently porous. He went on to declare that O2M was ''good news'' for women concerned about the issue. His post was soon cited by bloggers and news organizations.
''It went completely viral,'' Mr. Umar said.
Inglot noticed the online conversation -- and an increase in sales. Soon, citing Mr. Umar's work, Inglot issued a news release saying its product had been ''Halal certified.''
Inglot has not compensated Mr. Umar in any way for his statements of support, both Mr. Skulimowski and Mr. Umar said.
''It's like a service to the Muslim community,'' Mr. Umar said.
O2M was just one product developed by Mr. Inglot, a chemist by training. Born on June 11, 1955, in Przemysl, he received his chemistry degree from Jagiellonian University and first worked for a state-owned chemical company.
Using equipment he bought from the government, he started his own company in the early 1980s, first making a liquid used to clean the heads of cassette tape players, then an underarm deodorant. He moved into cosmetics in the late 1980s, just as communism was falling and Poland began transitioning to a more robust market economy.
Economic change brought opportunity and challenge: consumers were eager to buy products, and international competitors began arriving in Poland to compete for them.
Inglot not only survived but grew and expanded overseas, opening almost 200 stand-alone shops -- they are shipped ready to assemble from Poland and can be set up in about a day -- in 47 countries, among them Dubai, Saudi Arabia, England, Spain, Argentina and Canada. More than two dozen shops are in the United States.
Inglot is known for its broad range of colors and for creating new ways for cosmetics to be packaged and applied, including using painterlike palettes for eye shadow. Its shops are typically in shopping malls and large department stores.
Inglot makes its own products, instead of outsourcing manufacturing as some companies do, and Mr. Inglot was closely involved with developing products. The O2M polish is free of many chemicals that are in other polishes and instead includes the same acrylic and silicone resins used in some contact lenses.
''Traditional nail polish, wearing it day by day, week by week, isn't necessarily healthy,'' Mr. Inglot said not long after O2M was introduced. Religious value was never considered, he said.
In a Feb. 7 update to his original post, Mr. Umar, the cleric, noted that ''permeability may be affected by wearing more than one layer.'' Inglot is currently conducting tests to determine the effect of adding layers; the company also makes breathable base and top coats.
''We need to be careful in this market,'' Mr. Skulimowski said, ''not to hurt anyone's feelings.''
Mr. Inglot's survivors include a sister, Elzbieta Inglot-Kobylanski; a brother, Zbigniew; and his mother, Bronislawa.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Wojciech Inglot, top, ran Inglot, a cosmetics company that he started in cold war Poland. Sales of one product, a porous nail polish called O2M, increased after a cleric wrote about it. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CZAREK SOKOLOWSKI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); COSMETICS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (86%); WOMEN (78%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (78%); RELIGION (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (71%); ACADEMIC TESTING (68%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (62%); CHEMICALS MFG (50%); CHEMICALS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); POLAND (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2013



56 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUCKS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 479 words

HEADLINE: Parental Leave: Readers React

BYLINE: By TARA SIEGEL BERNARD

 BODY:
Dozens of readers wrote to us with their company's parental leave polices after reading the Your Money column, which discussed how American public and private organizations offer the least generous paid leave policies in the world. 
Some readers were stunned that even the largest companies offered so little paid time off, especially during a newborn's critical early months when nursing can benefit both mother and child. Several Canadian readers, whose a country has a more liberal policy, chimed in with their thoughts and went as far as calling the American way barbaric. Other readers agonized about how to make sure their infants will be cared for when they return to work, while others viewed child care as the individual parent's problem.
So we've decided to begin a progress report that will highlight employers' paid parental leave policies (similar to the way we keep track of companies that equalize the cost of health insurance for same-sex couples). We started with responses we received from some of the largest companies, which we've listed in a chart.
But we'd like to expand the chart over time so that it becomes a repository of sorts, highlighting the most and least generous policies. So please tell us about your own employer's policy with the form below, or in the comment section.
Here's a sampling of recent comments from readers:
Christine, from Toronto, wrote:
From where we stand in Canada, the lack of maternity leave makes Americans look like barbarians. Here we pay a small portion of our pay into unemployment insurance and after a child is born the mother can take up to a year off and earn up to 55% of her pay up to a maximum amount of about $1500 the month. The father can take a portion of this leave instead of the mother if necessary. Guess what -- people are still having on average of 2 children per family and our economy is not falling apart...
AnnieOmaha, NE, said:
As one can see by many comments here, this country is dysfunctional when it comes to working and having families. Yes, new parents should be given generous family leave packages, their children are someday going to drive our economy, funding Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid (or what ever form of benefits exist). It's fine if you don't want to have children, but who do you think will replace retiring people? The sad, bad joke is the notion, put forward by many conservatives, that the USA cares about ''family values.''
And Criordan, from Brooklyn, wrote:
The Walt Disney Company: FMLA unpaid leave only. Zero paid leave. Ironic for a company whose main customer base are families with children.
You can submit your employer's policy here:&#x003C;a href=''http://nytimes.wufoo.com/forms/p7x2z7/'' data-mce-href=''http://nytimes.wufoo.com/forms/p7x2z7/''>Fill out my Wufoo form!&#x003C;/a>
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY LEAVE (92%); PARENTING (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); FAMILY (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); US FAMILY & MEDICAL LEAVE ACT (78%); MATERNITY LEAVE (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (76%); MEDICAID (73%); SOCIAL SECURITY (72%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (71%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (70%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (67%); MEDICARE (56%); GAYS & LESBIANS (53%)

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (60%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (60%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (60%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (60%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (57%) ONTARIO, CANADA (57%) UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2013



57 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 635 words

HEADLINE: Beware of 'Just Like a C.D.'

BYLINE: By CARL RICHARDS

 BODY:
Carl Richards is a financial planner in Park City, Utah, and is the director of investor education at the BAM Alliance. His book, ''The Behavior Gap,'' was published last year. His sketches are archived on the Bucks blog.
A recent New York Times article highlighted the sad trend of investors getting fleeced after putting their money in exotic, alternative investments they hoped would help them recover from past investing losses. 
I understand the problem. Many of us lost a bunch of money in 2008-9. And if you're retired or coming up on retirement, the situation is even tougher. You're sitting on less money than you planned for and have little time to rebuild your savings.
At the same time, you may have been planning to live off the income from that money. But with interest rates near zero, the income you can safely earn has been cut dramatically.
It's a double whammy! Less money, earning less interest.
That is leading to a frantic search for alternative investments that can make up the difference quickly.
Often the search for a ''solution'' comes in two flavors:
Looking for investments that will grow fast. This is a bit like doubling down at the casino to make up for losses, often with the same outcome.Looking for investments that pay higher interest. This is also called ''chasing yield.'' When traditional, income-generating vehicles like savings accounts or certificates of deposit are paying next to nothing, you start looking for something ''just as safe,'' but with a higher interest rate.
Enter slick salespeople with alternative investments that just happen to solve your problem. One sentence in the Times article perfectly illustrates this point:
While the offering was unfamiliar -- part ownership in a fleet of luxury cars -- Ms. Beck bought the pitch because her broker had been around for years, and the product offered what seemed to be a modest annual interest rate of 7 percent.
Who wouldn't prefer a ''modest 7 percent'' return to living with stock market gyrations or earning 1.5 percent on a bank C.D.? Sign me up!
It would be great if we could find an alternative investment like this, but what we're really talking about is finding an alternative to the basic idea of taking a risk to generate a return. The trouble is that risk and expected return are still -- and will always be -- closely related.
Take, for instance, stock mutual funds, which come with the risk that the value of your investment will go up or down a lot in the short term. The reward comes over the long term, with the higher returns historically associated with owning stock versus other types of investments.
Now there are other ''safer'' investments that don't come with as much risk, but offer a smaller reward, like bank C.D.'s. It's common to see alternative investments pitched as comparable to these safe investments, but the numbers tell a different story.
The current average one-year C.D. nationwide pays 0.6 percent, and a five-year Treasury bill yields 0.78 percent. Those returns should give you a benchmark for the return on a relatively low-risk investment.
So when someone comes to you offering an investment that's ''just like a C.D.,'' but it pays 7 percent, guess what: This investment is NOT just like a C.D. If it was just like a C.D., it would pay you what you expect a C.D. to yield.
Yes, we're in a terrible, tight spot. But the answer isn't to hope that a dubious, new product someone sells you will solve your problem. The odds are high it will only make things worse.
Let's use these sad stories of fraud and loss as a important reminder. Be honest with yourself if you discover what appears to be a brilliant loophole to the fundamental rules of investing. As tough as the current situation is, you're likely to make things worse when you think you can separate risk from expected returns.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CARL RICHARDS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL PLANNING (90%); INTEREST RATES (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (78%); TRENDS (77%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (74%); MUTUAL FUNDS (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (67%); LUXURY GOODS (64%); MOTOR VEHICLES (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2013



58 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUCKS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 649 words

HEADLINE: Beware of 'Just Like a C.D.'

BYLINE: By CARL RICHARDS

 BODY:
Carl Richards is a financial planner in Park City, Utah, and is the director of investor education at the BAM Alliance. His book, ''The Behavior Gap,'' was published last year. His sketches are archived on the Bucks blog.
A recent New York Times article highlighted the sad trend of investors getting fleeced after putting their money in exotic, alternative investments they hoped would help them recover from past investing losses. 
I understand the problem. Many of us lost a bunch of money in 2008-9. And if you're retired or coming up on retirement, the situation is even tougher. You're sitting on less money than you planned for and have little time to rebuild your savings.
At the same time, you may have been planning to live off the income from that money. But with interest rates near zero, the income you can safely earn has been cut dramatically.
It's a double whammy! Less money, earning less interest.
That is leading to a frantic search for alternative investments that can make up the difference quickly.
Often the search for a ''solution'' comes in two flavors:
Looking for investments that will grow fast. This is a bit like doubling down at the casino to make up for losses, often with the same outcome.
Looking for investments that pay higher interest. This is also called ''chasing yield.'' When traditional, income-generating vehicles like savings accounts or certificates of deposit are paying next to nothing, you start looking for something ''just as safe,'' but with a higher interest rate.
Enter slick salespeople with alternative investments that just happen to solve your problem. One sentence in the Times article perfectly illustrates this point:
While the offering was unfamiliar -- part ownership in a fleet of luxury cars -- Ms. Beck bought the pitch because her broker had been around for years, and the product offered what seemed to be a modest annual interest rate of 7 percent.
Who wouldn't prefer a ''modest 7 percent'' return to living with stock market gyrations or earning 1.5 percent on a bank C.D.? Sign me up!
It would be great if we could find an alternative investment like this, but what we're really talking about is finding an alternative to the basic idea of taking a risk to generate a return. The trouble is that risk and expected return are still -- and will always be -- closely related.
Take, for instance, stock mutual funds, which come with the risk that the value of your investment will go up or down a lot in the short term. The reward comes over the long term, with the higher returns historically associated with owning stock versus other types of investments.
Now there are other ''safer'' investments that don't come with as much risk, but offer a smaller reward, like bank C.D.'s. It's common to see alternative investments pitched as comparable to these safe investments, but the numbers tell a different story.
The current average one-year C.D. nationwide pays 0.6 percent, and a five-year Treasury bill yields 0.78 percent. Those returns should give you a benchmark for the return on a relatively low-risk investment.
So when someone comes to you offering an investment that's ''just like a C.D.,'' but it pays 7 percent, guess what: This investment is NOT just like a C.D. If it was just like a C.D., it would pay you what you expect a C.D. to yield.
Yes, we're in a terrible, tight spot. But the answer isn't to hope that a dubious, new product someone sells you will solve your problem. The odds are high it will only make things worse.
Let's use these sad stories of fraud and loss as a important reminder. Be honest with yourself if you discover what appears to be a brilliant loophole to the fundamental rules of investing. As tough as the current situation is, you're likely to make things worse when you think you can separate risk from expected returns.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CARL RICHARDS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL PLANNING (90%); INTEREST RATES (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (78%); TRENDS (77%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (74%); MUTUAL FUNDS (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (67%); LUXURY GOODS (64%); MOTOR VEHICLES (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2013



59 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 475 words

HEADLINE: Late Night With Ben Bernanke

BYLINE: BINYAMIN APPELBAUM


HIGHLIGHT: Mr. Bernanke, speaking at a conference in San Francisco, said the Federal Reserve&#8217;s stimulus was working and he warned of the risk of raising interest rates too soon. 

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve's chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, picked an unusual time to offer his most recent defense of the Fed's campaign to stimulate the economy: 7 p.m. on a Friday night in San Francisco, 10 p.m. back home on the East Coast. 
The basic message was the same as Mr. Bernanke delivered to Congress earlier this week: The Fed regards its current efforts as necessary and effective, and the risks, while real, are under control.
"Commentators have raised two broad concerns surrounding the outlook for long-term rates," Mr. Bernanke told a conference at the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco. "To oversimplify, the first risk is that rates will remain low, and the second is that they will not." 
If rates remain low, it may drive investors to take excessive risks. If rates jump, investors could lose money - not least the Fed.
Regarding the first possibility, Mr. Bernanke said that the Fed was keeping a careful eye on financial markets. But he noted that rates were low in large part because the economy was weak, and that keeping rates low was the best way to encourage stronger growth. "Premature rate increases would carry a high risk of short-circuiting the recovery, possibly leading - ironically enough - to an even longer period of low long- term rates," he said.
At the other extreme, Mr. Bernanke said the Fed could "mitigate" any jump in rates by prolonging its efforts to hold rates down, for example by keeping some of its investments in Treasury and mortgage-backed securities.
Three more highlights from the question-and-answer session after the speech.
1. Mr. Bernanke, asked about the outlook for the Washington Nationals, responded by accurately quoting the "Las Vegas odds" of a World Series appearance: 8/1.
2. Although the decision may be made under a future chairman, Mr. Bernanke said the Fed should continue to offer "forward guidance" - predicting its policies - even after it concludes its long effort to revive the economy.
"Providing information about the future path of policy could be useful, probably would be useful, under even normal circumstances," he said in response to a question. "I think we need to keep providing information."
3. Not surprisingly, Mr. Bernanke often is asked to reflect on the financial crisis. He offered something a little different than his normal response on Friday night.
"In many ways, in retrospect, the crisis was a normal crisis," he said. "It's just that the intuitional framework in which it occurred was much more complex."
In other words, there was a panic, and a run, and a collapse - but rather than a run on bank deposits, the run was in the money markets. Improving the stability of those markets is something regulatorshave yet to accomplish.

        
Lifting the Veil on the Fed's 2007 Discussions
        
No More, No Less
        
Bernanke: By Unemployment, Not So Good
        
What to Expect From the Fed
        
The Fed Splits

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (76%); BASEBALL (75%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (74%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (73%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (71%) Bernanke, Ben S; Federal Reserve System; Interest Rates; Subprime Mortgage Crisis; United States Economy

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF SAN FRANCISCO (84%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (84%) Federal Reserve System

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (84%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (84%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (94%) Bernanke, Ben S

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2013



60 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2013

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 330 words

HEADLINE: Environmental Warning Fatigue Sets in

BYLINE: CHRISTOPHER F. SCHUETZE


HIGHLIGHT: Global concern for major environmental issues is at an all-time low, according to a poll of more than 22,000 people in 22 countries. 

 BODY:
Record levels of industrial smog? A dwindling number of fish in the world's oceans? A 4° Celsius warming in global temperatures by the end of the century? 
How about environmental warning fatigue?
Global concern for major environmental issues is at an all time low, according to the results of a global poll of more than 22,000 people in 22 countries, released earlier this week.
"Scientists report that evidence of environmental damage is stronger than ever - but our data shows that economic crisis and a lack of political leadership mean that the public are starting to tune out," said Doug Miller, the chairman of GlobeScan, the company that carried out the study.
While respondents clearly still had grave environmental concerns, fewer people were "very concerned" about various environmental issues than at any point in the last 20 years. The sharpest decrease in global concern occurred over the last two years.
The issue of climate change, which 49 percent of respondents rated last year as "very serious," was the only exception to the general trend. Pollsters found that there was less concern between 1998 and 2003 than today.
Shortages of fresh water and water pollution were the biggest global concerns, with 58 percent of the respondents marking them as "very serious."
Respondents were asked to rate seven different environmental issues - from climate change to loss of biodiversity - as being either a "very serious problem," a "somewhat serious problem," a "not very serious problem" or "not a serious problem at all."
The latest numbers were gathered last summer in telephone and face-to-face interviews with participants in Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, France, Germany, India, Indonesia, Japan, Kenya, Malaysia, Mexico, Nigeria, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Poland, South Korea, Spain, Turkey, Britain and the United States.
 Join our sustainability conversation. Do you take the environmental issues more seriously now than in the past? Do you find yourself tuning out? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (92%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (91%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (89%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (78%); BIODIVERSITY (78%); SMOG (78%); TRENDS (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); OCEANS (73%); SCIENCE NEWS (71%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (71%); WATER QUALITY (64%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (55%) Featured; Sustainability

GEOGRAPHIC: EARTH (92%) JAPAN (79%); INDIA (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); NIGERIA (79%); CHINA (79%); CANADA (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (79%); BRAZIL (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); INDONESIA (79%); GERMANY (77%); KENYA (71%); FRANCE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2013



61 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1070 words

HEADLINE: Francis Lieber and the Law of War

BYLINE: PAUL FINKELMAN


HIGHLIGHT: The German immigrant who defined the modern rules of fighting. 

 BODY:
The philosopher and legal scholar Francis Lieber was born in 1798 in Germany, and as a young man was wounded in the final skirmishes of the Napoleonic wars. He emigrated to the United States in 1827, after twice being imprisoned by Prussian authorities for his pro-reform political activities. A respected jurist in his home country, he eventually became a professor at Columbia, a few years before the outbreak of the Civil War.
Lieber had an affinity for soldiering and war, and when conflict broke out in America, he would have happily enlisted, save that he was already 62 years old. Instead, he advised the Lincoln administration on all manner of legal issues, helping to sort out the complexities of how to treat prisoners, guerillas, confiscated property and civilians in a civil war, when none of the traditional rules of international law seemed to quite apply. In this capacity he made immeasurable contributions to the war effort - and the future of the laws of war. 
As a child Lieber had watched French troops march into Berlin, and he grew up hating the oppression of Napoleon's occupying troops. As a teenager he joined the Colberg militia and was left for dead on the field in the Waterloo campaign. He survived and returned to Germany, where he earned a doctorate in mathematics and joined various underground groups that opposed the authoritarian regime in his native Prussia. He was arrested twice and, in 1826, moved to England; the next year he immigrated to the United States. By this time his intellectual interests had shifted from mathematics to politics, history and law.
Lieber spent several years in his new home as a struggling intellectual. He helped edit the first edition of the Encyclopedia America, served as a research assistant for Alexis de Tocqueville and published various pamphlets and essays. His circle of friends and mentors included Justice Joseph Story, Daniel Webster and the jurist James Kent. Still, despite these contacts and his prodigious publishing record, he was unable to land an academic job in the Northeast, where he longed to settle. Finally, in 1835 he accepted a newly created chair in history and political economy at South Carolina College (today the University of South Carolina), in Columbia.
Lieber would remain there for 21 years, but he always felt that he was in exile. He was naturally hostile to slavery but knew enough to never reveal his true feelings to his neighbor and colleagues. Initially he hired cousins and other relatives from Germany as servants in his house, but social pressure forced Lieber and his wife to buy two slaves as domestic servants because South Carolina society would not tolerate allowing young white women to do such labor. Obviously, his antipathy toward slavery showed through: in 1854 he vigorously campaigned to be president of the college, but was rejected because he was not "sound" on the matter. Lieber was passed over, and two years later, he accepted a chair as a professor of history and political science at Columbia College (now Columbia University). 
From the start of the war, Lieber was obsessed with the legal parameters of its prosecution. On Aug. 19, 1861, he published an open letter in The New York Times to consider the nature of Confederate prisoners. The issue concerned the treatment of captured Confederates - whether they were soldiers or pirates - and also how captured Union soldiers might be treated. He noted that this was an issue that called for "considerations of law, authority, humanity, [and] wise foresight." In arguing that traditional rules of war should be applied to prisoners, he asserted that this was not a formal or diplomatic recognition of the Confederacy but was merely "the recognition of reality." 
Lieber offered an analogy which set the issue out clearly: "When a highway robber asks my purse, and I, being unarmed, consider it expedient to give it, I certainly recognize the robber, it is no more than recognition of a fact." It was also the proper thing to do under humanitarian concerns. This likewise would not mean recognition of the Confederacy, and, he said, it would not prevent a subsequent, postwar prosecution of Confederate leaders for treason. Eventually Lieber's theory would lead to prisoner exchanges. 
In his widely read letter Lieber also discussed, and dismissed, the idea of executing prisoners of war. Doing so would in effect reduce the United States to the level of the Jacobins during the French Revolution, who "guillotined . . . the prisoners they made." Lieber's point was clear: civilized, humane nations did not execute prisoners of war.
In a subsequent essay published as a pamphlet in 1862, Lieber set out rules for dealing with guerrilla soldiers and other irregular forces. Here he argued that "guerrillamen, when captured in fair fight and open warfare, should be treated as the regular partisan is, until special crimes, such as murder, or the killing of prisoners, or the sacking of places, are proved upon them." Lieber argued that this was the precedent of "the most humane belligerents in recent times."
In November 1862 Lieber wrote to Gen. Henry Halleck, suggesting that he write a code for the conduct of soldiers. On April 24, 1863, the administration would promulgate Francis Lieber's code of war, known as General Orders 100. Known as the Lieber Code, this document would serve as the basis for the rules of war for Union soldiers throughout the war. In fact, to this day the Lieber Code remains the basis of most regulations of the law of war for the United States and under international law. 
By the time Lieber had written his code, he had lost his oldest son, who had remained in South Carolina and fought for the Confederacy. His second son, Hamilton Lieber, had already lost his left arm serving under Gen. Ulysses S. Grant at Fort Donelson, in Tennessee. Lieber understood the cost of war, and the pain and suffering it caused. But he also understood that even warfare required rules, modes of procedure and laws. 
 Join Disunion on Facebook »
Paul Finkelman is the President William McKinley distinguished professor of law and public policy at Albany Law School. 
Because of an editing error, portions of this article did not appear when it was first published.

        
Captivity in Black and White
        
The Count and the Gymnasts
        
The Wars of Carl Schurz
        
Private Conant and the First Bull Run Prisoners
        
The Bloody Occupation of Northern Alabama

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CIVIL WAR (89%); SLAVERY (89%); POLITICS (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (77%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (74%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (74%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (68%); ARMED FORCES (67%); MATHEMATICS (64%); ARRESTS (50%) Civil War (US) (1861-65); Germany; Immigration and Emigration; Prisoners of War; Disunion

ORGANIZATION: PRISONERS OF WAR (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBIA, SC, USA (93%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (93%); ENGLAND (75%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); FRANCE (55%) Germany

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2013



62 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1329 words

HEADLINE: Land of Plenty (of Government)

BYLINE: MONICA PRASAD


HIGHLIGHT: Researchers have uncovered evidence that points to a bigger governmental presence in the United States than previously thought, in some cases surpassing what we find in Western Europe. 

 BODY:
Why do European countries have lower levels of poverty and inequality than the United States? We used to think this was a result of American anti-government sentiment, which produced a government too small to redistribute income or to attend to the needs of the poor. But over the past three decades scholars have discovered that our government wasn't as small as we thought. Historians, sociologists and political scientists have all uncovered evidence that points to a surprisingly large governmental presence in the United States throughout the 20th century and even earlier, in some cases surpassing what we find in Western Europe. 
For example, European banks did not have to contend with regulations separating commercial and investment banking, as American banks did under the Glass-Steagall Act of 1933. Until the 1980s taxes on capital income were higher in the United States than in most European countries, where taxes on labor were and still are higher. American bankruptcy law has been harder on creditors and easier on debtors than any of the countries of Europe, even after bankruptcy reform here in 2005. Or consider the famous case of the thalidomide babies in the late 1950s and early 1960s. Thalidomide was a drug given to pregnant women for nausea. It caused devastating birth defects, from stunted limbs to spina bifida, and many babies died. Thalidomide was widely available in Europe and produced thousands of cases of birth defects there. But the Food and Drug Administration kept thalidomide off the American market, successfully using aggressive governmental intervention to protect children from a pharmaceutical company with a dangerous product. They would be in their early 50s now, those babies saved by the F.D.A. I wonder sometimes how many of them are walking around today complaining about big government.
But if Europe has been so favorable to business, how did it end up with lower poverty and inequality rates? To understand this, we have to let go of the idea that governments are the opposite of markets, or that welfare spending kills capitalist production. European countries do have larger public welfare states, and this brings down their poverty and inequality rates. But in return, European corporations received a gift: a political economy biased against consumption and geared toward production.
Beginning after World War II, Germany, France and several other countries aimed to restrain private consumption and channel profits toward export industries, in a bid to reconstruct their war-devastated economies. Loose regulation was part of this business-friendly strategy. Some scholars have even called these European policies "supply side," in that they focused on incentives for producers, at the expense of demand-side measures that would benefit consumers. They were one ingredient in Europe's spectacular postwar growth.
The United States, on the other hand, developed a consumer economy based on government-subsidized mortgage credit, a kind of "mortgage Keynesianism." Increasing consumption was a Depression-era response to a problem that puzzled observers at the time. On the one hand, unemployment and hunger were everywhere. On the other, the government was actively engaging in crop destruction to raise prices - like the great pig slaughter of 1933, in which millions of piglets and pregnant sows were destroyed so that hog prices would go up. In the words of Huey P. Long, the populist governor and senator of Louisiana: "Why is it? Why? Too much to eat and more people hungry than during the drought years; too much to wear and more people naked; too many houses and more people homeless than ever before. Why? This is a land of super-abundance and super-plenty. Then why is it also a land of starvation and nakedness and homelessness?"
The true answer to Long's question - at least as far as we understand it today - is that a restricted money supply was constraining the economy. But observers at the time thought that the problem was that wealth was concentrated in so few hands that consumers did not have purchasing power to buy the goods that lay rotting in the fields. Increasing consumer purchasing power became the paradigm that drove economic policy during the New Deal and for decades after. A central element of this was increasing homeownership by encouraging citizens to take on large debts for the purchase of homes, beginning with the creation of the Federal Housing Administration under Franklin D. Roosevelt. Roosevelt thought the F.H.A. could revive the economy; the chairman of the Federal Reserve at the time called it "the wheel within the wheel to move the whole economic engine." Where Europeans focused on restraining consumption, Americans saw consumption as the machine that drives growth - and we still do.
Understanding this fundamental divergence between the United States and Europe sheds new light on several episodes of recent history. It suggests that in the 1980s, when Ronald Reagan tried to deregulate industry, he was actually pushing the United States in the direction of Europe. He was successful to some degree, although partly because European regulation moved in our direction as much as we moved in theirs. This history also explains the current resistance in Europe, especially Germany, toward Keynesian stimulus. One might imagine that countries with large welfare spending would be happy to raise spending even more on government programs. But the more fundamental goal of the postwar European political economy has been to rebuild industrial production through a focus on investments and exports. Keynesian spending to stimulate consumption is foreign to this goal.
A consumption bias, economists argue, is not a bad thing, as it leads to cheaper goods for Americans. And after all, someone has to do the consuming - otherwise, whom would the Germans and Chinese export to? But a consumption bias has distributional consequences that we are only beginning to understand. Some studies suggest that it undermines support for the welfare state, because as consumers come to depend on private assets - especially their homes - for their well-being, they appear to become less interested in providing for the welfare of others.
A consumption bias also focuses the efforts of the left on increasing private consumption. It was activists on the left who pushed for greater credit access for African-Americans and women in the 1960s and 1970s, and rightly so, because if credit is how Americans make ends meet, then those without access to credit are economically sidelined. But credit access does nothing for the truly poor, those who are not deemed creditworthy. Someone has to do the consuming, but if one country ends up as the world's consumer for a long time, as America has, a political tradition can take root that works against the interests of the poor.
Pointing out all the ways in which the American government has actually been more interventionist than European governments seems to alarm partisans on both the left and the right. Activists on the right can no longer pretend that American history is about small government. Those on the left are equally alarmed, because pointing out the ways in which the government has been hostile to business can undermine their calls to be even more hostile to business. But poverty reduction is not about hostility to business. It's about strategies like promoting saving over borrowing. We don't need regulations as loose as postwar Europe's, but if reducing poverty and inequality is the goal, we do need to rethink our love affair with consumption.
Monica Prasad, an associate professor of sociology and faculty fellow in the Institute for Policy Research at Northwestern University, is the author of "The Land of Too Much: American Abundance and the Paradox of Poverty." 

        
Dependents of the State
        
Inequality Is Holding Back the Recovery
        
Outsourcing Is Not (Always) Evil
        
Breaking Down the Budget Mess
        
Less Innovation, More Inequality

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CHILDREN (89%); POVERTY RATES (89%); HISTORY (77%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (77%); CONSUMPTION (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (74%); INVESTMENT BANKING (74%); CONSUMER LAW (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); DEREGULATION (74%); BANKING LAW (74%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (73%); EXPORT TRADE (73%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (72%); SOCIOLOGY (71%); CONGENITAL DISORDERS (70%); MARKET RESEARCH (69%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (69%); SPINA BIFIDA (65%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (64%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (64%); WORLD WAR II (60%) Banking and Financial Institutions; Consumer Behavior; Europe; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; United States; United States Economy; The Great Divide

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (54%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (96%); WESTERN EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (79%) Europe; United States

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2013



63 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 594 words

HEADLINE: The Weekend Word: Budget Wars

BYLINE: JADA F. SMITH


HIGHLIGHT: Political news from today&#8217;s Times plus a look at the weekly addresses and the latest happenings in Washington. 

 BODY:
 Today's Times 

        
President Obama and Congressional leaders failed to stop deep, automatic cuts in federal spending that will immediately shrink the size and ambition of government, Michael D. Shear and Jonathan Weisman report. But both sides said they would not carry the fight into a coming legislative effort to finance the government through Sept. 30, essentially declaring a cease-fire in the budget wars.

        
The State Department issued a revised environmental impact statement for the 1,700-mile Keystone XL pipeline on Friday, adding a new element to the already robust climate change and energy debate around the $7 billion proposed project, John M. Broder reports. The new report concludes that the environmental impacts are manageable, which could provide President Obama political cover if he decides to approve the pipeline.
 

        
The $85 billion in spending cuts were intended to be so painful and stupid that they would never come into effect, yet one in eight Americans still gives Congress a thumbs-up, Annie Lowrey discovered.

        
Politicians would often issue dire warnings that the Washington Monument, a symbol of American might and freedom, would be closed because of contested budget issues, Andrew Siddons writes. But that tactic is of limited value in the current budget fight because the monument is already closed indefinitely for repairs.
 Weekly Addresses 

        
President Obama used this week's address to express disappointment in both parties over their inability to compromise on the severe budget cuts that took effect on Friday. "At a time when our businesses are finally gaining some traction, hiring new workers, bringing jobs back to America - the last thing Washington should do is to get in their way," he said. "That's what these cuts to education, research and defense will do. It's unnecessary." He went on to list the ways in which "many middle-class families will have their lives disrupted in a significant way," saying each layoff or service interruption would begin to cause a ripple effect across the economy. But there is a "caucus of common sense," he said, and he plans to continue reaching out to those lawmakers to fix the budget and keep aspects of the government funded.

        
Representative Cathy McMorris Rodgers of Washington delivered the Republican weekly address, saying the automatic budget cuts that went into effect on Friday could have been avoided if it weren't for President Obama and Congressional Democrats. She highlighted the efforts made by her party members to elude the so-called sequester with "smarter" slashes to spending and proposals that didn't survive the Senate. "Our plans cut government waste and make long-term reforms that put us on a path to a balanced budget," she said. "The president wants a different route. He wants to continue singling Americans out for tax increases, even after he raised taxes just last month to avert the fiscal cliff." Ms. Rodgers asked the president to "stop using this debate as an excuse to raise taxes," and instead seize the opportunity to cut spending.
 Happenings in Washington 

        
The National Federation of Democratic Women and members of Delta Sigma Theta will retrace the women's suffrage march of 1913, beginning at the west front of the Capitol on Sunday morning.

        
Fight Over Spending Cuts a Prelude to Budget Battles Ahead
        
Union Leaders Call for Repeal of Automatic Spending Cuts
        
Critical Differences Belie Hopes for a Grand Bargain
        
Polls Show Dissatisfaction With Country's Direction, but Support for Obama's Agenda
        
Obama Tells House Democrats He Will Confront Republicans on Taxes

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (89%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); TAX LAW (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL PERMITS (76%); APPROVALS (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (71%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (70%); CLOSINGS (66%); FAMILY (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (64%); TAX INCREASES (61%) Federal Budget (US); Keystone Pipeline System; McMorris Rodgers, Cathy; Obama, Barack; Taxation; The Caucus

PERSON: CATHY MCMORRIS RODGERS (90%); BARACK OBAMA (90%) McMorris Rodgers, Cathy; Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2013



64 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 994 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths BRIDGES, WILLIAM EMERY 1933, 2013

 BODY:
BRIDGES--William Emery 1933-2013. The author, teacher and consultant whose pioneering work on transition transformed the way people think about change, died on February 17, 2013, at his home in Larkspur, California, from complications of Lewy Body Disease. His death was confirmed by his wife, Susan Bridges. He was 79. Through his books, including Transitions and Managing Transitions, his public speaking and the international network of experts he certified to coach people, Mr. Bridges had a global impact upon educators, psychologists, corporate executives, business consultants and non-profit leaders as well as the general public. The Wall Street Journal named him one of the top ten executive development presenters in America. As John Alexander, former CEO of the Center for Creative Leadership, observed, "Bill's contribution was incalculable. 
He gave us a vocabulary for understanding and talking about change that was entirely absent before. He helped us understand how people actually experience change and what they need to get through it." William Emery Bridges was born in Boston in 1933, the son of Ronald Perkins Bridges and Helen Emery Bridges. He lived as a young child in Maine, Arizona and California. He received his BA in English from Harvard, his MA in American History from Columbia and his PhD in American Civilization from Brown University. He served in the US Army in Germany. He married Ramonda Kump in 1959. Mr. Bridges held the Aurelia Henry Reinhard Professorship of American Literature position at Mills College in Oakland, California, in the late 1960's, when he became interested in the psychology of literature. In 1970, he led a three-week training program in humanistic and depth psychology, bringing some of the era's most influential thinkers together. He would later become President of the Society for Humanistic Psychology. In 1980 he published Transitions: Making Sense of Life's Changes. In it he set forth the idea that, while change was situational, transition was psychological, and needed to be better understood, especially in America where change is both endemic and rapid. Transitions proposed that individuals experience change in three stages: first as an ending, followed by a period of confusion and distress, and then followed by a new beginning. He noted that because Western culture offers few rituals to mark the passage through these stages, people often try to skip from the first stage directly to the last. Instead, he asked individuals to spend time in what he called "the neutral zone" as a way of psychologically accommodating the space between. The book struck a strong chord with readers and it was followed by Managing Transitions: Making the Most of Change in 1991, also a national best-seller and now in its third edition. In 2001, he published The Way of Transition: Embracing Life's Most Difficult Moments, which in part explored the pain of his own transition following the death of his first wife, Mondi, of breast cancer. In 1994, he published JobShift: How to Prosper in a Workplace Without Jobs, which was excerpted and featured on the cover of Fortune Magazine. Exploring the consequences of flattening hierarchies and the disappearance of management jobs that characterized the recession of the early 1990's, Mr. Bridges accurately predicted the explosive growth of self-employment and helped people understand how to prepare for a world in which secure jobs would be increasingly scarce. In the 1980's, he began consulting with individuals and organizations about managing transition. He founded William Bridges & Associates and developed customized training programs for organizations experiencing transition. These programs were conducted worldwide. In 1998, he married Susan Mitchell, a colleague and established leadership development consultant, who joined him as a partner in the business. Mrs. Bridges became President of William Bridges and Associates in 2007. In 2000, Mr. Bridges was approached by Steven Kelban, Executive Director of the Andrus Family Fund, a division of the Surdna Foundation. The Andrus Family Fund makes grants to non-profits working in foster care and community reconciliation. They began a collaboration that Mr. Kelban said has made a substantial difference in helping both young people and damaged communities adapt to change by incorporating transition management principles. Jim Kouzes, author of The Leadership Challenge, noted, "Bill's major contribution was to give us permission to talk about the pain and difficulty of change and acknowledge that it can be very confusing. Americans have shame around pain--success is somehow supposed to be easy. If you're struggling, it's as if you've failed. Bill moved past that relentless optimism and said, yes, you can find real meaning in change but only if you are willing to experience the pain." Tom Yeomans, founder of The Concord Institute, notes that the Emersonian tradition continued to affect Mr. Bridges' work. "Trust informed Bill's process and trust is the core idea of self-reliance--trusting your instinct, what you know, your potential to be more truly yourself, trusting the process of change and moving with it. Bill's work was profoundly consistent, built on the recognition of a deep human pattern, but he found many ways to develop it. Because he remained deeply connected to Emerson and the transcendentalists, he helped open organizations and individuals to the possibility of transcendence." Mr. Bridges is survived by his wife, Susan Bridges, his daughters from his first marriage, Anne Gavin (Curtis Gavin), Sarah Bridges, and Margaret Bridges, seven grandchildren, and his brother, Daniel Bridges. Memorial services are pending. Donations may be made to the UCSF Foundation for the "William and Susan Bridges Neurohospitalist Program Fund B2390" and sent to S. Andrew Josephson MD, Director, Neurohospitalist Program, UCSF, 505 Parnassus Ave, Box 0114, San Francisco, CA 94143.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); PSYCHOLOGY (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); LITERATURE (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); HISTORY (75%); BESTSELLERS (73%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (73%); ARMIES (53%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (57%); CENTER FOR CREATIVE LEADERSHIP INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTER FOR CREATIVE LEADERSHIP (56%); BROWN UNIVERSITY (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (70%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (58%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (74%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2013



65 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 557 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths MCKEE, JAMES W

 BODY:
McKEE--James W. James W. McKee Jr. passed away February 27, 2013 in Naples, FL, after a brief illness. The son of James W. and Isabel McKee, he was born in Pittsburgh, August 19, 1922. Business relocation took the family to Montreal in 1934, where Jim graduated with distinction, first from Lower Canada College, and then from McGill University. 
During World War II he was a pilot who served initially as an instructor, before being assigned as a command pilot to the 9th Air Force in England and in France. In 1946 Jim joined Corn Products Refining Company (name changed to CPC International in 1969), a diversified food manufacturer of well known trademarks including Mazola, Hellmann's (mayonnaise), Thomas's (English Muffins), Skippy (peanut butter), and Knorr (soups and sauces), as well as the world's leading corn wet milling company. He spent his first 17 years with CPC on international assignments, primarily in Italy, Brazil and Cuba. In 1969, five years after relocating back to the United States he was appointed company president, followed by the appointment to CEO in 1972, the youngest CEO in the company's history. During his tenure as president and CEO, and until he retired in 1984, the company's sales quadrupled to exceed $4.3 billion and earnings growth compounded at just under 9% per year. In addition to CPC International, Jim served on a number of corporate boards of directors, including Marine Midland Bank, Melville Corporation, CVS, and Singer. He was president of the Conference Board; a member of the Council on Foreign Affairs; head of the Grocery Manufacturer's Association; and head of the American Chamber of Commerce in Brazil in the early 1960's. He served as a trustee for several organizations, including St. Vincents Hospital, The College of New Rochelle, and the Committee for Economic Development, among others. The government of Brazil honored him twice with the country's highest civilian award, the Cruzeiro Do Sul medals for his contributions to Brazil's economy and to Brazilian/American relations. He also received honorary citations from the Geographic Society of Brazil, and the Union Cultural, among others for outstanding contributions. He was awarded an honorary doctorate from St. John's University for his academic and professional contributions in the field of economics, in particular, operating in inflationary environments. In retirement, Jim researched the McKee family genealogy, and self published the results in 2002: The Descendents of William and Mary Wilson McKee. Among his hobbies were his golf game (three holes-in-one), his computer, visiting hardware stores, reading books and newspapers, and managing investments. Jim is survived by his beloved wife of 65 years, Jayne (Finnegan); daughter Bettina McKee of Naples, FL; son James W. McKee III (wife, Pamela) of Charlotte, NC; daughter Sheila McKee of Boston, MA; two grandsons and two great-granddaughters. He was preceded in death by his brother, Robert McKee. A Mass of Christian burial will be held on Monday, March 4, 2013 at 10am at St. William Catholic Church, 750 Seagate Drive, Naples. Interment will be in St. Mary's Cemetery in Greenwich, CT. Donations in Jim's memory may be made to NCH Healthcare System, P.O. Box 413029, Naples, FL 34101; www.NCHmd.org. Online condolences may be made at www.fullernaples.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); NUT & PEANUT BUTTER MFG (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); WET CORN & VEGETABLE MILLING (90%); DRESSING & SAUCE MFG (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (77%); GENEALOGY (77%); AIR FORCES (76%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (75%); FOOD INDUSTRY (74%); WORLD WAR II (71%); ARMED FORCES (70%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (70%); FOOD MFG (69%); COMPANY EARNINGS (65%); GOLF (64%); AWARDS & PRIZES (61%); HARDWARE STORES (50%)

COMPANY: CVS CAREMARK CORP (82%); HSBC BANK USA NA (54%)

TICKER: CVS (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS446110 PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (82%); SIC5912 DRUG STORES & PROPRIETARY STORES (82%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NAPLES, FL, USA (90%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (88%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (93%); QUEBEC, CANADA (88%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) BRAZIL (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (92%); ENGLAND (77%); FRANCE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2013



66 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; PURSUITS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1732 words

HEADLINE: Getting Comfortable With the New Vail

BYLINE: By BILL PENNINGTON

 BODY:
In the late 1950s, Pete Seibert, who dreamed of building a major ski resort in Colorado, spent seven hours hiking to the top of what is now Vail Mountain. At the crest of the obscure, unpopulated hill, he glimpsed a rare landscape of largely treeless bowls, a vast panorama of seemingly boundless, perfect skiing terrain.
Mr. Seibert, a former member of the United States ski team, turned to his hiking partner, Earl Eaton, a local uranium prospector who had led him to the site, and said: ''My God, we've climbed all the way to heaven.'' They sat in the grass, ate a lunch of cold cuts, then spent another four hours hiking back down.
Five years later the Vail resort opened for the winter of 1962-63 with $5 lift tickets and crowds so small that one day only 12 people showed up. 
Fifty years later the resort can attract 1.7 million people to its slopes per season, and it is a seven-and-one-half-minute ascent up the mountain in the resort's new 10-person gondola, equipped with heated seats and Wi-Fi access. Steps from the top of the gondola, one dining choice of several is a restaurant in which guests can exchange ski boots for slippers before looking over a menu that includes things like hazelnut and ginger buffalo carpaccio and selections from a 2,200-bottle on-site wine cellar.
Just outside the restaurant door, Vail photographers will take your picture, and using the chip embedded in your $106 lift ticket (the online purchase price) send it to friends through the social network of your choice. The same chip can chart and digest every detail of your day: the number of vertical feet skied, trails visited and your top speed. Later, you will also be able to watch video from the day, if you are one of the many on the mountain who have affixed a tiny camera to your helmet.
Suffice it to say, the Vail founders, both deceased, would hardly recognize the resort today. The truth is, late last year, in my first extended visit to the resort in a decade, I often felt out of place, too. Large new hotels towered over old landmarks, pedestrian walkways had replaced ordinary streets, new restaurants lured visitors away from the ones I remembered.
Vail is far from the only large resort to have infused the traditional ski trip with technologically advanced creature comforts and luxuries. As vacationers have become more accustomed to the kinds of bespoke experience hotels and restaurants are offering across the globe, ski resorts have been trying to shed their rough edges. No longer is it enough to appeal to ski purists who simply crave the mountain. Today's experience must also be comfortable, and, for those who want it, feel exclusive as well. And no resort has embraced this more than Vail.
But what happens when a hallmark resort retools? Can a historic mountain be modern too? And would I like it as much?
Arriving on Christmas night, it didn't take long to get some answers. That's when I met the ski valet, a novel new service professional creating dependents at resorts from Vermont to Utah.
Many hotels at ski areas take a guest's skis or snowboards at check-in, store them and hand them back when it's time to hit the mountain. The ski valet goes much further. The ski valet does everything but ski for you.
When I checked in at the new Ritz-Carlton residences with my wife and three children, the valet took our skis, poles and boots. The next morning, in a lounge alongside the lobby, our boots, which had been heated overnight, were retrieved for us. If anyone needed help getting the boots on -- not unusual when small children are concerned -- attendants helped get the little feet into the little boots. They also handed out free hand-warming packets.
Coffee and snacks were available in an unrushed atmosphere that was nothing like the noisy, crowded crush of the typical day lodge. Then, when we were ready to leave, our skis and poles were loaded on a van which shuttled us the few hundred yards to the lifts. When we finished at the end of the day, the ski valet was waiting at the bottom of the trails and the entire process was reversed, right down to our boots being dried and warmed again. It is a service provided by the hotel, although the valet is usually tipped $2 to $5 in each direction.
For someone who has spent decades trudging from parking lots to mountain lifts carrying skis and poles, along with children's skis, poles, helmets, mittens, scarfs and hand-warmers, I consider the ski valet the greatest winter sports asset since snow itself.
It did feel decadent at times. After all, skiing is about communing with -- and to some extent mastering -- nature. Is something lost if you're not even carrying your own gear to face the challenge? I can't imagine what my father, who learned to ski as a boy by hiking to the top of Vermont's mountains, would have thought had he glimpsed his son strolling behind a personal valet lugging his gear. But the fact is, even if you have been escorted to a gondola with heated seats, once you are deposited at the top of the lift, you're on your own. And Vail's many taxing trails -- more than half are rated black diamond expert runs -- have not gotten any easier.
At the end of the day, I did notice that everyone in my family -- raised on no-frills Eastern ski areas -- lugged their equipment past the valet station. It was not a coincidence. It just seemed right to walk the skis home.
But for every family like ours there were 10 families who were delighted not to have to wrestle with the cumbersome accouterments of skiing. ''We ski five to seven days a year,'' said Jerry Farmer, a lawyer from the Baltimore area who was visiting Vail with his family of four in December. ''That's not often enough to ever feel comfortable getting all the gear together. If they've figured out a way to ease the stress, I'm all for it.
''Go ahead, take my skis and poles.''
In short, ski gear is an annoyance and it is good business for the hotels to make it less of one.
''Thirty years ago, our clientele was hard-core outdoors types and hard-core athletes,'' said Christopher E. Jarnot, Vail's senior vice president and chief operating officer. ''If you got them to the mountain, they would take care of the rest. But we can appeal to a much larger market by easing the entry points.''
Once on the mountain, how you choose to navigate your way around it has been transformed as well. At an area as big as Vail (at 5,289 acres it is the nation's largest), even with fast lifts it can take a long time to traverse to some of the famed back bowls. That has always made it an imperative to know which of the 31 lifts are open and what the lines are like at each lift. You don't want to take 25 minutes to get to Blue Sky Basin and discover that three-fourths of the people on the mountain have had the same idea.
In the past, the only way to gauge the flow of the crowd was to ask lift operators, which was not highly reliable because they were as far from the back bowls as you. You could also monitor summaries the resort posted on chalkboards and bulletin boards at the bottom of the lifts. Again, not exactly up-to-the-minute information.
Today, thanks to social networking, streaming alerts and the resort's own Twitter account, skiers have up-to-the minute updates.
This kind of technological progress is beginning to suffuse every part of the modern ski trip. Ski rental companies can now receive your specifications online days before your arrival so the appropriate gear can be waiting for you. If you're a regular guest at the same slopeside condo year after year, the unit can be stocked on each trip with your preferred cookies and Scotch. Even your lift ticket can be a gateway to multipurpose, personal service. At Vail, the ticket gives you access to a platform called EpicMix, which uses radio frequency technology to help you locate a friend or family member on the mountain, send pictures back home, and if you're feeling daring, let you challenge the Olympic champion Lindsey Vonn in a racecourse.
She sets the pace at various courses on the mountain early in the season and recreational skiers can compete against her -- and others -- with all the times recorded.
''It's about competition and social interaction,'' said Ms. Vonn, who maintains a home in Vail. ''There's a handicapping system for age groups so whole families can get involved. But let's face it, it's about bragging rights.''
But do all the updates make the experience better?
I wondered that anew at the end of one day as I walked past the ski valet, propped my skis on a public rack and went in search of Garfinkel's, my favorite Vail apres-ski bar. I wove around the massive Arrabelle, a new, Vail-owned hotel and adjacent public square with a skating rink, shops, restaurants, water fountains and outdoor concert arena. It is a sparkling architectural addition, designed to look like an unspoiled Alpine village. My heart sank, though, with the thought that Garfinkel's, a gritty, unsophisticated place, was probably a casualty of all the renewal. But around a curve and down an alley, there it was in all its unworldly glory, packed with skiers and riders. Ten years later, the only change seemed to be that the beer and nachos had each gone up a dollar.
Wandering around afterward I found other old favorites: Bart and Yeti's, an economical and rustic lunch place, and Vendetta's, a pizza and beer joint filled with locals, instructors and staff just off work.
The next day, something else had not changed: Knowing it had snowed 10 inches the night before, we were at the gondola waiting for it to start running at 8:30 a.m.
Intent on getting to Blue Sky Basin by its 9 a.m. lift opening, we hustled along the catwalks and connecting tracks. Finally, at the top of the Blue Sky Basin trail called Big Rock Park, we were off.
Big Rock Park is not so much a trail as it is a suggestion. A varied mix of pine tree islands creates twisting corridors laced with assorted dips, knolls, hillocks and hidden, fall-away slopes, Big Rock Park is a make-your-own adventure ride -- left, right, faster, slower, in the air, on the snow. It is what the best ski trails, and the best resorts, are supposed to be: a playground. And once you are in the midst of it, whatever lies at the foot of the mountain is distant and displaced -- beside the point compared to the wind in your face, the trees gliding by, the sound of skis on snow, as you float down the mountain.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (TR1)
Visitors make their way through the village at Vail Mountain, which is celebrating its 50th anniversary. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JUSTIN EDMONDS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Above, Joey Kirkpatrick, a ski valet at the Arrabelle Hotel, pulls customers' snowboards out of storage. Below, Matthew Pauls, the sommelier at The 10th, pulls a bottle of wine to serve for lunch. (TR13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SKIING (91%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (90%); RESORTS (90%); SKIING FACILITIES (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); SNOWBOARDING (73%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2013



67 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; WHEELS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 647 words

HEADLINE: Teenage Auto Deaths Rise in First Half of 2012

BYLINE: By TANYA MOHN

 BODY:
Fatalities among teenage drivers rose sharply for the first six months of 2012, according to a new report.
The death toll for 16- and 17-year-old drivers of passenger vehicles jumped 19 percent, compared with the first half of 2011.
''It's troubling'' said Barbara L. Harsha, executive director the Governors Highway Safety Association, an organization representing state highway safety offices that released the study, ''Teenage Driver Fatalities by State: 2012 Preliminary Data,'' on Tuesday. 
Based on initial data supplied by the 50 states and the District of Columbia for the first six months of 2012, 25 states reported increases, 17 showed a decrease, and eight states and the District of Columbia reported no change. Over all, 16- and 17-year-old driver deaths increased from 202 to 240.
''Even though the numbers are pretty small, 19 percent is pretty sizable,'' Ms. Harsha said in a telephone interview. ''We didn't expect the increase to be as large as it is, so that's a concern.''
She said the data did not include passengers, bicyclists or pedestrians. ''We only looked at drivers, as that is the group most involved in fatal crashes,'' Ms. Harsha said.
If the trend persisted in the second half of the year, it would be the second year of increased deaths for teenage drivers in this age group after eight consecutive years of decline. Final data is not available for 2012, but fatalities typically go up in the second half of the year, she said.
The spike in teenage driver deaths appears to have increased at an even greater rate than overall highway fatalities during this same period, Allan Williams, a road safety consultant who wrote the report, said in a telephone interview. He based the projections on data from the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and the National Safety Council.
Despite these increases, the deaths of teenage drivers remain historically low and are still better than they were five or even 10 years ago, he said.
''But anytime there is a favorable trend and it reverses, there is concern and alarm. We don't want that to continue to happen,'' said Dr. Williams, who is the former chief scientist at the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety, a nonprofit group financed by the insurance industry. ''We don't want that to continue to happen.''
While it is too soon to know for certain, he attributes the increase in fatalities, in part, to a rebounding economy. With lower gas prices during the study period and greater discretionary income, more teenagers may be on the roads, which increases their exposure to risk.
Another contributing factor may be that progress has slowed among states to strengthen graduated driver licensing laws. All 50 states have some form of the laws that were first introduced in the mid-1990s to gradually grant privileges to teenage drivers during higher-risk situations, like driving at night or with peer passengers. Distracted driving is also thought to play a role, Dr. Williams said.
But while studies and surveys indicate that laws are not particularly effective in changing cellphone use, graduated driver licensing laws have proven to help reducing crashes.
''The more comprehensive state laws are, the greater the effect,'' he said.
Compliance is also essential, he said. ''A lot, quite frankly, depends on parental involvement,'' he said. ''But many parents don't even know what the laws are. They need to know what the laws are. They need to know what the rationales are.''
In addition to strengthening laws and creating programs and awareness to increase parental supervision, improving driver education programs is also critical to reverse the upward trend, said Ms. Harsha, the executive director. ''It's time to redouble our efforts.''
The full report, including state-by-state data, is available online at ghsa.org.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (90%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); TRENDS (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); DRIVING AGE (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); TRANSPORTATION LAW (78%); OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY AGENCIES (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (76%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (74%); DRIVERS LICENSES (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); INSURANCE (70%); OIL & GAS PRICES (50%); DISCRETIONARY INCOME (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2013



68 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; THE GREAT DIVIDE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1297 words

HEADLINE: Land of Plenty (of Government)

BYLINE: By MONICA PRASAD. 
Monica Prasad, an associate professor of sociology and faculty fellow in the Institute for Policy Research at Northwestern University, is the author of ''The Land of Too Much: American Abundance and the Paradox of Poverty.''

 BODY:
Why do European countries have lower levels of poverty and inequality than the United States? We used to think this was a result of American anti-government sentiment, which produced a government too small to redistribute income or to attend to the needs of the poor. But over the past three decades scholars have discovered that our government wasn't as small as we thought. Historians, sociologists and political scientists have all uncovered evidence that points to a surprisingly large governmental presence in the United States throughout the 20th century and even earlier, in some cases surpassing what we find in Western Europe. 
For example, European banks did not have to contend with regulations separating commercial and investment banking, as American banks did under the Glass-Steagall Act of 1933. Until the 1980s taxes on capital income were higher in the United States than in most European countries, where taxes on labor were and still are higher. American bankruptcy law has been harder on creditors and easier on debtors than any of the countries of Europe, even after bankruptcy reform here in 2005. Or consider the famous case of the thalidomide babies in the late 1950s and early 1960s. Thalidomide was a drug given to pregnant women for nausea. It caused devastating birth defects, from stunted limbs to spina bifida, and many babies died. Thalidomide was widely available in Europe and produced thousands of cases of birth defects there. But the Food and Drug Administration kept thalidomide off the American market, successfully using aggressive governmental intervention to protect children from a pharmaceutical company with a dangerous product. They would be in their early 50s now, those babies saved by the F.D.A. I wonder sometimes how many of them are walking around today complaining about big government.
But if Europe has been so favorable to business, how did it end up with lower poverty and inequality rates? To understand this, we have to let go of the idea that governments are the opposite of markets, or that welfare spending kills capitalist production. European countries do have larger public welfare states, and this brings down their poverty and inequality rates. But in return, European corporations received a gift: a political economy biased against consumption and geared toward production.
Beginning after World War II, Germany, France and several other countries aimed to restrain private consumption and channel profits toward export industries, in a bid to reconstruct their war-devastated economies. Loose regulation was part of this business-friendly strategy. Some scholars have even called these European policies ''supply side,'' in that they focused on incentives for producers, at the expense of demand-side measures that would benefit consumers. They were one ingredient in Europe's spectacular postwar growth.
The United States, on the other hand, developed a consumer economy based on government-subsidized mortgage credit, a kind of ''mortgage Keynesianism.'' Increasing consumption was a Depression-era response to a problem that puzzled observers at the time. On the one hand, unemployment and hunger were everywhere. On the other, the government was actively engaging in crop destruction to raise prices -- like the great pig slaughter of 1933, in which millions of piglets and pregnant sows were destroyed so that hog prices would go up. In the words of Huey P. Long, the populist governor and senator of Louisiana: ''Why is it? Why? Too much to eat and more people hungry than during the drought years; too much to wear and more people naked; too many houses and more people homeless than ever before. Why? This is a land of super-abundance and super-plenty. Then why is it also a land of starvation and nakedness and homelessness?''
The true answer to Long's question -- at least as far as we understand it today -- is that a restricted money supply was constraining the economy. But observers at the time thought that the problem was that wealth was concentrated in so few hands that consumers did not have purchasing power to buy the goods that lay rotting in the fields. Increasing consumer purchasing power became the paradigm that drove economic policy during the New Deal and for decades after. A central element of this was increasing homeownership by encouraging citizens to take on large debts for the purchase of homes, beginning with the creation of the Federal Housing Administration under Franklin D. Roosevelt. Roosevelt thought the F.H.A. could revive the economy; the chairman of the Federal Reserve at the time called it ''the wheel within the wheel to move the whole economic engine.'' Where Europeans focused on restraining consumption, Americans saw consumption as the machine that drives growth -- and we still do.
Understanding this fundamental divergence between the United States and Europe sheds new light on several episodes of recent history. It suggests that in the 1980s, when Ronald Reagan tried to deregulate industry, he was actually pushing the United States in the direction of Europe. He was successful to some degree, although partly because European regulation moved in our direction as much as we moved in theirs. This history also explains the current resistance in Europe, especially Germany, toward Keynesian stimulus. One might imagine that countries with large welfare spending would be happy to raise spending even more on government programs. But the more fundamental goal of the postwar European political economy has been to rebuild industrial production through a focus on investments and exports. Keynesian spending to stimulate consumption is foreign to this goal.
A consumption bias, economists argue, is not a bad thing, as it leads to cheaper goods for Americans. And after all, someone has to do the consuming -- otherwise, whom would the Germans and Chinese export to? But a consumption bias has distributional consequences that we are only beginning to understand. Some studies suggest that it undermines support for the welfare state, because as consumers come to depend on private assets -- especially their homes -- for their well-being, they appear to become less interested in providing for the welfare of others.
A consumption bias also focuses the efforts of the left on increasing private consumption. It was activists on the left who pushed for greater credit access for African-Americans and women in the 1960s and 1970s, and rightly so, because if credit is how Americans make ends meet, then those without access to credit are economically sidelined. But credit access does nothing for the truly poor, those who are not deemed creditworthy. Someone has to do the consuming, but if one country ends up as the world's consumer for a long time, as America has, a political tradition can take root that works against the interests of the poor.
Pointing out all the ways in which the American government has actually been more interventionist than European governments seems to alarm partisans on both the left and the right. Activists on the right can no longer pretend that American history is about small government. Those on the left are equally alarmed, because pointing out the ways in which the government has been hostile to business can undermine their calls to be even more hostile to business. But poverty reduction is not about hostility to business. It's about strategies like promoting saving over borrowing. We don't need regulations as loose as postwar Europe's, but if reducing poverty and inequality is the goal, we do need to rethink our love affair with consumption.
This is an essay from The Great Divide, a series on inequality, at nytimes.com/opinionator.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAVIER JAÉN) GRAPHIC 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); CHILDREN (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); POVERTY RATES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); HISTORY (77%); CONSUMPTION (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); CONSUMER LAW (74%); BANKING LAW (74%); INVESTMENT BANKING (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (74%); EXPORT TRADE (73%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (73%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (72%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (72%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (71%); SOCIOLOGY (71%); CONGENITAL DISORDERS (70%); SPINA BIFIDA (65%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (64%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (64%); WORLD WAR II (60%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (54%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (95%); FRANCE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2013



69 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1827 words

HEADLINE: The No-Limits Job

BYLINE: By TEDDY WAYNE

 BODY:
Every generation has its own anthem of making the journey from youthful naïveté to adult reality, whether it's Neil Young's ''Old Man,'' Nirvana's ''Smells Like Teen Spirit'' or most recently, perhaps, the Taylor Swift song ''22.''
''Tonight's the night when we forget about the deadlines,'' it goes. ''It feels like one of those nights, we won't be sleeping.''
If only it were as easy for Ms. Swift's less affluent contemporaries to blow off their deadlines as it is for the singer-songwriter (now a slightly more seasoned 23). Sleepless nights are more likely because they are on the clock, not at the club. 
''If I'm not at the office, I'm always on my BlackBerry,'' said Casey McIntyre, 28, a book publicist in New York. ''I never feel like I'm totally checked out of work.''
Ms. McIntyre is just one 20-something -- a population historically exploitable as cheap labor -- learning that long hours and low pay go hand in hand in the creative class. The recession has been no friend to entry-level positions, where hundreds of applicants vie for unpaid internships at which they are expected to be on call with iPhone in hand, tweeting for and representing their company at all hours.
''We need to hire a 22-22-22,'' one new-media manager was overheard saying recently, meaning a 22-year-old willing to work 22-hour days for $22,000 a year. Perhaps the middle figure is an exaggeration, but its bookends certainly aren't. According to a 2011 Pew report, the median net worth for householders under 35 dropped by 68 percent from 1984 to 2009, to $3,662. Lest you think that's a mere side effect of the economic downturn, for those over 65, it rose 42 percent to $170,494 (largely because of an overall gain in property values). Hence 1.2 million more 25-to-34-year-olds lived with their parents in 2011 than did four years earlier.
The young are logging hours, too. In 2011, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, full-time workers ages 20 to 24 put in just 2.1 fewer hours a week than those 25 and over. That's not a big gap of leisure for the ostensibly freewheeling time in one's life. Or, to quote Lena Dunham's 24-year-old aspiring writer in ''Girls,'' ''I am busy trying to become who I am.''
A recent posting by Dalkey Archive Press, an avant-garde publisher in Champaign, Ill., for unpaid interns in its London office encapsulated the outlandish demands on young workers. The stern catalog of grounds for ''immediate dismissal'' included ''coming in late or leaving early without prior permission,'' ''being unavailable at night or on the weekends'' and ''failing to respond to e-mails in a timely way.'' And ''The Steve Wilkos Show'' on NBCUniversal recently advertised on Craigslist for a freelance booking production assistant who would work ''65+ hours per week'' (the listing was later removed after drawing outraged comments when it was linked on jimromenesko.com).
''The notion of the traditional entry-level job is disappearing,'' said Ross Perlin, 29, the author of ''Intern Nation: How to Earn Nothing and Learn Little in the Brave New Economy.'' Internships have replaced them, he said, ''but also fellowships and nebulous titles that sound prestigious and pay a stipend, which means you're only coming out with $15,000 a year.''
Once a short-term commitment at most, internships have become an obligatory rite of passage that often drags on for years.
''Particularly in some rock-star professions -- film and TV and publishing and media -- companies are pushing the envelope to see how much they can get out of young people for how low a stipend or salary,'' Mr. Perlin said. ''And people are desperate enough to break in to do it.''
That's what Katherine Myers, 27, found when she graduated from college in 2008. After months of searching, she landed a position as a development coordinator at a cable channel in New York.
''I was willing to put up with anything,'' she said. ''I never took a lunch, I came in early, I worked late.''
Still, her experience was more pleasant than that of two of her friends who successively worked for a major film producer.
''Last year, we threw a surprise birthday party for one, and he had to miss it because his boss called him in to come to a screening,'' she said. ''For a year we never saw him. He'd get up at 5, be there till 1 a.m., fall asleep at work.''
The other friend left for law school after four months.
''I think she thought it made no sense,'' Ms. Myers said. ''You have to have a feeling that you're doing something good for the world, and that's hard to come up with in some jobs. If you're a doctor or lawyer, or even in finance, you can justify it. But if you're in fashion, it's like, 'Oh, boy, who cares?' ''
But Ms. Myers, now in a higher-ranking position at the Web site CollegeHumor, is committed to her field, as is Cathy Pitoun, 25. Two years ago, as a production assistant at a Culver City, Calif., company that cuts movie trailers, Ms. Pitoun earned $10 an hour with no benefits (though an overtime bonus), with rotating weekend work. After six months she was promoted to a position ''where one dropped ball could get you fired,'' she noted, and a raise to $12 an hour with benefits. She estimated that she worked at least 60 hours a week.
''There were days where I stayed until 4 a.m. just to send out one TV spot to one client in Japan and then had to come in 4 hours later for a whole new day,'' Ms. Pitoun said. ''And days where I had to be at work at 5 a.m. to do voice-over sessions with actors in Europe to make up for the time change and still stay until 9 at night.''
Her investment, like Ms. Myers's, paid off: she's now the assistant to the chief executive, though she knows that the path to producing, her long-term goal, ''will get worse before it gets better,'' she said.
Ms. Pitoun's job surely would have been less demanding in the pre-Internet and smartphone age. If she ever turned off her phone for a few hours, her in-box would be flooded with e-mails or missed calls and texts.
''I had to be reachable 100 percent of the time on an on-call weekend,'' she said, ''so I would usually use those weekends to do chores around my apartment and wait for the phone to ring.''
The assignment could be as small as coming in to send one e-mail and as onerous as digitizing footage for 15 hours.
Ms. McIntyre, the book publicist, estimated that she receives 300 to 400 e-mails a day and tries to answer at least 80 percent. How does she summon the energy for this incessant typing, not to mention 16-hour days traveling with authors on tour?
''I have coffee before I leave the house, there's a Dunkin' Donuts conveniently in the subway station when I get off, and I get another coffee during the day,'' she said. ''And they're large coffees.''
Complicating matters is the fact that it is not yet known how to quantify or define digital work. Forget e-mail.
''Is a tweet labor? Is a Facebook post labor?'' Mr. Perlin, the author, asked.
Ironically, millennials, to whom the burden of monitoring late-night social media or e-mail frequently falls, may be underestimating the value of such work. Their habits of consuming culture free of charge on the Internet, he suggested, have ''carried over into the world of work, so they're more willing to accept barter or in-kind payment,'' like free lunches. And their primary payment is building ''cultural capital,'' as opposed to ''capital capital.''
In these ''rock star'' professions, too, notably in the business-casual Silicon Valley, many companies ''have tried to break down the homogenizing nightmare of the 1950s,'' Mr. Perlin said, replacing cubicles with foosball tables and other dorm-room accouterments to entice employees to stay late bonding with colleagues.
''But we've got something more sinister now,'' he said. ''People are working much more and are convinced to invest themselves body and soul. It tries to make you lose your sense of your workplace versus home: who are your co-workers and who are your friends?''
Children of helicopter parents who have been overscheduled since nursery school might find it especially hard to set professional limits. As part of the generation ''that's been taught to engage in labors of love,'' Mr. Perlin said, ''it's led us into these fields, and secondly, it's encouraged us to knock down that boundary between life and work in the traditional artist mode.''
''You can't get a job by saying, 'I just want a job,' '' he said. ''Your heart has to be supposedly in it, and you have to demonstrate that by staying as late as you're supposed to stay or responding to e-mails at 11 p.m.''
This commitment is what Lucy Schiller, 24, demonstrated over two years in Denver and San Francisco, yet nothing panned out. Ms. Schiller falls into Mr. Perlin's category of a ''serial intern.'' While working the 4:45 a.m. to 3 p.m. shift four days a week for minimum wage at a cafe (where her manager would take half her tips in front of her), she interned, usually for no pay, at five artistic and cultural institutions as she juggled side projects.
They were never lucrative; at one Web site ''there was the possibility of being paid $3 per article, but that never materialized,'' she said. Her 70 hours of work a week netted her about $500.
On her last day at one job, her 75-year-old supervisor asked her to help move some heavy things in her house. In her garage, the supervisor opened a door from which issued a blinding stream of light.
''It was a huge room filled with her own field of marijuana plants,'' Ms. Schiller said. ''She conscripted me for no pay to harvest it overnight. She makes $35,000 per crop and it goes straight to her retirement account.''
The intern's payment the next morning: a breakfast burrito.
At her other positions, Ms. Schiller said, she worked ''extremely hard and wrote a lot, and it pays off in some way, but the fact is, it doesn't pay off in the immediate sense.'' Her parents, initially excited at her prospects, grew worried with each additional internship, a cycle she feared was portraying her ''as wishy-washy or not viable for paid labor.'' In January, she moved back home to Urbana, Ill., to save money and apply for jobs -- presumably not at nearby Dalkey Archive Press.
Mr. Perlin pointed out that ''some studies show that people in their 20s work eight or nine jobs in that period, which economists see as a good thing, but they aren't looking at the stress and personal toll it takes.''
Ms. Myers's parents, too, ''appreciate and encourage me, but they're baffled by'' her career in entertainment, she said.
''They don't think that I'm on a track,'' she said. ''They think there's no point unless you're making money.
''It's a legit question,'' she continued. ''I'm going to turn 30 in the next few years, and it's hard to be young and feel like the gap is so big between my station in this industry and others who are doing so well in it. To get up every morning, I have to think that I'll be one of those people. But I happen to be a delusionally positive person.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: For her long days, Casey McIntyre, 28, a book publicist, relies on ''large coffees.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY DEIDRE SCHOO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ST1)
Above, Lucy Schiller, 24, had multiple internships before moving back in with her parents in Urbana, Ill. Top, Ross Perlin, 29, author of ''Intern Nation,'' said having many jobs in your 20s takes a personal toll. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NATHAN WEBER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 DEIDRE SCHOO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ST16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC INDUSTRY (77%); SONG WRITING (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (73%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (72%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (72%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); MEDIA CONVERGENCE (68%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (67%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (67%); WRITERS (67%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (66%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); STATISTICS (61%)

COMPANY: RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (56%)

TICKER: RIM (TSX) (56%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (56%)

PERSON: TAYLOR SWIFT (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2013



70 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1358 words

HEADLINE: Wilson to Obama: March Forth!

BYLINE: By A. SCOTT BERG. 
A biographer and the author of the forthcoming book ''Wilson.''

 BODY:
''THERE has been a change of government,'' declared Woodrow Wilson in his first sentence as president of the United States, one hundred years ago this Monday. Until 1937, when the 20th Amendment moved Inauguration Day to late January, chief executives took their oaths of office on March Fourth, a date that sounds like a command.
Nobody heeded this implied imperative more than Wilson: the 28th president enjoyed the most meteoric rise in American history, before or since. In 1910, Wilson was the president of a small men's college in New Jersey -- his alma mater, Princeton. In 1912, he won the presidency. (He made a brief stop in between as governor of New Jersey.) Over the next eight years, Wilson advanced the most ambitious agenda of progressive legislation the country had ever seen, what became known as ''The New Freedom.'' To this day, any president who wants to enact transformative proposals can learn a few lessons from the nation's scholar-president.
With his first important piece of legislation, Wilson showed that he was offering a sharp change in governance. He began his crusade with a thorough revision of the tariff system, an issue that, for decades, had only been discussed. Powerful legislators had long rigged tariffs to buttress monopolies and to favor their own interests, if not their own fortunes. 
Wilson, a Democrat, thought an economic overhaul this audacious demanded an equally bold presentation. Not since John Adams's final State of the Union speech, in 1800, had a president addressed a joint session of Congress in person. But Wilson, a former professor of constitutional law (and still the nation's only president with a Ph.D.), knew that he was empowered ''from time to time'' to ''give to the Congress information of the state of the union, and recommend to their consideration such measures as he shall judge necessary and expedient.'' And so, on April 8, 1913, five weeks after his inauguration, he appeared before the lawmakers. Even members of Wilson's own party decried the maneuver as an arrogant throne speech.
The man many considered an aloof intellectual explained to Congress that the president of the United States is simply ''a human being trying to cooperate with other human beings in a common service.'' His presence alone, to say nothing of his eloquent appeal, affixed overwhelming importance to tariff reform. In less than 10 minutes, Wilson articulated his argument and left the Capitol.
The next day, Wilson did something even more stunning: he returned. On the second floor of the Capitol -- in the North Wing, steps from the Senate chamber -- is the most ornate room within an already grand edifice. George Washington had suggested this President's Room, where he and the Senate could conduct their joint business, but it was not built until the 1850s. Even then, the Italianate salon, with its frescoed ceiling and richly colored tiled floor, was seldom used beyond the third day of March every other year, when Congressional sessions ended and the president arrived to sign 11th-hour legislation. Only during Wilson's tenure has the President's Room served the purpose for which it was designed. He frequently worked there three times a week, often with the door open.
Almost every visit Wilson made to the Capitol proved productive. (As president, he appeared before joint sessions of Congress more than two dozen times.) During Wilson's first term, when the president was blessed with majorities in both the House and the Senate, the policies of the New Freedom led to the creation of the Federal Reserve, the Federal Trade Commission, the Clayton Antitrust Act, the eight-hour workday, child labor laws and workers' compensation. Wilson was also able to appoint the first Jew to the Supreme Court, Louis D. Brandeis.
Even when the president became besieged with troubles, both personal and political -- the death of his first wife; the outbreak of World War I; an increasingly Republican legislative branch; agonizing depression until he married a widow named Edith Bolling Galt -- Wilson hammered away at his progressive program. In 1916, he won re-election because, as his campaign slogan put it, ''He kept us out of war!'' A month after his second inauguration, he appeared yet again before Congress, this time, however, to convince the nation that ''the world must be made safe for democracy.'' This credo became the foundation for the next century of American foreign policy: an obligation to assist all peoples in pursuit of freedom and self-determination.
Suddenly, the United States needed to transform itself from an isolationist nation into a war machine, and Wilson persuaded Congress that dozens of crucial issues (including repressive espionage and sedition acts) required that politics be ''adjourned.'' Wilson returned again and again to the President's Room, eventually convincing Congress to pass the 19th Amendment: if women could keep the home fires burning amid wartime privation, the president argued, they should be entitled to vote. The journalist Frank I. Cobb called Wilson's control of Congress ''the most impressive triumph of mind over matter known to American politics.''
IN the 1918 Congressional election -- held days before the armistice -- Wilson largely abstained from politics, but he did issue a written plea for a Democratic majority. Those who had followed his earlier advice and adjourned politics felt he was pulling a fast one. Republicans captured both houses. With the war over, Wilson left for Paris to broker a peace treaty, one he hoped would include the formation of a League of Nations, where countries could settle disputes peaceably and preemptively. The treaty required Senate approval, and Wilson, who had been away from Washington for more than six months, returned to discover that Republicans had actively, sometimes secretly, built opposition to it -- without even knowing what the treaty stipulated.
Recognizing insurmountable resistance on Capitol Hill, even after hosting an unprecedented working meeting of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee at the White House, Wilson attempted an end run around the Senate: he took his case directly to the people. During a 29-city tour, he slowly captured public support. But then he collapsed on a train between Pueblo, Colo., and Wichita, Kan., and had to be rushed back to the White House. Days later he suffered a stroke, which his wife, his physician and a handful of co-conspirators concealed from the world, leaving Mrs. Wilson to decide, in her words, ''what was important and what was not.''
In March 1920, having recovered enough to wage a final battle against the Republicans, Wilson could have garnered support for a League of Nations by surrendering minor concessions. But he refused. The treaty failed the Senate by seven votes, and in 1921, the president hobbled out of the White House as the lamest duck in American history, with his ideals intact but his grandest ambition in tatters.
Two months ago, our current president, facing financial cliffs and sequestration and toting an ambitious agenda filled with such incendiary issues as immigration reform and gun control, spoke of the need to break ''the habit of negotiating through crisis.'' Wilson knew how to sidestep that problem. He understood that conversation often holds the power to convert, that sustained dialogue is the best means of finding common ground.
Today, President Obama and Congress agree that the national debt poses lethal threats to future generations, and so they should declare war on that enemy and adjourn politics, at least until it has been subdued. The two sides should convene in the President's Room, at the table beneath the frescoes named ''Legislation'' and ''Executive Authority,'' each prepared to leave something on it. And then they should return the next day, and maybe the day after that. Perhaps the senior senator from Kentucky could offer a bottle of his state's smoothest bourbon, and the president could provide the branch water. All sides should remember Wilson and the single factor that determines the country's glorious successes or crushing failures: cooperation.
March forth!

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Edward M. Kennedy in the President's Room in the Capitol, in 2001. As president, Woodrow Wilson used the room regularly. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID HUME KENNERLY/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); HISTORY (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); TAX REFORM (68%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (65%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); TED KENNEDY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2013



71 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 472 words

HEADLINE: The Financial Future of Veterinarians

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''The Vet Debt Trap'' (Feb. 24), about the veterinary student debt crisis, hit the nail on the head. It should be required reading for all prospective veterinary students, regardless of age, to temper their passionate pursuit of the profession with a sobering dose of financial realism before they commit. 
I am a 28-year veteran of the profession. My demographic of private-practice owners will also suffer the consequences of this vicious debt cycle, since the eventual sale proceeds of our practices represent a significant portion of our potential retirement nest egg. Good luck finding a qualified buyer among our debt-ridden younger colleagues in the next 5 to 10 years and beyond, especially in the face of falling practice revenue. Some newly minted veterinarians won't be able to qualify for a home mortgage, let alone the financing to buy a practice.
JEFFREY T. KRYSINSKI, D.V.M.
Grosse Pointe, Mich., Feb. 24
To the Editor:
The article shed light on a subject that is hugely overlooked and underreported. Before I applied to veterinary school, it was my understanding that there was a lack of veterinarians, especially in large-animal practice. Now I face the challenge of paying off student debt when jobs are few and far between.
I will most likely have to take an internship that may pay about $26,000 a year -- $13 an hour for a 40-hour week, working 50 weeks a year. Considering that an intern may work 60 to 70 hours a week, that's about $8 an hour. I made more money when I worked shoveling horse manure.
I entered veterinary school with the best intentions -- I love animals and can't imagine a career that would make me happier. We are all young, starry-eyed animal lovers with dreams of saving lives; we are not accountants or business people. I hope that veterinary schools, the government and, most important, our future clients will take into account the sacrifices we make to live our dreams.
LAUREN PETERSON
Baton Rouge, La., Feb. 26
The writer is a third-year veterinary student at Louisiana State University.
To the Editor:
I bought my veterinary practice in 2005, just two years out of school. And while the economy in my area has not been kind to veterinary practices, I am still here.
But I have seen a change in the face of veterinary medicine, as more pet owners want low-cost, online, do-it-yourself medicine for their pets. Sometimes I foresee the field becoming a trade, rather than a profession -- even as so many veterinarians have student loans to deal with.
It's hard to compete, and I have had to resort to coupons and lowering my own costs to get business in the door. I hope that it will be enough to finish paying off my loans.
ANDREA MAYBERRY, D.V.M.
Grove City, Ohio, Feb. 25
The writer is owner of Grove City Veterinary Hospital.
Letters for Sunday Business may be sent to sunbiz@nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); PERSONAL DEBT (90%); STUDENT LOANS (90%); VETERINARY SERVICES (89%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (89%); STUDENT EXPENSES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); PETS (89%); DEBT CRISIS (89%); ANIMALS (89%); VETERINARY DRUGS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (75%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (73%); WRITERS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2013



72 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; THE BOSS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 601 words

HEADLINE: Bringing Music Back to School

BYLINE: By PAUL COTHRAN. 
As told to Patricia R. Olsen.

 BODY:
MY family lived in a working-class neighborhood of West Philadelphia. My mother sent my older sister and me to Catholic school to escape the gangs in the local public schools. My father was a mechanic at the local Ford dealer, and he, my two older brothers and I would always talk about car magazines and the latest cars. Every Christmas I'd get a radio-controlled toy car. The year the Mustang came out, I got one with working lights.
I enrolled at Fordham University in New York for a bachelor's in international politics and economics, and graduated in 1978. I learned a lot about how the world works, including the occasional side deals made at organizations like the United Nations to complete international treaties or to accomplish other goals. 
I've always been drawn to New York and have spent my entire career here. While working as a program coordinator for a nonprofit group that was conducting research on heart-attack risk factors, I saw a want ad for a public relations position for the United Way of New York City. I got the job, which involved fund-raising and set me on the path to my future. Fund-raising is a great career; it's creative and involves public relations, marketing, sales, writing and public speaking.
In 1984, I moved to National Medical Fellowships, which provides scholarships for minority students to attend medical school. In the three years I was there, I rose to development director. I also worked in fund-raising for Fordham, and later Pace University.
In 1997, an executive search firm called about a position at the Big Apple Circus in New York. I interviewed and was offered the job of director of health and community programs. I wasn't sure that I wanted a job with a circus on my résumé, so I initially declined. Then the executive director called and said I had great fund-raising experience but lacked experience in program management, which the circus could offer me on a national scale.
I accepted and worked there for seven years. Two of my favorite accomplishments involved expanding two programs across the country: the Clown Care program in pediatric hospitals, and Circus of the Senses, for children with visual and hearing impairments.
In 2004, another search firm called about the executive director position at VH1 Save the Music Foundation. I wasn't confident I'd be hired because I didn't feel that I was particularly cool and I didn't have a deep musical background. But they were looking for someone with my experience and offered me the job.
Initially, VH1 Save the Music Foundation was a public affairs initiative of the VH1 cable channel. In 1997, it was spun off as a nonprofit, but we still work in close association with VH1. I'm employed by the channel as the foundation's executive director and carry a dual title; I'm also a vice president of VH1.
We raise funds to restore instrumental music education programs that were cut because of budget constraints. We believe that students who study musical instruments improve in academic subjects and are more engaged in school. Studying music also helps students develop self-expression and discipline and learn about teamwork.
Schools have told us that the initial capital outlay for items like musical instruments is a big challenge. We offer packages so that schools can select whether they want band instruments or string instruments, or a keyboard or guitar laboratory. We require that our program be offered in the curriculum -- held during the school day -- so that all students can sign up. Since 1997, we have donated more than $49 million worth of instruments to over 1,800 public schools.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: PAUL COTHRAN: Executive director, VH1 Save the Music Foundation, New York AGE: 56 COLLECTS: Die-cast models of cars HOBBY: Bicycling (PHOTOGRAPH BY VH1 SAVE THE MUSIC FOUNDATION) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); MUSIC (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); EXECUTIVES (86%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (78%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (68%); CIRCUSES & CARNIVALS (68%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (68%); EYE DISORDERS & INJURIES (67%); CABLE TELEVISION (60%); PEDIATRICS (60%); CHILDREN'S HOSPITALS (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (54%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (52%)

COMPANY: BIG APPLE CIRCUS LTD (66%)

ORGANIZATION: FORDHAM UNIVERSITY (57%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); NATIONAL MEDICAL FELLOWSHIPS (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS711190 OTHER PERFORMING ARTS COMPANIES (66%); SIC7999 AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES, NEC (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2013



73 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ARTS | CONNECTICUT; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 773 words

HEADLINE: Longing to Escape From the Debt and the Dirt

BYLINE: By ANITA GATES

 BODY:
The lamb gets laughs.
In Long Wharf Theater's atmospheric but tenuous new production of ''Curse of the Starving Class,'' a character brings a fluffy young white sheep into the family kitchen and makes it comfortable in an enclosure, because it is sick and needs warmth. And the animal (unnamed in the program but trained or wrangled or something by William Berloni) does what many animals do onstage -- looks adorable, makes noises when it has no lines and tends to relieve itself, albeit discreetly, in front of the audience.
Yet ''Starving Class,'' which is early Sam Shepard (it opened at the Public Theater in New York in 1978), is known for its violently dark humor, much of which seems to have been lost in this staging. 
Luckily the production, directed by Gordon Edelstein, has Judith Ivey. Ms. Ivey, a Tony Award winner who just completed a Broadway run as the well-meaning Victorian aunt in ''The Heiress'' and whose most notable Long Wharf appearance was as the ultimate controlling mother in Tennessee Williams's ''Glass Menagerie,'' which went on to a beautifully reviewed New York production, plays the mother, Ella. And whenever she is onstage, energy flies everywhere. Ella is a mother who thinks nothing (or very little) of taking the chicken that her daughter, Emma (Elvy Yost), raised, slaughtered and plucked for an important 4-H Club demonstration, and cooking it. Ella is hungry.
The family is not literally starving, but its nearly empty refrigerator is the focus of the set, in this case a highly abstract one by Michael Yeargan. The depressing story of this California farm family in deep debt and in danger might have been better served with scenic design that conveyed claustrophobia, as the 1994 film version with James Woods and Kathy Bates did. These are people who live on a sprawling expanse of land but hide out under low ceilings in rooms as dark as closets. On the other hand, in Mr. Yeargan's set, the sandy dirt of the outdoors encroaches on the kitchen flooring like a lower-middle-class infinity pool, and that is a powerful, ever-present image.
Almost everyone in the household is plotting an escape of one kind or another. Ella is getting all spruced up for a business meeting (perhaps more?) with Taylor (John Procaccino), a real estate agent who she hopes will be able to sell the house and farm, so she can take the proceeds and run away to Europe -- with the children, of course. Her understanding of Europe is comically limited, but she knows that it is different and far away, which seems good enough for now.
Inconveniently, her alcoholic husband, Weston (a very fine Kevin Tighe), has the same idea. He has already sold the place for a pittance to a callous local club owner (Clark Middleton), who takes a look at the run-down property and decides he may turn it into a steakhouse. Weston may head for Mexico to start a new life. But first it must be determined whether the transaction is legal, because Weston may not be considered legally competent.
Emma, although she is so young that she is having her first menstrual period (Ella makes a detailed speech to her about the event's significance and where not to buy sanitary napkins), is also planning to run away and may actually follow through in Act II.
Only Wesley (Peter Albrink), the son, demonstrates any loyalty to the homestead. His conflict is that he cherishes his home but lives in fear of turning into his father, who describes himself as poisoned. Mr. Albrink has a lovely stage presence, but he is saddled with Mr. Shepard's gorgeous but self-conscious speeches to the universe. We want him to sound like a farm boy talking to himself because he has no one else to share his feelings with, but in Act I, Wesley sounds more like a beatnik poet at a Greenwich Village coffeehouse reciting his poor-man's-Ginsberg to fellow urban bohemians. The audience may feel the impulse to applaud, politely, by snapping their fingers. Say what you will about Williams's floridity as a playwright; when young Tom does his parallel introductory monologue in ''Menagerie,'' you believe in who he is and why he is speaking.
Whatever Mr. Shepard meant these family members to represent 35 years ago, today's economy has made them all too familiar. Like many Americans, they borrowed money because it was offered to them and figured their betters would not steer them wrong. As Weston says, ''They wouldn't be so generous if they didn't figure you had it coming.'' Would they?
''Curse of the Starving Class,'' by Sam Shepard, is at Long Wharf Theater Stage I, 222 Sargent Drive, New Haven, through March 10. Information: longwharf.org or (203) 787-4282.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Clockwise from top: Judith Ivey as Ella, an unsophisticated mother who dreams of selling the farm and making a new life in Europe
Peter Albrink, left, as Ella's son, Wesley, with John Procaccino as Taylor, a real estate agent
Elvy Yost as her daughter, Emma
 and Kevin Tighe as Weston, her alcoholic husband. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY T. CHARLES ERICKSON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (78%); COSTUME & SET DESIGN (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (68%); FAMILY FARMS (68%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (50%)

COMPANY: GLASS MENAGERIE (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS327212 OTHER PRESSED & BLOWN GLASS & GLASSWARE MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3229 PRESSED & BLOWN GLASS & GLASSWARE, NEC (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (71%); CALIFORNIA, USA (53%) EUROPE (84%); UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2013



74 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1336 words

HEADLINE: Cuts to Achieve Goal for Deficit, But Toll Is High

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The latest budget impasse ushered in a new round of austerity on Saturday, with the nation facing reduced federal services, canceled contracts, job furloughs and layoffs.
But lost in the talk of Washington's dysfunction is this fact: on paper at least, President Obama and Congress have reduced projected deficits by nearly $4 trillion over a decade -- the widely embraced goal for stabilizing the national debt.
The spending cuts that began to take effect Friday, known as sequestration and totaling about $1 trillion through 2023, come on top of $1.5 trillion in reductions that Mr. Obama and Congress committed to in 2011, mainly from the accord that averted the nation's first debt default.
Nearly $700 billion more will come from tax increases on wealthy Americans, the product of the brawl in December over Bush-era tax cuts, and another $700 billion is expected to be saved in projected interest on the reduced debt. 
If the latest cuts stick, the two parties will have achieved nearly the full amount of deficit reduction over the next decade that economists and market analysts have promoted. Yet the mix comes with substantial downsides.
It does not add up to the ''grand bargain'' that the two parties had been seeking, because it leaves virtually untouched the entitlement programs -- Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security -- that are responsible for projections of an unsustainably rising federal debt in coming decades.
''This is not a result that deals with our long-term debt problem,'' said Vin Weber, a Republican former congressman. ''The fact we've gotten to a $4 trillion deficit-reduction deal without tackling entitlements is almost a bad thing,'' he added, if it lulls the public and the politicians into thinking the problem is solved.
The progress on deficit reduction over the past two years will also probably hamper job creation and the economic recovery. Private and government forecasters project that sequestration alone will cost about 700,000 jobs this year and will shave at least a half percentage point from economic growth. The Congressional Budget Office now forecasts a falling deficit but stubbornly high unemployment in coming years.
For Democrats, at least, the mix of spending cuts and tax increases in the package is another reason for disappointment. The deficit deals to date would yield $4 in spending cuts for every dollar of new revenue. Mr. Obama, as well as several bipartisan groups, including the commission led by Erskine B. Bowles and Alan K. Simpson, call for one dollar of tax increases for every $2 to $3 in spending cuts.
It remains unclear how long sequestration will last: it was designed to be onerous to force a compromise on an alternative. But Mr. Obama and Republicans indicated on Friday that the cuts would probably remain in place at least until the end of the fiscal year, Sept. 30.
Democrats, led by the president, express confidence that in coming months public pressure will force Republicans to relent on revenue, especially as cuts to the military begin to be felt. But Republican leaders have said they will stand firm against tax increases, suggesting that they have won at least a temporary victory on reducing the size of the government.
In his weekly address on Saturday, Mr. Obama said the Republicans had ''decided that protecting special-interest tax breaks for the well off and well connected is more important than protecting our military and middle-class families from these cuts.''
''I still believe we can and must replace these cuts with a balanced approach -- one that combines smart spending cuts with entitlement reform and changes to our tax code that make it more fair for families and businesses without raising anyone's tax rates,'' Mr. Obama said.
In the Republican response, Representative Cathy McMorris Rodgers of Washington State, said: ''The problem here isn't a lack of taxes. This year alone, the federal government will take in more revenue than ever before. Spending is the problem, which means cutting spending is the solution. It's that simple.''
According to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office, total government spending is falling compared with the size of the economy but will rise again in the next decade. That growth will be driven by the entitlement programs as more baby boomers retire, not by discretionary spending.
And revenues, while reaching a high in dollar terms, remain below the average of the past 40 years as measured against gross domestic product.
The Republicans' decision to accept sequestration raises the question of whether Democrats miscalculated in the negotiations in December over the Bush tax cuts. At the time, Mr. Obama and Democratic leaders accepted $680 billion in higher taxes on top incomes, which is just half of the minimum revenue increase the president wants.
Democrats had assumed that Republicans might agree to more tax increases, primarily through ending or reducing deductions, in exchange for Democrats' support for canceling sequestration of military accounts. But Republicans shifted gears, to the surprise of the White House, and instead opted to accept the cuts, at least for now.
The grand bargain that has eluded Mr. Obama and Speaker John A. Boehner was supposed to mainly curb entitlement spending and raise revenues. Lesser savings would come from the discretionary programs that cover almost everything else the government does for defense and domestic purposes.
But Mr. Boehner's speakership is on the line, given Republicans' unhappiness with the December tax deal, and he vows that he will no longer negotiate with Mr. Obama on overhauling the tax code to raise revenue for deficit reduction. To date the revenue raised falls short of the amount Mr. Boehner proposed in previous talks. Nor will the Senate Republican leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, who faces re-election next year in a state with a strong Tea Party faction. He said on Friday, ''I will not be part of any back-room deal, and I will absolutely not agree to increase taxes.''
The president and Congressional Democrats will not agree to reductions in Medicare or Social Security spending except in return for at least $600 billion more in higher revenue over 10 years, from shaving tax breaks for the wealthy and corporations.
That standoff has left the discretionary programs to bear the brunt of deficit reduction measures. Those domestic and military programs are so named because Congress has discretion to set spending levels annually in appropriations bills; entitlement benefits, in contrast, grow automatically unless changed by law.
Even without counting sequestration, the budget office, in its annual 10-year outlook last month, appeared skeptical that political leaders would maintain the discretionary spending cuts mandated in 2011 given their scale.
Robert Greenstein, the head of the liberal Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, said the decline in such spending came even as some discretionary programs, like health care for returning war veterans, would have to rise. ''That will squeeze core functions -- from education, research and infrastructure to protecting the food and water supply to services for poor children and frail seniors,'' he said.
J. Keith Kennedy, a Republican former staff director of the Senate Appropriations Committee, said: ''The annual discretionary money is where you make your investments. And you decide every year where do you want to put your money to invest in the future -- whether it's education, or health care or infrastructure or national parks, or sending another rover to Mars.''
For two decades through the 1990s, G. William Hoagland, then the Republican staff director at the Senate Budget Committee, fought with Mr. Kennedy to get the Appropriations Committee to cut discretionary spending. But now, Mr. Hoagland said, ''We have squeezed that turnip as far as we're going to go, and that's before sequestration. That is the component of the budget which, for all practical purposes, is the seed corn of the future.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Representative Cathy McMorris Rodgers, shown last month in Washington, said on Saturday that ''spending was the problem.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES)
G.William Hoagland, a former staff director at the Senate Budget Committee, is against more discretionary spending cuts. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CAROL T. POWERS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A26) CHARTS: Recent Reductions to the Deficit (Sources: Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget
Center on Budget and Policy Priorities
 Congressional Budget Office) (CHARTS BY ALICIA PARLAPIANO/ THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A26) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIONAL DEBT (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BUDGET FORECASTS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); MEDICARE (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); TAX INCENTIVES (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (61%); MEDICAID (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); ERSKINE BOWLES (56%); CATHY MCMORRIS RODGERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2013



75 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 902 words

HEADLINE: Kerry Is Hoping to Nudge Egypt Toward Reforms

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON and DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK; Michael R. Gordon reported from Cairo, and David D. Kirkpatrick from Istanbul.

 BODY:
CAIRO -- Secretary of State John Kerry told Egypt's political and business leaders on Saturday that it was urgent their country institute economic reforms and satisfy the conditions the International Monetary Fund has set for a $4.8 billion loan.
''It is paramount, essential, urgent that the Egyptian economy get stronger, that it gets back on its feet,'' Mr. Kerry told a group of Egyptian and American business executives in Cairo. ''It's clear to us that the I.M.F. arrangement needs to be reached, that we need to give the market that confidence.'' 
Mr. Kerry's visit -- his first trip to an Arab capital as secretary of state -- comes at a time of economic peril in Egypt. The country's economy has teetered near collapse for months, with soaring unemployment, a gaping budget deficit, dwindling hard-currency reserves and steep declines in the currency's value.
The fund's loan is critical, economists say, because it would provide a seal of approval that Egypt's economy is on a path toward self-sufficiency, allowing it to obtain enough other international loans to fill in its deficit. Both the United States and the European Union are prepared to provide substantial additional assistance if Egypt and the I.M.F. can come to terms.
But even as Mr. Kerry stressed the need for prompt economic steps -- and the political peace needed to achieve those changes -- some opponents of President Mohamed Morsi sought to put the spotlight on the nation's uneasy political course.
Parliamentary elections are scheduled for April. The major opposition group, the National Salvation Front, has announced that it plans to boycott the vote to protest what it says is a push by Mr. Morsi and his Islamist allies to dominate politics.
The Obama administration has been criticized by some of Mr. Morsi's rivals as being too supportive of the Egyptian president, as has Mr. Kerry, who was the first American senator to meet Mr. Morsi.
The delicacy of the issue was apparent when members of the political opposition were invited to a Saturday session with Mr. Kerry. Some members, including Hamdeen Sabahi, who came in third in the presidential election last year, decided not to attend. Mohamed ElBaradei, one of the leaders of the National Salvation Front, chose not to go, but to speak by phone with Mr. Kerry instead.
Those that attended, Mr. Kerry later said, engaged in a ''very, very spirited'' discussion.
Mohamed El Orabi, a former foreign minister and a leading member of the National Congress Party who went to the meeting, said that Mr. Kerry had talked about the importance of democracy while driving home his message on the economy.
Mr. Kerry also met separately with Amr Moussa, a former secretary general of the Arab League and the head of the National Congress Party.
The two years of tumult that began with the ouster of former President Hosni Mubarak has sharply slowed foreign investment and tourism, and economists say the Egyptian government urgently needs a cash infusion of several billion dollars to fend off the risk of an economic calamity that could lead to more unrest and instability.
In September, the United States brought more than 100 business executives to Cairo to encourage trade and economic development. But continuing political protests, including when demonstrators scaled the walls of the American Embassy here on the anniversary of the 9/11 terrorist attacks, discouraged many businessmen from following up, Mr. Kerry noted. (The protesters that day were angry over an amateurish American-made video denouncing Islam.)
The International Monetary Fund has held on-again, off-again negotiations with Egypt for more than a year about providing the $4.8 billion.
The fund has imposed two difficult conditions. It has required the Egyptian government to commit itself to undertaking painful reforms like raising taxes and reducing energy subsidies.
It has also required a demonstration of political support for the reforms and the loan, to ensure that the government will honor its commitments in the future. That requires a dependable political process, as well as a degree of consensus that Egypt's political factions have been unable to sustain.
On Sunday, Mr. Kerry is scheduled to meet with Mr. Morsi. The secretary of state said he would discuss specific steps the United States could take to boost the Egyptian economy if Egypt worked out a loan package with the I.M.F. That will be Mr. Kerry's final meeting in Egypt before departing for Saudi Arabia, the seventh stop on his nine-nation tour.
The protests and street violence that have destabilized Egypt's transition continued Saturday. The Egyptian state media reported that a demonstrator in the Nile Delta city of Mansoura was killed when he was run over by an armored police vehicle.
Violence also flared again in the Suez Canal city of Port Said, where the state media reported that protesters had burned down a police station. The Port Said protests began Jan. 26 after 21 local soccer fans were sentenced to death for their role in a deadly riot at a match last year.
But over the past month, the demonstrations in Port Said have blurred together with sometimes-violent protests in several other cities along the Suez Canal or in the Nile Delta. Some protesters are angry at Mr. Morsi and the Muslim Brotherhood, accusing them of failing to deliver fast enough on the anticipated rewards of the revolution, including economic benefits.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Secretary of State John Kerry on Saturday with Nabil Elaraby, Arab League secretary general. (POOL PHOTO BY JACQUELYN MARTIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); BOYCOTTS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); FOREIGN LENDING (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (74%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (70%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); CURRENCIES (68%); BUDGET DEFICITS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); MOHAMMED MORSI (79%); MOHAMED ELBARADEI (76%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (89%) EGYPT (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2013



76 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1404 words

HEADLINE: Battle for the Soul of a Park

BYLINE: By LISA W. FODERARO

 BODY:
In the grand dream of Hudson River Park, the five-mile greensward stretching down Manhattan's West Side from 59th Street to Battery Place, Pier 40, a hulking structure at the foot of West Houston Street, was supposed to be a cash cow, providing millions of dollars annually in revenue from parking and commercial development.
But the badly deteriorated pier now needs more than $100 million in repairs, and many who are involved with the park see a new role for it: as the location for luxury housing that would underwrite the repairs and pay for the continuing maintenance of the park.
In their view, building a few high-priced residential buildings, like those used to finance maintenance at Brooklyn Bridge Park, is the obvious path. There is just one big obstacle in their way: Deborah J. Glick. 
Ms. Glick, 62, a longtime Democratic member of the Assembly, whose district includes Greenwich Village and the area around Pier 40, is adamantly opposed to any residential development in the park. Depending on your point of view, that makes her either an obstructionist whose intransigence will lead to the collapse of Pier 40, literally and figuratively, and jeopardize the park as a whole, or a principled stalwart whose stand will save the park from being destroyed by the insidious trend of privatization.
''I don't think that the snake oil of residential development is really an answer,'' Ms. Glick said last week, as she stirred a cup of hot cocoa in a cafe near her home in the West Village. ''It's wrongheaded. It's not an easy way out. It will change the dynamic of the park, and what happens when we get another storm?'' She put down her spoon and leveled her gaze: ''When they decide that the way to support Central Park is to put a tower in the park, come back to me, and I'll think about it.''
Hudson River Park was created in the late 1990s with the proviso that it sustain itself with revenue from sites of commercial development within its boundaries. Chelsea Piers is one of those sites; another is Pier 57, where a plan for an ''urban marketplace'' is moving forward. But the pier that held the most promise for generating cash was always Pier 40. Under the law creating the park, parking, retail and entertainment are the primary uses. At one point, Cirque du Soleil was considering a home there, though that idea sank in the face of community opposition, as did a plan to put in a big-box retailer and an aquarium.
Now, the Hudson River Park Trust, the public benefit corporation charged with developing and operating the park, is eager to see the allowed uses expanded to include office and residential development. In the past year, the trust has gained the support of thousands of parents whose children use the athletic fields at the pier. Fearing that those fields might disappear if Pier 40's 3,500 deteriorating pilings and crumbling roof force a permanent shutdown, the parents enlisted an architect to design a concept that calls for dismantling about half of the 15-acre, doughnut-shape pier to open up more views of the water, while increasing space for playing fields. Overlooking the pier would be a pair of 22-story apartment towers.
The trust and several athletic groups, which have organized under the name Pier 40 Champions, have a friend in Richard N. Gottfried, a Democratic assemblyman who represents the neighborhoods north of Pier 40 and was the lead sponsor of the Hudson River Park Act. Once opposed to housing in the park, Mr. Gottfried is now drafting a bill that would allow offices, hotels or residential development at two locations in the park, Pier 40 and Pier 76, which is on West 38th Street and hosts the city's tow pound. But without the support of Ms. Glick, who is a 22-year veteran of the Assembly, the bill has an extremely slim chance of coming up for a vote this session -- let alone passing.
''This is not about people who want more apartment buildings; it's about people who want more parkland,'' said Tobi Bergman, president of the Pier, Park and Playground Association, a nonprofit group that seeks to enhance opportunities for children to play sports, and a promoter of the Pier 40 Champions' concept. ''What we're hearing back from Deborah Glick is that the principle that there not be housing on the west side of West Street is more important than the reality that families face. And that's a pretty hard line.''
In the past two weeks alone, Pier 40 Champions has collected more than 5,000 signatures on an online petition. Their drive has, in some ways, put Ms. Glick on the defensive.
''It makes it more complicated for her that there is this rising movement among people in her community,'' said Holly M. Leicht, executive director of New Yorkers for Parks, a nonprofit advocacy group. ''There's this pragmatism that is now entering the conversation. It's a more nuanced dialogue than it was a year and a half ago.''
The ball fields are not the only thing that the park stands to lose if Pier 40 shuts down, as some of the trust's board members have suggested might be necessary. There is parking there for 1,700 cars, which brings in $5 million in annual revenue, about one-third of the trust's operating budget. Already, the trust has had to move cars within the pier shed to avoid debris falling from the ceiling. Losing the parking revenue would leave the already-cash-starved trust in worse shape.
For Mr. Gottfried, introducing housing next to a pier that is now a parking garage would not detract from the park. He believes Ms. Glick's analogy to Central Park misses the mark. ''I don't think there are any segments of Central Park that are currently occupied by hefty, ugly nonpark buildings that have been legally designated for commercial use, and that's the difference,'' he said. ''If there's going to be a building on Pier 76 and Pier 40, I don't understand why it's better to have cars parked there rather than people sleeping at night.''
Ms. Glick counters that two residential towers at the foot of Houston Street will cast shadows over the pier and the park.
''The mayor talks about a livable city,'' she said. ''What makes a livable city? Some of it is being able to enjoy clean air and long vistas.''
But Ms. Glick says that she's ''willing to be somewhat flexible.'' For example, she would expand the allowable uses at Pier 40 to include offices, which are now prohibited under the Hudson River Park Act. But she wants any future developer to use the existing three-story pier shed.
That concept is nearly identical to one advanced by Douglas Durst, the head of the Durst Organization real estate development firm, who recently stepped down as chairman of the Friends of Hudson River Park, citing ''differences of values and goals'' with the trust. ''As a developer, I'm all in favor of putting housing in parks, the more the better,'' he said. But, he explained, the necessary changes in the law to allow housing at Pier 40 would ''bog down'' the process of issuing a request for proposals. And he doubts that high-rent tenants would want to overlook noisy, brightly lighted ball fields.
Madelyn Wils, president of the Hudson River Park Trust, said the group was not wedded to any plan, though, in a phone interview, she called the Champions idea ''creative.'' She added, ''What we find interesting about the Champions plan is that, here's a youth league that came up with something that nobody had thought about over all these years, which is building on the uplands,'' meaning the strip of land between the pier and the West Side Highway. A study of the two plans commissioned by the trust contends that Mr. Durst's plan overstates projected revenues from the retail and office space.
On Thursday evening, Community Board 2 held a forum at which the two plans were debated. The room was packed with local residents against the housing, soccer parents in favor of it and elected officials, including Ms. Glick.
Ms. Glick spoke last and was unswayed by the large contingent of children in sports jerseys. She repeated her opposition to ''major high-rise development'' and proffered a grab bag of revenue possibilities: diverting a percentage of the existing hotel tax, imposing fees on Circle Line tickets and bolstering city and state support.
Many applauded her, but many others left deflated. ''She keeps talking about other money that's going to come,'' said Jennifer Economou, a mother of two boys who play sports at the pier. ''But where is it?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Deborah J. Glick called plans for housing in Hudson River Park ''wrongheaded.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB1)
Top, a leaking ceiling at Pier 40. Some say luxury residences will help pay for repairs and save the pier. A group called Pier 40 Champions has been pushing for a bill to allow development, distributing buttons, above, and collecting signatures for the cause. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 ROBERT STOLARIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); TRENDS (78%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (78%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (71%); PRIVATIZATION (65%); RETAILERS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2013



77 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; GRAY MATTER; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: This Story Stinks

BYLINE: By DOMINIQUE BROSSARD and DIETRAM A. SCHEUFELE. 
Dominique Brossard and Dietram A. Scheufele are professors of science communication at the University of Wisconsin, Madison.

 BODY:
IN the beginning, the technology gods created the Internet and saw that it was good. Here, at last, was a public sphere with unlimited potential for reasoned debate and the thoughtful exchange of ideas, an enlightening conversational bridge across the many geographic, social, cultural, ideological and economic boundaries that ordinarily separate us in life, a way to pay bills without a stamp.
Then someone invented ''reader comments'' and paradise was lost. 
The Web, it should be said, is still a marvelous place for public debate. But when it comes to reading and understanding news stories online -- like this one, for example -- the medium can have a surprisingly potent effect on the message. Comments from some readers, our research shows, can significantly distort what other readers think was reported in the first place.
But here, it's not the content of the comments that matters. It's the tone.
In a study published online last month in The Journal of Computer-Mediated Communication, we and three colleagues report on an experiment designed to measure what one might call ''the nasty effect.''
We asked 1,183 participants to carefully read a news post on a fictitious blog, explaining the potential risks and benefits of a new technology product called nanosilver. These infinitesimal silver particles, tinier than 100-billionths of a meter in any dimension, have several potential benefits (like antibacterial properties) and risks (like water contamination), the online article reported.
Then we had participants read comments on the post, supposedly from other readers, and respond to questions regarding the content of the article itself.
Half of our sample was exposed to civil reader comments and the other half to rude ones -- though the actual content, length and intensity of the comments, which varied from being supportive of the new technology to being wary of the risks, were consistent across both groups. The only difference was that the rude ones contained epithets or curse words, as in: ''If you don't see the benefits of using nanotechnology in these kinds of products, you're an idiot'' and ''You're stupid if you're not thinking of the risks for the fish and other plants and animals in water tainted with silver.''
The results were both surprising and disturbing. Uncivil comments not only polarized readers, but they often changed a participant's interpretation of the news story itself.
In the civil group, those who initially did or did not support the technology -- whom we identified with preliminary survey questions -- continued to feel the same way after reading the comments. Those exposed to rude comments, however, ended up with a much more polarized understanding of the risks connected with the technology.
Simply including an ad hominem attack in a reader comment was enough to make study participants think the downside of the reported technology was greater than they'd previously thought.
While it's hard to quantify the distortional effects of such online nastiness, it's bound to be quite substantial, particularly -- and perhaps ironically -- in the area of science news.
An estimated 60 percent of the Americans seeking information about specific scientific matters say the Internet is their primary source of information -- ranking it higher than any other news source.
Our emerging online media landscape has created a new public forum without the traditional social norms and self-regulation that typically govern our in-person exchanges -- and that medium, increasingly, shapes both what we know and what we think we know.
One possible approach to moderate the nasty effect, of course, is to shut down online reader comments altogether, as some media organizations and bloggers have done. Paul Krugman's blog post on this newspaper's Web site on the 10th anniversary of Sept. 11, for instance, simply ended with ''I'm not going to allow comments on this post, for obvious reasons.''
Other media outlets have devised rules to promote civility or have actively moderated reader comments.
But as they say, the genie is out of the bottle. Reader interaction is part of what makes the Web the Web -- and, for that matter, Facebook, Twitter and every other social media platform what they are. This phenomenon will only gain momentum as we move deeper into a world of smart TVs and mobile devices where any type of content is immediately embedded in a constant stream of social context and commentary.
It's possible that the social norms in this brave new domain will change once more -- with users shunning meanspirited attacks from posters hiding behind pseudonyms and cultivating civil debate instead.
Until then, beware the nasty effect.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY METAHAVEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (78%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (78%); NANOTECHNOLOGY (78%); WATER POLLUTION (64%); ANIMALS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (59%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2013



78 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FAIR GAME; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1191 words

HEADLINE: Promises, Promises at the New York Fed

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
TWO weeks ago, I wrote a column about a secret agreement struck in July 2012 by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and Bank of America. The existence of the confidential deal was disclosed recently in court filings, which showed the New York Fed releasing Bank of America from all fraud claims on mortgage securities the Fed had bought as part of the government's rescue of the American International Group in 2008.
A.I.G., which is suing Bank of America to recover losses it suffered on those securities, has calculated the value of the fraud claims at $7 billion.
Late on Thursday, a copy of the actual agreement came to light. It was filed by Bank of America in a California court that is hearing the matter of who owns those fraud claims -- A.I.G. or the New York Fed. The agreement was also filed by the New York Fed in a related lawsuit in the Southern District of New York, where the New York Fed asked that the court keep the agreement under seal. 
A reading of the document makes it clear why.
The agreement spells out the terms of a deal in which the New York Fed received $43 million from Bank of America's Countrywide unit. The money changed hands to settle a narrow dispute involving cash flows on several mortgage securities held by an investment vehicle, known as Maiden Lane II. That vehicle was created by the New York Fed as part of the rescue of A.I.G., which had held the Countrywide securities. The previously confidential agreement released Bank of America from all litigation claims on the securities held by Maiden Lane II.
But in exchange for that $43 million, the New York Fed did something else for Bank of America. It agreed to testify on behalf of the bank in its legal battle against A.I.G. over fraud claims.
In that matter, Bank of America has argued that A.I.G. has no right to sue it for fraud because A.I.G. sold the securities to Maiden Lane II and so transferred the litigation rights to the New York Fed. A.I.G., however, maintains that the Maiden Lane agreement never specified the transfer of the right to sue for fraud and that an explicit transfer is required by New York law, which governs the agreement. The New York Fed provided Bank of America with two affidavits supporting the bank's view of who owned the mortgage securities' fraud claims.
Two weeks ago, it was unclear why the New York Fed gave Bank of America the affidavits. But now, its promise to testify ''as needed,'' shown in the formerly confidential settlement, addresses that oddity. It was a contractual obligation.
Interestingly, the New York Fed did not tell the California court that its affidavits came about because of its deal with Bank of America. The affidavits came from James M. Mahoney, a vice president at the New York Fed, and Stephanie A. Heller, its deputy general counsel.
But those affidavits differ from the position taken earlier by Thomas C. Baxter Jr., the New York Fed's general counsel. In a letter to A.I.G. in October 2011, Mr. Baxter said that he and his colleagues ''agree that A.I.G. has the right to seek damages'' under securities laws for the instruments it sold to Maiden Lane II.
Michael Carlinsky, A.I.G.'s lawyer at Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan, said on Friday that he found it ''disturbing'' that the New York Fed made a contract to ''assist Bank of America in its defense of A.I.G.'s lawsuit.''
Also on Friday, I asked the New York Fed why it had included this promise of legal support for Bank of America in the settlement agreement. Jack Gutt, a spokesman, said in a statement that the New York Fed had intended to hold the litigation rights and that the declarations were true.
''The New York Fed did not agree to provide the declarations to benefit B. of A., but rather because doing so helped the New York Fed obtain the best possible settlement'' for Maiden Lane II, Mr. Gutt said. ''In agreeing to this provision as part of what the New York Fed believed was a favorable settlement agreement, the New York Fed was concerned exclusively with advancing the taxpayer interest.''
I also asked a Bank of America spokesman whether the bank had paid more in the settlement because of the New York Fed's promise to testify. He declined to answer that question, saying, ''Countrywide provided fair value for a complete release of claims by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, and the Fed agreed to provide testimony standing behind what it had formally represented to Countrywide regarding the assignment of claims from A.I.G.''
Edward J. Kane, a professor of finance at Boston College who has written extensively about financial regulators who are too close to the industries they regulate, discussed with me the unusual terms of the New York Fed's deal with Bank of America.
''The Fed seems to have thrown off all restraints on its behavior in just trying to get through the crisis and the aftermath of the crisis,'' Mr. Kane said. ''It's like a slippery slope, and they just keep sliding a little further.''
The New York Fed was also criticized last week in a related ruling by Lewis A. Kaplan, a federal judge for the Southern District of New York. A.I.G. had asked Judge Kaplan to oversee the dispute over who -- A.I.G. or Maiden Lane II -- owns the fraud claims in these securities. Even though the Maiden Lane agreement required that any disputes between the New York Fed and A.I.G. be heard in a New York court, the New York Fed argued that the matter should be decided in California.
Although Judge Kaplan declined to take the case from the California court, he said in his ruling that the New York Fed appeared to be trying ''to circumvent and defeat the forum selection clause to which it is bound by its agreement with A.I.G.'' The New York Fed's actions, he wrote, ''perhaps are unattractive and, indeed, wrongful.''
Mr. Gutt said that the New York Fed was not trying to ''defeat a forum selection clause, but rather to fulfill a contractual obligation.''
The federal judge's words are nonetheless strong. And they highlight the reputational risk that the New York Fed may have taken on as a result of these events.
Of course, the reputations of many financial institutions have taken a beating in the years after the crisis, as Sarah Bloom Raskin, a governor of the Federal Reserve System, acknowledged in a speech last Thursday. Her remarks, titled ''Reflections on Reputation and Its Consequences'' and delivered at a Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta conference, explored the reputational damage suffered recently by United States financial institutions.
Ms. Raskin called on policy makers to think about reputation as it relates to the banks they oversee. If examiners are watchful for threats to an institution's reputation, she said, other risks posed to investors, creditors, trading partners and taxpayers may come to light.
''Sociologists and economists have long remarked upon the central role that social trust plays in healthy markets,'' she said, according to her written remarks. ''Social trust is the glue that holds markets and societies together. In the context of banking, social trust and reputation are related concepts.''
Surely this holds true in the context of central banking as well.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LITIGATION (90%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (92%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (72%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%); AIG (NYSE) (72%); 8685 (TSE) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (92%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2013



79 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1463 words

HEADLINE: A Virtuoso, at Least in His Spare Time

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WHITE

 BODY:
LONDON -- Pianists can be bells-and-whistles showmen (Lang Lang, Liberace, Liszt) or soberly remote (Sviatoslav Richter, Rachmaninoff). But by tradition they are the mavericks of the music world, who spend long hours in small rooms poring over solo repertory that turns them into either thinkers or eccentrics. Maybe both. And an example of the thinking pianist (make up your own mind about the eccentricity) is Stephen Hough, whose thoughts take center stage Monday evening in a recital at Carnegie Hall.
For the most part Mr. Hough will play classic repertory by Chopin, Schumann and Brahms. But in between he will revive what used to be a common practice among virtuosos, though not many of them do it now: playing a new sonata of his own. Unfashionably subtitled ''Notturno luminoso'' (music titles these days tend to be more blunt, less decorous), Mr. Hough's Sonata No. 2 is a contemporary, urban variant on the timeless, pastoral format of a keyboard nocturne: tossing, turning through a fitful night with bad dreams, neon lighted.
''It isn't autobiographical,'' Mr. Hough said last month here, where he lives. ''I sleep quite well.'' 
But like so much of Mr. Hough's work the piece has a confessional appeal. It makes a statement beyond music. And it indicates the way his career has grown beyond the normal boundaries of someone who plays piano.
Arguably the finest, certainly the most intelligent and technically impressive British pianist on the circuit, he has been a force to reckon with for 30 years now, from the time he won the Naumburg Competition on the same Carnegie stage in 1983. He was a student at the Juilliard School, having come from England on a scholarship that was about to generate a doctoral thesis. Winning the Naumburg changed his plans drastically. As he remembers, ''It was real life, overnight.''
''I'd spent most of my time hanging around Juilliard corridors smoking cigarettes,'' he said. ''Now I had to get a Social Security number, an accountant -- and it was a shock, with so much repertoire to learn and every concert a debut. Winning a competition is like giving you the keys of a car, but you still have to drive it.''
Driving his career meant staying in America. He got a Manhattan apartment, learned his craft and made his name through concerts with American orchestras. But he remained an Englishman abroad, with a penchant for tweed jackets, bow ties and a dapper sense of dress that has moved on since but hasn't vanished. (He likes hats, particularly bowlers.)
At the same time he acquired a reputation for mercurial mischief. Where some pianists focus on the serious, central classics, he became known, at least on disc, as an immaculate interpreter of the exotic fringes of the repertory: Scharwenka, Sauer, Hummel, spiced with swathes of frothy encore music by the likes of Mompou or his own high-camp arrangements of big Broadway numbers in the style of Beethoven or Chopin.
It was brilliant and clever, and it drew international attention. He collects awards the way others collect curios, and in 2008 he won Gramophone magazine's ultimate accolade for the best release of the last 30 years with his recording of Saint-Saëns piano concertos: an unlikely though deserving choice.
But through all of this there was a sense that maybe he was traveling light, without the focus on masterworks that major pianists ought to have. And anyone subscribing to that view might have been concerned when he began to spread his net beyond the piano.
Aside from composition Mr. Hough conducts, writes poetry and paints in an anguished, Abstract Expressionist manner. He is immersed in dance, having just been appointed to the board of the Royal Ballet, Covent Garden. And as a Roman Catholic convert who once nearly gave up music for the priesthood, he writes articles and books on spiritual issues.
He writes a blog on matters musical and otherwise for The Daily Telegraph of London. Also in the ''otherwise'' department, he has become a noted spokesman for gay Christians, having come out with a quiet but firm sincerity designed to send the forces of conservatism apoplectic.
Not long ago the magazine Intelligent Life, an Economist offshoot, listed Mr. Hough alongside Noam Chomsky as one of 20 notable polymaths of our time. And for good measure in 2001 the MacArthur Foundation gave him one of its grants: not bad for someone who was, by his own admission, lazy and disruptive as a schoolboy.
But one person's genius can be another's dilettante. Isn't Mr. Hough at risk of being thought to do too much, across too wide a spectrum, and not always at the soaring level of his pianism? Couldn't these diverse activities -- the writing, painting, poetry and composition, all of which enjoy distinctly public platforms -- compromise what he has achieved as a performer?
Not unnaturally he thinks the opposite, saying they all contribute.
''If the piano was all I had in my life,'' he said, ''I don't think I'd play it that well. Of course there's a risk that people will say I should stick to what I know I can do. But avoidance of risk is a good way not to develop.
''It's a 20th-century disease, this fear that if you can't do something at the highest level, you shouldn't do it at all. The Victorians were more open to diversity without requiring everything to be a masterpiece, and that attitude was very fruitful. It produced popular historians and men of letters like G. K. Chesterton, who was no theologian but wrote a book on Thomas Aquinas that's a real gem. There's a place for Chestertons in this world.''
There also seems to be a place for Mr. Hough's growing catalog of compositions, which are not exactly at the razor edge of modern music but use what he calls a ''twisted tonality'' and are played by leading instrumentalists, orchestras and choirs. There are ecumenically balanced Mass settings for Westminster Abbey (Anglican) and Westminster Cathedral (Roman Catholic). A CD of Hough works played by members of the Berlin Philharmonic has appeared on the BIS label. And Mr. Hough is completing a new solo cello piece for Steven Isserlis.
As for the paintings, he just had an exhibition in a serious London gallery where, even in these tough times, half the stock actually sold. His colors are congested but clearly separated, not mud swirls. You can see in the paintings connections with Mr. Hough's music making, which is all crystal clarity and measured eloquence.
''It's largely about texture,'' he said, ''and how the different layers work within it. At the piano I spend hours on pedaling and voicing, trying to get chords to sound as I want. And that's a bit like what happens in the paintings, where you might see a blue splotch emerging from under a green but they're still distinct.
''I get a rush from color. Squeeze a blob of cadmium red out of a tube, and my heart beats faster, which is why I think I'd call the pictures ecstatic rather than anguished. But they're definitely made to make you look. They've got a loud voice. And they're bossy, which, as some people will tell you, is a bit like me. I can be bossy too.''
It's hard to know what bossiness would sound like in a recital, but a Hough performance could fairly be described as the aural equivalent of making you look, not necessarily through noise but through relentlessly intelligent alertness. He tells a story about himself, that he once fell asleep momentarily in one of his own concerts. But he never lets his audiences slumber. As with ''Notturno luminoso,'' it's as though the whole experience came with a sharp intake of caffeine.
Wide-awake transparency of sound has been his unexpected gift to Russian war-horse repertory: the big Tchaikovsky and Rachmaninoff concertos, which he plays with due emotion but without sweat.
''That's genetic,'' he suggested, tugging the sleeves of a well-tailored jacket. ''But it's true. I'm more inclined to the aristocratic ideal of Rachmaninoff's own playing than to hairy-chested late Romanticism. It's the Soviets who sweated.''
Mention of Tchaikovsky and Rachmaninoff, meanwhile, gives pause for thought. It is clearly not true that he avoids core repertory. His interest in fringe material has largely been at the behest of record companies, who know that sort of thing will sell. He doesn't want to be remembered as the savior of Saint-Saëns and Hummel. He is drawn more to Chopin, Brahms and Beethoven, and he is soon to start a major Beethoven recording project for Hyperion: the complete concertos.
But don't be surprised if, when the set comes out, it has a booklet with more than usually thoughtful album notes, an ecstatic-anguished painting on the cover and a bonus DVD of Beethovenian Broadway variations danced by members of the Royal Ballet. There's no picking and choosing with a polymath. You take the package.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: From top, Stephen Hough at Carnegie Hall to prepare for his concert there on Monday, which will include a sonata of his own
Mr. Hough playing there in 2010
and with the Mostly Mozart Festival Orchestra at Avery Fisher Hall in 2012. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES
HIROYUKI ITO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); MUSIC (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (77%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (77%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (66%)

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (89%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (85%); ENGLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2013



80 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1393 words

HEADLINE: Think New York Is Costly? In New Delhi, Seedy Goes for 8 Figures

BYLINE: By JIM YARDLEY

 BODY:
NEW DELHI -- The fading bungalow at 38 Amrita Shergil Marg does not immediately shout real estate bling.
There is no tennis court, no infinity pool, no Sub-Zero refrigerator or walk-in closet. The paint is chipped, the bathrooms are musty and the ceilings have water stains. The house may ultimately be torn down.
Yet when it went up for public auction, the winning bid was almost $29 million. And many neighbors consider that a bargain. One block away, a gracious if not quite Rockefeller-ready residence once leased by the Mexican ambassador is now reportedly on the market for more than $100 million. Other nearby houses are going for $40 million to $70 million.
''The price of the Mexican residence is $110 million,'' said Jorge Roza de Oliveira, Portugal's ambassador to India. ''You can buy a home in New York and Miami and Lisbon and London and keep a lot of change for that much.'' 
Real estate prices in the heart of New Delhi, especially for the bungalows built nearly a century ago during the British Raj, are among the highest in the world.
Though India's economy has cooled, the demand for property in elite areas remains so strong that even finding a house for sale is tricky: formal listings do not exist; prices usually circulate by word of mouth. Transactions often require some ''black'' money, or stacks of cash paid under the table to avoid taxes.
The buyers are often Indian industrialists looking for a trophy property, a real estate Rolex. Or, real estate agents and sellers say, they can be politicians or their proxies, who often pay with trunks of cash.
For their money, buyers get a lovely piece of land and a piece of history, if not much in the way of amenities. Many houses require a major overhaul. Services, if far better in these elite areas, are still inadequate: drinking the tap water is not advised, and power failures remain an irritant.
The obvious question about the prices, in a country where hundreds of millions of people still live on less than $2 a day, is: Why?
To a large degree, India is experiencing the sort of real estate boom common to big, emerging economies. When Japan's economy was soaring in the 1980s, prices in Tokyo were so frothy that the 845-acre compound of the Imperial Palace was valued at more than all the real estate in California. More recently, China has seen a boom, with real estate values rising in some cities by 500 percent.
But the spike in New Delhi is also being fueled by ego, status and some unique distortions in India's economy. Few properties come available in the leafiest, most prestigious section of the capital, known as Lutyens' Delhi, because the area is mostly dedicated to government housing. Powerful government ministers live in British-era bungalows with stately lawns of several acres, while lesser officials are eligible for different categories of government housing in an oasis largely separated from the rest of the chaotic capital, where many people live crowded into slums or shanties.
''This is the best part of Delhi, the core of Delhi,'' said Munish Kumar Garg, who oversees the allocation of government housing. ''If these properties in Lutyens' Delhi were put on sale, there would be a queue two kilometers long.''
Mr. Garg, the director of the government's Directorate of Estates, controls one of the more valuable residential real estate portfolios in the world. Asked how many New Delhi properties fell under his agency, he shrugged. ''It would be difficult to know,'' he said. ''Maybe 10,000.''
It was a British architect, Edwin Lutyens, who in the early 1900s designed what is now the governmental heart of the capital. Beyond the grand buildings erected as the seat of British imperial power, Mr. Lutyens and other architects also built a residential bungalow zone of whitewashed single-story homes surrounded by verdant gardens. When India won its independence in 1947, the British moved out of many of the houses and the Indians moved in.
Today, power in Delhi can be measured by where a politician lives. The Directorate of Estates divides properties into eight categories, with Category 8 bungalows, the most exclusive, reserved for ministers and other top leaders. Former prime ministers and presidents, and their spouses, are allowed to remain in Category 8 housing until death.
Given the shortage of such housing, the recent death of former Prime Minister Inder Kumar Gujral has spurred jockeying over who will get the bungalow.
Navin Chawla, who was India's chief election commissioner from 2005 to 2010, lived with his wife in a Category 8 bungalow on six acres, with accommodation for 17 servants, including a separate house most likely worth many millions of dollars. When his term ended, so did his tenancy.
''I have to tell you, these homes are very timeless,'' he said, sounding wistful. ''It's a bonus of the job to get a six-acre property for five years, one of the few bonuses of being election commissioner, I can tell you.''
Not surprisingly, as Indian industrialists have amassed great fortunes in recent years, the temptation to buy into a zone where status is so nakedly demarcated and only a few hundred private properties exist has proved irresistible. Property values in the Lutyens' bungalow zone, as well as in nearby neighborhoods, have appreciated steadily for many years but skyrocketed in the past decade.
In some cases, families have held these private houses for generations. Many were refugees from Pakistan after partition in 1947, when streets like Amrita Shergil Marg were hardly exclusive. Veena Kumar's parents arrived almost penniless in 1947 and rented a bungalow on the street for about $5.50 a month, before buying it eight years later. In those days, the house was at the southern rim of the city, beside what is now Lodi Garden, which is known as the city's most beautiful park but seemed like jungle back then. Longtime neighbors recall hearing the cry of hyenas at night.
Now the house lies in the heart of the city and Ms. Kumar and her sister are looking to sell. Ms. Kumar declined to discuss her asking price, but local media reported it as about $55 million.
''One cannot afford these taxes,'' she said, explaining that the upkeep and property taxes had pushed her to sell. ''It is very expensive.''
The wild prices have also affected the rental market. For decades, owners happily rented to ambassadors or diplomatic missions. Now, rents have jumped so sharply that some ambassadors are moving. Mr. Oliveira, the Portuguese ambassador, recently relocated after his rent soared. Mexican ambassadors had lived at 13 Prithviraj Road -- the house priced at $110 million -- for a half-century, with the original lease signed by Octavio Paz, the Nobel Prize-winning writer and poet who was Mexico's ambassador in the 1960s.
(The United States Embassy is a beneficiary of the rising real estate values, because for several decades it has owned several residential properties in elite areas.)
Rahul Rewal, a local real estate agent, said that demand was pushing up prices all over the capital region and that the Lutyens' zone actually was a safe investment, since values keep going up, partly because so few places come onto the market. Fifteen years ago, the telecommunications magnate Sunil Mittal paid about $6.6 million for a property on Amrita Shergil Marg that he razed and rebuilt. At the time, the price was astonishing; today, it would be a bargain.
Mr. Mittal's brother, Rajan, was the winner of the auction for 38 Amrita Shergil Marg. The property had been entangled in a family legal feud for three decades until a judge ordered that the property be sold at auction, with the proceeds divided among family members. Had it been sold privately, many neighbors and brokers say, the final price would have been higher. To avoid taxes, many sellers demand huge, secret cash payments to supplement the publicly recorded selling price.
Even now, the owners are still bickering. G. K. Gupta lives in the front half of the house, while his nephew Shivraj Gupta lives with his family in the back half. The uncle is in favor of the sale, but the nephew says he is still challenging it in court. And though both would be wildly rich when the sale is completed, the elder Mr. Gupta said that kind of money only goes so far in New Delhi.
''I'll have to invest it in property,'' he said. ''And property is very expensive in New Delhi.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SOLD: $29 MILLION: This crumbling home from the British Raj, in New Delhi's most prestigious section, commanded top dollar in a public auction. (A1)
 A government car cruised past a building dating to the Raj in the Lutyens' Delhi section of the Indian capital. Prices have skyrocketed in the last decade for private properties, like 13 Prithviraj Road, left, which is said to be on the market for $110 million. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ENRICO FABIAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A8) MAPS (A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); AUCTIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); PROPERTY TAX (75%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); PERSONAL FINANCE (53%); POWER FAILURES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (94%); DELHI, INDIA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (75%); TOKYO, JAPAN (51%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) INDIA (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); MEXICO (92%); JAPAN (79%); PORTUGAL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2013



81 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE SHELF; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1034 words

HEADLINE: A Grudge Match For Global Finance

BYLINE: By FRED ANDREWS

 BODY:
''DOWNTON ABBEY'' has tapped our inner Anglophile on a wide front. But Americans were not so besotted with Britain in the first half of the 20th century, when it was a powerhouse of international trade. Until World War II, Britain ran international finance to its liking, and Americans were thirsting to chop it down to size. We need to understand that to grasp the importance of the Bretton Woods monetary conference.
Representatives of some 44 nations gathered in July 1944 at Bretton Woods, a resort spot in New Hampshire, to hammer out a world monetary system, replacing the gold standard that had failed so woefully. But only two nations mattered: Britain and the United States. 
In ''The Battle of Bretton Woods'' (Princeton University Press, $29.95), Benn Steil, a senior fellow and director of international economics at the Council on Foreign Relations, describes that effort from its roots and projects its effect on today's conflicts among the dollar, the euro and the Chinese renminbi. Although America's global dominance has long since melted away, no substitute is yet strong enough to shove the dollar aside, in part because of Bretton Woods.
Britain entered the conference exhausted and broke, crippled by the war. It desperately needed flexible exchange rates to rekindle its vital exports to pay for the imports it required to live. It clung to a privileged access to trading with its empire, one-fourth of the Earth's land and people.
America was unscathed at home and far stronger in 1945 than in 1941. Owner of the bulk of the world's gold bullion, a stunning 20,000 metric tons, the United States wanted to emerge from World War II with fixed conversion rates assured by a dollar tied to gold. And it went without saying that it was bent on becoming the globe's financial capital.
Representing America at Bretton Woods was Harry Dexter White, an economics professor who had joined the Treasury as an adviser in 1934. By dint of intellect and hard work, he became grudgingly accepted as its ranking expert on international finance. He labored as the brains buttressing the Treasury Secretary, Henry Morgenthau, who described himself as ''just a farmer,'' albeit a close gentleman-farmer friend of Franklin D. Roosevelt. Morgenthau presided at Bretton Woods but White ran the show.
Dr. Steil presents evidence that White was also an informant for the Soviet Union, a starry-eyed admirer of what he saw as its remarkable economic success. For years, Dr. Steil says, White provided documents to the Soviets and favored their side in policy debates. In 1948, White fended off the House Un-American Activities Committee, denying that he was a Communist. A more adverse light was shed on his activities when wartime codes were broken years after his death. Dr. Steil is more convinced of the espionage claims surrounding White than some historians who see his actions as more innocent. There is no sign that his interest in the Soviets affected his work at Bretton Woods.
Taking Britain's part at the 1944 conference was the celebrated John Maynard Keynes, who knew full well that war had reduced Britain to a hapless debtor, obliged to accept whatever the United States offered. The book confirms that Keynes was an intellectual giant with flawless intuition for finance, but it also exposes his caustic criticisms of lesser men and his tin ear for workaday diplomacy. The Americans considered him too bright for his britches and bottled him up at every opportunity.
White had prepared so well that the actual conference was well-orchestrated, everything the Americans wanted. ''Now the advantage is ours here, and I personally think we should take it,'' Morgenthau said to White, who fully agreed. As White said, ''If the advantage was theirs, they would take it.''
The Americans wanted free trade and open markets; they feared postwar inflation. Bretton Woods helped by providing for stable but convertible currencies, tied within limits to the dollar and ultimately to gold. It also created the International Monetary Fund, a money pool from which nations with trade deficits could borrow to satisfy international accounts. And it set up what became the World Bank, initially focused on rebuilding Europe, and later on the developing world. Britain lost out on looser exchange rates, and its imperial trade preferences were doomed.
On item after item, Keynes found a stone wall. What Dr. Steil calls his ''most tangible legacy'' from Bretton Woods was pathetic. Norway moved to abolish the Bank for International Settlements for cooperating with the Nazis, a motion that Keynes vehemently opposed. The delegates eventually agreed that the bank would be ''liquidated at the earliest possible moment.'' The bank is still in business today.
Keynes ended up having to play an impossible hand. In 1945, he was left to sell Parliament on accepting arrangements that he had exhausted himself resisting. Four months later, he was dead. History later vindicated his advocacy of flexible exchange rates. The Bretton Woods system, not fully in effect till 1961, died only a decade later when President Richard M. Nixon ended the gold standard. The United States was running such large international deficits, paying out so many dollars, that not even Fort Knox had enough gold.
''The Battle of Bretton Woods'' should become the gold standard on its topic. The details are addictive. But be warned: the book is dense. Every skirmish, every exchange -- and the book gets into hundreds of thems -- was presumably meaningful to the participants. But while some episodes mattered much, many did not. The author is no Robert Caro, who in his multivolume biography of Lyndon B. Johnson delves into minute details but also explains their larger significance.
Perhaps that is what is missing here -- an unmistakable voice, a sense that this rich history is told by one mind. Mr. Caro is known for working on his own, with the assistance of his wife. In his acknowledgments, Dr. Steil thanks 10 research assistants and an advisory panel of 18 luminaries. The book sometimes reads like a succession of brilliant but loosely connected graduate seminar papers -- an assemblage, a very fine one, but an assemblage nevertheless.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (90%); WORLD WAR II (89%); GOLD MARKETS (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (77%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); EXCHANGE RATES (72%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); FOREIGN POLICY (68%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (66%); ESPIONAGE (50%); EVIDENCE (50%)

COMPANY: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS (56%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (56%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EARTH (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2013



82 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 342 words

HEADLINE: Syria and Iran Assail U.S. On Rebel Aid

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
TEHRAN (AP) -- The foreign ministers of Syria and Iran on Saturday harshly criticized the United States over its decision to provide aid to rebels fighting to topple President Bashar al-Assad, saying that such assistance would only prolong the conflict. 
The remarks were the first official statements from Iran and Syria since Secretary of State John Kerry's announcement last week that Washington would provide, for the first time, nonlethal aid directly to Syria's rebels, in addition to $60 million in assistance to Syria's political opposition.
Speaking at a joint news conference in Tehran, Foreign Minister Walid al-Moallem of Syria and his Iranian counterpart, Ali Akbar Salehi, said that Mr. Assad's fate would be determined by Syrian voters in a presidential election scheduled for next year.
''Assad is Syria's legal president until the next elections,'' Mr. Salehi said. ''Individuals have the freedom to run as candidates. Until that time, Assad is Syria's president.''
Iran is a staunch ally of Syria's government and has stood by Mr. Assad throughout Syria's nearly two-year-old conflict.
Mr. Kerry announced the aid at an international conference on Syria in Rome on Thursday.
In the coming days, several European nations are expected to take similar steps in working with the military wing of the opposition to increase pressure on Mr. Assad to step down and pave the way for a democratic transition.
Mr. Moallem accused Turkey and Qatar and other countries he did not name of supporting and financing ''armed terrorist groups'' operating in Syria, using the terminology employed by the Syrian government to refer to the rebels fighting to topple Mr. Assad.
Mr. Moallem also criticized the United States for allocating $60 million in assistance to Syrian opposition groups while it continued to ''kill the Syrian people'' through economic sanctions imposed against the country.
''If they truly wanted a political settlement they wouldn't punish the Syrian people and finance groups with so-called nonlethal aid,'' he said. ''Who are they kidding?''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); 2011 SYRIAN UPRISING (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); TERRORISM (63%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (63%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (55%)

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (91%); JOHN KERRY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (89%) SYRIA (98%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN (89%); EUROPE (79%); TURKEY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2013



83 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1176 words

HEADLINE: The Business Of the Minimum Wage

BYLINE: By CHRISTINA D. ROMER. 
Christina D. Romer is an economics professor at the University of California, Berkeley, and was the chairwoman of , President Obama's Council of Economic Advisers.

 BODY:
RAISING the minimum wage, as President Obama proposed in his State of the Union address, tends to be more popular with the general public than with economists.
I don't believe that's because economists care less about the plight of the poor -- many economists are perfectly nice people who care deeply about poverty and income inequality. Rather, economic analysis raises questions about whether a higher minimum wage will achieve better outcomes for the economy and reduce poverty.
First, what's the argument for having a minimum wage at all? Many of my students assume that government protection is the only thing ensuring decent wages for most American workers. But basic economics shows that competition between employers for workers can be very effective at preventing businesses from misbehaving. If every other store in town is paying workers $9 an hour, one offering $8 will find it hard to hire anyone -- perhaps not when unemployment is high, but certainly in normal times. Robust competition is a powerful force helping to ensure that workers are paid what they contribute to their employers' bottom lines. 
One argument for a minimum wage is that there sometimes isn't enough competition among employers. In our nation's history, there have been company towns where one employer truly dominated the local economy. As a result, that employer could affect the going wage for the entire area. In such a situation, a minimum wage can not only make workers better off but can also lead to more efficient levels of production and employment.
But I suspect that few people, including economists, find this argument compelling today. Company towns are largely a thing of the past in this country; even Wal-Mart Stores, the nation's largest employer, faces substantial competition for workers in most places. And many employers paying the minimum wage are small businesses that clearly face strong competition for workers.
Instead, most arguments for instituting or raising a minimum wage are based on fairness and redistribution. Even if workers are getting a competitive wage, many of us are deeply disturbed that some hard-working families still have very little. Though a desire to help the poor is largely a moral issue, economics can help us think about how successful a higher minimum wage would be at reducing poverty.
An important issue is who benefits. When the minimum wage rises, is income redistributed primarily to poor families, or do many families higher up the income ladder benefit as well?
It is true, as conservative commentators often point out, that some minimum-wage workers are middle-class teenagers or secondary earners in fairly well-off households. But the available data suggest that roughly half the workers likely to be affected by the $9-an-hour level proposed by the president are in families earning less than $40,000 a year. So while raising the minimum wage from the current $7.25 an hour may not be particularly well targeted as an anti-poverty proposal, it's not badly targeted, either.
A related issue is whether some low-income workers will lose their jobs when businesses have to pay a higher minimum wage. There's been a tremendous amount of research on this topic, and the bulk of the empirical analysis finds that the overall adverse employment effects are small.
Some evidence suggests that employment doesn't fall much because the higher minimum wage lowers labor turnover, which raises productivity and labor demand. But it's possible that productivity also rises because the higher minimum attracts more efficient workers to the labor pool. If these new workers are typically more affluent -- perhaps middle-income spouses or retirees -- and end up taking some jobs held by poorer workers, a higher minimum could harm the truly disadvantaged.
Another reason that employment may not fall is that businesses pass along some of the cost of a higher minimum wage to consumers through higher prices. Often, the customers paying those prices -- including some of the diners at McDonald's and the shoppers at Walmart -- have very low family incomes. Thus this price effect may harm the very people whom a minimum wage is supposed to help.
It's precisely because the redistributive effects of a minimum wage are complicated that most economists prefer other ways to help low-income families. For example, the current tax system already subsidizes work by the poor via an earned-income tax credit. A low-income family with earned income gets a payment from the government that supplements its wages. This approach is very well targeted -- the subsidy goes only to poor families -- and could easily be made more generous.
By raising the reward for working, this tax credit also tends to increase the supply of labor. And that puts downward pressure on wages. As a result, some of the benefits go to businesses, as would be the case with any wage subsidy. Though this mutes some of the direct redistributive value of the program -- particularly if there's no constraining minimum wage -- it also tends to increase employment. And a job may ultimately be the most valuable thing for a family struggling to escape poverty.
What about the macroeconomic argument that is sometimes made for raising the minimum wage? Poorer people typically spend a larger fraction of their income than more affluent people. So if an increase in the minimum wage successfully redistributed some income to the poor, it could increase overall consumer spending -- which could stimulate employment and output growth.
All of this is true, but the effects would probably be small. The president's proposal would raise annual income by $3,500 for a full-time minimum-wage worker. A recent analysis found that 13 million workers earn less than $9 an hour. If they were all working full time at the current minimum -- and a majority are not -- the income increase from the higher minimum wage would be only about $50 billion. Even assuming that all of that higher income was redistributed from the wealthiest families, the difference in spending behavior between low-income and high-income consumers is likely to translate into only about an additional $10 billion to $20 billion in consumer purchases. That's not much in a $15 trillion economy.
SO where does all of this leave us? The economics of the minimum wage are complicated, and it's far from obvious what an increase would accomplish. If a higher minimum wage were the only anti-poverty initiative available, I would support it. It helps some low-income workers, and the costs in terms of employment and inefficiency are likely small.
But we could do so much better if we were willing to spend some money. A more generous earned-income tax credit would provide more support for the working poor and would be pro-business at the same time. And pre-kindergarten education, which the president proposes to make universal, has been shown in rigorous studies to strengthen families and reduce poverty and crime. Why settle for half-measures when such truly first-rate policies are well understood and ready to go?

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MARK ALLEN MILLER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINIMUM WAGE (94%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); FAMILY (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); POOR POPULATION (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (76%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (76%); HISTORY (75%); SMALL BUSINESS (69%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (50%)

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (53%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (53%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2013



84 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 992 words

HEADLINE: Virginia's Feast On U.S. Funds Nears an End

BYLINE: By TRIP GABRIEL

 BODY:
ARLINGTON, Va. -- To listen to the human side of sequestration, wait in line here for the 595 bus to Reston, Va., a journey across a suburbia grown fat and happy on a federal spending boom in the past decade, primarily military.
While the rest of the country experienced a corrosive recession, unemployment in Arlington County, home of the Pentagon, never rose above 5 percent. Nearby Fairfax County, with a cyberintelligence industry that took off after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, gorged on government contracts to private companies. 
''It was easy, and people got comfortable,'' said Stephen S. Fuller of George Mason University, an expert on the regional economy. ''They haven't come to terms with the fact it isn't going to be as easy.''
The Washington metropolitan area, especially Northern Virginia, is in line to experience the largest economic hit of any region from the $85 billion in spending cuts that President Obama made official late Friday.
Because the automatic cuts, known as sequestration, fall unevenly across the country, many Americans are greeting them with a shrug. Their nonchalance is heightened because the 2.4 percent lopped from a federal budget of $3.55 trillion is relatively small and will not happen all at once. Moreover, Congressional Republicans have accused the White House of exaggerating the impact for political gain.
But in Northern Virginia the cuts will be deeply felt, economists said, assuming there is no political deal to undo them, a dimming prospect. The White House said the Defense Department would furlough 90,000 civilian employees based in Virginia, the most of any state, reducing their salaries by 20 percent this year.
The ripple effect, as those employees pare expenses, put off car purchases and delay buying a home, is expected to be large. Some economists predict that Virginia will slip into recession.
''No more movies, no more out-to-dinners, no more fun,'' Robin Roberts, a civilian budget employee in the Defense Department, said as she waited for the 595 outside the Pentagon for the ride home. She and her husband, who is retired, have canceled their summer vacation. They switched to a cheaper phone plan. ''It's just pay the mortgage, pay the utilities, no more frills.''
Americans far from Washington who say government spending is reckless and unsustainable may not shed a tear for its suburban counties, 6 of which are among the 10 richest in the country, according to the census. But that prosperity has largely rained down on government contractors; federal employees, especially younger ones, depend on their middle-class wages.
''Most of my paycheck goes toward child care,'' said Sarah Stein, another rider of the 595. ''We've cut out what we can cut, and we're going to be in trouble.''
Ms. Stein's husband lost a job two years ago and now works for much less repairing automobile wheels. Ms. Stein said she earned $64,000 in a civilian Pentagon job and pays $24,000 in child care for her two daughters, ages 3 years and 10 months.
The Pentagon has told civilian employees to plan on taking 22 days off without pay. Ms. Stein said she would not be able to save on child care even on the days she is home. ''We still have to pay for five days a week, whether we go or not,'' she said. ''People are just very worried.''
The Center for Regional Analysis estimates that federal spending drives 37 percent of the Northern Virginia economy, largely spending on contractors that soared in the past decade.
''It was mostly on the war on terrorism,'' said Dr. Fuller, the director of the center. ''It was a spending bubble that made this economy grow two percentage points faster than the national economy.''
But as the federal government began cutting back two years ago -- with foreign wars winding down and Congressional Republicans fighting spending -- a regional slowdown that followed may be a taste of the future.
Virginia employment rose in December by only 0.8 percent, half the growth in the nation as a whole, said Christine Chmura, an economist in Richmond.
''If the sequester occurs as it's currently stated, I would expect the state of Virginia to go into a recession,'' she said.
The Pentagon's share of the cuts is the largest of any. Robert F. Hale, an under secretary of defense, said on Feb. 20 that the Pentagon would cut $4 billion to $5 billion through civilian furloughs and $40 billion in purchases from the private sector.
Some business owners and people facing furloughs said the cutbacks were manageable, even a good thing. Moe Jafari, whose company Human Touch in McLean does technology work for the military, said he saw a new cost-consciousness in the government that pleased him.
''They're looking at budgets that are not unlimited,'' said Mr. Jafari, whose contracting includes work for the Space and Naval Warfare Systems Center in Charleston, S.C. ''We see the government for the first time having discussions with us in ways we never thought. They're looking at saving money. They're starting to act like businesses.''
Even some government employees facing furloughs spoke of the 20 percent dock in salary as a sacrifice to a greater good. ''The rest of the country is suffering and needs help; this is the least we can do,'' said Mort Anvari, a civilian employee of the Army.
He and others who said they could manage their lower earnings were older, with savings and without children to support.
Mary Ann Fontana, who works for the secretary of the Air Force, said, ''We older ones feel -- at least I do -- to help the country, it's fine.'' But ''the real worry are the young ones,'' she added, lower on the government pay scale and living paycheck to paycheck.
Matthew Bourke, a public affairs specialist with the Army, fits that description. He is looking for a part-time job to make up the loss to his salary. ''I'm talking the restaurant business, a server, a food runner, anything,'' he said.
''If you know something, let me know,'' he said before jumping on his bus.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Sequester's Impact: Virginia's economy will be among the hardest hit by the federal government's $85 billion in spending cuts to military and domestic programs. Nearly 90,000 of the state's civilian Defense Department workers face furloughs, and private contractors may lose their jobs through cutbacks in procurement programs. (Sources: Defense Manpower Data Center
Bureau of Labor Statistics
 Pew Center on the States) (A26) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SUBURBS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (78%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); CIVIL SERVICES (77%); COUNTIES (76%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); TERRORISM (71%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); TELEPHONE RATES (60%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (56%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2013



85 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1244 words

HEADLINE: Cause(s) and Effect(s)

BYLINE: By MATTHEW BISHOP. 
Matthew Bishop is the United States business editor of The Economist and the author of several books on economics.

 BODY:
AFTER THE MUSIC STOPPEDThe Financial Crisis, the Response, and the Work Ahead
By Alan S. Blinder476 pp. The Penguin Press. $29.95.
On March 12, 1933, shortly after temporarily closing the banks in order to clean them up, Franklin Delano Roosevelt held the first of his presidential ''fireside chats'' with the American people. He delivered this radio address in the belief that the actions of his government, thus far described only in the jargon of banking and law, ''ought to be explained for the benefit of the average citizen.'' He had three more chats that year, and two the following year. They played a crucial role in bringing the public with him as his government helped lead the economy out of the Great Depression.
Seventy-five and more years later, after the collapse of Lehman Brothers triggered a financial meltdown and deep recession, successive American administrations learned important lessons from Roosevelt, which helped the United States and the world avoid another Great Depression. However, they failed to learn the importance of communicating clearly with the public about what was happening and what the government was doing about it. 
This communications failure is the most telling theme of ''After the Music Stopped,'' Alan S. Blinder's terrific book on the crisis of 2008. It is a failure he feels viscerally, judging by the ferocity of his comments, particularly about leading members of the Obama administration, including the president, who ''has rarely taken the time to give a speech of explanation -- far less time than the American people need and deserve.'' (As for his predecessor, Blinder writes, ''Can you remember even a single Bush speech on the nation's developing economic crisis?'') Likewise, the two Treasury secretaries during the crisis, Henry Paulson and Timothy Geithner (a ''terrible orator''), between them have ''barely given a single coherent speech explaining what happened and -- perhaps more important -- why they did what they did.'' As a result, the policy response to the crisis was ''an incoherent blur to most citizens -- and not a very successful blur, at that.''
Yet, as Blinder argues persuasively, after the terrible blunder of letting Lehman Brothers collapse, both the Bush and Obama administrations did a decent job of stopping the economy's fall into depression and helping it gingerly back onto its feet. If the public had only understood this, confidence would have returned sooner, and with it stronger growth, and Obama would not have had such a hellish time getting re-elected.
Although Blinder served on President Bill Clinton's Council of Economic Advisers, and admits to Democratic leanings, this is not an ideological book. Rather, it is the work of a somewhat frustrated technocrat who has spent his career at the highest tables of academia and policy making, never entirely comfortable because of a tendency to speak his mind. His two-year tenure as vice chairman of the Federal Reserve probably would have been longer but for his habit of challenging the unquestioning cult of Alan Greenspan that had taken hold among Fed staff members under the chairman. (Ben Bernanke, Greenspan's successor at the Fed, was a longtime and much-admired colleague of Blinder at Princeton; perhaps the weakest aspect of the book is its tendency to give the central bank the benefit of the doubt.) After leaving the Fed in 1996, Blinder gave many speeches warning about the growing bubble in the financial markets, especially in credit, though he is honest enough to acknowledge that he never foresaw the scale of the crisis that was to follow the bursting of that bubble.
Why did the crisis happen? Blinder subscribes to the ''perfect storm'' theory, in which many unfortunate things occurred simultaneously, producing an outcome far worse than would have resulted from just one or even a few of those things. The culprits ranged from a widespread faith in the academic efficient-market hypothesis to the feeble standards at credit rating agencies, which allowed bundles of subprime mortgages to be treated as ''investment grade,'' to regulators and policy makers who did not understand the severity of the situation until it was too late. The catastrophic decision to let Lehman Brothers go bust, Blinder argues, was taken in large part because Paulson and Bernanke believed that the markets had used the six months since Bear Stearns was rescued to prepare for Lehman's failure -- though how they came to hold such a naïvely optimistic belief is anyone's guess. As for the bankers, they exhibited a failure of leadership succinctly reflected in the quotation that inspired the title of Blinder's book. Charles O. Prince III, then the boss of Citigroup, justified the bank's lax lending standards by saying: ''As long as the music is playing, you've got to get up and dance. We're still dancing.''
Blinder's criticism of communications failure rests on his view that the response to the post-Lehman meltdown was far better than the public realizes. He points out that the now notorious Troubled Asset Relief Program, known as TARP, which lent billions to the banks to keep them alive, ultimately generated a profit to the American taxpayer as the banks returned to health and repaid what they owed. The stress tests of the banks in early 2009 also helped restore confidence, and Obama's fiscal stimulus helped end the recession. (Here, Blinder says, the communications failure began to take its toll, because Obama did not make the case for a big enough stimulus or for a necessary additional stimulus later.) Blinder is also fairly satisfied with the controversial Dodd-Frank Act of 2010 that overhauled American financial regulation -- although perhaps his praise is largely a reflection of his low expectations. He does not think Dodd-Frank will make financial crises a thing of the past, and is not even sure it will make them rarer. However, Blinder claims, it should reduce the severity and costs of future financial excesses. Well, let's hope so.
Yet Blinder does find Washington guilty of one grievous blunder, so big that it almost explains the public's unhappiness more plausibly than a presidential communications failure. The foreclosure crisis that has caused millions of Americans to lose their homes was unnecessarily painful, he believes. A series of government interventions to help struggling homeowners was consistently too little, too late. In February 2008, he argued for the creation of a large program for refinancing borrowers, along lines similar to the Depression-era Home Owners' Loan Corporation. Had that been done -- and he thinks no one in power was trying hard enough -- the United States would now be experiencing ''a shortage of housing, rising house prices and a homebuilding boom -- which would be helping the economy recover.''
What the economy is now experiencing is a debt crisis, though Blinder explains clearly why this will become really bad only in a decade or so, as health care costs get out of hand. Spending cuts will be essential. Unlike many Democrats, Blinder accepts that ''the government can cover no more than a small fraction of the projected deficits by raising taxes.'' The sooner America gets control of its government spending, the better, he says. Given a divided Congress and a confused public, making the case for the right fiscal reforms will require a master communicator. Time for Obama to throw a few logs on the White House fire and start talking.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARY ALTAFFER/ASSOCIATED PRESS (TIMES SQUARE, SEPTEMBER 2008)) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GREAT DEPRESSION (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); RECESSION (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (76%); BILL CLINTON (73%); HENRY PAULSON (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2013



86 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2320 words

HEADLINE: Sunday Dialogue: A Cure for 'Senioritis'?

 BODY:
Readers discuss options for the last year of high school.
To the Editor:
Most students in the United States spend four years in high school, grades 9 through 12, whether they benefit from the fourth year or not. Individualizing the high school experience by permitting students, parents and educators to jointly decide, student by student, if three years, three and a half years or a full four years are required to meet that student's educational needs is an imperative, especially given how unproductive the senior year -- the infamous senioritis -- can be for so many students.
During my many years as a superintendent of schools and more recently as an education consultant, I have noted the large number of highly underscheduled high school seniors. Having met their high school graduation requirements, they have chosen, with their parents' and counselors' permission, to have late school arrivals, multiple lunch periods and only two or three classes.
I propose that by the time a teenager is in 10th grade, the student, family and counselor plan either a traditional or alternative grade 12. Far superior alternatives to the traditional 12th-grade year exist for many students: beginning full-time college earlier, taking selected college courses on the college or high school campus, working to pay for college, and participating in a volunteer, apprenticeship or service experience. 
To break the rigidity of four years of high school for everyone will almost certainly require a significant incentive, given the propensity of schools to resist change. That incentive will probably have to be financial. Thus, have the per-pupil state aid flow even when the student graduates early, and give a share of that state aid to the school (to use or to return to taxpayers) and to the parent for the child's college savings account.
MARC F. BERNSTEIN New York, Feb. 25, 2013
The writer is an adjunct faculty member at the Fordham University Graduate School of Education.
Readers React
Though some students are intellectually capable of skipping their senior year and should do other things while at school, as Mr. Bernstein suggests, I do not believe that many are emotionally ready for college life, especially if they will be living away from home. I did this a generation ago, attending Fordham University.
And while I was more than ready intellectually, and I turned out all right in the end, I regretted missing out on all the things that make that senior year so special, and that help students grow emotionally: the senior prom, the senior trip, the camaraderie and wonder of being the big kids of the school.
So yes, take college classes, but stay for senior year. Work part time but don't skip ahead. We all need that little bit of fun. We need that innocence, that joy, that laughter, that once-in-our-lives moment.
ANA M. FORES TAMAYO Keller, Tex., Feb. 27, 2013
The Village School in Great Neck, N.Y., a small public high school, long ago realized that senior year for most students is party time. So it instituted an externship program for the final semester. Students had to do a project such as assisting a sports coach, working at a plant nursery and shooting a photo portfolio, or writing for a community newspaper. They had to keep a journal and then do a presentation at the end of the year. This program has been a much imitated success. Students matured, and parents and teachers were moved to discover what these kids could do.
My son, who graduated from the school in 2000, went to Florence to study cooking for his final project. It cemented his idea of becoming a chef. After graduating, he studied at the Culinary Institute of America and now owns his own successful restaurant.
The 12th grade really is a transitional year. It should be treated that way. As we saw in our own family, the results of a more creative approach to senior year can be unpredictable and wonderful, just like life.
RITA HALL Great Neck, N.Y., Feb. 27, 2013
As a high school senior fully in the throes of ''senioritis,'' I was intrigued by Mr. Bernstein's letter. But I cannot agree with his point of view. Creating alternative learning tracks for students beginning in 10th grade would abolish the feeling of community within a graduating class or age group. At an age when personal identity is still something to be searched for, when religious and political beliefs and sexual orientation and racial identity segregate and isolate students, we do not need to add academic ability to that list.
There will always be some students who get more A's than others, but if that divide is made clearer by the departure of those who are ''ready,'' it can do nothing but hurt the students still in school. The high school hierarchy is very real, and we should not create more ways in which students are categorized.
WILL VIEDERMAN Amherst, Mass., Feb. 27, 2013
As a former high school teacher for 38 years, I find Mr. Bernstein's ''solution'' a cover-up for budgetary woes. Seniors can be incredibly interested students. The lack of imagination most high schools have in terms of reaching their passions and interests often astounds me. Instead we should ask, ''What do we do about the senior year?''
The best answer is a program now in over 60 schools across the nation called WISE (Wise Individualized Senior Experience). In it, second-semester seniors do a project for academic credit to explore a chosen passion, whether it is a career search, hobby pursuit or scientific experiment. We call it an ''infinite set of senior electives.'' Isn't that a better way to help seniors move forward to the next part of their life, college or not?
DAVID GREENE Hartsdale, N.Y., Feb. 27, 2013
The writer is a staff member at WISE Services.
Yes!! What a wasted year. My two children (recent graduates) enjoyed a year of ''hanging out,'' leaving their mom and dad bewildered as to what happened to our good students. By April we found ourselves pleading with them to puh-leeze graduate!
While they did graduate and go on to college, senior year of high school was, for each of our kids, a wasteland of waiting and waiting for life to start without much else to keep them occupied. Any of the options suggested by Mr. Bernstein would have been welcome choices for our family.
DEBBIE MENK Ann Arbor, Mich., Feb. 27, 2013
Leaving my small private high school in Brooklyn after junior year, back in 1974, to attend Barnard College as an early admission was one of the best decisions of my life. I couldn't wait to move on. My 40 classmates and I had been together since kindergarten.
Barnard was truly transformative. At 16, I had the opportunity to take courses in psychology, economics, music appreciation and French literature, all at high intellectual levels. I met young women from around the country, many of whom have remained my best friends, and was nurtured and challenged by talented professors and scholars.
While it took me a semester to find my social footing (admittedly, I was a shy and sheltered young woman when I arrived on campus), I was more than ready to venture out of my comfort zone. Conventional senior year may benefit many students, but having the option to go to college early should be available to those who are motivated and qualified.
MERRI ROSENBERG Ardsley, N.Y., Feb. 27, 2013
Mr. Bernstein is entirely right: High school is often simply not enough of a challenge for young people who are very bright, highly motivated or just extremely focused on a particular area of learning. For the past 46 years, Bard College at Simon's Rock, where I serve as provost, has offered a compelling alternative -- a college specifically created for younger students.
Research shows that acceleration for the right students has long-term beneficial effects, both academically and socially, and leads to both occupational success and personal satisfaction. Conversely, without acceleration, students tend to enroll in less academically rigorous coursework, report lower levels of life satisfaction and have socialization difficulties.
Simon's Rock is the only four-year college specifically tailored to younger students. But programs exist nationwide to allow students to enter college whenever they're ready, instead of when they're done with senior year. I hope that educators, parents and students, rather than simply debating the merits of the final year of high school, will imagine the opportunities created by even earlier matriculation to college.
PETER LAIPSON Great Barrington, Mass., Feb. 27, 2013
Let's take Mr. Bernstein's idea and kill about three or four birds with one stone, by establishing a public service mandate for 12th graders who skip their final year. A formal public service program could help reduce government costs and fill gaps in our public safety net. In exchange, students would receive tuition breaks to help them avoid a lifetime of financial debt. And, more important, rather than having a useless semester, students will discover new vistas through public service and have life-changing experiences.
DON RUSSELL Philadelphia, Feb. 27, 2013
I teach high school seniors, and most are very productive, enrolled in numerous honors and Advanced Placement offerings and heavily involved in extracurricular activities. So my anecdotal evidence differs from Mr. Bernstein's.
Nonetheless, assuming he's correct in a general sense, the answer to senioritis is not to give in and make the senior year go away. Instead, it's highly beneficial for students to struggle, get self-motivated and learn how to deal with the increased free time they have -- while there's still a safety net in place. In Mr. Bernstein's scenario, many 16- and 17-year-olds will go off to college with its abundant free time and distractions and not have a clue how to prioritize and get their work done. That's a formula for failure.
Furthermore, Mr. Bernstein seems to assume that school is about academics alone. I have long told my students that the lessons they learn on the high school campus and on the sports fields about relationships, dealing with authority, acting with integrity and so on will serve them long after high school is over.
Finally, Mr. Bernstein's proposal does not take into account the leadership experience that the students often gain as sports team captains, club leaders and student body presidents. And those sports teams, clubs, drama productions and other high school activities will surely suffer from the loss of many in the senior class.
BILL SCHRIER Marina, Calif., Feb. 27, 2013
The idea of skipping 12th grade is hardly new. In the early 1950s, when there was talk of drafting all men at 18, the Ford Foundation initiated a program to see if young people could skip one or two years of high school to get a head start on college before going into military service. The program began with 50 students at four colleges: Yale, Columbia, the University of Chicago and the University of Wisconsin. I myself skipped the last two years of high school and went to Yale on a Ford scholarship.
I believe that classes should be much more fluid than they are, with students given the chance to realize their potential by working at whatever levels are appropriate for them. If a third grader can do seventh-grade math, say, then he or she should be encouraged to do so. This will be more fun for the student and probably of greater benefit in the long run to society as well as the individual.
HUGH RAWSON Roxbury, Conn., Feb. 27, 2013
Senioritis is a choice. Whether a student makes much of his time while in the last year of high school depends upon several factors: the student's motivation to use senior year as preparation for the rigor of college; high expectations of parents not to waste educational opportunities or their taxpayer dollars; and a school culture that holds all students (freshmen to seniors) to high standards.
All too often, however, parents and educators enable senioritis by lowering expectations in effort and coursework, giving in to the student who assumes, ''Why work hard? I've been accepted to college already.'' Mr. Bernstein's recommendation to make senior year optional illustrates my point.
HENRY DIRCKS Bellmore, N.Y., Feb. 27, 2013
The writer is a high school teacher.
The Writer Responds
Ms. Rosenberg's and Ms. Hall's letters illustrate how different situations work for different students. Our job as a society is to provide quality options for all students. For Ms. Rosenberg it was graduating after 11th grade, and for Ms. Hall's son it was attending an extremely creative alternative high school. Two very different sets of experiences, with each one being right for that individual. The challenge is to have quality options available to all students, not only to those who know how to benefit from the current educational system.
Though many of the suggestions expressed in these letters are meritorious and would most certainly improve the 12th-grade experience, it is doubtful that they can be expanded to incorporate all of the nation's 12th-graders. The WISE program described by Mr. Greene, unfortunately, is offered in only 60 of the nation's 15,000 high schools. And can there be a sufficient number of properly funded and supervised public service programs to accommodate our nation's millions of seniors, per Mr. Russell?
The goal must be to provide a four-year high school plan that is rigorous, interesting and individualized for each and every student, whether it includes all or part of 12th grade. The pivotal question is whether this goal can be accomplished without changing the straitjacket that all high school students must spend four years in high school regardless of their academic abilities, social maturity and interests. It's difficult for schools, as with other governmental institutions, to change their mind-sets. Public policy must require individualized high school educational plans, including the option of skipping 12th grade.
MARC F. BERNSTEIN New York, March 1, 2013

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JOHN MALTA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SCHOOLS (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (78%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); EDUCATIONAL SAVINGS PLANS (73%); WRITERS (73%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (73%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2013



87 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WATCHING THE LINE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2633 words

HEADLINE: Long Border, Endless Struggle

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE; Robert Gebeloff contributed reporting from New York.

 BODY:
PENITAS, Tex. -- The border fence behind Manuel Zamora's home suggests strength and protection, its steel poles perfectly aligned just beyond the winding Rio Grande. But every night, the crossers come. After dark and at sunup, too, dozens of immigrants scale the wall or walk around it, their arrival announced by the angry yelps of backyard dogs.
''Look,'' Mr. Zamora said early one recent morning, ''here they come now.'' He pointed toward his neighbor's yard, where a young man in a dark sweatshirt and white sneakers sprinted toward the road, his breath visible in the winter dawn. Three others followed, rushing into a white sedan that arrived at the exact moment their feet hit the pavement.
''I don't know how the government can stop it,'' Mr. Zamora said, watching the car drive away. ''It's impossible to stop the traffic. You definitely can't stop it with laws or walls.'' 
The challenge has tied Congress in knots for decades, and as lawmakers in Washington pursue a sweeping overhaul of immigration, the country is once again debating what to do about border security.
A bipartisan group of senators has agreed in principle to lay out a path to American citizenship for an estimated 11 million immigrants in the United States illegally, but only after quantifiable progress is made on border security, raising thorny questions: What does a secure border mean exactly? How should it be measured? And what expectations are reasonable given the cost, the inherent challenges of the terrain and the flood of traffic crossing legally each year in the name of tourism and trade?
Some Republicans argue that the southern border remains dangerously porous and inadequately defended by the federal government. Obama administration officials, insisting there is no reason for delaying plans to move millions of people toward citizenship, counter that the border is already safer and more secure than ever. They say record increases in drug seizures, staffing and technology have greatly suppressed illegal traffic, driving down border apprehensions to around 365,000 in 2012, a decline of 78 percent since 2000.
Indeed, by every indicator, illegal migration into the United States has fallen tremendously -- in part because of stricter immigration enforcement -- and has held steady at lower levels for several years.
But all camps leave a lot out of the discussion. Visits to more than a half-dozen border locations over the past two years show that the levels of control vary significantly along the line in ways that Congress and the White House have yet to fully acknowledge.
Many areas that used to be popular crossing points have experienced undeniable improvements. Migrant shelters across from El Paso are now often empty. A generation after San Diego was overrun with thousands of immigrants openly rushing into the city every day, experts, Border Patrol agents and deportees in Tijuana, Mexico, all say that the chances of reaching Southern California are remote, with odds of success at 1 in 10, or worse.
Other sections of the border have seen less progress. Here in the Rio Grande Valley, crossings by the dozen still occur regularly, with relative ease, despite noticeable increases in the Border Patrol's capabilities. The governmentwide spending cuts that went into effect on Friday could lead to even greater vulnerability.
And even before the budget battles, politics undermined effectiveness. Population centers like San Diego have held on to more resources; there are 80 Border Patrol pilots in the San Diego sector and only 15 in the Rio Grande Valley, where there is more migrant traffic -- a sign of inefficiency that the Obama administration glosses over with national staffing figures.
With a similar degree of omission, Republicans demanding more fencing rarely mention that here, along hundreds of miles of a twisting river border with farms and parks on its edge, such an approach would mean seizing private property, damaging the environment and spending billions.
It is increasingly clear to those who live along the boundary with Mexico -- or who try to protect it -- that there is no such thing as a completely secure border, just as there are no cities without crime. Even in areas with towering walls and drones or helicopters overhead, border security can be breached.
The international divide is not a line or a series of doors to be locked and guarded, they argue. It is more like a 2,000-mile shoreline with ever-changing currents of migration, legitimate trade and smuggler tactics. The challenge evolves season to season. In Texas, where the border moves with the flooding of the Rio Grande, smugglers have started using fake Halliburton trucks to drive through areas where the company services oil fields. In San Diego, a few hundred migrants a year now arrive by boat, while the imposing fences that cost $16 million per mile are regularly overcome with ladders rented out for $35 a climb.
''The U.S. border with Mexico is better controlled than at any time in our history,'' said Robert C. Bonner, who served under President George W. Bush as the commissioner of the United States Customs and Border Protection. But, he said, there is a lack of understanding among policy makers and the public about the challenge. ''The terrain can be quite different depending on what part of the border you are talking about, and there are different ways, different tactics really, that need to be brought into play,'' he said. ''And this requires almost mile-by-mile analysis.''
Crossing Points
Suly Ochoa, 56, a home health care aide whose peach-color home sits along the border wall in Granjeno, Tex., says that what she wants from the border policy is simple, ''It needs to be smarter.''
Like many of her neighbors in this town of 303, which was founded on Spanish land grants in 1767, she and her family have seen immigrants crossing through the area's mesquite trees and tall grass for decades.
They have often helped the most desperate, calling ambulances for children or pregnant women. But residents have become increasingly concerned about security, as Mexican drug gangs seized the business of moving people and narcotics. Crime in the larger area of McAllen, Tex., while low, now occasionally includes what appear to be targeted killings.
Ms. Ochoa, a no-nonsense woman who grew up here, said she and many others in Granjeno had hoped the $20 million border wall -- a 1.7-mile stretch of concrete and dirt, rising 18 feet -- would help them feel safer. Now, a few years after completion, it looks to her more like a waste. ''It's not working at all,'' she said, standing near the wall. ''To me, it's money down the drain.''
Part of the problem is that the fences and walls cover a limited area here in the Rio Grande Valley sector -- just under 54 miles staking out a relatively straight boundary near the 316 curving miles of river border. And even within the fenced area, because of the riverfront farms and parks, there are several gated openings. The road in front of Ms. Ochoa's house leads over the wall (which also serves as a levee), giving the authorities and smugglers access to the Rio Grande.
Border Patrol officials say that, even with the breaks, the barriers help by funneling illicit traffic into areas where crossers can be more easily caught. But residents say the system often fails. Ms. Ochoa says she sees drug loads at least once a week -- usually large pickup trucks with bales of marijuana in the back barely covered with a tarp. Immigrant crossings occur almost every night, usually in groups of 10 to 20 people rushing by, sounding to many like stampeding horses.
One of Ms. Ochoa's neighbors, Gloria Garza, 56, says she sleeps with the television on to drown out the noise. ''You feel like they're invading your privacy,'' she said. ''It's not that you have anything against them. It's just a question of who's in the bunch.''
Border Patrol officials emphasize they are doing more than ever. In the 1990s, agents here recall, they did not have a budget to keep their gas tanks full. Now staffing levels in the sector have more than tripled, to about 2,500 agents. Additional intelligence comes from drones and helicopters, along with cameras set up by the state to track wildlife.
The Border Patrol has also received help from the National Guard and about 100 members of a Border Patrol mobile response team that was created a few years ago to move along with smuggling patterns.
In many ways, the dynamic response reflects a broader evolution in border policing. In the 1990s and after 2006, when Congress set aside $2 billion to build border fences, the approach focused on static technology. San Diego was the model, with its three layers of fence and cameras atop poles 85 feet tall. But immigrants soon adapted and crossed elsewhere. So, as migration moved to Arizona and then to Texas, officials began to focus on mobility. Rosendo Hinojosa, the chief of the Rio Grande Valley sector of the Border Patrol, says he now wishes he could move the permanent cameras, which were set up east of McAllen in 2001, to busier areas.
A calm, commanding man built like an offensive lineman, he praised residents for getting more involved, noting that law enforcement now regularly receives tips about stash houses where immigrants are kept before moving farther north. But during a flight over his area in a small plane, the dizzying challenge of border security twisted and turned with the Rio Grande.
Chief Hinojosa pointed to several spots that were impossible to fence and hard to defend. Flying west from McAllen, he pointed to sugar cane fields just a few feet from the river -- giving immigrants an immediate place to hide -- and to a sharp riverbend near where Ms. Ochoa lives, noting it is where drugs and people often come ashore because of boat ramps easily reachable by car. Over Mr. Zamora's small blue house, Chief Hinojosa highlighted the proximity to major roads. ''If we don't have a persistent presence there, then they're across in 30 seconds and on a highway,'' he said. (When this reporter saw the four men cross, it was just minutes after a Border Patrol shift change.)
Mr. Bonner, the former customs commissioner, whose career has included stints as a judge and the head of the Drug Enforcement Administration, said the best way to measure border security involved comparing the number of people who are caught with those who crossed successfully. The senators proposing an immigration overhaul might also welcome the clarity of such a statistic, given that they have not yet agreed upon how to measure border security.
But that figure may be impossible to know. Though the Border Patrol tracks detected migrants who got away, and those who turned back to Mexico or were apprehended, the agency's nine sectors use different procedures for classifying such occurrences, a flaw the Government Accountability Office identified in a December report.
The numbers are useful for showing trends. The Yuma sector in Arizona, for instance, has seen the biggest improvement: in 2011, only 6 percent of migrants managed to get away from border agents after being detected, down from 36 percent in 2006. The rest either turned back toward Mexico or were caught. The Rio Grande Valley sector has also seen progress, with 29 percent getting away in 2011, down from 44 percent in 2006, though that is still poor by national standards. Only the Big Bend sector, east of El Paso, which is more isolated and sees far less traffic, had a higher rate of getaways.
Even so, the statistics are woefully incomplete because the Border Patrol agents count only the immigrants they detect, not the countless others who cross without anyone noticing.
The four men crossing by Mr. Zamora's home were not part of the tally. Nor is there a count of those who have successfully used stolen documents, mingling in with the 350 million people who legally cross the border every year. Nor, officials acknowledge, can they keep up with all the new ways smugglers manage to avoid detection. In Texas, it is not just Halliburton trucks that they mock up. They have also impersonated shipping companies, including FedEx.
Rising Costs and Risks
Criminal organizations dominate Reynosa, the Mexican city across the border from McAllen , and they have made smuggling along this section of the border a sophisticated monopoly. The Gulf Cartel controls access to the river (called the Río Bravo in Mexico) and will beat or kill anyone who tries to cross without paying.
''Over there, they respect your life,'' said a Honduran man at a migrant shelter in Reynosa, referring to the United States. ''On this side, they don't.''
He and several other men said they knew it was possible to get across, though, if they paid $2,500. The cost to be guided across has gone up significantly over the past decade, according to surveys and Border Patrol officials, who say this shows they are making the journey more difficult. But the prices (around $7,000 for the trip from Central America, with $4,000 up front) are still being paid, often by relatives in the United States. And even apprehensions and seizures do not always amount to clear victories.
On weekends, smugglers often rush the border from several points, agents and immigrants said, which means more drugs and immigrants are caught -- and more get through. Smugglers have also become masters of decoys and delays. Ms. Ochoa said she had seen smaller cars pulled over, followed by large trucks that slip by while the authorities are tied up.
Similarly, the night after Chief Hinojosa highlighted the sector's hot spots, dozens of agents spent several hours tracking a group of migrants who had crossed the river between Ms. Ochoa's and Mr. Zamora's small towns. The migrants had tripped a ground sensor, then a drone and a helicopter -- equipped with heat-detecting cameras -- confirmed that there were people making their way north through the brush in the flood plain. Slowly, the teams moved in, on horses, in trucks and with A.T.V.'s.
It was an impressive display that yielded a mixed result. A handful of officers walked three men up from the brush, along with two teenage boys and a tearful young woman with a pink cellphone. All but one came from Central America and would soon be sent back.
But that was just part of the group. Eight others had gotten away, the agents said, along with the two guides, who appeared to have fled back across the river into Mexico.
Less than an hour earlier, it was much the same with a shipment of drugs. Two men carrying backpacks ran through a gap in the border fence. The cocaine they were carrying ended up seized, but the smugglers escaped. They had thrown down homemade spikes -- nails welded together to pop the tires of Border Patrol trucks -- and that was all they needed. Despite dozens of agents in the area, a fence and surveillance overhead, they were able to slip away by blending into McAllen.
''If they weren't getting in,'' said one border official who works at ports of entry, ''they wouldn't be trying.''
The next morning, Mr. Zamora saw the four migrants cross in front of him. Chief Hinojosa said border crossers are often caught deeper into Texas, at the checkpoint heading out of the valley.
But Mr. Zamora seemed ambivalent, going back and forth between annoyance and resignation. Leaning on a steel pole for support, his 77 years looking more like 88, he said that as long as immigrants could find work -- as long as the incentive system far from the border stayed the same -- people would come. He knew it because it was his own experience. Though legal now, as a young boy more than 60 years ago, he swam across the same river to pursue the American dream.
Watching the Line: Articles in this series are examining the state of border security, which is central to the immigration debate.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Migrants from Guatemala after being caught by United States Border Patrol agents south of Granjeno, Tex. (A1).
RUNNING: A migrant ran from a gap in the border fence to a waiting car early one February morning in Penitas, Tex. Border Patrol agents were nearby but did not see.
MULTIPLE CHALLENGES: The Rio Grande Valley part of the border, closest to the Gulf of Mexico, is difficult to control, with Border Patrol agents needing to keep watch on the Rio Grande, left
to monitor crossroads at gaps in the wall, center
and to patrol brushy areas with lots of cover. Fences and walls cover a limited area in the Rio Grande Valley sector. (A16)
CAUGHT: Migrants being processed at the Customs and Border Protection Rio Grande Valley sector headquarters. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KIRSTEN LUCE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A17) GRAPHICS: Tightened Security and Poor Economy Make a Porous Border Less So: There are now more agents along the 1,954-mile-long border than ever before ...: Staffing has more than doubled in most of the nine sectors along the border, but the growth has not been uniform. Nearly 40 percent of the border staff in 2012 was in Tucson or El Paso, two sectors covering about 500 miles of the border with declining shares of immigrant traffic. They were among the main locations of illegal border crossings during the Mexican migration wave that peaked around 2005.
... and apprehensions along the border have dropped sharply as fewer attempts are made ...: Over all, the number of people caught trying to cross the border illegally has declined sharply in recent years, largely because there were fewer people trying to cross the border in the first place. The recession was one factor. Additionally, the presence of criminal gangs on the Mexican side of the border and increased Border Patrol staffing increased the risks and cost of the trip.
... but even in the most secure areas, some people still cross illegally.: The Border Patrol has been estimating the number of migrants who successfully avoided capture after being detected, and officials believe agents are catching a higher percentage now than in previous years. Because of differences in tracking by sector, the numbers are better for showing trends in a single sector, rather than comparing across sectors. (Sources: Government Accountability Office
 Customs and Border Protection.) (A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BORDER CONTROL (91%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); DEPORTATION (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (71%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (65%)

ORGANIZATION: US CUSTOMS & BORDER PROTECTION (92%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EL PASO, TX, USA (92%); TUCSON, AZ, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (74%); GULF OF MEXICO (68%) UNITED STATES (94%); GUATEMALA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2013



88 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1515 words

HEADLINE: Hungary Tries a Dash of Taxes to Promote Healthier Eating Habits

BYLINE: By SUZANNE DALEY; Michael M. Grynbaum contributed reporting from New York, and Gabriella Horn from Budapest.

 BODY:
BUDAPEST -- Gizella Beres Devenyi, who works behind the cash register at the delicatessen Zena in a working-class neighborhood here, says it is easy to see Hungary's new salt tax at work.
''You see the kids come in after school and pick up the bags of potato chips, and then when we tell them the price, they put them right back,'' Mrs. Devenyi said. ''We are selling about 10 percent less of certain brands.''
While Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has raised tobacco taxes and tried to ban 32-ounce sodas in New York City, neither he nor the rest of the United States has embraced taxes as a way to promote healthier diets. Europe, on the other hand, has become something of a petri dish for a variety of food tax strategies, with a handful of countries slapping taxes on items like sugary sodas, fatty cheeses and salty chips, and others considering it.
France, Finland, Denmark, Britain, Ireland and Romania have all either instituted food taxes or have been talking about it. 
But perhaps no country is trying harder than Hungary, which has, in the past 18 months, imposed taxes on salt, sugar and the ingredients in energy drinks, hoping both to raise revenues and force those who are eating unhealthy foods to pay a little more toward the country's underfinanced health system.
Visit the market halls of Budapest and it is not hard to see why. Sure, there are some vegetables. But they are far outnumbered by sweet pastries, fatty sausages and thick slabs of lard, eaten for breakfast with onions. Nearly two-thirds of Hungarians are overweight or obese, and the country has the highest per capita salt consumption in the European Union.
As a result, Hungary has one of the lowest life expectancy rates at birth in the European Union: in 2011 it was just 71.2 years for men and 78.7 for women. In 2009, the most recent statistics available for all 27 members of the bloc, life expectancy in the group averaged at 76.6 years for men and 82.6 years for women.
''We have a public health crisis,'' said Miklos Szocska, the health minister, explaining the logic behind the new taxes, which raised about $77.8 million last year. ''We are leading the charts in many kinds of diseases. So, those who follow a certain lifestyle should pay for it in a small way.''
Many nutrition experts say that taxation is a powerful tool that has been effective in campaigns to reduce smoking and alcohol consumption. But many questions remain about how to make it work when it comes to changing eating habits.
Should taxation be combined with subsidies making fruits, vegetables and lean meat especially cheap? Will it actually improve diet or simply change it? And who will be affected? The truly overweight? Or the poor?
''What you have is a search out there for the best mix of ways to alter behavior,'' said Dr. João Breda, the program manager for nutrition, physical activity and obesity at the World Health Organization Regional Office for Europe, which will issue a report on the subject soon. ''And you have it coming from governments of all kinds, governments from left to right to center.''
But critics point out that the new interest in food taxes just happens to coincide with tough economic times in Europe. Some say the taxes are as much about raising revenues in a politically acceptable manner as they are about promoting healthy habits. And they worry that the taxes do, in fact, hit the poor the hardest.
One effort to raise taxes on saturated fat has already failed spectacularly. In October 2011, Denmark became the first country to institute such a tax, raising the price of meat, dairy, edible oils and fats, margarine and other blended spreads, among other items. Fans of the effort thought Denmark was perfectly positioned to make such a tax work, because it already had rigorous labeling requirements, an efficient administration and companies used to making these kinds of adjustments.
But barely a year later, Denmark gave up on the tax. In the end, experts say, the effort was undermined by political battles, pressure from the food industry and a population that quickly learned to go over the border to Germany to buy the products it wanted.
Yet many health officials say that even the failed attempts are a step forward in developing taxation strategies that will alter eating patterns on a continent that has had a rise in obesity rates in recent years, though they still run far below those in the United States.
In the United States, much of the push for healthier diets has come through awareness campaigns. The first lady, Michelle Obama, has taken up the cause of healthy eating, and in recent years, helped along by some federal incentives, many schools have taken a hard look at the lunches they serve.
But probably the most controversial champion of good eating has been Mr. Bloomberg, whose efforts in New York City have made him kind of a celebrity in Europe. He has banned trans fats, forced soda from school vending machines, demanded that restaurant chains post calorie counts and more recently tried to limit the size of sugary sodas sold at the city's restaurants, street carts and movie theaters. That effort is currently facing a challenge in the courts from the American beverage industry.
Europe is much more accepting of government intervention. Before the new taxes were imposed in Hungary, some polls showed that Hungarians were in favor of using taxes to press for healthier eating habits. But many appear to have soured on the idea, seeing it as yet another hardship in difficult times.
The move to institute food taxes in Hungary began ambitiously. It was first nicknamed the ''hamburger tax'' and included the idea of a tax on fast food. But the effort was later renamed a ''chips tax,'' skirting the issue of fat altogether, a change that many people attribute to lobbying by multinational corporations. And in the end, the taxes were applied only to packaged foods, making it easier to carry out. The rates vary depending on the food group: adding, for instance, about 13 cents to the cost of a 100-gram, or nearly 4-ounce, chocolate bar, or about 20 cents to a small bag of potato chips.
But many Hungarians just do not think the taxes are working and see the effort primarily as a revenue-raising instrument, instituted after the conservative government introduced a flat-rate income tax, which created a large hole in the budget.
The teenagers in Mrs. Devenyi's shop may have given up on the expensive potato chips, but they have not been asking for apples either. For the most part, they are choosing similar snacks that are cheaper, either because they have less salt or because they were made with even cheaper ingredients.
''The food tax,'' Mrs. Devenyi said, ''is a joke.''
Sales of salty and sugary foods have dropped in the last year, officials said. But it is hard to tell if the taxes had much to do with it. Hungarians, struggling with high unemployment and a dismal economy, bought less of all kinds of foods last year.
Masek Lajor, who has a stand in the market hall of Rakoczi Square, said most of his customers were not particularly aware of the special taxes on products like powdered soup mixes, jams and chocolate, because the government had raised sales taxes at roughly the same time, making many purchases more expensive. Mr. Lajor used to sell only chicken. But he said he had to expand his inventory because Hungarians just could not afford as much chicken these days. He has loaded up on items that are near their expiration date and, at reduced prices, sell briskly.
''Everyone is just looking for bargains,'' he said.
The government hoped to collect 20 billion forints, about $88 million, from the food taxes last year and fell 3 billion forints, or about $13 million, short. One reason was that energy drink makers quickly changed their products to duck the tax. In a kind of cat and mouse game, the government has reformulated its tax to catch up with them and hopes to collect more money next year.
But experts say reformulation is one of the goals of the food tax. If a manufacturer lowers salt content to dodge taxes, for example, much has been achieved. It is yet another way in which food taxation is different from taxes on tobacco and alcohol.
Hungary's food industry, however, does not believe the government is interested in reformulation because they were given little time to adjust to the taxes.
''The industry was shocked,'' said Reka Szollosi, the secretary of Hungary's Association of Food Producers. ''There was practically no consultation before they decided on these taxes. And taking salt out of a product can have serious technical consequences. In many cases, it serves as a preservative.''
Ms. Szollosi says that much of the salt that Hungarians consume is not actually from prepackaged foods but from salt added to food cooked at home. She said the taxes actually sent the wrong signal, suggesting to people they could significantly affect salt intake by simply avoiding the taxed items.
''People are not aware,'' she said. ''So, now they are saying to themselves, 'O.K., I don't eat chips, I'm O.K.,' and that just isn't true.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sausages for sale in Budapest. Nearly two-thirds of Hungarians are overweight or obese. (A6)
 Store owners say sales of some salty and sugary foods are down, but youths are still eating similar snacks, and drinking sugary beverages. Bottom, a boy ate langos, a fried dough dish. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AKOS STILLER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUTRITION (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); TAX PLANNING (77%); SNACK FOODS (76%); SMOKING (75%); CHEESE (75%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (75%); SOFT DRINKS (75%); FOOD & BEVERAGE CONSUMPTION (75%); OBESITY (74%); FUNCTIONAL FOODS (71%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (70%); TOBACCO FARMING (70%); STATISTICS (70%); DIETITIANS & NUTRITIONISTS (69%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (65%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (65%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (62%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BUDAPEST, HUNGARY (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) HUNGARY (94%); EUROPE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); ROMANIA (79%); FINLAND (71%); DENMARK (71%); CENTRAL EUROPE (59%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2013



89 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1000 words

HEADLINE: Best Sellers: E-Book Nonfiction: Sunday, March 03rd 2013

 BODY:
About the Best Sellers:
These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the March 03, 2013 print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending February 16, 2013. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above it. A dagger (&#8224;) indicates that some retailers report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our methodology, visit http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers. 
Weeks&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Best Sellers: E-Book NonfictionThisLastOnWeekWeekList11DRINKING AND TWEETING, by Brandi Glanville with Leslie Bruce. (Gallery Books) One of the &#8220;Real Housewives of Beverly Hills&#8221; describes growing up poor, her contentious divorce, her D.U.I. and other adventures. 2133AMERICAN SNIPER, by Chris Kyle with Scott McEwen and Jim DeFelice. (HarperCollins Publishers) A member of the Navy Seals who had the most career sniper kills in United States military history discusses his childhood, his marriage and his battlefield experiences during the Iraq war. Kyle was recently shot to death in Texas. 31AMERICA THE BEAUTIFUL, by Ben C. Carson and Candy Carson. (Zondervan) A doctor explores what makes America great. 4317PROOF OF HEAVEN, by Eben Alexander. (Simon &#38; Schuster) A neurosurgeon recounts his near death experience during a coma from bacterial meningitis. 5620KILLING KENNEDY, by Bill O&#39;Reilly and Martin Dugard. (Henry Holt &#38; Company) The host of &#8220;The O&#8217;Reilly Factor&#8221; recounts the events surrounding the assassination of John F. Kennedy. 6973KILLING LINCOLN, by Bill O&#39;Reilly and Martin Dugard. (Henry Holt &#38; Company) The host of &#8220;The O&#8217;Reilly Factor&#8221; recounts the events surrounding the assassination of Abraham Lincoln. 722BEYOND BELIEF, by Jenna Miscavige Hill with Lisa Pulitzer. (HarperCollins Publishers) How the niece of the Scientology leader David Miscavige left the church at 21.&#160; 845MY BELOVED WORLD, by Sonia Sotomayor. (Knopf Doubleday Publishing) The Supreme Court justice recalls growing up in the Bronx, attending Princeton, working for the Manhattan District Attorney&#8217;s office and becoming a federal judge. &#160; 91224NO EASY DAY, by Mark Owen with Kevin Maurer. (Penguin Group) An account by a former member of the Navy SEALs, written pseudonymously, of the mission that killed Osama bin Laden. 1083CUT, by Cathy Glass. (HarperCollins Publishers) An account, first published in 2009, of a foster mother who tries to save a suicidal little girl.&#160; 114ARGO, by Antonio Mendez and Matt Baglio. (Penguin Group) An account of the daring rescue of six Americans from Tehran that inspired the film; Mendez was the C.I.A, operative played by Ben Affleck. 1213108UNBROKEN, by Laura Hillenbrand. (Random House Publishing) An Olympic runner&#8217;s story of survival as a prisoner of the Japanese in World War II. 131HERE&#39;S THE DEAL, by David Leonhardt. (The New York Times/Byliner) A plan to return the economy to growth, from the Washington bureau chief of The New York Times. 1455GOING CLEAR, by Lawrence Wright. (Knopf Doubleday Publishing) The Pulitzer Prize-winning author examines the world of Scientology.&#160; 151THE FAVORED DAUGHTER, by Fawzia Koofi. (Palgrave Macmillan) The first woman speaker of the Afghan Parliament recalls her life, beginning with her mother&#39;s leaving her, the 19th child, out in the sun to die. 161848WILD, by Cheryl Strayed. (Knopf Doubleday Publishing) A woman&#8217;s account of her life-changing 1,100-mile solo hike along the Pacific Crest Trail during the summer of 1995. 17227TEAM OF RIVALS, by Doris Kearns Goodwin. (Simon &#38; Schuster) The political genius of Abraham Lincoln, revealed in his relationship with his cabinet; originally published in 2005 and part of the inspiration for the movie &#34;Lincoln.&#34; 182021BEHIND THE BEAUTIFUL FOREVERS, by Katherine Boo. (Random House Publishing) A journalist reports on families striving for better lives in a Mumbai slum. 19174FRANCONA, by Terry Francona and Dan Shaughnessy. (Houghton Mifflin Harcourt Publishing Company) The manager&#8217;s Red Sox years. &#160; 201949THE POWER OF HABIT, by Charles Duhigg. (Random House Publishing) A reporter for The New York Times presents the science behind how we form, and break, habits. 217108HEAVEN IS FOR REAL, by Todd Burpo with Lynn Vincent. (Thomas Nelson) A father recounts his 3-year-old son&#8217;s encounter with Jesus and the angels during an emergency appendectomy. 222325LONE SURVIVOR, by Marcus Luttrell with Patrick Robinson. (Little, Brown &#38; Company) The only survivor of a Navy SEALs operation in northern Afghanistan describes the battle, his comrades and his courageous escape. 231COOLIDGE, by Amity Shlaes. (HarperCollins Publishers) The 30th president is reclaimed as a conservative hero in this biography.&#160; 242182BOSSYPANTS, by Tina Fey. (Little, Brown &#38; Company) A memoir from the former &#34;Saturday Night Live&#34; star and creator of &#34;30 Rock.&#34; 252527QUIET, by Susan Cain. (Crown Publishing) Introverts &#8212; one-third of the population &#8212; are undervalued in American society.
*** EXTENDED LIST (WEB ONLY)****
26. THE MAN WHO LEFT, by Theresa Weir. (Belfry Press)
27. REMEMBERING WHITNEY, by Cissy Houston with Lisa Dickey. (HarperCollins Publishers)
28. THE OUTPOST, by Jake Tapper. (Little, Brown &#38; Company)
29. LONG SHOT, by Mike Piazza with Lonnie Wheeler. (Simon &#38; Schuster)
30. THOMAS JEFFERSON, by Richard B. Bernstein. (Oxford University Press)
31. THOMAS JEFFERSON, by Jon Meacham. (Random House Publishing)
32. THE IMMORTAL LIFE OF HENRIETTA LACKS, by Rebecca Skloot. (Crown Publishing)
33. STEVE JOBS, by Walter Isaacson. (Simon &#38; Schuster)
34. BAILOUT, by Neil Barofsky. (Free Press)
35. THE REAGAN DIARIES, by Ronald Reagan. (HarperCollins Publishers)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (90%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (90%); PUBLISHING (89%); SHOOTINGS (87%); BOOK SALES (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (73%); RETAILERS (73%); ARMED FORCES (70%); MENINGITIS (69%); HISTORY (65%); IRAQ WAR (65%); SCIENTOLOGISTS & SCIENTOLOGY (64%); OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (64%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (63%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (60%); JUDGES (60%); SUPREME COURTS (60%); RELIGION (60%)

COMPANY: HARPERCOLLINS PUBLISHERS INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (55%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%)

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (50%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%); SONIA SOTOMAYOR (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (74%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2013



90 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: What's On Sunday

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
8 P.M. (History) THE BIBLE Mark Burnett, the reality television impresario, and his wife, the actress Roma Downey, tackle great biblical moments in this 10-hour mini-series, which Neil Genzlinger, writing in The New York Times, called ''a rickety, often cheesy spectacle that is calculated to play well to a certain segment of the already enlisted choir but risks being ignored or scorned in other quarters.'' Ms. Downey leads the cast, which also includes Diogo Morgaldo as Jesus, above center, being baptized by John (Daniel Percival). Alas, ''Abraham, Moses, David, Daniel and the other great biblical figures aren't really developed in a way that illuminates them or makes them linger in our minds,'' Mr. Genzlinger said. ''And those thinking that the ancient miracles might be better served by the special effects available in 2013 than they have been in previous versions should prepare for disappointment. The Red Sea parts no more convincingly here than it did for Charlton Heston in 1956.'' (''All-Star Celebrity Apprentice,'' of which Mr. Burnett is an executive producer, has its season premiere on NBC at 9.) ''Vikings,'' making its premiere at 10, fares somewhat better in Mr. Genzlinger's opinion. It is ''a mini-series about a band of professional pillagers with a disregard for human life and a relentless focus on gratifying material desires,'' he wrote. ''So it is somewhat surprising that it is also a refreshing study in restraint.'' Created by Michael Hirst, whose previous projects include ''Camelot,'' on Starz, and ''The Tudors,'' on Showtime, ''it has the same relatively high production values,'' and ''sometimes the cinematography is downright arresting,'' he said. 
''But what really drives the series are the performances''; he cited in particular Travis Fimmel, Gabriel Byrne and Gustaf Skarsgard.
10 A.M. (ABC) THIS WEEK Gene Sperling, the director of the National Economic Council, and Senator Kelly Ayotte, Republican of New Hampshire, discuss what comes next in the battle of the budget.
10 A.M. (Fox) FOX NEWS SUNDAY Chris Wallace sits down with the former Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney and his wife, Ann, left, in their first postelection interview. The Romneys will discuss their campaign and what they believe they could have done differently, as well as their thoughts leading up to Election Day, and life after the race.
10:30 A.M. (CBS) FACE THE NATION Senators Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina; John McCain, Republican of Arizona; and Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, will discuss the budget sequestration, immigration and the new policy on Syria. Cardinal Timothy Dolan, the archbishop of New York, will talk about the papal conclave and the state of the Roman Catholic Church.
10:30 A.M. (NBC) MEET THE PRESS House Speaker John A. Boehner, Republican of Ohio, discusses sequestration. Gene Sperling, director of the National Economic Council, gives the White House position.
8 P.M. (Investigation Discovery) BEAUTY & THE BLADE RUNNER This network collaborates with Peacock Productions of NBC News on this documentary exploring the relationship between Oscar Pistorius, the South African runner known for his prosthetic legs, and his girlfriend, Reeva Steenkamp, whom he is accused of murdering.
9 P.M. (ABC) RED WIDOW After her husband (Anson Mount), a marijuana smuggler, is murdered in their driveway, a Marin County housewife (Radha Mitchell, below with Mr. Mount) finds herself thrust into the organized-crime world to repay a multimillion-dollar debt. She's been there before: her father and his bodyguard are Russian gangsters in San Francisco. Melissa Rosenberg, who wrote the screenplays for all five ''Twilight'' movies, created this new series, adapted from the Dutch series ''Penoza.'' ''There's the usual crime thriller quotient of violence and death, but the real plot propellant is the mama bear idea: the story of the ordinary woman who does whatever it takes to protect her family, with no regard to safety, shame, the logic of the plot or credible motivation,'' Mike Hale wrote in The Times. But ''Breaking Bad'' this isn't. ''The problem is embodied in the casting of Ms. Mitchell ('High Art'), a star of weighty film dramas who's good when tension, brittleness or fear are called for but doesn't appear to have the light touch that would help enliven scenes in which Marta adapts to her new role,'' he said. KATHRYN SHATTUCK

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOE ALBLAS/HISTORY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); RELIGION (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (84%); CELEBRITIES (78%); REALITY TELEVISION (78%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); FILM (73%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (65%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (65%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (65%); ELECTIONS (65%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (65%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (64%); ECONOMIC POLICY (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); IMMIGRATION (50%); CINEMATOGRAPHY (50%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (55%); KELLY AYOTTE (50%); RICHARD DURBIN (50%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (50%); MITT ROMNEY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); SYRIA (50%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2013



91 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1965 words

HEADLINE: Mom Always Said to Share

BYLINE: By JOANNE KAUFMAN

 BODY:
From the time they were middle-school students in Manhattan, Arielle Patrick and her brother, Andrew, had an agreement: come college graduation, if they weren't married they would share a ''bachelor/bachelorette pad'' in the city. They were serious enough about the matter to put the pact in writing on a piece of loose-leaf paper and, with great earnestness, to sign their names at the bottom.
So it was that in September 2012, a dozen years later, the Patricks signed their names at the bottom of a lease for a fourth-floor walk-up in Midtown East.
''We'd always dreamed of being cool single adults together in New York,'' said Ms. Patrick, 23, who works for a public relations firm. (Mr. Patrick, 22, is a legal assistant at a law firm.) ''Some people at my office are so surprised that I live with my brother. They're very interested in how we make it work.'' 
Earlier avatars of the sibling roommate phenomenon include the McKenney sisters, whose move to Manhattan in the 1930s formed the basis of Ruth McKenney's memoir ''My Sister Eileen.'' The book, which went on to become a play, a musical and a short-lived television series, chronicled their life together in a tiny apartment in the big city.
For the McKenneys then, like the Patricks today, there was safety, security and (perhaps) solvency in togetherness. In fact, many young adult siblings in New York are doubling up for just those reasons. With rents sky high and entry-level salaries low, togetherness makes economic sense. But it makes emotional sense, too. Familiarity breeds content: with that long-shared history, brothers and sisters can serve as one another's sounding board, confessor, fashion adviser and, every so often, caretaker.
Of course, there's always the chance that one or the other will go blabbing to Mom and Dad about overdue loans and overnight guests.
''It used to be that brothers and sisters who lived in the city wanted to live apart and have their own lives,'' said Julia Bryzgalina, the director of sales and leasing at Platinum Properties. ''But in the last six months I've seen a huge jump in siblings moving in together.''
In large part, that huge jump has to do with rent. The average monthly charge for a studio now is $2,346, up 12 percent from 2011, and the average monthly rent for a one-bedroom is $3,330, up 10 percent from 2011, Ms. Bryzgalina said.
Rents, she said, have become ''unmanageable for a lot of people who have just graduated from college and are looking for a place to live.''
Because siblings grow up under the same roof, they are well versed in one another's quirks and foibles and consequently might not need as much breathing room as roommates who are not related. ''So they can get a smaller, cheaper apartment,'' Ms. Bryzgalina said. ''Some might even be comfortable sharing a room. After all, in some cases they shared a bunk bed when they were children.''
Share a bedroom? Seriously? For Whitney Noziskova, 32, an entrepreneur, the idea would be unthinkable if the roommate in her one-bedroom Greenwich Village apartment were anyone but her sister, Kasey, 28, a wallpaper designer. ''We're definitely on top of each other,'' she said. ''It's forced intimacy, but I think it's a good thing. The boundaries you have with any other person have been permeable with your sibling your entire life, and it stays that way into adulthood.''
According to Ms. Bryzgalina, parents buying an apartment for an older child often want to make sure it has enough space for the next-oldest one. Some are focusing on two-bedroom units to avoid the added expense and hassle of having to buy a second co-op or condo down the road.
Similarly, parents who are helping with the rent may be disinclined to lay out the going rate of about $2,400 a month for individual studio apartments. They're finding considerable cost benefit in settling their offspring under the same roof, said Geraldine Onorato, a sales agent at Rutenberg Realty.
She speaks from experience. Her daughters, Alexandra Newman, 24, a tutor, and Victoria Newman, 22, a marketing coordinator for ESPN, and their cousin Chrissy Anderson, 24, share a three-bedroom walk-up in Gramercy Park that rents for about $4,800 a month.
''They each have their own room,'' Ms. Onorato said. ''There's a washer and dryer and two bathrooms. They're each paying $1,600 a month or so, and a studio would be so much more. And if a studio were $1,600, it wouldn't have as nice a kitchen or a washer and dryer.''
The upfront hassles are minimized as well. You don't have two families paying the guarantor application fee or two families submitting to a credit check. ''This was clean,'' Ms. Onorato said. ''It was my husband and me. It's our children and our responsibility. There isn't that unknown, like the roommate who lost her job and can't pay her share of the rent.''
As for siblings who are assuming full responsibility for their monthly nut, they feel a sense of financial trust they might not have under other circumstances. It's a safe bet that a sibling won't announce on Thursday that she's leaving Friday to get her doctorate or to be married and has no intention of continuing to pay rent. (Alexandra Newman is heading out of town for graduate school in the next few months, but her roommates already know that another cousin will be taking over her room.)
At the same time, the sibling living arrangement is about comfort level. Better to go with the slob/neat freak/penny pincher/spendthrift you know well than to take your chances with the idiosyncrasies of a colleague from work or someone you found on Craigslist.
''We don't have to worry about who bought the milk,'' said Alan Glick, 24, a consultant who shares a two-bedroom in the East 30s with his brother, Arnold, 22, a digital media specialist. ''We're brothers. We're not keeping score.''
In the one-bedroom West Village apartment shared by Gigi Campo, 24, an editorial assistant at Penguin Press, and her sister, Katie, 27, a journalism student, it's an article of faith that if you finish the Trader Joe hummus, you go out and buy more, and that no one but Katie touches Katie's good Scotch.
Similarly, Victoria Newman is aware that her sister, Alexandra, isn't as passionate about recycling as she is. Alexandra, in turn, tries with varying degrees of success not to notice when Victoria scavenges the trash for jars and cans that could have a second life.
And when conflicts do crop up, it's emotionally safer to dress down your sister or brother for neatness noncompliance than to go mano a mano with a friend who, after one too many arguments about whose turn it is to clean the kitchen, may no longer want to be friends.
''When it's your sibling, it's easy to fight and pout, and 20 minutes later, it's fine,'' said Claire Burke, 30, a member of the information technology staff at the New Museum. She shares a two-bedroom in Park Slope, Brooklyn, with her sister Ellen, 25, a production assistant at MSNBC. ''If it's a roommate who isn't a family member, it's a slightly different scenario.''
Clay Elliott, 33, a nursing student who shares a two-bedroom Upper East Side apartment with his half-sister, Emily Thompson, 28, puts it a bit more bluntly: ''You can tell your sibling, 'Shut up,' and you'll still be related.''
But you can't always tell your sibling to break up. ''The previous apartment that my sister, Lily, and I shared was much smaller than the one we share now,'' said Louis Mandelbaum, 26, a D.J. and writer. ''Her boyfriend, whom I wasn't in love with, was basically living with us, and I wanted him to start paying rent.
''We tried to set boundaries like he could only be there three or four nights a week,'' he said. ''It was the most tense time we had, but there was nothing to be said until she realized he wasn't the right guy for her.''
Brothers! But Ms. Mandelbaum, 23, who with her mother founded stylelikeu.com, a Web site devoted to personal style, displays fair-mindedness, a good quality in a roommate. ''I think I went a little overboard with the amount of time I spent at the apartment with my boyfriend,'' she said. ''I feel bad. But I think Louis is a little bit picky about his living space. I'm not sure if it would have mattered who my boyfriend was.''
For some siblings, living together as adults seems like the normal course of events. Colleen and Suzanne Dengel, 20, twins, actresses -- they played Meryl Streep's bratty daughters in ''The Devil Wears Prada'' -- and seniors at the Fashion Institute of Technology, live in the financial district in a penthouse studio they fashioned into a two-bedroom.
''With twins it can go either way,'' Ms. Dengel added. ''But we've always been close. We were roommates in the dorm. It felt like a natural progression to get an apartment together.''
Mr. Elliott and Ms. Thompson know all about childhood closeness. Growing up in Vero Beach, Fla., as soon as they got close enough, one or the other would land a punch. ''We'd beat each other up, we hid each other's stuffed animals and she'd tell on me,'' Mr. Elliott said.
But they both wound up in Maine in winter 2007 ''and started hanging out,'' he continued. ''We were able to deal more constructively than in the past and, since we were both moving to New York, decided to get an apartment together.''
At the beginning it wasn't exactly roses 'round the front door. ''It took almost a year before things settled down,'' said Ms. Thompson, an associate director of a nonprofit. ''It was mundane stuff. I'd come home from work and there were dirty dishes in the sink, and Clay was sitting there watching television. And I felt like the beleaguered breadwinner whose wife was eating bonbons.''
In return -- ''just to vex'' her brother, who she says ''has a streak of O.C.D.'' -- she left cabinets and drawers open.
After six years, she said, ''I'm getting to the point where I want my own apartment. But I think Clay and I will be that much closer as we get older because of the stretch we did living together. ''
Sometimes, no one is more stunned or delighted about the success of the arrangement than the parents. ''As children they fought like cats and dogs,'' said Beth Sievers, an agent for Halstead Property, of her daughters, Amanda, 22, and Victoria, 25, who along with a friend share an apartment on the Upper West Side. ''I was worried about putting them together, but I wanted Amanda out of the dump she'd been in prior to this. There are a few disagreements, but nothing like when they were younger.''
Downsides? Sure.
''If I have a crush on a boy and I tell my sister in confidence,'' Gigi Campo said with a laugh, ''my parents will call the next day asking about him.''
When Clay Elliott didn't like the behavior of his sister's ex-boyfriend, ''he'd call my mother and tell her about it,'' Ms. Thompson said. ''He says I was the tattletale when we were growing up. Well, he's the tattletale now.''
Still, the compensations are many. ''We're each other's mother, sister and friend,'' Suzanne Dengel said. ''We take care of each other when we're sick.''
More than anything, living with a sibling seems to be a graduate program in human relations.
Until Noelle Gentile, 34, a drama teacher, got married last year, she shared a Park Slope apartment with her sister, Amanda, 31, who works for a nonprofit.
''I learned a lot of my conflict-resolution skills living with her,'' Ms. Gentile said, ''because she was a safe person to figure things out with. I used to be more fiery than I am, more temperamental. Thanks to Amanda, I went from slamming doors to going for a walk to having a calm conversation.''
Through it all, she knew her sister would be there. ''It set me up for who I would be when I found a romantic partnership,'' she said. ''To have that kind of stability while you're flailing around the biggest city in the world is a really amazing thing.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Suzanne Dengel, at left in both cases, and her twin, Colleen, have been close since their days of dressing identically. Now they share a studio in the financial district. ''It felt like a natural progression to get an apartment together,'' Suzanne Dengel says. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES
SUZANNE DENGEL) (RE1)
Clockwise from above, Lily Mandelbaum and her brother, Louis, lived under the same roof as children and have repeated the experiment for the past four years. Their current apartment is in the East Village.
Clay Elliott and his half-sister, Emily Thompson, beat each other up as children. Now they peacefully share a place on the Upper East Side. ''You can tell your sibling, 'Shut up,' and you'll still be related,'' Mr. Elliott says. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY VICTOR J. BLUE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
BELOW, MANDELBAUM FAMILY
 BOTTOM, ANNE GALYEAN) (RE8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (76%); PROPERTY LEASES (75%); LEGAL SERVICES (73%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (71%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (54%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2013



92 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1108 words

HEADLINE: A University Steak to Go With That Sweatshirt?

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

 BODY:
PULLMAN, Wash. -- Tongs in hand, you lean over to take in the smoky sizzle of a steak on the grill, and your thoughts naturally turn to ... your alma mater?
That is the plan.
Food stopped being a punch line at most colleges years ago, as salad and burrito bars supplanted the overcooked broccoli and beans. Now, Washington State, a big public university in farm country that has been raising its own cattle for generations to train veterinarians and farmers, is trying to put a brand name on the college's meat. It shipped the first introductory orders of packed and frozen W.S.U. Premium Beef in January.
Students conducted surveys at football games to determine whether there was an appetite for well-marbled, expensive cuts of Wagyu, a Japanese breed raised here since the 1990s. Unsurprisingly, in a sea of tailgate parties, they found ample evidence for a market share. 
Officials have since been promoting the product through campus dinners hosted by the School of Hospitality Business Management, and they say W.S.U. Premium Beef could also help recruitment at the animal sciences department, where student ranchers ride point in Wagyu husbandry from calving to packing. Revenue from beef sales, meanwhile, could help fill some of the gaps left by years of deep state budget cuts. Wagyu typically sells for about $5 a pound more, sometimes much more, than regular beef. The university is offering a variety box for $9.50 a pound.
''We've all taken a hit,'' said Margaret E. Benson, the chairwoman of the animal sciences department. ''These programs have to be self-sustaining.''
Clothing and accessories that declare allegiance to one's university are, of course, nothing new. And specialty or seasonal products from institutions with agriculture studies departments have also been around for years. Cornell Dairy Ice Cream from the university's dairy operation is famous in Ithaca, N.Y. Texas A&M Jerky has been a big seller in College Station since the 1980s. The Creamery here at Washington State has been selling Cougar Gold, a white Cheddar cheese packed in a can and named for the university mascot, since the 1940s.
And it is lost on no one here that only a few miles away, across the state line, the University of Idaho's animal and veterinary science department has been very successfully packing Vandal Brand Meats, also named for its mascot, since the late 1980s. About 95 percent of Vandal Brand's products -- which include beef, pork and lamb -- is sold locally, with many in the Washington State University community also regular consumers. ''We feed a lot of Cougars,'' said Ron Richard, the Vandal meat department's manager.
But in recent years, food researchers said, a number of trends have coalesced, changing the stakes, and the possibilities, for what a college food brand might be.
The movement for locally sourced food has fueled a growth in student-led agriculture with new or expanded farm-to-table product lines in places like the urban gardens at George Washington University and the Sustainable Student Farm at the University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign. Student-run farms supplying dining halls and farmers' markets have started or expanded at many institutions, including the University of California at Davis and California State University, Chico. At the same time, the commercial branding of commodities has become an industry norm, from Washington State apples to California avocados.
The erosion of public financing for higher education, meanwhile, is forcing universities to think harder than ever about how best to keep themselves anchored in the minds of the public and their alumni. Washington State's higher education system ranked eighth worst in the nation, measured by the depth of financing cuts, down 22.4 percent from 2008 to 2013, according to figures from Illinois State University's Center for the Study of Education Policy.
''Schools are looking for new ways to generate revenue, but there is more entrepreneurial thinking in colleges and universities than ever before, too,'' said Brian Wansink, a professor of consumer behavior at Cornell and the director of the Cornell Food and Brand Lab.
Professor Wansink has studied what he calls ''food halos.'' That is the aura or glow that a compelling story or some connotation of health, social consciousness or environmentalism can bestow on a product. Colleges, he said, with nostalgic allegiances going back generations and educational missions that go beyond the profit motive, can often grab halos while only half trying.
''Anything like a university brand meat has an incredible halo,'' he said.
Then there is the saturation factor. Just how many Notre Dame Fighting Irish throw pillows for example, could a person really want? Dinnertime, by contrast, comes around like clockwork.
At Washington State University, which opened in 1892 as the Washington Agricultural College and School of Science, farming roots run deep. Pictures on the wall at the Beef Center show student judging teams from decades past -- year after year of skinny, earnest-looking farm boys who had grown up in the local ranching and agriculture economy.
These days, though, the university's enrollment is heavily skewed toward the urban and suburban, students from the Seattle area especially. The families sending their sons and daughters here, officials said, are also exactly the kind of consumers looking for premium, locally grown produce and meat. An institution of farmers, they say, has become one of foodies. About half of the first round of W.S.U. Premium Beef orders were from the Seattle area.
''We had people wanting to ship their son or daughter a box,'' said Tom Cummings, the university's cattle operations manager. ''One was to South Carolina.''
Mark Rhea, a product designer and self-described food devotee who lives in West Seattle, was among the early adopters.
''I'm pretty serious about my cooking,'' Mr. Rhea said. He is also an avid college basketball fan who follows the W.S.U. team, even though he did not go there. He said he came upon W.S.U. Premium Beef on the university's Web site. He likes the taste, he said, and the fact that it is locally raised at a place he could visit.
University officials said that with nearly 25,000 students on four campuses and beyond that tens of thousands of alumni and extended family members, there is no shortage of potential customers.
''The numbers are huge, from our institution, our alumni and our friends,'' said Tammey Boston, the university's manager of business development and strategic initiatives. And the best part, she added, is that no expensive advertising is required. ''We've got e-mail addresses,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Tom Cummings oversees the cattle operations at Washington State in Pullman. Alumni and others can now buy W.S.U. Premium Beef, including Wagyu.
A price list at Vandal Brand Meats at the University of Idaho in Moscow. Just across the state line, Mr. Cummings assembling a box for a shipment of frozen beef at Washington State. More photographs are at nytimes.com/national. (A22)
 The University of Idaho started selling meat in the late 1980s. The movement for locally grown food has helped fuel growth in university farm-to-table products. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RAJAH BOSE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEEF (90%); MEATS (89%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (89%); CHEESE (89%); ANIMALS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); DAIRY FARMING (76%); AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); ICE CREAM (75%); BRANDING (75%); TRENDS (74%); BUDGETS (74%); PORK (72%); FASHION ACCESSORIES (70%); BUDGET CUTS (69%); MARKET SHARE (68%); PRODUCT PROMOTION (67%); MAMMALS (56%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF IDAHO (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (94%); IDAHO, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2013



93 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2013
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 970 words

HEADLINE: Across-the-Board Cuts Take Effect, but Their Impact Is Not Immediately Felt

BYLINE: By MICHAEL D. SHEAR; Reporting was contributed by Robbie Brown from Atlanta; Will Carless from San Ysidro, Calif.; Ian Lovett from Los Angeles; and Marc Santora and Ravi Somaiya from New York.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- University officials, city managers, day care providers and others spent Saturday assessing how they would absorb their part of the across-the-board cuts in federal spending that began taking effect over the weekend.
But even as the institutions that depend on federal money nervously took stock, most Americans were largely unaffected by the cuts, at least for now. At Los Angeles International Airport, John Konopka, 45, suffered no delays as he arrived from Atlanta.
''This is just another travel day,'' Mr. Konopka said. ''I think all of it's been talked up a bit, way too politically, to make it seem a lot worse than it is. I don't think it's going to be the gloom and doom that some people are saying it would be.'' 
Others were less sanguine. Joel Silver, 63, a retiree from the Bronx, said he feared the cuts would affect the most vulnerable. He said he was angry that President Obama and lawmakers had not prevented what he called ''an invented crisis.''
''What's the point of a Congress?'' he asked. ''Aren't they supposed to sit down and talk about things and figure them out? The economy was just recovering and now it's going to slide back.''
Across the country, the impact of sequestration, as the cuts are known, appeared to be as varied as the thousands of federal programs, big and small, that now have shrunken pots of money from which to draw.
In Baltimore, the mayor called for an emergency cabinet meeting to discuss the reductions in federal money and their impact on a city that already has a projected deficit of $750 million over the next decade.
At research universities, administrators sent e-mails to faculty members and students warning that changes were coming. Samuel L. Stanley Jr., the president of Stony Brook University, said the institution would lose $7.6 million in ''vital federal funding'' for research grants and other programs. The University of California, Berkeley, warned that ''as sequestration translates into fewer federal grants, the campus will be forced to hire fewer researchers.''
The Air Force Thunderbirds, the elite team of F-16 pilots who perform flight maneuvers at air shows around the country, announced on their Web site that all of their shows had been canceled starting April 1.
Federal officials began sending letters to governors, informing them of smaller grants. Shaun Donovan, the secretary of housing and urban development, wrote to Gov. John R. Kasich of Ohio, ''You can expect reductions totaling approximately $35 million.''
In a 70-page report to Congress accompanying the sequestration order and detailing the reductions -- agency by agency and program by program -- Jeffrey D. Zients, Mr. Obama's budget director, called them ''deeply destructive to national security, domestic investments and core government functions.''
Among the $85 billion in cuts for the fiscal year ending Sept. 30: $3 million less for Pacific coastal salmon recovery; $148 million less for the patent office; a $1 million cut in support by the Defense Department for international sporting competitions; $289 million less for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention; a $1 million cut in the Interior Department's helium fund; and $16 million less for the Sept. 11 victim compensation fund.
But even as the reductions became official, the result of a stalemate between Mr. Obama and Congressional Republicans over increasing taxes, some of the immediate impact was difficult to see.
The process of trimming government budgets is slow and cumbersome, involving notifications to unions about temporary furloughs, reductions in overtime pay and cuts in grant financing to state and local programs. Less federal money will, over time, mean fewer government contracts with private companies. Reduced overtime pay for airport security checkpoint officers will make lines longer, eventually.
And so as the first weekend began for the new, slimmer government, little of that was evident yet.
At Kennedy International Airport in New York, travelers who arrived extra early were greeted by short lines, not the drastic delays that federal transportation officials have said could emerge as security officers are furloughed to save money.
''The check-in was fine, at least for now. I'm surprised,'' said Chris Achilefu, 45, who arrived at the airport four hours before his flight to Lagos, Nigeria. Normally Mr. Achilefu, an automotive exporter who lives in Upper Darby, Pa., would arrive two hours early, but he said he was concerned about lines.
''I was listening to what the president said yesterday, that it won't kick in right away,'' he said. ''Hopefully the two parties will come together, hopefully they will resolve it before another month.''
At the main San Ysidro port of entry between Mexico and San Diego, traffic moved smoothly late Friday night, just hours after the sequestration began, and border lines had only a few dozen vehicles in each lane.
Vendors who line the street where cars sometimes idle for hours waiting to enter the United States perked up when they heard about the cuts.
''That's good for business,'' said Emilio Gomez, an employee at a stand selling rugs, china figurines and soda. ''When people are waiting, they get bored and they buy more stuff.''
In his weekly address on Saturday, Mr. Obama acknowledged that not everyone would be affected equally. ''While not everyone will feel the pain of these cuts right away, the pain will be real,'' he said. ''Many middle-class families will have their lives disrupted in a significant way.''
In the Republican response to Mr. Obama's address, Representative Cathy McMorris Rodgers of Washington also called the cuts ''devastating,'' but said that Republicans in the House would not yield on taxes. ''Spending is the problem, which means cutting spending is the solution,'' she said. ''It's that simple.''

CORRECTION-DATE: March 10, 2013 

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, a reporting credit last Sunday with an article about the impact of sequestration described incorrectly the location of a writer who contributed. Will Carless reported from San Diego -- not from ''San Ysidro, Calif.'' (San Ysidro is a community in San Diego, not a city.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In Atlanta, the National Park Service operates the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.'s birthplace. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DUSTIN CHAMBERS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); GRANTS & GIFTS (85%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (76%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); AIRPORTS (71%); WEB SITES (60%); AIR FORCES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (59%)

PERSON: JOHN KASICH (56%); BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2013



94 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; LIVING IN | BRONXVILLE, N.Y.; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1290 words

HEADLINE: Traditions Change, Even Here

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

 BODY:
Seven years ago, when Irina Sher, a native of Yerevan, Armenia, first set foot in the southern Westchester suburb of Bronxville and saw its wooded hillsides inset with substantial Tudor, Shingle-style and Victorian homes, she was captivated. When she learned about its top-rated public school, her decision was made: ''I knew right away I had to raise my children here, whatever the cost.''
Almost fully developed by 1940, Bronxville, a square-mile chunk of the town of Eastchester 15 miles from Midtown Manhattan, looks now much the way it did 75 years ago, with some of its still-grand residences dating to the late 1800s. Median prices here are among the 200 highest in the nation, according to Forbes.com's ''America's Most Expensive ZIP Codes.'' Census data from 2010 put the estimated median household income at $178,465, versus $80,725 for Westchester as a whole. White residents represented 87 percent of the population, versus 75 percent for the county. 
But the country-club aura and high real estate prices did nothing to dampen Ms. Sher's enthusiasm. An aesthetician who is the single mother of two daughters, she fled political unrest in Armenia during the early 1990s, before she had time to complete her university studies, eventually settling in Bronxville because, she said, ''I wanted to live where ambitious people who are driven and smart can show my children what it means to work hard and get ahead.''
Ms. Sher pays $3,250 a month for a three-bedroom two-bath apartment, which elsewhere in the county would rent for substantially less. The average for that size apartment in Westchester as of 2011 was $1,928, according to Westchester Residential Opportunities, a nonprofit agency in White Plains. Her daughter Allison, 19, graduated from Bronxville High School and attends Hunter College; Ariana, 16, is in 10th grade.
Residents like Ms. Sher represent a social and demographic shift in the village, said Ed O'Toole, a Manhattan lawyer who grew up in Bronxville and moved back to raise his family. Remembering the Bronxville of his boyhood years, Mr. O'Toole said: ''I think it is more diverse, even if it still has an overall appearance of affluent homogeneity. I think there are more single-parent families, more small families and more families that reflect a multiplicity of ethnic and religious backgrounds.''
''That said,'' Mr. O'Toole added, ''Bronxville still has a ways to go before its racial and economic diversity mirror that of other communities in and around the New York area.''
He and his wife, Kim, also a lawyer in Manhattan, have three daughters -- Megan, 18, Grace, 16, and Brennan, 14. The couple first lived in a one-bedroom apartment on the Upper East Side, then moved to a small three-bedroom house in a nearby section of Yonkers with a Bronxville post office address but outside the Bronxville school district.
They finally settled in the five-bedroom three-bath 1920s brick colonial that his late parents bought in 1966 for about $90,000. Today the house, which has been updated, would sell for about $1.85 million, said Susan Kelty Law, an agent for Houlihan Lawrence.
What You'll Find
Bronxville's western border is the Bronx River Parkway. Its main hub, the downtown shopping district, is bisected by the Metro-North Railroad station. The larger shopping area, east of the station, along and off of Pondfield Road, has about 80 stores; another 20 or so are tucked between the station and the parkway.
Except for a few chain stores, a Starbucks among them, most shops are independent. The mix includes a variety of restaurants, a bookshop (Womrath's), a photo shop (Arista Camera and Imaging), and clothing boutiques.
Fanning out from there are streets reflecting two architectural influences. One of them, William Van Duzer Lawrence, a real estate and pharmaceutical mogul (whose name is also associated with Lawrence Hospital Center in Bronxville, Houlihan Lawrence Real Estate and Sarah Lawrence College in nearby Yonkers), worked with William Augustus Bates, an architect, to develop the almost 100 homes of Lawrence Park starting in the late 1800s.
The area, adjacent to the hospital, was designed as a retreat for writers, artists and musicians. Styles include Adirondack and Arts and Crafts; some roads retain their yellow-brick paving, which has caved in on the sides, leaving a high middle section best navigated in an S.U.V.
The other influential architect, Lewis Bowman, designed more than 50 houses, specializing in Georgian, Cotswold and other styles. Many have steep slate roofs, leaded-glass windows and clustered chimneys.
In all, Bronxville has 1,200 houses, along with 127 condominiums in 3 complexes, 800 co-ops in 25 complexes, and 264 rentals in 11 buildings, said Gerry Iagallo, a consultant for the assessor's office.
What You'll Pay
The median single-family sale price in 2012 was $1.6 million, down from $1.95 million in 2007, according to Houlihan Lawrence. The condo median was $655,000, up from $570,000 over the same period. For co-ops, the median rose to $445,000 from $375,000.
Among those for sale: a four-bedroom two-bath town house on 0.03 acres listed at $870,000, with annual taxes of $20,656; a five-bedroom three-and-a-half-bath 1925 Tudor on 0.15 acres, listed at $1.705 million; and a six-bedroom four-and-a-half-bath Victorian on a third of an acre for $4.1 million, with taxes of $70,665.
The most expensive home on the market is a six-bedroom four-and-a-half-bath Tudor on a 0.75-acre lot for $6.25 million, with taxes of $109,774; the least expensive, a three-bedroom one-and-a-half-bath colonial on 0.10 acres for $799,000, has taxes of $17,003.
The market is fueled by what brokers like Ms. Law call the ''Bronxville shuffle'': the cycle of young families moving from Manhattan or starter homes (some in neighboring Yonkers) to larger ones in the Bronxville school district, and older homeowners downsizing to co-ops and condos.
What to Do
In addition to Eastchester's recreational programs, which are open to Bronxville residents, the village offers recreational options including tennis courts.
John Priesing, a retired executive, and his wife, Madryn, have been members of the Siwanoy Country Club since moving to Bronxville in 1972. (They bought their home for $95,000; today it would list for about $1.6 million, according to Ms. Law.) The couple enjoy dining there; favorites remain standbys like Sammy's Downtown Bistro and Bar.
In recent years, as more restaurants have opened in the business district, the sidewalks aren't rolled up when the stores close; the village draws evening customers from surrounding towns.
The Schools
There are 1,627 students enrolled in the Bronxville Union Free School District. All students in kindergarten through Grade 12 attend classes in the brick school building on Pondfield Road dating to 1922 and enlarged in 2004. SAT averages last year were 621 in reading, 625 in math and 646 in writing, versus 514, 497 and 489 statewide.
For those outside the district, tuition is $23,628 a year for the middle and high schools and $18,553 for the primary school. There are nine tuition students, eight at the high school and one in fifth grade, said Dan Carlin, an assistant superintendent.
The Commute
The peak-hour trip on the Harlem line to Grand Central Terminal takes about 32 minutes. A round-trip ticket costs $18.50; a monthly runs $204. The annual cost of station-area parking for residents is $920. Nonresidents use long-term meters on nearby streets.
The drive to Midtown on Interstate 87 or the Saw Mill River Parkway takes about 20 minutes in light traffic.
The History
Before William Van Duzer Lawrence started on Lawrence Park, the area had only farms, orchards, a few scattered homes and factories, most near the Bronx River.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The free public tennis courts on Garden Avenue are on view, at least in winter, to several substantial homes in Bronxville. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ULI SEIT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAPS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CHILDREN (89%); FAMILY (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (76%); PARENTS (76%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (73%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (73%); CENSUS (70%); SINGLE PARENTS (66%); LAWYERS (60%); RELIGION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); ARMENIA (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2013



95 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; IT'S THE ECONOMY; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1282 words

HEADLINE: Buzzkilled?

BYLINE: By ADAM DAVIDSON. 
Adam Davidson is co-founder of NPR's ''Planet Money,'' a podcast and blog.

 BODY:
Every day, the Web site BeerPulse tries to list every single new beer available in the United States. And that's harder than you might imagine. Recently, the site posted Cigar City's Jamonera Belgian-style Porter, Odell Tree Shaker Imperial Peach IPA, as well as a rye lager, a cherry blossom lager and a barley wine. And the list goes on, and on. In 1978, there were 89 breweries in the United States; at the beginning of this year, there were 2,336, with an average of one new brewery per day. Most of them are tiny, but a handful, like Sam Adams and Sierra Nevada, have become large national brands. At the same time, sales of Budweiser in the United States have dropped for 25 consecutive years. 
So I was surprised to learn that the Justice Department is worried that Anheuser-Busch InBev, the conglomerate that owns Bud, is on the cusp of becoming an abusive monopoly. In January, the department sued AB InBev to prevent it from buying the rest of Mexico's Grupo Modelo, a company in which it already carries a 50 percent stake. The case is not built on any leaked documents about some secret plan to abuse market power and raise prices. Instead, it's based on the work of Justice Department economists who, using game theory and complex forecasting models, are able to predict what an even bigger AB InBev will do. Their analysis suggests that the firm, regardless of who is running it, will inevitably break the law.
For decades, they argue, Anheuser-Busch has been employing what game theorists call a ''trigger strategy,'' something like the beer equivalent of the Mutually Assured Destruction Doctrine. Anheuser-Busch signals to its competitors that if they lower their prices, it will start a vicious retail war. In 1988, Miller and Coors lowered prices on their flagship beers, which led Anheuser-Busch to slash the price of Bud and its other brands in key markets. At the time, August Busch III told Fortune, ''We don't want to start a blood bath, but whatever the competition wants to do, we'll do.'' Miller and Coors promptly abandoned their price cutting.
The trigger strategy, conducted in public, is entirely legal. In fact, it's how airlines, mobile- phone companies and countless other industries keep their prices inflated. Since that dust-up in the late '80s, the huge American beer makers have moved in tandem to keep prices well above what classical economics would predict. (According to the logic of supply and demand, competing beer makers should pursue market share by lowering prices to just above the cost of production, or a few cents per bottle.) Budweiser's trigger strategy has been thwarted, though, by what game theorists call a ''rogue player.'' When Bud and Coors raise their prices, Grupo Modelo's Corona does not. (As an imported beer, Corona is also considered to have a higher value.) And so, according to the Justice Department, AB InBev wants to buy Grupo Modelo not because it thinks the company makes great beer, or because it covets Corona's 7 percent U.S. market share, but because owning Corona would allow AB InBev to raise prices across all of its brands. And if the company could raise prices by, say, 3 percent, it would earn around $1 billion more in profit every year. Imagine the possibilities. The Justice Department already has.
Representatives from AB InBev, however, have stated that the potential Corona acquisition is less about dominating the dwindling (albeit still $90 billion per year) U.S. beer market and more about a larger, global strategy. In that regard, AB InBev has been on quite a roll. The Brazilian firm Companhia de Bebidas das Américas, or AmBev, was born in 1999 around the concept of using innovative technology and managerial efficiency to disrupt the competition and channel the profits into buying them out. The company swallowed up several Latin American firms; in 2004, it merged with the Belgian giant Interbrew; in 2008, the new conglomerate, InBev, took over Anheuser-Busch. Along the way, it also picked up China's third-largest brewer and the Canadian beer company Labatt.
We are still in the very early stages of what appears to be a global version of the scale-based consolidation we've seen in the United States over the past century. Before Prohibition, beer was largely a regional business, with thousands of small breweries serving markets often defined by city blocks. Until fairly recently, retail, food manufacturing, banking and countless other industries were also largely the domain of local or regional firms. And while in recent decades companies have scrambled to command international markets, the global fights have largely been over dominance of the United States, Western Europe and Japan.
But the goal of the Grupo Modelo merger, the company has stated, is to gear up for the big beer fight of the 21st century. As the traditional beer markets of the United States, Europe and Japan age, the most lucrative markets will be in China, India, Latin America, Eastern Europe, the wealthier countries of Africa and other places where, every single day, millions of young consumers will buy their first legal beer. On this front, AB InBev is already facing staunch competition from Denmark's Carlsberg, Britain's SABMiller and Japan's Asahi. It's not exactly worried about Sam Adams and Sierra Nevada.
These firms are among the many preparing for a global market several times larger than any that has ever existed. This helps explain why we have seen so many mergers in the past few months. The Justice Department recently approved the marriage of Penguin and Random House, and is expected to do the same with American Airlines and US Airways. Office Depot and OfficeMax are planning a merger of their own. These megamergers, however, do not inevitably create destructive monopolies. Carl Shapiro, former chief economist at the Justice Department, told me that many mergers, including some large ones, improve competition. Together, Penguin and Random House may be able to better stave off Amazon; American Airlines and US Airways can contend with Delta. Similarly, Office Depot and OfficeMax, once merged, may finally be large enough to really scare Staples. Fear, Shapiro says, is the key. Markets work best, he says, when ''everyone has to watch their back.''
Shapiro admits that the Justice Department has lagged behind the work of many economists, and has been complicit in our fear of large mergers.(In some key decisions, like the 1962 Supreme Court ruling to block the merger of Brown Shoe and the Kinney Company, courts hurt consumers by preventing corporate efficiency.) But economic forecasting has improved since then, Shapiro says, and become more flexible. After AB InBev executives tweaked their Grupo Modelo acquisition plans, so not to affect their domestic interests, the Justice Department started to rerun the numbers. They'll issue an opinion soon.
Over the coming decades, though, the opinion of American government officials might not matter quite so much. China's National People's Congress approved its first antimonopoly law in 2008, which, many economists fear, could be used to block foreign competitors and to promote local giants. India's version, which went into effect in 2009, is even less clear. It's quite possible that the true monopolistic battles of the 21st century will not be among massive corporations but among the self-interested governments. We can only hope that they don't engage in a trigger strategy of their own.
Deep thoughts this week:
1. Economists use game theory to predict which mergers are good for consumers.
2. Expect many more of them in the near future.
3. One day soon, the Justice Department might be the least of megacompanies' worries.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JASPER RIETMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEER & ALE (91%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); BREWERIES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); PRICE CUTTING (88%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); MARKET SHARE (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (68%); PRICE INCREASES (65%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

COMPANY: ANHEUSER-BUSCH INBEV NV/SA (96%); ANHEUSER-BUSCH COS INC (85%); GRUPO MODELO SAB DE CV (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (74%)

TICKER: BUD (NYSE) (96%); ABI (BRU) (96%); GMODELO (BMV) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312120 BREWERIES (96%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (96%); NAICS332431 METAL CAN MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS327213 GLASS CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS111199 ALL OTHER GRAIN FARMING (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2013



96 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 304 words

HEADLINE: Government and Medical Costs, Continued

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Here, the private sector does it worse. 

 BODY:
I've spent some more time going through Steven Brill's magnum opus on medical prices, and am even more amazed at (a) the quality of the reporting (b) his weird refusal to draw the obvious conclusion. 
Throughout the piece, Brill highlights the extent to which Medicare is able to get better deals than private insurers, who in turn get much better deals than individuals. Somewhat puzzlingly, he says almost nothing about Medicaid, which does even better at bargaining because of its greater ability to say no. The best available research says that Medicaid - if provided directly - is way cheaper than private insurance:
So the obvious answer is to expand public insurance, and give Medicare more bargaining power.
But somehow Brill veers off at the last minute. He gets all politically realistic about the prospect of expanding Medicare; I'm all for realism, but shouldn't the overwhelming message of his piece be that what passes for realism in American medicine is disastrous? And he argues that 
trying to cut the deficit by simply lowering the fees Medicare and Medicaid pay to hospitals will not work. It will only cause the hospitals to shift the costs to non-Medicare patients in order to maintain profits - which they will be able to do because of their increasing leverage in their markets over insurers.
This is, from everything I've read, a highly dubious proposition - and everything Brill has said up to this point reinforces that position. After all, the argument that hospitals will raise fees if they make less on Medicare patients only works if hospitals are currently charging less than the traffic will bear - and Brill has just spent 20,000 words telling us that they squeeze every dime they can out of patients. 
Anyway, read his reporting, but turn to health-care economists for the analytical implications.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (91%); INSURANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); HEALTH CARE (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); MEDICAID (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2013



97 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1027 words

HEADLINE: Speaker Says Broad Budget Deal Is Possible, but Not With More Revenue

BYLINE: JONATHAN WEISMAN


HIGHLIGHT: House Speaker John A. Boehner reiterated his opposition to new revenue as part of any deal to reverse automatic budget cuts that took effect over the weekend. 

 BODY:
Visit NBCNews.com for breaking news, world news, and news about the economy
With federal budget cuts beginning to take effect, House Speaker John A. Boehner reinforced his opposition Sunday to any deal to reverse the cuts that includes raising new revenue. But he and senior White House officials left open a narrow path to a comprehensive budget agreement that could restore at least some of the money at some point.
Mr. Boehner, appearing on the NBC program "Meet The Press," said President Obama had already raised nearly $1 trillion to finance his health care program and in January won $650 billion from tax increases on high incomes. 
"How much more does he want?" Mr. Boehner asked. "When is the president going to address the spending side of this?"
But the speaker offered some hope that the budget process - which begins this week with the expected passage by the House of a spending measure, or "continuing resolution," to keep the government open for the rest of the year - could still end in a comprehensive agreement that lowers the deficit, overhauls the tax code and undoes at least some of the automatic spending cuts.
"I don't think anyone quite understands how it gets resolved," Mr. Boehner acknowledged. "After we do our continuing resolution, we'll begin to work on our budget. The House has done a budget every year that I've been speaker. The Senate hasn't done a budget for four years. They've committed to do a budget this year. And I hope that they do. And out of that discussion and out of that process, maybe we can find a way to deal with our long-term spending problem."
To that end, Mr. Obama made a round of phone calls to senators of both parties Saturday to prod bipartisan deficit talks, Gene Sperling, director of the White House National Economic Council, said Sunday, also on "Meet The Press."
However, it was not clear whom Mr. Obama had called. Aides to several senators who have participated in groups or committees looking for a bipartisan deal said their offices did not receive such calls from the president. They include Senator Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois; Senator Mark R. Warner, Democrat of Virginia; Senator Kelly Ayotte, Republican of New Hampshire; Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine; Senator Mike Johanns, Republican of Nebraska; and Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona.
Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, did broach the subject with Mr. Obama last week at the White House in broader conversations about immigration and the attack on the United States Consulate in Benghazi, Libya. But they did not speak on Saturday.
The path to a less arbitrary approach to deficit reduction is narrow and uphill, lawmakers of both parties say. House Republican leaders are adamant that they want no changes to the tax code - including closing loopholes that both sides agree are wasteful. Instead, they say that any closing of loopholes or changes to the tax code should be part of a comprehensive effort to simplify the tax code and lower tax rates while keeping the level of revenue received by the government the same.
"Republicans want tax reform. We want to bring rates down for all Americans so that we've got a fairer tax code," Mr. Boehner said. "But to arbitrarily pull out a couple of tax expenditures and to say, 'Well, we ought to use that to get rid of the sequester.' Listen, every American knows Washington has a spending problem."
The Senate's top two Republican leaders, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky and John Cornyn of Texas, are increasingly taking that same position. Both fear a primary challenge from their right flank as they move toward their re-election campaigns next year.
Mr. McConnell, appearing on the CNN program "State of the Union," gave no indication that he was willing to undo the automatic cuts with new revenue, only with cuts in other parts of the budget.
"We think it's important to the American people to keep this commitment. We're willing to do it. We're willing to talk about reconfiguring the same spending over the next several months," he said.
The White House is left to hope that rank-and-file senators can build momentum for a bipartisan deal that isolates Republican leaders and exerts pressure that cannot be resisted.
"I have talked to a number of colleagues on both sides of the aisle, many of whom are disgusted with the current state of affairs," Ms. Collins said in an interview Friday.
Ms. Collins has already begun work with Senator Mark Udall, Democrat of Colorado, on legislation to mitigate the impact of the across-the-board sequester cuts by giving the Obama administration more latitude to spread them around. She said those efforts could put lawmakers on a path toward a consensus on reversing the cuts as they build in effect through this fiscal year, which ends Sept. 30.
But, she said, the president has to speak frankly to the public about the tough changes she says are are needed over the long term to Social Security and Medicare as the population ages and costs continue to rise. It is not enough to keep repeating, as Mr. Sperling did on Sunday, that Mr. Obama is prepared to compromise, Ms. Collins said.
"The president has to go first with plans for Medicare and Social Security," she said. "Then I think you will see more receptivity on the Republican side to an overhaul of the tax code" that raises more revenue.
Mr. Graham reiterated his support for up to $600 billion in new revenue through tax code changes over 10 years in a deficit plan that addresses Medicare and Social Security.
Ms. of New Hampshire said Sunday on This Week," on ABC, that she too would be open to more revenues in a broad, bipartisan deal that deals with entitlement programs.
Mr. Sperling said Sunday that the speaker had already offered $1 trillion in additional revenue over 10 years in backroom talks with the president in December. About $600 billion in tax increases took effect in January.
"If he was keeping his offer on the table he would at least be willing to consider $400 billion in more revenues," he said.
 An earlier version of this article stated incorrectly that Senator Mark Udall represented Virginia. He represents Colorado. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (96%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); TAX REFORM (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); HEALTH CARE (70%); IMMIGRATION (50%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (50%) The Caucus

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (90%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%); MARK WARNER (57%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (57%); MIKE JOHANNS (57%); RICHARD DURBIN (57%); SUSAN COLLINS (57%); KELLY AYOTTE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2013



98 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2013

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 289 words

HEADLINE: The U.S. Health Care Rip-Off

BYLINE: ALBERT R. HUNT


HIGHLIGHT: The United States spends much more than other countries on health care, yet many studies show the outcomes are less beneficial. 

 BODY:
 The U.S. health care system is the most expensive in the developed world and the gap with other countries isn't narrowing. As I write in my latest Letter From Washington, a cover story in Time magazine, the American weekly, shows that many parties are to blame, though none admits responsibility.
 Nonetheless, in 2010, the last year for which data is available, the United States spent 17.6 percent of its gross domestic product on health care, according to the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development. That's at least 50 percent more than Canada, Great Britain or Germany, all of which spend less than 12 percent of G.D.P. on health care. 
 The contrasts with neighboring Canada, which has a single-payer system under which the government picks up almost three-quarters of costs, are most common.
Forty years ago, Canada and the United States spent the same amount per capita on health care - about 7 percent of GDP. That began to climb in the 1980s, especially in the United States, where it reached double digits in 1982.
 There are many comparisons of outcomes. On the two most common, infant mortality rates and life expectancy, the Canadians come out better, though experts note there are contributing variables that are higher in the United States, including drug use, cigarette smoking and gun violence.
 The totality of the research doesn't provide a final conclusion. A few years ago, there was a survey of 38 comparative studies; 14 concluded that health care outcomes were better in Canada, five found better results in the United States and 19 suggested mixed results.
 What's clear is that more Canadians have access to health care, though they also sometimes have to wait longer for treatment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); SMOKING (73%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (73%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (71%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); INFANT MORTALITY (51%) Page Two

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); CANADA (95%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GERMANY (55%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2013



99 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 783 words

HEADLINE: A Sneaky Way to Deregulate

BYLINE: STEVEN RATTNER


HIGHLIGHT: It&#8217;s called a jobs act, but it&#8217;s really a con job for small investors. 

 BODY:
SLAPPING a catchy acronym like the JOBS Act on a piece of legislation makes it more difficult for politicians to oppose it - and indeed that's what happened with the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act.
Unveiled a year ago by House Republican leaders, the proposal was rushed into law with large majorities just two months later; its provisions are gradually taking effect.
Its enticing acronym notwithstanding, the JOBS Act has little to do with employment; it's a hodgepodge of provisions that together constitute the greatest loosening of securities regulation in modern history.

Most troublesome is the legalization of "crowd funding," the ability of start-up companies to raise capital from small investors on the Internet. While such lightly regulated capital raising has existed for years, until now, "investors" could receive only trinkets and other items of small value, similar to the way public television raises funds. As soon as regulations required to implement the new rules are completed, people who invest money in start-ups through sites similar to Kickstarter will be able to receive a financial interest in the soliciting company, much like buying shares on the stock exchange. But the enterprises soliciting these funds will hardly be big corporations like Wal-Mart or Exxon; they will be small start-ups with no track records. 
Picking winners among the many young companies seeking money is a tough business, even for the most sophisticated investors. Indeed, most professionally run venture funds lose money. For individuals, it's pure folly. Buy a lottery ticket instead. Your chance of winning is likely to be higher.
Supporters say the amounts that can be lost will be limited. But an American earning $40,000 can still risk $2,000 per year.
Other major provisions of the JOBS Act are less terrifying but still problematic.
For the first time, private equity and hedge funds will be able to advertise - and thereby separate inexpert individuals from their savings. Putting money in these alternatives is yet another type of investing that Americans shouldn't try at home. Until now, only a small percentage of Americans who qualified to invest this way (the law requires they have an income of $200,000 per year for an individual or a net worth of $1 million) did so. The possibility that advertising will lure more people to participate does no one any favors. Besides, these days, the most successful private equity and hedge funds can already raise all the capital they can efficiently manage without advertising.
So I'll wager that most of this new advertising will come from firms that sophisticated institutional investors wouldn't consider investing in. No wonder that the Securities and Exchange Commission, whose former chairwoman Mary Schapiro opposed the legislation, has been taking its time writing the regulations to implement these provisions.
At the least, the S.E.C. should insist on standardized disclosure for these funds, particularly of performance and fees, similar to what is required of mutual funds.
Already in effect is the section of the act that makes it easier for small companies (defined as less than $1 billion in annual revenues) to go public. For example, these companies no longer have to file as much financial information as their larger brethren. By some estimates, that could have benefited as many as 90 percent of recent I.P.O.'s, including such prominent names as LinkedIn, Zynga and Pandora Media.
More recently, companies as diverse as the Manchester United soccer team (founded in 1878) and dodgy Chinese businesses have taken advantage of the provisions.
To be sure, the Sarbanes-Oxley securities regulation law, passed in the wake of the dot-com meltdown and the Enron fraud, has overly burdened public companies and deterred initial public offerings.
But the JOBS Act's update for "emerging growth companies" goes too far, particularly in relaxing the prohibition on research analysts to recommend stocks while their firms are underwriting them.
Although 25 Democratic senators and one independent, Bernie Sanders, opposed the legislation, it had broad support from business groups and from some research organizations like the Kauffman Foundation. The Obama administration signed on, convinced that the need to encourage start-up capital was great and that the legislation's shortcomings could be fixed during the implementation phase.
The largest number of jobs likely to be created by the JOBS Act will be for lawyers needed to clean up the mess that it will create.

        
Land of Plenty (of Government)
        
Less Innovation, More Inequality
        
The Rise of the Permanent Temp Economy
        
Rising Inequality, Even Among College Presidents
        
Out of Jail, and Into a Job

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STARTUPS (92%); DEREGULATION (91%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); PRIVATE EQUITY (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (88%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); VENTURE CAPITAL (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (75%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); CROWDSOURCING (75%); HEDGE FUNDS (73%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (70%); LOTTERIES (70%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (70%); HISTORY (55%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (53%) Labor and Jobs; Law and Legislation; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Securities and Exchange Commission; Start-ups; Steven Rattner

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (84%) Securities and Exchange Commission

PERSON: STEVEN RATTNER (59%); MARY L SCHAPIRO (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2013



100 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1596 words

HEADLINE: Banks Find More Wrongful Foreclosures Among Military Members

BYLINE: JESSICA SILVER-GREENBERG and BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: Banks uncovered the foreclosures, which eclipse earlier estimates, in an analysis done as part of a multibillion-dollar settlement deal with federal authorities. 

 BODY:
The nation's biggest banks wrongfully foreclosed on more than 700 military members during the housing crisis and seized homes from roughly two dozen other borrowers who were current on their mortgage payments, findings that eclipse earlier estimates of the improper evictions.
Bank of America, Citigroup, JPMorgan Chase and Wells Fargo uncovered the foreclosures while analyzing mortgages as part of a multibillion-dollar settlement deal with federal authorities, according to people with direct knowledge of the findings. In January, regulators ordered the banks to identify military members and other borrowers who were evicted in violation of federal law.
The analysis, which was turned over to regulators in recent days, provides the first detailed glimpse into the extent of wrongful foreclosures amid the collapse of the housing market. While lenders previously acknowledged that they relied on faulty documents to push through foreclosures, the banks claimed borrowers were rarely evicted by mistake, including military personnel protected by federal law.
That thesis, which underpinned the government's response to the financial crisis, helps explain why homeowners languished for years without relief. The revelations of more pervasive harm could provide fresh ammunition for Wall Street critics and prompt regulators to adopt a tougher stance. 
Housing advocates say the findings also underscore the broader flaws with the settlement. In the latest negotiations, according to people briefed on the talks, the banks secured favorable terms for doling out some aid, a deal that could diminish the relief to homeowners.
Dan Petegorsky, national outreach manager with an advocacy group, the Campaign for a Fair Settlement, described the terms as a "step backwards" for homeowners.
"Our initial reaction was stunned disbelief," he said.
Complaints that active military personnel and National Guard members were losing their homes while deployed in war zones set off national outrage and prompted Congressional hearings in 2011. The case of Sgt. James B. Hurley, a disabled veteran whose home outside Hartford, Mich., was sold two months before he returned from Iraq, dragged through the courts for years, highlighting the devastating effect of foreclosures.
In 2011, JPMorgan settled claims that it inappropriately foreclosed on 18 military service members and overcharged 6,000. Bank of America and Morgan Stanley also struck a pact with the Justice Department to settle claims they foreclosed on 178 military members between 2006 and 2009. Sergeant Hurley has since reached a settlement with Deutsche Bank in his case.
But the problems are more extensive than the wave of cases indicated.
When regulators forced them to take a close look at their loans, JPMorgan, Wells Fargo and Bank of America, the largest loan servicers, each discovered about 200 military members whose homes were wrongfully foreclosed on in 2009 and 2010, according to the people with direct knowledge of the findings. Citigroup had at least 100 such foreclosures. The foreclosures violate the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act, a federal law requiring banks to obtain court orders before foreclosing on active-duty members.
"It's absolutely devastating to be 7,000 miles from your home fighting for this country and get a message that your family is being evicted," said Col. John S. Odom Jr., a retired Air Force lawyer in Shreveport, La., who represents military members in foreclosure cases. "We have been sounding the alarms that the banks are illegally evicting the very men and women who are out there fighting for this country. This is a devastating confirmation of that."
The banks note that the wrongful evictions make up a fraction of the foreclosures under review. Bank of America analyzed more than 1.2 million loans, and JPMorgan assessed roughly 900,000.
The banks also said they had taken steps to protect service members. "Wells Fargo is honored to serve the needs of the men and women who defend our country, we take our responsibilities under the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act very seriously and we regret any hardship that has been caused," said Vickee Adams, a bank spokeswoman.
A spokeswoman for JPMorgan, Kristin Lemkau, said the bank had instituted "very generous programs for the military, including awarding homes, forgiving principal and hiring more than 5,000 veterans."
"We have remediated these errors and plan to appropriately compensate anyone whom we made a mistake with," Ms. Lemkau said.
A spokesman for Citigroup, Sean Kevelighan, said that the bank was committed to meeting its obligations to military personnel, "in many cases going beyond the requirements of law." He added: "We have taken several measures to enhance our processes and are working with our regulators to ensure they have the information they need to appropriately address these issues and provide restitution for those affected."
Other types of borrowers have been erroneously evicted, too.
The banks uncovered about 20 borrowers who never missed a single mortgage payment, but lost their homes nonetheless. The properties, according to the people with direct knowledge of the findings, have since been sold.
The banks also found a handful of foreclosures related to botched loan modifications. In those cases, the people with direct knowledge said, customers had successfully negotiated a permanently lower mortgage payment, but the banks failed to honor those agreements.
Ms. Adams, the Wells Fargo spokeswoman, said the bank identified only five cases of foreclosure on borrowers "technically not in default." She noted, though, that the customers were "seriously delinquent" and the problems may have been caused by mortgage payments made "close to the scheduled foreclosure action." Ms. Adams said in all but one case, "we identified the issues ourselves in a timely manner and reversed them immediately, so that the customers did not lose their homes."
The revelation of wrongful foreclosures is the latest development in the long and tangled effort to clean up the mortgage mess.
In 2011, the Federal Reserve and Office of the Comptroller of the Currency ordered the banks to hire independent consultants for a sweeping review of foreclosures. The process of scanning loan files for flaws was marred as some consultants farmed out work to contractors who had to navigate a bureaucratic maze.
When problems emerged and relief was delayed, the regulators halted the review in January, opting instead to strike a settlement with the banks. Under the terms of the deal, banks will have to provide $3.6 billion in cash and $5.7 billion worth of other assistance to 4.2 million homeowners.
At the time, regulators still did not have a full window into the flawed foreclosures.
When the review was scuttled, consultants had identified scant instances in which homeowners suffered wrongful foreclosures, according to regulators. After completely reviewing just 104,000 loans, consultants discovered errors in roughly 5 percent of the foreclosures, including many smaller problems like excessive fees or failure to provide sufficient notice before an eviction.
At the behest of regulators in January, the banks combed through their foreclosures to spot the most harmed borrowers. Using a complex model, they focused on military members and homeowners who were current on their payments, along with other illegal foreclosures.
The banks turned over the figures, including those on the military members, to regulators last month. The regulators have no plans to release the information publicly. The people with direct knowledge cautioned that the numbers were not precise and could underestimate the extent of the problems.
Rather than further delay payments, regulators decided to spread the money among all borrowers in the process. As a result, housing advocates say the most aggrieved homeowners will most likely receive less money than they deserve, while others will get unnecessary payouts.
Bank of America, for example, will have to pay borrowers who were evicted for running a methamphetamine lab, according to three people with direct knowledge of the findings. People who lost second homes or fell behind on payments will also collect checks, prompting some bank officials to question the prudence of the payouts.
But regulators said they were wary of taking additional time to assess individual loan files, a process that would have delayed aid to everyone. The largest swath of payments, the regulators said, will go to the most deserving borrowers rather than extreme examples like drug dealers.
To help accelerate the payments, regulators also gave the banks significant leeway in handing out the $5.7 billion portion of the aid, potentially undercutting the help to homeowners.
During negotiations late last year, regulators declined to attach any conditions to the assistance. The regulators, the people briefed on the matter said, were primarily focused on extracting the $3.6 billion in cash relief.
Last month, regulators pressed the banks to tighten the terms. But the banks balked, the people said, objecting to the last-minute reversal.
Under the settlement, banks receive credit for the size of the outstanding loan balance, rather than the amount of actual assistance provided. For example, if a bank cut a borrower's $100,000 mortgage debt by $10,000, the lender could then reduce its commitment under the settlement by $100,000. In a previous foreclosure settlement, the banks received credit only for the $10,000.

        
Wall Street Stocks Slump in Wake of Obama's Win
        
Uncertainty Hangs Over Wall Street in 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); EVICTION (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); BANKING LAW (78%); LITIGATION (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); INVESTMENT BANKING (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%) Bank of America Corporation; Banking and Financial Institutions; Citigroup Inc; Foreclosures; JPMorgan Chase & Company; United States Defense and Military Forces; Wells Fargo & Company; Bank of America Corporation|BAC|NYSE; Citigroup Inc|C|NYSE; JPMorgan Chase & Company|JPM|NYSE; Wells Fargo & Company|WFC|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (93%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); CITIGROUP INC (91%); WELLS FARGO & CO (85%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Bank of America Corporation; Citigroup Inc; JPMorgan Chase & Company; Wells Fargo & Company

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (93%); JPM (LSE) (93%); 8634 (TSE) (93%); BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%); C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%); WFC (NYSE) (85%); DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%) Bank of America Corporation; BAC; NYSE; Bank of America Corporation; BAC; NYSE; Citigroup Inc; C; NYSE; Bank of America Corporation; BAC; NYSE; Citigroup Inc; C; NYSE; JPMorgan Chase & Company; JPM; NYSE; Bank of America Corporation; BAC; NYSE; Citigroup Inc; C; NYSE; JPMorgan Chase & Company; JPM; NYSE; Wells Fargo & Company; WFC; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (93%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (93%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2013



101 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 394 words

HEADLINE: Looking Ahead

 BODY:
ECONOMIC REPORTS Information to be released includes the I.S.M. nonmanufacturing index for February (Tuesday); A.D.P. employment for February, factory orders for January and the Federal Reserve beige book (Wednesday); weekly jobless claims, the trade deficit for January, fourth-quarter productivity (revised) and consumer credit for January (Thursday); and unemployment for February and wholesale trade inventories for January (Friday). 
CORPORATE EARNINGS Companies scheduled to report their quarterly results include Hovnanian Enterprises and Staples (Wednesday); and H&R Block, Kroger, Navistar, Smithfield Foods and Pandora Media (Thursday).
IN THE UNITED STATES On Tuesday, a House Financial Services subcommittee will conduct a hearing on monetary policy; a House Judiciary subcommittee will conduct a hearing on enhancing competitiveness through skilled immigration; and Michael L. Corbat, the chief executive of Citigroup, will address the company's financial services conference in Boston.
On Wednesday, the Walt Disney Company will have its annual meeting in Phoenix; a House Financial Services subcommittee will conduct a hearing on Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac; a House Energy and Commerce subcommittee will conduct a hearing on auto manufacturing; and the House Small Business Committee will conduct a hearing on the effect of the Obama health care law on small businesses.
On Thursday, United States retailers will report same-store sales; a House Energy and Commerce subcommittee will conduct a hearing on the effect of the Obama health care law on insurance premiums; the Senate Commerce Committee and the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee will conduct a joint hearing on cybersecurity; and the Federal Reserve will announce the results of stress tests of the nation's biggest banks.
OVERSEAS On Monday, euro zone finance ministers will meet in Brussels.
On Tuesday, European Union finance ministers will meet in Brussels; and the Geneva Auto Show will open to the news media through Wednesday and open to the public on Thursday through March 17.
On Wednesday, Mervyn King, the governor of the Bank of England, and Andrew Bailey, the deputy governor-designate, will be questioned by a parliamentary committee.
On Thursday, the European Central Bank, the Bank of England and the Bank of Japan will announce decisions on interest rates.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); EURO (88%); EURO ZONE (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (79%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (79%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (79%); INVENTORIES (79%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (78%); SAME STORE SALES (77%); RETAIL SALES (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); MONETARY POLICY (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (76%); RETAILERS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); EUROPEAN UNION (74%); MONETARY UNIONS (74%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (72%); CONSUMER LENDING (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (71%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (71%); TRADE SHOWS (68%); INSURANCE LAW (65%); HEALTH CARE LAW (65%); NATIONAL SECURITY (64%); IMMIGRATION (54%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (81%); WALT DISNEY CO (69%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (69%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (69%); PANDORA MEDIA INC (58%); SMITHFIELD FOODS INC (57%); H & R BLOCK INC (57%); HOVNANIAN ENTERPRISES INC (57%); BANK OF JAPAN (52%); BANK OF ENGLAND (52%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (54%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); DIS (NYSE) (69%); P (NYSE) (58%); SFD (NYSE) (57%); HRB (NYSE) (57%); HOV (NYSE) (57%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (69%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (69%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (69%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (69%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (69%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (69%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (69%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS311612 MEAT PROCESSED FROM CARCASSES (57%); NAICS311611 ANIMAL (EXCEPT POULTRY) SLAUGHTERING (57%); NAICS112210 HOG & PIG FARMING (57%); NAICS541213 TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (57%); SIC7291 TAX RETURN PREPARATION SERVICES (57%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (57%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (57%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (52%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (52%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (66%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (85%); BELGIUM (66%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2013



102 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 405 words

HEADLINE: Obama Picks Foundation President for Budget Chief

BYLINE: By ANNIE LOWREY

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama plans to nominate Sylvia Mathews Burwell, the president of the Walmart Foundation, as his budget chief, a White House official said on Sunday.
Ms. Burwell, if confirmed by the Senate, would step into the role amid heated budget battles with Congressional Republicans. Federal agencies have started to implement the budget cuts known as sequestration -- $85 billion in blunt, across-the-board spending reductions that were meant to force Democrats and Republicans to reach a long-term deal to pare the deficit. 
In addition, the temporary measure that is financing the government will run out at the end of March, setting up another potential fight between the White House and Republicans in Congress.
A native of West Virginia, Ms. Burwell is a graduate of Harvard and Oxford, where she was a Rhodes scholar. In the 1990s, she served in a variety of economic policy roles in the Clinton administration, including as a top aide to Robert E. Rubin, then the Treasury secretary, and as a staff member of the White House's National Economic Council.
Ms. Burwell would bring a new voice to an administration that has developed a reputation for insularity, and she would provide some gender diversity to a circle of top White House aides that is dominated by men.
Ms. Burwell would be only the second woman to hold the title of budget director, after Alice Rivlin, an economist now at the Brookings Institution, who held the job in the Clinton administration. Ms. Burwell's selection, which was expected, was to be announced on Monday.
She has worked in the nonprofit world since leaving politics, spending much of the 2000s at the Gates Foundation, the $36 billion fund that finances global health and poverty-eradication programs. She has led the billion-dollar Walmart Foundation, the charitable organization with ties to Wal-Mart Stores Inc., since late 2011.
The budget office helps the White House develop its spending policies, including its overdue budget proposal for the 2014 fiscal year, which begins in October. That budget might include many of the economic priorities Mr. Obama laid out in his State of the Union address, like a major expansion of early childhood education programs.
Ms. Burwell would take over for Jacob J. Lew, now the Treasury secretary, who left the budget post in early 2012 to become the White House chief of staff. Jeffrey Zients has held the title of acting director since then.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); FOUNDATIONS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CHARITIES (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (73%); MEN (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (63%); CHILDREN (50%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (50%)

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (85%)

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (54%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (85%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (85%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2013



103 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1096 words

HEADLINE: Biden May Take On an Expanded Role on Foreign Policy

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- When Secretary of State John Kerry was scrambling last week to prevent the leader of the Syrian opposition from boycotting a meeting with him in Rome -- a snub that could have spoiled his maiden voyage as the nation's chief diplomat -- he leaned on an old Senate colleague to help him out: Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.
After Mr. Kerry extracted an agreement from the Syrian opposition leader, Moaz al-Khatib, to show up, Mr. Biden sealed the deal with a follow-up call. The vice president, who had met Mr. Khatib at a security conference in Munich, praised him for his courage, told him how important the meeting was and promised to stay in touch, according to the White House. 
It was a classic example of how Mr. Biden has used personal relationships to amass influence in the Obama administration -- a talent that current and former officials predicted would allow him to further expand his influence on foreign policy during President Obama's second term.
Mr. Biden will shift to another part of the Middle East on Monday, when he will set the stage for Mr. Obama's first presidential trip to Israel later this month, in a speech to the annual conference of the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, an influential pro-Israel lobbying group.
When Mr. Biden last spoke to the group in 2009, he warned them ''you're not going to like this,'' before laying out Mr. Obama's demand, largely rebuffed, that Israel stop building Jewish settlements in the West Bank. This time, officials said, he will be more conciliatory, presaging a less confrontational approach during the president's visit.
''Biden has great credibility with the pro-Israel community,'' said Israel's ambassador to the United States, Michael B. Oren. ''He has always been able to speak candidly and openly with us, all the while making it clear that he stands foursquare with the president.''
Mr. Biden, officials said, used his ties on Capitol Hill to champion another unpopular cause: Chuck Hagel, also an old Senate friend. With Mr. Hagel under attack over his positions on Iran and remarks he made about Israel, officials said Mr. Biden worked the phones to reassure skeptical senators and help eke out his confirmation as defense secretary.
Just as important to Mr. Biden's rise is his role in policy debates. With the exception of the raid on Osama bin Laden, which Mr. Biden famously advised delaying, there are few big policy deliberations in which he has not lined up with Mr. Obama. On issues like Afghanistan or Syria, his cautious instincts have prevailed over those advocating a more aggressive course.
In addition to pushing for a faster timetable for withdrawing troops from Afghanistan, he was also among those who opposed supplying weapons to the rebels in Syria -- a proposal developed by David H. Petraeus, the former director of the C.I.A., and supported by Hillary Rodham Clinton, then the secretary of state. Mr. Biden was joined in resisting the proposal by Thomas E. Donilon, the national security adviser, with whom he -- not surprisingly -- also has longstanding personal ties.
Besides being advocates of more aggressive policies, Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Petraeus, along with former Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates, each brought to the administration stature and independence that their successors cannot match, another contributor to Mr. Biden's increased role.
''It's not so much that he intends to expand his influence, but his stature will rise by default,'' said Vali Nasr, a former State Department official who is the dean of the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies.
Mr. Kerry and Mr. Hagel are not the only Biden allies to have prominent places in the second term. Mr. Biden's top foreign-policy aide, Antony J. Blinken, has been promoted to be Mr. Obama's deputy national security adviser, replacing Denis R. McDonough. In that low-profile but powerful job, Mr. Blinken will help resolve disputes between the State Department, the Pentagon and the C.I.A.
To replace Mr. Blinken, Mr. Biden last week hired Jacob J. Sullivan, a rising star who was a top adviser to Mrs. Clinton. Mr. Sullivan, 36, who traveled with the secretary of state while serving as the State Department's policy planning director, has deep experience on issues like the Arab uprisings and China.
The recruitment of Mr. Sullivan -- which included a phone call to him from Mr. Obama on Air Force One -- was noted in political circles because if Mrs. Clinton were to run for president again in 2016, he would be likely to work on her campaign, as he did in 2008. Mr. Biden has conspicuously refused to rule out his own run for the presidency.
Mr. Obama gave Mr. Biden his own turf in the first term by handing him the Iraq portfolio, and the vice president helped engineer the brisk American withdrawal from that war. But with Iraq receding as an issue for the United States, the question is what turf might Mr. Biden try to claim now?
China offers a tantalizing possibility, given that he has cultivated ties to its incoming leader, Xi Jinping. Mr. Biden spent hours with Mr. Xi, the Chinese vice president, in China in 2011, and again last year when he played host to him in Washington.
With Mr. Xi slated to become president at the end of the National People's Congress in Beijing, Mr. Obama will become his official counterpart. But Mr. Biden's relationship with Mr. Xi, officials said, would give him an insight into China's leadership that could expand his role informally.
Mrs. Clinton and the former Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, each staked their claim to China through an annual meeting known as the Strategic and Economic Dialogue. While that dialogue is expected to continue, neither Mr. Kerry nor the new Treasury secretary, Jacob J. Lew, has the China experience that they did.
''There is reasonable speculation about whether Kerry and Lew are going to be Hillary-Geithner redux,'' said Jeffrey A. Bader, a senior director for Asia at the National Security Council from 2009 to 2011.
Mr. Biden's aides declined to comment on his foreign-policy aspirations, saying he was immersed in efforts to pass gun control laws. They were less concerned with Mr. Xi last week than his meeting with Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York.
But for a White House intent on controlling foreign policy, an enhanced role for the vice president raises few qualms.
''Biden is very closely integrated into the foreign policy portfolio,'' said Benjamin J. Rhodes, a deputy national security adviser. ''He's a key player that can take on specific issues, build specific relationships.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. after a Democratic luncheon in Washington in January. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN HOFFMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LOBBYING (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); JEWS & JUDAISM (66%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (60%)

PERSON: JOE BIDEN (92%); JOHN KERRY (92%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); CHUCK HAGEL (77%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); SYRIA (94%); AFGHANISTAN (90%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2013



104 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 412 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Auctions Set for This Week

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financing this week includes Monday's regular weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills and an auction of four-week bills on Tuesday. 
At the close of the New York cash market on Friday, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 0.11 percent. The rate on the six-month issue was 0.12 percent, and the rate on the four-week issue was 0.07 percent.
The following tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:
TUESDAY
Alabama, $70 million of Alabama University revenue bonds. Competitive.
Hidalgo, Tex., $84 million of county drainage general obligation bonds. Competitive.
Texas, $308 million of Lower Colorado River Authority revenue bonds. Competitive.
Washington, $54 million of university revenue bonds. Competitive.
WEDNESDAY
Maryland, $693 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
Adams County, Colo., School District, $64 million of general obligation refinancing bonds. George K. Baum.
Columbus, Ga., $53 million of water and sewerage refinancing bonds. Merchants National Bank & Trust.
Connecticut, $400 million of general obligation bonds. Citigroup Global Markets.
Ector County, Tex., Independent School District, $117.9 million of unlimited tax school building bonds. Southwest Securities.
Georgia Fulton County, $219.8 million of water and sewerage revenue refinancing bonds. J. P. Morgan Securities.
Henderson, Nev., $83.3 million of general obligation and various purpose refinancing bonds. J. P. Morgan Securities.
Illinois Housing Development Authority, $100 million of housing revenue bonds. RBC Capital Markets.
Martin County, Fla., Industrial Development Authority, $127.8 million of revenue refinancing bonds. Morgan Stanley.
Maryland Health and Higher Education Facilities Authority, $356.7 million of medical center revenue bonds. J. P. Morgan Securities.
Massachusetts Housing Finance Agency, $149.1 million of single family housing revenue bonds. Morgan Stanley.
Nevada, $200.2 million of general obligation and refinancing bonds. Morgan Stanley.
Texas Northwest Independent School District, $60.8 million of unlimited tax general obligation bonds. RBC Capital Markets.
University of California, $286.5 million of taxable fixed rate notes. Bank of America.
University of Massachusetts Building Authority, $270.1 million of project revenue bonds. J. P. Morgan Securities.
Virginia Housing Development Authority, $400.6 million of taxable homeownership mortgage bonds. Raymond James.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (94%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (88%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (75%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (74%); WATER & WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT (73%); SCHOOL BONDS (73%); DEBT NOTES (73%); TAX LAW (70%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (69%); RIVERS (69%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (85%); MERCHANTS NATIONAL BANK & TRUST CO (69%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (55%); RBC DOMINION SECURITIES INC (54%); RBC WEALTH MANAGEMENT (54%); MASSACHUSETTS HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY (53%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (85%); JPM (LSE) (85%); 8634 (TSE) (85%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (55%); BAC (LSE) (55%); 8648 (TSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); SIC6159 MISC. BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, GA, USA (69%) MARYLAND, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2013



105 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1663 words

HEADLINE: As Hacking Against U.S. Rises, Experts Try to Pin Down Motive

BYLINE: By NICOLE PERLROTH, DAVID E. SANGER and MICHAEL S. SCHMIDT; Nicole Perlroth and Michael S. Schmidt reported from San Francisco, and David E. Sanger from Washington.

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO -- When Telvent, a company that monitors more than half the oil and gas pipelines in North America, discovered last September that the Chinese had hacked into its computer systems, it immediately shut down remote access to its clients' systems.
Company officials and American intelligence agencies then grappled with a fundamental question: Why had the Chinese done it?
Was the People's Liberation Army, which is suspected of being behind the hacking group, trying to plant bugs into the system so they could cut off energy supplies and shut down the power grid if the United States and China ever confronted each other in the Pacific? Or were the Chinese hackers just trolling for industrial secrets, trying to rip off the technology and pass it along to China's own energy companies?
''We are still trying to figure it out,'' a senior American intelligence official said last week. ''They could have been doing both.'' 
Telvent, which also watches utilities and water treatment plants, ultimately managed to keep the hackers from breaking into its clients' computers.
At a moment when corporate America is caught between what it sees as two different nightmares -- preventing a crippling attack that brings down America's most critical systems, and preventing Congress from mandating that the private sector spend billions of dollars protecting against that risk -- the Telvent experience resonates as a study in ambiguity.
To some it is prime evidence of the threat that President Obama highlighted in his State of the Union address, when he warned that ''our enemies are also seeking the ability to sabotage our power grid, our financial institutions, our air traffic control systems,'' perhaps causing mass casualties. Mr. Obama called anew for legislation to protect critical infrastructure, which was killed last year by a Republican filibuster after intensive lobbying by the Chamber of Commerce and other business groups.
But the security breach of Telvent, which the Chinese government has denied, also raises questions of whether those fears -- the subject of weekly research group reports, testimony and Congressional studies -- may be somewhat overblown, or whether the precise nature of the threat has been misunderstood.
American intelligence officials believe that the greater danger to the nation's infrastructure may not even be China, but Iran, because of its avowal to retaliate for the Stuxnet virus created by the United States and Israel and unleashed on one of its nuclear sites. But for now, these officials say, that threat is limited by gaps in Iranian technical skills.
There is no doubt that attacks of all kinds are on the rise. The Department of Homeland Security has been responding to intrusions on oil pipelines and electric power organizations at ''an alarming rate,'' according to an agency report last December. Some 198 attacks on the nation's critical infrastructure systems were reported to the agency last year, a 52 percent increase from the number of attacks in 2011.
Researchers at McAfee, a security firm, discovered in 2011 that five multinational oil and gas companies had been attacked by Chinese hackers. The researchers suspected that the Chinese hacking campaign, which they called Night Dragon, had affected more than a dozen companies in the energy industry. More recently, the Department of Energy confirmed in January that its network had been infiltrated, though it has said little about what damage, if any, was done.
But security researchers say that the majority of those attacks were as ambiguous as the Telvent case. They appeared to be more about cyberespionage, intended to bolster the Chinese economy. If the goal was to blow up a pipeline or take down the United States power grid, the attacks would likely have been of a different nature.
In a recent report, Critical Intelligence, an Idaho Falls security company, said that several cyberattacks by ''Chinese adversaries'' against North American energy firms seemed intended to steal fracking technologies, reflecting fears by the Chinese government that the shale energy revolution will tip the global energy balance back in America's favor. ''These facts are likely a significant motivation behind the wave of sophisticated attacks affecting firms that operate in natural gas, as well as industries that rely on natural gas as an input, including petrochemicals and steelmaking,'' the Critical Intelligence report said, adding that the attack on Telvent, and ''numerous'' North American pipeline operators may be related.
American intelligence experts believe that the primary reason China is deterred from conducting an attack on infrastructure in the United States is the simple economic fact that anything that hurts America's financial markets or transportation systems would also have consequences for its own economy. It could interrupt exports to Walmart and threaten the value of China's investments in the United States -- which now include a new, big investment in oil and gas.
Iran, however, may be a different threat. While acknowledging that ''China is stealing our intellectual property at a rate that qualifies as an epidemic,'' Representative Mike Rogers, the Michigan Republican who chairs the House Intelligence Committee, added a caveat in an interview on Friday. ''China is a rational actor,'' he said. ''Iran is not a rational actor.''
A new National Intelligence Estimate -- a classified document that has not yet been published within the government, but copies of which are circulating for final comments -- identifies Iran as one of the other actors besides China who would benefit from the ability to shut down parts of the American economy. Unlike the Chinese, the Iranians have no investments in the United States. As a senior American military official put it, ''There's nothing but upside for them to go after American infrastructure.''
While the skills of Iran's newly created ''cybercorps'' are in doubt, Iranian hackers gained some respect in the technology community when they brought down 30,000 computers belonging to Saudi Aramco, the world's largest oil producer, last August, replacing their contents with an image of a burning American flag.
The attack did not affect production facilities or refineries, but it made its point.
''The main target in this attack was to stop the flow of oil and gas to local and international markets and thank God they were not able to achieve their goals,'' Abdullah al-Saadan, Aramco's vice president for corporate planning, told Al Ekhbariya television.
President Obama has been vague about how the United States would respond to such an attack. No one in the administration argues that the United States should respond with cyber- or physical retaliation for the theft of secrets. Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. has made clear that would be dealt with in criminal courts, though the prosecutions of cybertheft by foreign sources have been few.
But the question of whether the president could, or should, order military retaliation for major attacks that threaten the American public is a roiling debate.
''Some have called for authorizing the military to defend private corporate networks and critical infrastructure sectors, like gas pipelines and water systems,'' Candace Yu, who studies the issue for the Truman National Security Project, wrote recently. ''This is unrealistic. The military has neither the specialized expertise nor the capacity to do this; it needs to address only the most urgent threats.''
But the administration has failed to convince Congress that the first line of defense to avert catastrophic cyberattack is to require private industry -- which controls the cellphone networks and financial and power systems that are the primary target of infrastructure attacks -- that it must build robust defenses.
A bill containing such requirements was defeated last year amid intense lobbying from the United States Chamber of Commerce and others, which argued that the costs would be prohibitive. Leading members of Congress say they expect the issue will come up again in the next few months.
''We are in a race against time,'' Michael Chertoff, the former secretary of homeland security, said last week. ''Most of the infrastructure is in private hands. The government is not going to be able to manage this like the air traffic control system. We're going to have to enlist a large number of independent actors.''
The administration's cybersecurity legislation last year failed despite closed-door simulations for lawmakers about what a catastrophic attack would look like.
During one such simulation that the Department of Homeland Security allowed a New York Times reporter to view at a department facility in Virginia, a woman played the role of an ''evil hacker'' who successfully broke into a power plant's network. To get in, the hacker used a method called ''spearphishing,'' in which she sent a message to a power plant employee that induced the employee to click on a link to see pictures of ''cute puppies.''
When the employee clicked on the link, it surreptitiously allowed the hacker to gain access to the employee's computer, enabling her to easily turn the switches to the plant's breakers on and off.
Although the officials providing the briefing acknowledged that the simulation was a bit simplistic, their message was clear: with so many vulnerable critical infrastructure systems across the country, such an attack could easily occur, with huge consequences. No one rules out that scenario -- whatever the current motivations and abilities of countries like China and Iran.
''There are 12 countries developing offensive cyberweapons; Iran is one of them,'' James Lewis, a former government official and cybersecurity expert at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, said at a security conference in San Francisco. Those countries have a long way to go, he said, but added: ''Like nuclear weapons, eventually they'll get there.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER CRIME (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); OIL & GAS PIPELINES (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); LOBBYING (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); TESTIMONY (70%); FILIBUSTER (70%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (56%); WATER QUALITY (52%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); ISRAEL (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2013



106 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 527 words

HEADLINE: Kerry Announces $250 Million in U.S. Aid for Egypt

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON

 BODY:
RIYADH, Saudi Arabia -- Secretary of State John Kerry announced Sunday that the United States would provide $250 million in assistance to Egypt after Egypt's president promised to move ahead with negotiations with the International Monetary Fund over economic reforms. 
In a statement issued after his two-hour meeting with President Mohamed Morsi, Mr. Kerry said the aid decision reflected Egypt's ''extreme needs'' and Mr. Morsi's assurance that Egypt would reach an agreement with the I.M.F. after more than a year of talks over a $4.8 billion loan package.
The statement issued by Mr. Kerry noted that he and Mr. Morsi had discussed the need to ensure the fairness of Egypt's coming elections, but it did not mention any specific political commitments the Egyptian president had made to receive the aid.
Parliamentary elections are scheduled for April. Some opposition groups have said they will boycott the vote because of what they see as an effort by Mr. Morsi and his Muslim Brotherhood movement to dominate Egyptian politics.
American officials say that Mr. Kerry asserted that moving ahead with difficult economic changes in Egypt would require a degree of political consensus and was implicitly a promise of some political change.
The aid announced Sunday consists of two parts. One is a $190 million infusion for Egypt's budget intended to address what Mr. Kerry said was the country's ''extreme needs.'' That assistance has already been approved by Congress.
Mr. Kerry also pledged $60 million for the creation of a fund to support small businesses, which will provide ''direct support to key engines of democratic change in Egypt, including Egypt's entrepreneurs and its young people.''
As an incentive for Mr. Morsi to conclude an agreement with the I.M.F., Mr. Kerry said that he would work with Congress to get additional funds approved for Egypt once a deal was reached.
In May 2011, President Obama pledged $1 billion to support Egypt's democratic revolution. The $190 million in aid announced on Sunday is the first disbursement of that pledge.
''In all my meetings, I conveyed a simple but serious message: The brave Egyptians who stood vigil in Tahrir Square did not risk their lives to see that opportunity for a brighter future squandered,'' Mr. Kerry said. ''I encouraged President Morsi to implement the homegrown reforms that will help his country secure an I.M.F. agreement, put Egypt on the path to establishing a firm economic foundation and allow it to chart its own course. He agreed and said that he plans to move quickly to do so.''
The I.M.F. wants Egypt to carry out a number of economic policy changes, including raising taxes and cutting energy subsidies, and it is seeking assurances that Mr. Morsi can rally the political support needed for those changes.
Mr. Kerry's departure from Cairo was briefly delayed, news agencies said, because hundreds of supporters of the soccer club Al Ahly, known as ultras, blocked the road to the airport in a protest related to a court case about a soccer riot in Port Said last year.
But the motorcade made it to the airport, and Mr. Kerry flew to Saudi Arabia, his seventh stop on his nine-nation trip.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO:Secretary of State John Kerry said goodbye to staff members and security officers as he prepared to leave Cairo on Sunday. (POOL PHOTO BY JACQUELYN MARTIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); POLITICS (77%); BOYCOTTS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (73%); APPROVALS (71%); SMALL BUSINESS (69%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (69%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); MOHAMMED MORSI (79%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (73%); CAIRO, EGYPT (58%) EGYPT (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2013



107 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1121 words

HEADLINE: Recovery in U.S. Lifting Profits, Not Adding Jobs

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ

 BODY:
With the Dow Jones industrial average flirting with a record high, the split between American workers and the companies that employ them is widening and could worsen in the next few months as federal budget cuts take hold.
That gulf helps explain why stock markets are thriving even as the economy is barely growing and unemployment remains stubbornly high.
With millions still out of work, companies face little pressure to raise salaries, while productivity gains allow them to increase sales without adding workers.
''So far in this recovery, corporations have captured an unusually high share of the income gains,'' said Ethan Harris, co-head of global economics at Bank of America Merrill Lynch. ''The U.S. corporate sector is in a lot better health than the overall economy. And until we get a full recovery in the labor market, this will persist.'' 
The result has been a golden age for corporate profits, especially among multinational giants that are also benefiting from faster growth in emerging economies like China and India.
These factors, along with the Federal Reserve's efforts to keep interest rates ultralow and encourage investors to put more money into riskier assets, prompted traders to send the Dow past 14,000 to within 75 points of a record high last week.
While buoyant earnings are rewarded by investors and make American companies more competitive globally, they have not translated into additional jobs at home.
Other recent positive economic developments, like a healthier housing sector and growth in orders for machinery and some other durable goods, have also encouraged Wall Street but similarly failed to improve the employment picture. Unemployment, after steadily declining for three years, has been stuck at just below 8 percent since last September.
With $85 billion in automatic cuts taking effect between now and Sept. 30 as part of the so-called federal budget sequestration, some experts warn that economic growth will be reduced by at least half a percentage point. But although experts estimate that sequestration could cost the country about 700,000 jobs, Wall Street does not expect the cuts to substantially reduce corporate profits -- or seriously threaten the recent rally in the stock markets.
''It's minimal,'' said Savita Subramanian, head of United States equity and quantitative strategy at Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Over all, the sequester could reduce earnings at the biggest companies by just over 1 percent, she said, adding, ''the market wants more austerity.''
As a percentage of national income, corporate profits stood at 14.2 percent in the third quarter of 2012, the largest share at any time since 1950, while the portion of income that went to employees was 61.7 percent, near its lowest point since 1966. In recent years, the shift has accelerated during the slow recovery that followed the financial crisis and ensuing recession of 2008 and 2009, said Dean Maki, chief United States economist at Barclays.
Corporate earnings have risen at an annualized rate of 20.1 percent since the end of 2008, he said, but disposable income inched ahead by 1.4 percent annually over the same period, after adjusting for inflation.
''There hasn't been a period in the last 50 years where these trends have been so pronounced,'' Mr. Maki said.
At the individual corporate level, though, the budget sequestration could result in large job cuts as companies move to protect their bottom lines, said Louis R. Chenevert, the chief executive of United Technologies. Depending on how long the budget tightening lasts, the job cuts at his company could total anywhere from several hundred to several thousand, he said.
''If I don't have the business, at some point you've got to adjust the work force,'' he said. ''You always try to find solutions, but you get to a point where it's inevitable.''
The path charted by United Technologies, an industrial giant based in Hartford that is one of 30 companies in the Dow, underscores why corporate profits and share prices continue to rise in a lackluster economy and a stagnant job market. Simply put, United Technologies does not need as many workers as it once did to churn out higher sales and profits.
''Right now, C.E.O.'s are saying, 'I don't really need to hire because of the productivity gains of the last few years,' '' said Robert E. Moritz, chairman of the accounting giant PricewaterhouseCoopers.
At 218,300 employees, United Technologies' work force is virtually unchanged from seven years ago, even though annual revenue soared to $57.7 billion in 2012 from $42.7 billion in 2005.
The relentless focus on maintaining margins continues, even though profit and revenue have never been higher; four days after the company's shares soared past $90 to a record high last month, United Technologies confirmed it would eliminate an additional 3,000 workers this year, on top of 4,000 let go in 2012 as part a broader restructuring effort.
''There's no doubt we will continue to drive productivity year after year,'' Mr. Chenevert said. ''Ultimately, we compete globally.''
When companies do hire, it is often overseas, where the growth is. Take 3M, another company among the Dow 30 that is trading at a record high.
Unlike United Technologies, the work force at 3M, based in Minnesota, has grown substantially in recent years, rising to 87,677 last year from 76,239 in 2007. But of those 11,438 positions added, only 608 were in the United States.
Even as President Obama and Congress have battled over the budget in recent months and growth has slowed to a crawl in the United States, the economic picture has actually brightened overseas. Asia has rebounded and Europe stabilized, factors helping the kind of big companies that make up the Dow, said Julia Coronado, chief North American economist at BNP Paribas.
''You're investing in the global economy,'' she said, ''and you're getting access to stronger growth abroad.''
The Federal Reserve has also played a crucial role in propelling the stock market higher, economists and strategists say, even if that was not the intent of policy makers. The Fed has made reducing unemployment a top priority, but in practice its policy of keeping rates very low and buying up the safest assets to stimulate the economy means investors are willing to take on more risk in search of better returns, hence the buoyancy on Wall Street amid the austerity in Washington and gloom on Main Street.
Of the broader market's 13 percent rise in 2012, about half was a result of the Fed's actions, Mr. Harris of Bank of America Merrill Lynch estimates.
''The Federal Reserve has done a good job stimulating financial conditions and lifting the market,'' he said. ''It's been less successful in stimulating job growth.''

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Income Shifting to Businesses: The share of the national income going to corporations is at its highest level since 1950, and the portion going to individuals is near its lowest since 1966. Other parts of national income include proprietors and rental income. (Source: Bureau of Economic Analysis) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); PRODUCTIVITY (73%); DURABLE GOODS (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (69%); INTEREST RATES (52%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (93%); HARRIS CO (SAN BERNARDINO, CALIFORNIA) (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (93%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (93%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (93%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (93%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (93%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (93%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2013



108 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 586 words

HEADLINE: Journal on Education in the Arab World Cancels Event

BYLINE: By D.D. GUTTENPLAN

 BODY:
New journal cancels event to protest lack of freedoms
The editors of Al Fanar, a new publication covering higher education in the Arab world, have canceled their inaugural event, which had been scheduled to take place in Dubai on Sunday.
''Universities can't function properly without academic freedom,'' David Wheeler, Al Fanar's editor, said by e-mail. ''We just don't feel comfortable celebrating the birth of a publication about Arab higher education at this point in time in the Emirates.'' 
He was referring to the case of Kristian Coates Ulrichsen, a London School of Economics professor who speaks frequently on the political challenges posed by the Arab Spring, who was pulled out of line at the Dubai airport on Feb. 22 and put on a plane back to London.
The government of the United Arab Emirates had told the organizers of a conference jointly organized by the London school and American University of Sharjah that no mention of the uprising in Bahrain, the topic of the paper Dr. Ulrichsen had planned to present, would be permitted. The school withdrew from the conference, citing the threat to academic freedom. But Dr. Ulrichsen, who was also scheduled to speak at Zayed University, also in the Emirates, decided to try to travel there on his own. -- D.D. GUTTENPLAN
GMAT candidates getting younger and more diverse
The administrators of the Graduate Management Admission Test have said in a report that a record number of students took the exam last year. The demographic of test-takers is also changing, as the GMAT draws more women, as well as younger and more international candidates.
The Graduate Management Admission Council, based in the United States, said last week that 286,529 GMAT exams had been administered in the 2012 testing year, with 831,337 reports sent to the admissions offices of 5,281 academic programs, marking a 21 percent increase compared with 2008.
The number of exams taken by non-U.S. citizens rose 19 percent from 2011 to 2012, and that group now represents more than half of all test-takers.
Last year also marked the highest-level of female participation, with 43 percent of GMATs taken by women. In fact, more women than men took the exam in China, Russia, Taiwan, Thailand and Vietnam. The age of the average test-taker also dropped, partly because the majority of Asian and Europeans taking the GMAT were younger than 25. -- JOYCE LAU
More international students than ever before in Canada
The number of international students in Canada rose over the 100,000 mark for the first time, Jason Kenney, the citizenship, immigration and multiculturalism minister, has said.
The figures were announced last week in a statement. The Canadian media reported that there were nearly 117,000 foreign students in the country, marking a 60 percent increase from 2004. Last year, the Foreign Affairs and International Trade Department said in a report that it hoped to double the number of foreign students by 2022.
The report released last week by Citizenship and Immigration Canada called foreign students a ''future source of skilled labor'' and added that graduates could be eligible for residency. Proposed changes could make it easier for overseas students to acquire work permits.
C.I.C. said in an e-mail that the University of Toronto had the highest number of overseas students approved to study in Canada. International students contributed more than $8 billion annually to the national economy, the Department of Foreign Affairs and International Trade reported in 2011. -- JOYCE LAU

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACADEMIC FREEDOM (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); ACADEMIC TESTING (89%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (89%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (77%); WOMEN (74%); IMMIGRATION (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (93%) UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (96%); CANADA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (79%); EUROPE (79%); BAHRAIN (79%); TAIWAN (79%); THAILAND (71%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2013



109 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1424 words

HEADLINE: A Global Curriculum for a Globalized Era

BYLINE: By GAYATRI RANGACHARI SHAH

 BODY:
MUMBAI -- Like many ambitious Indian students hoping to head overseas, 17-year-old Anmol Bhansali fretted about university admissions. That worry receded in December when he gained an early-decision acceptance to the Wharton School of Business at the University of Pennsylvania.
Mr. Bhansali, a senior at B.D. Somani International School in south Mumbai, believes his candidacy was buoyed by the fact that he had pursued the International Baccalaureate diploma instead of the conventional Indian state-certified board curriculum that is the prevailing standard here.
''I always knew I would do the I.B.,'' Mr. Bhansali said between classes. ''It gave me flexibility and the ability to study what I wanted to, like English, maths, French, biology and economics. And it has international recognition.''
Mr. Bhansali is among a growing number of affluent students across India electing to pursue an I.B. education instead of the local curriculum prescribed by Indian schools. 
The I.B., founded in 1968 in Geneva, provides schools with four programs: one for primary school students, one for middle school students, a high school diploma program for those in Grades 11 and 12, and a career-related certificate.
Increasingly, the I.B. high school diploma is being recognized by university admissions offices as a standard by which they can measure students from different countries with different domestic exam systems. Teenagers in the developing world looking to study in the West, in particular, are choosing the I.B. over local programs. Yet others are looking to the I.B. as a modern alternative to local systems that are more based on rote learning.
Parmeet Shah, currently a senior at Yale University, finished his schooling at the Dhirubhai Ambani International School and explained why he had chosen the I.B. program.
''It seemed like the most superior program in terms of how updated it was, how it did not rely on rote memorization, and the number of subjects offered,'' he responded in an e-mail from New Haven, Connecticut. ''I wasn't 100 percent sure that the I.B. is the best program, but all the best schools in the country seem to be adopting it, so that was another key factor.'' He cited his frustration with the Indian school board examination system, saying he ''wanted something better.''
Schools in India are responding to a growing need for different educational options. The number of schools across India offering I.B. grew from 10 in 2002 to 97 in 2012, according to the International Baccalaureate Organization.
Sebastien Bernard, a spokesman for the I.B. Global Center in Singapore, said by telephone that India, China and Australia were the top three ''hot'' markets for their organization.
Within India, Mumbai leads other cities in program growth, with 38 I.B. programs offered in 2012, up from 14 five years earlier. It is followed by Pune, Hyderabad, Bangalore, Ahmedabad and Delhi.
''The driving force started quite early in Mumbai,'' Ian Chambers, director for the Asia-Pacific at the I.B, said by telephone. ''It is an outward-focused, cosmopolitan city.''
Mr. Chambers believe that the I.B.'s rising popularity is being driven by evolving parental attitudes toward learning. ''There has been a change in mind-set over the past few years,'' he said.
India's burgeoning prosperity has given parents choices in primary and secondary education that were hard to imagine even a decade ago. The selection of an I.B. education seems to reflect a greater focus on flexibility and openness, as opposed to the more rigid, test-driven approach traditionally associated with Indian teaching methods, interviews in Mumbai with parents, students and school administrators indicate.
They said that the system offered better student-to-teacher ratios, and a more holistic and enquiry-based system of learning. Yet the program is often tagged as elitist because of its expense.
In Mumbai, annual tuition for Grades 11 and 12 at schools that use the I.B. program can reach 850,000 rupees, or $16,000, although fees for lower grade levels are less. In contrast, private schools that offer the Indian state board curriculum cost significantly less, charging from 90,000 to 200,000 rupees.
Because of the program's newness, as well as its specialized teacher training, a number of I.B. schools in India have faculty members and principals from overseas. The principal of B.D. Somani International School, Don Gardner, was formerly at the International School of Antwerp in Belgium. He moved to Mumbai six years ago to start the school, which now has 700 students, of which 120 are in Grades 11 and 12.
''In the I.B. system, you learn to argue a point of view, to apply the information you've been taught,'' Mr. Gardner said. ''85 percent of our students want to go overseas after the 12th to study. There's a distinct advantage in having the I.B. diploma for them.''
Mr. Gardner said that because the Indian system emphasized rote learning, students from Indian schools may not be as well prepared for Western universities. Many students apply to B.D. Somani from Indian state board-affiliated private schools after 10th grade.
B.D. Somani's graduates have enrolled at top universities like Columbia, Cornell, Brown, Oxford and the London School of Economics.
Vladimir Kuskovski heads the four-year-old Oberoi International School in suburban Mumbai, to which he moved from the International School in Hamburg. The school has 1,100 students, with 85 in the 11th and 12th grades.
''Indian kids have strong study skills,'' observed Dr. Kuskovski. ''They have motivation. What they lack is the ability to think beyond the exam as the system is exam-driven. It is theory, not application based. That is our biggest challenge, on how to help them apply the theory to application.''
Another drawback among Indian students was their reluctance to give their opinions, ''because no one ever asked them before,'' he said. On the upside, Dr. Kuskovski said he found less bullying and behavioral problems in India, compared with Europe, noting that students put pressure on themselves to do well.
Recognizing the I.B.'s growing popularity, the Association of Indian Universities announced in January that it would equate the completion of the I.B.'s Middle Years Program, for students 11 to 16 years old, to Grade 10 of the Indian board. This allows students from that I.B. program to apply for Grade 11 in schools based on the Indian curriculum.
Although many students use the I.B. as a steppingstone to pursuing a foreign college education, that is also changing. ''Once upon a time all students used the I.B. diploma to leave India, but now we have a huge increase in the number of students who want to stay in India,'' said Mr. Chambers of the I.B.O.
In 2003, 162 Indian students pursuing the I.B. expressed a desire to go to Indian universities, but by last year that number had jumped to 1,801.
Conversations with Indian parents show mixed sentiments about the I.B. versus the Indian school system. One complaint about the Indian state board course of study is its emphasis on memorization and stress on academics at the expense of extracurricular activities. Parents also feel that the Indian system is too structured, especially for students entering the 11th grade, who are required to choose specific and distinct streams of study, like the arts, or commerce or science, with little overlap in elective subjects. For example, a student who studies history would be unable study biology. and a biology student would not be able to study economics.
Ritu Joshi recently moved her 10-year-old daughter from a traditional Indian private school to an international one that offers the I.B. program. ''My daughter needed space and nurturing,'' she said. Mrs. Joshi believes that as the world becomes more globalized, the tools students require to thrive have also transformed. ''Skill requirements have changed for the workplace,'' she said. ''We now need out-of-the-box thinking.''
She added that Indian state board schools ''were needed during that Industrial Age type of thinking which was highly process-driven.''
Not all parents interviewed were convinced of the I.B.'s merits.
''Work discipline in Indian schools is high,'' said Suhagi Deorah, whose two children study in the city's oldest private school, which does not offer the I.B.
Smriti Mishra, who relocated to Mumbai from London, said that she and her husband were clear about wanting the Indian-system of education for their daughter. ''We wanted what we ourselves have been through, that rigor,'' she said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); CURRICULA (90%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); CHILDREN (72%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (90%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (53%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) INDIA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%); SINGAPORE (65%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2013



110 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1819 words

HEADLINE: Germans Scrutinize Amazon's Labor Practices

BYLINE: By JACK EWING

 BODY:
BAD HERSFELD, GERMANY -- Manuel Sauer, a union activist, stood in front of Amazon's colossal gray distribution center here last Thursday, masquerading as the company's chief executive, Jeff Bezos, by holding up a cardboard cutout of a scowling Mr. Bezos. Television crews crowded in for the money shot.
Then Mr. Sauer and several other activists unfurled a banner demanding in a curious mix of German and English that Amazon, the American online retailing juggernaut, negotiate a union wage contract with its currently nonunion work force here. ''Make Tarif Vertrag,'' it said in fluorescent letters. Then the organizers marched toward the gates of the Amazon complex to deliver the results of an online petition drive supporting the union's demands.
That brief bit of guerrilla theater was the latest skirmish in an escalating battle between ver.di, one of the largest unions in Germany, and Amazon, which employs 8,000 permanent workers at eight distribution centers in the country, one of the online retailer's largest markets outside the United States. Deservedly or not, Amazon's labor relations have lately come under intense scrutiny by German media. 
The triggering event was a Feb. 12 broadcast by one of Germany's two main public television networks of a documentary about the treatment of some of the 10,000 temporary workers that Amazon hired last year to cope with the holiday rush. Many of those workers were bused in from countries like Spain or Romania where jobs are scarce.
Aired on ARD, a publicly financed broadcaster considered left of center, the documentary even implied that Amazon used neo-Nazi thugs to keep workers in line. It showed a team of security workers hired by an Amazon subcontractor roughing up a camera crew outside the temporary workers' quarters.
The broadcast has since inspired countless headlines, preoccupied pundits on Germany's ubiquitous television talk shows and may even become an issue in national elections this autumn in which left-leaning Social Democrats will be challenging the government coalition led by Chancellor Angela Merkel's conservative Christian Democrats.
The continuing furor raises the question of whether Amazon will be the latest big American company to run afoul of German labor laws, which provide much broader worker rights than in the United States.
Walmart abandoned Germany in 2006 following an array of setbacks that included a legal struggle with ver.di, which represents two million workers in service industries including retailing, hotels, food service and public transportation. The name is an abbreviation of Vereinte Dienstleistungsgewerkschaft, or United Service Industries Union.
General Motor's Opel unit, represented by the IG Metall union in Germany, has struggled for more than a decade to cut costs and stem losses in the face of strong worker resistance. Last week, Opel finally struck a truce with its employees that will allow it to close a factory in Bochum, Germany, in 2016 -- but only after promising not to impose involuntary layoffs.
Now it seems to be Amazon's turn to serve as a symbol for everything that many Germans resent about American-style management and so-called Anglo-Saxon capitalism. As an American company that has helped drive at least one German competitor out of business and makes heavy use of temporary workers, Amazon is a ripe target.
More flexible job regulations, introduced since 2005, have contributed to a plunge in unemployment. Germany's 5.3 percent jobless rate is less than half the euro zone's overall rate of 11.9 percent. But the changes are perceived by many Germans as creating a class of poorly paid workers with few protections. Amazon's work force more than doubles every Christmas season when it hires an additional 10,000 temporary employees, many of them foreigners.
Amazon, which already pays above the union rate, has refused to negotiate with the ver.di union on wages or any other issue. But so far Amazon seems to be doing a better job than Walmart did in German public relations.
Some of the security agents in the documentary who manhandled a camera crew wore clothing fashionable among neo-Nazis. The name of the security firm, as the film made clear, was also provocative: H.E.S.S., for Hensel European Security Service. Rudolf Hess, one of Adolf Hitler's deputies, remains a revered figure among right-wing extremists.
The firm denied any connection to extremist groups. But Amazon fired the security firm, nonetheless.
''We are unhappy at what we saw,'' Dave Clark, Amazon's vice president of worldwide operations, said by telephone from Seattle on Saturday. ''We've got to become world class in managing the accommodations of those folks versus delegating to a third party. That is a lesson we learned this holiday.''
Heiner Reimann, a ver.di official, said that every year after Christmas he is flooded with complaints from temporary workers who say they were falsely led to believe they would get permanent jobs at Amazon if they met tough productivity requirements. He said that the nebulous status of temporary workers at Amazon is a year-round issue, but especially so right after the holiday, when large numbers of temps are let go.
But Mr. Clark countered that virtually all of Amazon's permanent employees in Germany started out as temporary workers.
He said Amazon was not importing the foreign workers portrayed in the television documentary because they were inexpensive, but because the company could not find enough people locally. Unemployment in Bad Hersfeld and the surrounding area is about 5 percent. ''If we had the ability to staff with local people we would have done it,'' he said.
The company has expanded rapidly in Germany in recent years, generating $8.7 billion in the country last year as it provided Germans with a consumer cornucopia of everything from books and MP3 players to vacuum cleaners and kayaks. Of the company's eight distribution warehouses in Germany, which it calls fulfillment centers, six have opened since 2009. And more hiring is planned, Mr. Clark said.
One of the union's other criticisms is that a Big Brother atmosphere prevails in Amazon distribution centers.
''Everything is measured, everything is calculated, everything is geared toward efficiency,'' Mr. Reimann said. ''People want to be treated with respect.''
But Amazon also has its defenders in Bad Hersfeld, where the company is one of the main employers in this city of 30,000, optimally located in central Germany at the junction of two major highways.
Thomas Fehling, the mayor, said he condemned poor treatment of temporary workers reported in the German press. But he added, ''We have a very positive feeling about Amazon,'' which employs 2,500 people here.
Among local citizens, opinion about Amazon seems to be split. Some former employees writing to the Kreis Anzeiger, a local newspaper, complained of an unpleasant work atmosphere and extreme pressure to produce.
But one, who said he had worked 12 years for the company, disagreed. ''The work climate was and is always good,'' he wrote, ''and the co-workers as well as the lead managers are fine.''
For all its digital efficiencies, online commerce can be labor intensive. The German operation offers a mind-boggling assortment of products that besides clothing, sporting goods and home electronics includes more than 50 varieties of fondue sets. The products are fetched from storage racks by workers known as pickers, who may cover miles on foot in the course of a workday.
Customer orders are packed largely by hand, with productivity of individual employees closely monitored by software on the hand-held scanners workers use, and other means. ''Feedback'' sessions are held for those deemed insufficiently swift.
''Our intent is not to spy with electronics, or to monitor with electronics in a punitive way,'' Mr. Clark said. ''We do expect our employees to perform.''
Amazon's relentless focus on efficiency enables it to deliver most products the next day and often beat competitors on price. Neckermann, once among the largest catalog retailers in Germany, became insolvent last year in part because it was unable to compete successfully with Amazon online.
A taxi driver in Bad Hersfeld, who did not want to be quoted by name because a close relative is still employed by Amazon, said he had worked as a picker one Christmas season and found the work demanding but not unreasonably so. It was less stressful than driving a taxi, he said.
Mr. Fehling, the mayor, frames things in business terms. ''If you want a comfortable job, Amazon is definitely not for you,'' he said. ''Amazon is a performance-oriented company. Amazon is successful because people want those products and they want those prices.''
There is no sign yet that the controversy stirred by the documentary is cooling.
Peer Steinbrück, leader of the Social Democrats, the largest party challenging Ms. Merkel's governing coalition, has recorded a video message in support of the online petition drive calling on Amazon to negotiate with the union.
''A strong company like Amazon doesn't need to use poor working conditions to create a competitive advantage,'' Mr. Steinbrück says in the video. He promises that, if elected, he will tighten rules governing temporary workers.
But Mr. Clark of Amazon said a union contract would not allow the company to pursue what it considers an innovative compensation system, which includes stock bonuses for all workers.
Amazon's policy of neither confronting nor engaging with the union was evident on Thursday, when the small group of ver.di organizers, including Mr. Reimann and Mr. Sauer with his Jeff Bezos prop, gathered outside the gates to one of Amazon's distribution centers on a hillside outside Bad Hersfeld.
They had come to present 37,000 signatures gathered online. The activists were far outnumbered by reporters and camera crews, drawn by the prospect of a telegenic confrontation with management. But Amazon, it soon became clear, had decided to defuse the moment.
Mr. Reimann pressed a buzzer next to the security gate. When a voice over the intercom asked who was calling, he demanded to be admitted to deliver the signatures.
Unexpectedly, the gate opened, and Mr. Reimann and the other ver.di activists tramped across an enclosed metal bridge, trailed by journalists.
They were met inside by a trio of friendly receptionists, who cheerily issued visitor passes to everyone. Nearby, a table was piled with bananas and a sign, ''Amazon Fruit Day.''
As Mr. Reimann gave interviews to television reporters, photographers snapped Amazon workers on their way to a nearby cafeteria.
But soon came word: No Amazon officials would be meeting with Mr. Reimann's group this day. So the activists handed their box of signatures to the ever-beaming receptionists, and everyone left.
Melissa Eddy contributed reporting from Berlin.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Activists protest Amazon's treatment of employees in Germany, where workers enjoy greater rights than in the United States. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BEN KILB FOR THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (90%); INTERNET RETAILING (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (87%); LIBERALISM (78%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (78%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (75%); LABOR FORCE (75%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); CONSERVATISM (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (72%); RETAILERS (71%); PLANT CLOSINGS (70%); PETITIONS (69%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (68%); ELECTIONS (67%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (65%)

PERSON: JEFFREY P BEZOS (88%); ANGELA MERKEL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); SPAIN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2013



111 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; LETTER FROM WASHINGTON; Pg. 

LENGTH: 933 words

HEADLINE: Cataloging Health Care's Excesses

BYLINE: By ALBERT R. HUNT | BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The cover story in Time magazine last week wasn't the usual fare, like ''Marco Rubio: Savior of the Republican Party.''
''Bitter Pill: Why Medical Bills Are Killing Us'' is a serious, exhaustively reported piece about the problem the U.S. health care system has become. The article, by Steven Brill, has created unusual buzz in Washington; it spares no vested interest.
Nonprofit hospitals, the cornerstone of many communities, capriciously overcharge patients, sticking the powerless with exorbitant bills, while paying lavish salaries to their executives; drug companies, which charge humongous markups to American customers, rake in huge profits; trial lawyers, with the threat of legal action, add to the cost of defensive medicine; President Barack Obama's Affordable Care Act does little to bend the cost curve, and while conservatives rail against Medicare, the government-run insurance program is more efficient and customer-friendly than the private system. 
None of this is new. Yet it resonates for several reasons: Mr. Brill documents the particulars more forcefully, and as health care spending approaches 20 percent of the U.S. economy, almost every American is affected and the debate is politically polarizing.
When asked to respond to these charges, most of the system's stakeholders react in similar ways: Many of these criticisms are valid -- except when it applies to us.
The American Hospital Association says, yes, the current billing system is broken, but hospitals aren't to blame. When patients look at hospital bills, says Richard Umbdenstock, the group's president, the prices reflect not just the cost of a particular item but ''all the resources required to provide the care.'' Moreover, he says, the ''vast majority'' of patients don't pay the initial bill; that's just the starting point.
Linda Lipsen, the chief executive officer of the American Association for Justice, which represents trial lawyers, said in an interview that Mr. Brill's article correctly focused on health care costs. Mr. Brill opposes the limits on malpractice suits advocated by some conservatives. Yet Ms. Lipsen takes issue with his more moderate call for a ''safe harbor'' standard that would require a defendant -- a hospital or a doctor -- to demonstrate that care was within the bounds of accepted practice.
''This would preclude some people who're injured or killed being able to get to court,'' Ms. Lipsen says. ''Each case has its individual practices.''
The pharmaceutical industry insists that drugs account for less than 10 percent of health care costs, that their prices are rising at a slow clip and that bargaining by big-bulk purchasers creates a genuine market system.
The administration argues that the Affordable Care Act will significantly reduce costs; Republicans on Capitol Hill dismiss the arguments in Medicare's favor.
If all this were true, the system would be fine. It isn't. Three-fifths of U.S. bankruptcies are caused by medical bills. There is little procedure or price transparency; it's difficult to check a physician's record or the performance of drugs and treatments.
Pharmaceutical and medical-device companies, according to Mr. Brill, ''regularly put clauses in sales contracts prohibiting hospitals from sharing information about what they pay and discounts they get.''
More highlights:
A woman enters a Connecticut hospital with chest pains. She is examined and is released after four hours once it has been determined there is nothing wrong. The bill: $21,000.
A monthlong stay in a Dallas hospital for treatment of pneumonia cost more than $474,000, less than 20 percent of which was covered by insurance.
The chief executives of hospitals affiliated with universities make three times more than the presidents of their university systems.
Medical device makers, who are angry about the small tax imposed by Obamacare, are producing returns of 15 percent or more. So are drug companies that charge about a 50 percent premium to patients in the United States.
Medicare is prohibited by Congress from using its leverage to bargain for better prescription-drug prices or to use ''comparative effectiveness'' tests in approving drugs or procedures.
Trial lawyers are right that the impact of malpractice suits is exaggerated; Texas has enacted one of the toughest limits on them, and it hasn't really driven down overall costs. In fact, the threat of litigation is often used as an excuse to perform profitable procedures. Still, something like the safe harbor standard could make some difference and eliminate a distracting argument.
Medicare gets whacked a lot these days by politicians. Mr. Brill demonstrates that the program is more cost-effective than the private system. He says that rather than raising the eligibility age for benefits, lowering the age limit and allowing more people to qualify would decrease health-care costs.
Mr. Obama's health care law guarantees that a lot more Americans will have health insurance -- a good thing -- but the administration is on shakier ground when it contends that the measure will curb costs.
Over all, the system is predicated on an assumption that there is a real marketplace affected by supply and demand. That is largely a myth. Consuming health care isn't the same as buying shoes or a car: If you go to the emergency room or are diagnosed with cancer, you're not likely to bargain-shop.
The system's big stakeholders have lobbyists, are campaign contributors or are forces in their communities. They react to articles such as Mr. Brill's, but really aren't much worried. They are rich, powerful and protected.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); HOSPITALS (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); DRUG PRICES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (76%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (75%); LITIGATION (74%); MEDICARE (74%); LAWYERS (74%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); PRICE INCREASES (64%); PROFESSIONAL NEGLIGENCE (54%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN HOSPITAL ASSOCIATION (54%)

PERSON: MARCO RUBIO (73%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2013



112 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1098 words

HEADLINE: As Automatic Budget Cuts Go Into Effect, Poor May Be Hit Particularly Hard

BYLINE: By ANNIE LOWREY

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The $85 billion in automatic cuts working their way through the federal budget spare many programs that aid the poorest and most vulnerable Americans, including the Children's Health Insurance Program and food stamps.
But the sequestration cuts, as they are called, still contain billions of dollars in mandatory budget reductions in programs that help low-income Americans, including one that gives vouchers for housing to the poor and disabled and another that provides fortified baby formula to the children of poor women.
Republican and Democratic lawmakers largely resigned themselves to allowing sequestration -- a policy meant to force them to the negotiating table, not to actually reduce the deficit -- to take wider effect after it started on Friday. That leaves agencies just seven months to carry out their cuts before the fiscal year ends on Sept. 30. In many cases, they will eventually have to deny aid to eligible needy families. 
Unless a deal is reached to change the course of the cuts, housing programs would be hit particularly hard, with about 125,000 individuals and families put at risk of becoming homeless, the Department of Housing and Urban Development estimated. An additional 100,000 formerly homeless people might be removed from emergency shelters or other housing arrangements because of the cuts, the agency said.
Local administrators are trying to decide how to put the mandatory 5.1 percent budget cuts into effect by the end of September. Adrianne Todman, the executive director of the District of Columbia Housing Authority, said that no person in her program currently using a housing voucher or living in a public facility would be affected or put out on the street.
But to absorb the cuts, Ms. Todman plans to defer maintenance and leave staff vacancies open. She may also not be able to fill open public housing units as tenants vacate them. And she may stop rolling over housing vouchers to families on the waiting list. Eventually, she said, she may have to furlough employees.
''It's a shame. It's more than a shame, it's despicable,'' Ms. Todman said, noting that her agency already lacked enough capacity to meet the district's needs. ''These are real families that we have deemed eligible and are waiting to receive their voucher from us.''
In Washington and across the country, families and individuals generally need to have very low incomes to be eligible for federal assistance. Public housing residents in Washington have an average annual income of just $12,911. More than 40 percent are either children or the elderly, and more than a quarter live with a disability. In the voucher program, the annual income is even lower, just over $10,000 a year, and similarly large proportions of residents are elderly, disabled or young.
''These people are very, very, very poor,'' said Sheila Crowley, the president of the National Low Income Housing Coalition, speaking of recipients of federal housing support across the country. ''They don't have resources to fall back on.''
In some places, officials have already started carrying out cuts. For instance, King County in Washington State, which includes Seattle, stopped issuing new housing vouchers on Friday.
''Sequestration will result in some 600 fewer families in our local communities receiving crucial rental assistance over the next year,'' Stephen Norman, the executive director of the county housing authority, said in a statement. ''Because rents are so high, many of these families may, quite literally, find themselves out on the street.''
Members of Congress have indicated that they might give agencies more discretion in fulfilling the cuts, to help blunt their impact. But policy experts said that in the case of many low-income programs, budget cuts would necessarily mean fewer people get help.
''There's no loose change in the cushions,'' Ms. Crowley said. ''Anything you take out of HUD is going to reduce services and cut programs. There's just no fat there. There hasn't been for a long time.''
Other programs that assist low-income families face similarly significant cuts, including one that delivers hot meals to the elderly and another that helps pregnant women. Policy experts are particularly concerned about cuts to the supplemental nutrition program for women, infants and children known as WIC, which provides food and baby formula for at-risk families.
It is considered one of the most effective social programs in government, reducing anemia and increasing birth weights. But up to 775,000 low-income women and their children might lose access to or be denied that aid because of the mandatory cuts, according to calculations by the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a nonprofit research group.
The start of sequestration, a policy never meant to take effect, has left both sides seeking cover, with many Democrats dramatizing the impact of the cuts and many Republicans playing them down.
Some Republicans, in fact, have said that whatever the effect, the cuts are a necessary part of reversing the trend of the government spending more and taking on more debt.
''President Obama proclaimed that the sequester's 'brutal' and 'severe' cuts will 'eviscerate' America's domestic spending,'' Senator Rand Paul, Republican of Kentucky, wrote in a recent article published by Investors.com. ''But 'eviscerate' is not the adjective I would use; in fact, I believe the sequester is a pittance.''
The $85 billion in cuts is just a small part of the $3.6 trillion annual budget, but policy experts say that even those cuts that are being applied to programs that do not specifically focus on low-income people and communities will disproportionately affect them.
Other cuts might not hit low-income Americans specifically, but their impact could affect vulnerable families disproportionately. Those include cuts to programs that aid children with special needs; job-training programs that help unemployed people find a new career; foreclosure prevention services; and programs that help 150,000 veterans every year make the transition into the nonmilitary work force.
They also include a reduction in jobless benefits for the long-term unemployed. Those out of work for more than six months could see their checks shrink by as much as 11 percent.
The Budget Control Act, a 2011 law that created the automatic cuts, exempted ''mandatory'' spending programs that aid low-income Americans, like Medicaid, which receive automatic federal financing. But it did not exempt ''discretionary'' programs, whose financing Congress determines in its annual appropriations process.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The $85 billion in mandatory across-the-board federal budget cuts, which started on Friday, were expected to disproportionately affect low-income Americans like those living in the Langston Terrace Dwellings, left, a public housing project in northeast Washington. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ROSENBAUM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); BUDGET CUTS (91%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (90%); CHILDREN (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); HOMELESSNESS (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); FAMILY (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); PUBLIC HOUSING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); INFANT FORMULA (71%); DISABLED PERSONS (71%); EMERGENCY SHELTERS (71%); EXECUTIVES (65%); CITIES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2013



113 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1437 words

HEADLINE: Obama's Fault

BYLINE: By BILL KELLER

 BODY:
Our feckless leaders may be incapable of passing a budget, but, boy, can they pass the buck. The White House spent last week in full campaign hysteria, blitzing online followers with the message that heartless Republicans are prepared to transform America into ''Les Misérables'' in order to protect ''millionaires and billionaires, oil companies, vacation homes, and private jet owners.'' Republicans retort that the budget-cutting Doomsday device called sequester was actually invented by the White House.
In fact, the conceptual paternity of sequester was bipartisan. Both sides agreed that Congress should set in motion an automatic deficit-cutting scheme so draconian that it would force a divided Washington to come together around some sane compromise. The scandal is that Washington is so incapable of adult behavior that it can do the right thing only if it is staring down the barrel of a shotgun -- and, it turns out, not even then. 
Some of this is the fault of a budget-making system that is a mess of special favors, stopgap measures, side deals, promissory notes and flimflam. And, of course, it is true that much of the responsibility for our perpetual crisis can be laid at the feet of a pigheaded Republican Party, cowed by its angry, antispending, antitaxing, anti-Obama base. When it comes to distributing blame for the consequences of sequester -- jobs lost, investments put on hold, downgraded credit ratings and withering G.D.P., not to mention the longer lines at airport security -- the polls show a plurality of voters are likely to take it out on the Republicans. If all you care about is winning more Democratic seats in the 2014 midterms, then you can sit back and enjoy the show.
But if you care about the long-term health of the country, the president has more to answer for than just inventing a particular type of fiscal time bomb. The large mess we are in is in no small part the result of missed opportunities and political miscalculation at 1600 Pennsylvania. So, while we await the fate of Yellowstone Park and food safety, let's contemplate the road not taken by the White House -- that is, the high road.
When President Obama told us in his first Inaugural Address that our time of ''putting off unpleasant decisions'' was over, advocates of reforming our fiscal disorder read that as a promise that the new president would go beyond the perennial economic quick fix. After pulling the country back from the brink of depression by pumping some stimulus into the system (thumbs up for that), it seemed plausible that he would make some hard choices to put the promises of government more in balance with its resources.
Instead, the president's first big initiative was to create an overdue but expensive new entitlement, the Affordable Care Act. I'm not one of those who fault him for putting health care at the front of the line. But Obama emerged from that battle looking like a president who had spent the last of his political capital. And the great fiscal issues remained unaddressed.
His next act was to launch a bipartisan commission to grapple with those ''unpleasant decisions'' promised on Inauguration Day. In December 2010 the commission, led by Erskine Bowles and Alan Simpson, delivered its list of spending cuts and revenue increases, plus the entitlement reforms necessary to fortify Medicare and Social Security for the surge of baby-boom retirees.
The Simpson-Bowles agenda was imperfect, and had plenty to offend ideologues of the left and right, which meant that it was the very manifestation of what Obama likes to call ''a balanced approach.'' So did he seize it as an opportunity for serious debate about our fiscal mess? No, he abandoned it. Instead, he built a re-election campaign that was long on making the wealthiest pay more in taxes, short on spending discipline, and firmly hands-off on the problem of entitlements.
If Obama had campaigned on some version of Simpson-Bowles rather than on poll-tested tax hikes alone, he could now claim a mandate from voters to do something big and bold. Most important, he would have some leverage with members of his own base who don't want to touch Medicare even to save it. This was missed opportunity No. 1.
In the summer of 2011, the president tried to find a grand bargain with House Republicans, and failed. Then, with the Republicans threatening to cut off the government's borrowing power unless they got budget cuts, the White House and Republicans agreed on a bad bargain: the debt ceiling was raised, and the sequester was launched. There is a strong argument to be made (Noam Scheiber made it well last year in his book ''The Escape Artists: How Obama's Team Fumbled the Recovery'') that the president was unwise to let Republican zealots get away with such blackmail. Authorizing the government to pay the bills Congress has already incurred should be a matter of routine, not ransom. But the sequester was locked and loaded.
Which brings us to missed opportunity No. 2. Remember, the original plan was for the sequester to detonate at the beginning of this year, at the same time as the expiration of the Bush tax cuts. These twin shocks were supposed to work together to drive both parties toward the middle. For Republicans, the horrible prospect of an automatic, across-the-board tax increase (plus sequester's deep cuts in defense spending) would be reason to come to the negotiating table. For Democrats, the opportunity to extract a little more tax money from the wealthy (plus the threat of cuts to cherished domestic programs) would be incentive to bargain.
But with 2012 winding down, the White House and House Republicans struck another bad deal. They let the Bush tax breaks expire for the top bracket, while making them permanent for everyone else. The sequester spending cuts were postponed until -- well, until now.
That year-end tax deal was not a negotiating triumph for the Democrats. Obama wanted $1.2 trillion in new revenues over 10 years. Boehner let it be known he would go as high as $800 billion. By the time the master deal-makers of the White House were done, the ''compromise'' tax hike was $620 billion. I'd love to be the guy who sells the president his next car.
But the bigger mistake was to do the deal at all. Here we had Washington staring down the double barrels of that fiscal shotgun -- automatic spending cuts and automatic tax hikes -- and the White House agreed to remove one barrel. Once the tax deal was done, the Republicans, having budged once on taxes, felt no inclination to budge again. As John Boehner would say, over and over, ''He's gotten his tax hikes.'' And with Republicans unwilling to revisit the issue of taxes, Democrats had even less enthusiasm for a broader budget bargain that would cut programs they regard as sacred.
If Obama had held firm and let the Bush tax cuts expire for everyone, as some recommended at the time, he would now have at his disposal a powerful inducement for both parties to come together. A bargain could be built around restoring the lower rates for most taxpayers. With an actual, large tax cut at the heart of it, you just might construct the kind of big bipartisan bargain that has been so elusive. But it's too late for that.
Now that we have entered the sequester zone, Washington has assumed (or is feigning) a mood of resignation bordering on complacency. The Republicans may hate whacking defense, but they don't hate it enough to offer up any more taxes, regardless of what the polls say. So they have adopted the view that while the sequester may be crude at least it cuts government spending -- austerity on autopilot.
Liberal Democrats have found silver linings, too, calculating, as Jonathan Weisman reported in The Times, that the sequester, however ham-handed, is a rare opportunity to cut Pentagon spending. Besides, they say, sequester protects the poor from the worst cuts, and ''the process could take pressure off the Democratic Party, at least in the short run, to tamper with Social Security and Medicare.'' (God forbid.)
And the president? For weeks he has been playing the game political scientists call ''Fireman First.'' That's when scaremongering politicians threaten to cut the most essential services. It's true, the sequester is a grotesque and hurtful substitute for the kind of reforms the country needs. Bad things will happen. Maybe the furloughs and canceled contracts will stir the public enough to break the impasse. But by the weekend even the president was sounding helpless, if not acquiescent.
Clearly the days of ''putting off unpleasant decisions'' are not over. And this is where they get you.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); AVIATION SECURITY (76%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (71%); AIRPORTS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); VOTERS & VOTING (69%); DEBT NOTES (66%); FOOD SAFETY (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2013



114 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: Mooching Off Medicaid

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Conservatives like to say that their position is all about economic freedom, and hence making government's role in general, and government spending in particular, as small as possible. And no doubt there are individual conservatives who really have such idealistic motives.
When it comes to conservatives with actual power, however, there's an alternative, more cynical view of their motivations -- namely, that it's all about comforting the comfortable and afflicting the afflicted, about giving more to those who already have a lot. And if you want a strong piece of evidence in favor of that cynical view, look at the current state of play over Medicaid. 
Some background: Medicaid, which provides health insurance to lower-income Americans, is a highly successful program that's about to get bigger, because an expansion of Medicaid is one key piece of the Affordable Care Act, a k a Obamacare.
There is, however, a catch. Last year's Supreme Court decision upholding Obamacare also opened a loophole that lets states turn down the Medicaid expansion if they choose. And there has been a lot of tough talk from Republican governors about standing firm against the terrible, tyrannical notion of helping the uninsured.
Now, in the end most states will probably go along with the expansion because of the huge financial incentives: the federal government will pay the full cost of the expansion for the first three years, and the additional spending will benefit hospitals and doctors as well as patients. Still, some of the states grudgingly allowing the federal government to help their neediest citizens are placing a condition on this aid, insisting that it must be run through private insurance companies. And that tells you a lot about what conservative politicians really want.
Consider the case of Florida, whose governor, Rick Scott, made his personal fortune in the health industry. At one point, by the way, the company he built pleaded guilty to criminal charges, and paid $1.7 billion in fines related to Medicare fraud. Anyway, Mr. Scott got elected as a fierce opponent of Obamacare, and Florida participated in the suit asking the Supreme Court to declare the whole plan unconstitutional. Nonetheless, Mr. Scott recently shocked Tea Party activists by announcing his support for the Medicaid expansion.
But his support came with a condition: he was willing to cover more of the uninsured only after receiving a waiver that would let him run Medicaid through private insurance companies. Now, why would he want to do that?
Don't tell me about free markets. This is all about spending taxpayer money, and the question is whether that money should be spent directly to help people or run through a set of private middlemen.
And despite some feeble claims to the contrary, privatizing Medicaid will end up requiring more, not less, government spending, because there's overwhelming evidence that Medicaid is much cheaper than private insurance. Partly this reflects lower administrative costs, because Medicaid neither advertises nor spends money trying to avoid covering people. But a lot of it reflects the government's bargaining power, its ability to prevent price gouging by hospitals, drug companies and other parts of the medical-industrial complex.
For there is a lot of price-gouging in health care -- a fact long known to health care economists but documented especially graphically in a recent article in Time magazine. As Steven Brill, the article's author, points out, individuals seeking health care can face incredible costs, and even large private insurance companies have limited ability to control profiteering by providers. Medicare does much better, and although Mr. Brill doesn't point this out, Medicaid -- which has greater ability to say no -- seems to do better still.
You might ask why, in that case, much of Obamacare will run through private insurers. The answer is, raw political power. Letting the medical-industrial complex continue to get away with a lot of overcharging was, in effect, a price President Obama had to pay to get health reform passed. And since the reward was that tens of millions more Americans would gain insurance, it was a price worth paying.
But why would you insist on privatizing a health program that is already public, and that does a much better job than the private sector of controlling costs? The answer is pretty obvious: the flip side of higher taxpayer costs is higher medical-industry profits.
So ignore all the talk about too much government spending and too much aid to moochers who don't deserve it. As long as the spending ends up lining the right pockets, and the undeserving beneficiaries of public largess are politically connected corporations, conservatives with actual power seem to like Big Government just fine.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAID (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EVIDENCE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); INSURANCE (88%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (88%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); MEDICARE (78%); GOVERNORS (74%); HEALTH INSURANCE (74%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (74%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (73%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (73%); GUILTY PLEAS (72%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); LITIGATION (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); MEDICARE FRAUD (69%); APPEALS (67%); FINES & PENALTIES (62%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (51%)

PERSON: RICK SCOTT (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2013



115 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 582 words

HEADLINE: Bleeding the Borrower Dry

 BODY:
New York is one of 15 states that have banned the predatory, high-interest loans that payday lenders commonly use to pillage low-income borrowers. But offshore lenders increasingly get around state laws by issuing predatory loans over the Internet. Worse still, as the Times's Jessica Silver-Greenberg reported recently, banks in the state are profiting from the loans by allowing the Internet lenders to automatically withdraw payments from the borrower's account, in some cases without his or her permission. When the borrowers -- or their lenders -- overdraw on the accounts, the banks get to collect fat overdraft fees.
About 12 million borrowers turn to payday lenders each year. The loan model that lures them in is based on deception. Customers are told, for example, that they can borrow small amounts, perhaps a few hundred dollars, which they are supposed to repay in full within a short period, typically two weeks. The promotional material does not let on that the loans, which carry annual interest rates of 500 percent or more, are structured in a way that inevitably turns a short-term obligation into long-term debt. 
A new study by the Pew Charitable Trusts finds, for example, that only about 14 percent of borrowers can afford to take enough out of their monthly budget to repay the average payday loan. Instead, average borrowers carry a debt for five months, during which time they pay repeated fees to renew the loan. By the fifth month, someone who borrowed $375 will have paid about $520 in interest alone. Many also resort to borrowing from another payday lender. Not surprisingly, payday borrowers are more likely than others to default on credit card debt, to file for bankruptcy or to lose their bank accounts because of abuse of overdraft privileges.
New York State passed one of the strongest anti-usury laws in the nation in 1976, making it a felony for lenders to charge in excess of 25 percent interest. Even so, New Yorkers are still preyed upon by out-of-state payday lenders, which collect payments through an automatic withdrawal process.
Under federal law, bank customers have a right to revoke a creditor's automatic withdrawal privileges. They can also simply close an account whenever they choose. A federal lawsuit brought against JPMorgan Chase Bank by two customers in New York shows how difficult exercising these rights can be.
One plaintiff was besieged by payday lenders that had charged her an annual interest rate of nearly 800 percent -- clearly illegal in New York -- and continually tried to debit her bank account, triggering $34 overdraft fees. She asked the bank in March 2012 to close her account, but it remained open for two months, during which the lenders attempted to debit her some 55 times, ringing up $1,523 in overdraft and other fees.
Chase has promised to revisit its policies. But judging from consumer complaints nationally, this problem is not unique to New York. Congress and state governments need to crack down on these practices.
A bill pending in the Senate, known as the Safe Lending Act, would require all online lenders to comply with state laws that provide stronger consumer protections than the federal statutes. It would establish once and for all that payday loan borrowers have the right to stop lenders from raiding their bank accounts. State and federal regulators also need to prohibit banks from giving payday lenders access to the automatic payment system in states where predatory, high-interest loans are illegal.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHECK CASHING SERVICES (90%); PREDATORY LENDING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (78%); FAIR LENDING (78%); FOREIGN LENDING (78%); BANKING LAW (77%); PERSONAL DEBT (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); FOUNDATIONS (69%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (68%); LITIGATION (67%); FELONIES (67%); SUITS & CLAIMS (62%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (51%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2013



116 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: Swiss Voters Approve a Plan to Severely Limit Executive Compensation

BYLINE: By RAPHAEL MINDER

 BODY:
GENEVA -- Swiss citizens voted Sunday to impose some of the world's most severe restrictions on executive compensation, ignoring a warning from the business lobby that such curbs would undermine the country's investor-friendly image.
The vote gives shareholders of companies listed in Switzerland a binding say on the overall pay packages for executives and directors. Pension funds holding shares in a company would be obligated to take part in votes on compensation packages. 
In addition, companies would no longer be allowed to give bonuses to executives joining or leaving the business, or to executives when their company was taken over. Violations could result in fines equal to up to six years of salary and a prison sentence of up to three years.
The outcome of the referendum was a triumph for Thomas Minder, an entrepreneur and member of the Swiss Parliament (no relation to the reporter), who turned a personal fight against the management of Swissair, the flagship airline that collapsed in 2001, into a nationwide referendum against ''rip-off merchants.''
Almost 68 percent of Swiss voters backed Mr. Minder's proposals, according to results announced late Sunday.
''I am very proud of the Swiss people who have sent a very strong signal to the establishment,'' Mr. Minder told Swiss television. Despite the fact that his referendum had been opposed by Switzerland's main political parties, Mr. Minder, who is an independent member of the Swiss Parliament, called on all lawmakers to cooperate in swiftly enacting the law.
Nonbinding shareholder votes on executive pay have also been introduced in countries like the United States and Germany in response to Occupy Wall Street and other movements that have attacked the corporate excesses and abuses that fueled the world financial crisis. On Thursday, the European Parliament agreed to limit bonuses of bankers to two times their salaries.
In the case of Switzerland, however, Mr. Minder called for a much broader and tougher clampdown, striking a chord among citizens after the world financial crisis exposed major management failures at the financial giant UBS and other Swiss institutions.
Mr. Minder's case was unexpectedly bolstered last month when Novartis, the pharmaceutical company, agreed to a $78 million severance payout for its departing chairman, Daniel Vasella. That set off a political storm and intense criticism from some investors, forcing Novartis to scrap the payout and prompting Mr. Vasella to tell shareholders that it had been a mistake.
Cristina Gaggini, an official from EconomieSuisse, the Swiss business federation, said Sunday that the business lobby had made some ''major errors'' in its efforts to stop Mr. Minder's decade-long crusade, adding that the Novartis payout plan had amounted to a turning point in the referendum campaign.
After that, Ms. Gaggini said on Swiss national television, ''It became impossible to return to a reasonable debate.''
Ahead of the vote, EconomieSuisse and Mr. Minder's other opponents warned of dire consequences if the referendum passed, notably in terms of keeping Switzerland attractive to foreign companies and investors.
But Mr. Minder argued that Switzerland would benefit if it gave shareholders control over the companies in which they invested. Well over half the shares in many of the country's largest companies are already held outside the country. ''Investors put their money where they have the most to say, and that will clearly then be Switzerland,'' Mr. Minder said ahead of the referendum.
Robin Ferracone, chief executive of Farient Advisors, an American advisory firm that specializes in executive compensation issues, said that even though the referendum would add ''more burden to corporate processes, I do not predict an exodus from Switzerland,'' because the tax and other benefits of being based in the country would still outweigh ''the inconvenience'' of having to adjust to stricter executive compensation rules.
Mr. Minder started his campaign after his family-owned business came close to bankruptcy because it had been a supplier of toothpaste and other body care products to Swissair, the airline that was grounded in October 2001.
While Swissair had run out of money, it still managed to pay an advance earlier that year of 12 million Swiss francs (about $9.6 million at the time) to a chief executive, Mario Corti, who then left shortly after the airline's collapse.
Mr. Minder then broadened his campaign, accusing several bankers and other prominent executives of receiving ''rip-off'' pay packages. His campaign gained such momentum in recent months that relatively few such executives confronted him publicly, in this neutral and compromise-seeking country.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Thomas Minder, center, who pushed the Swiss referendum on executive pay, waited for the results on Sunday with supporters. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FABRICE COFFRINI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (93%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (91%); LOBBYING (90%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (90%); REFERENDUMS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); POLITICS (88%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (87%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); APPROVALS (74%); SEVERANCE PAY (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (71%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (67%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (65%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (63%); SENTENCING (54%); JAIL SENTENCING (54%)

COMPANY: NOVARTIS AG (85%); UBS AG (84%)

TICKER: NVS (NYSE) (85%); NOVN (SWX) (85%); UBSN (SWX) (84%); UBS (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3851 OPHTHALMIC GOODS (85%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (89%) SWITZERLAND (95%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (76%); CENTRAL EUROPE (74%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2013



117 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1393 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Clings to One Thing It Agrees On: Spending Cuts

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Conservative governors are signing on to provisions of what they once derisively dismissed as Obamacare. Prominent Senate Republicans are taking positions on immigration that would have gotten the party's presidential candidates hooted off the debate stage during last year's primaries.
Same-sex marriage has gone from being a reliable motivator for the conservative base to gaining broad acceptance.
Republican lawmakers are so fearful of social issues, in fact, that House leaders ignored intense objections from conservatives last week and allowed the passage of Democratic legislation on domestic and sexual violence against women.
All of which helps explain why Speaker John A. Boehner and Congressional Republicans have been so intent on facing down President Obama in their budget dispute. Aware that conservatives could never accept a second round of tax increases this year -- and that compromising with Mr. Obama on his terms would lead to party divisions far deeper than those that have emerged so far -- Republicans judged that the better course was to take on the economic and political risks associated with the automatic spending cuts that took effect on Friday. 
''I'm going to say it one more time,'' Mr. Boehner said Sunday on ''Meet the Press'' on NBC. ''The president got his tax hikes on January the First. The issue here is spending. Spending is out of control.''
Four months after Mr. Obama won a second term, the only issue that truly unites Republicans is a commitment to shrinking the federal government through spending cuts, low taxes and less regulation. To have compromised again and agreed to further increase taxes or roll back spending cuts would have left Republicans deeply split and, many of them say, at risk of losing the core of the party's identity.
''If the voters can't rely on us to stand up to the runaway train of entitlements and deficits and federal debt, what can they count on us for?'' said David Kochel, a Republican consultant in Iowa. ''We're going to have disagreements on other issues. This is one we have to agree on.''
One of the most striking characteristics about the political climate in the months since Mr. Obama's re-election is that on issue after issue, it is no longer entirely clear what it means to be a Republican. The party is more divided than ever on domestic policy, and a debate is breaking out over how best to invigorate the conservative movement.
In that sense, the budget showdown is not just about cutting $85 billion out of government spending over the next seven months. It is, to many conservatives, about showing that Republicans still have the will, the leadership and the public support to use this moment to halt, or at least slow, an ideological pendulum swing from the right, where the nation seemed to be heading after the 2010 midterm elections, to the left, after the 2012 campaign.
''The sequester and winning that fight -- however you define what winning means -- is critical for the party,'' said Ralph Reed, the social conservative leader.
There are risks for Republicans in taking a hard line on the spending cuts, especially if the unemployment rate jumps and the economy slows. Democrats are highlighting estimates by the Congressional Budget Office that the fiscal cutbacks could leave the economy with 750,000 fewer jobs this year. And they are warning that while the effects will play out slowly, the cuts will eventually hit voters in noticeable ways.
''I don't see how 'I'm fine with the sequester' differs from 'I'm fine with slower growth and continued high unemployment, or longer delays at airports, fewer Head Start slots, furloughs among civilian D.O.D. folks' and so on,'' said Jared Bernstein, a former economic adviser to Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., referring to the Department of Defense. Mr. Bernstein, a senior fellow at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a liberal research group, said that as the cuts became real, they would ''deeply discredit'' those who foster the idea that government spending is inherently wasteful and that there is no tangible cost to reducing it.
But to the degree that Mr. Boehner has prevailed in the first round of the current fight -- the struggles over the across-the-board cuts and longer-term questions about addressing the national debt will go on for months and years -- it could not have come at a better time for the morale of Republicans.
In the view of some conservative commentators, the Republican Party and the conservative movement are at one of their lowest points in years -- ''leaderless and nearly issueless,'' as Rich Lowry, the editor of National Review, wrote last week in an opinion article for Politico that set off debate in the party.
With the party divided on so many other fronts, feelings are running especially high when it comes to holding the line on taxes. Conservatives are excoriating Gov. Bob McDonnell of Virginia, a Republican, for championing a tax increase to pay for transportation projects.
Chris Chocola, the president of the Club for Growth, a group that is critical of Republicans it considers to be insufficiently conservative on fiscal policy, said: ''Republicans have not had a hard time convincing the base they are conservative enough on social issues. They have had a hard time convincing the base they are sincere on economic issues because they have grown the government.''
The internal divisions after the party's fourth loss in the last six presidential elections and the recognition that inexorable demographic shifts are working against a reliance on its traditional base have set off the most fundamental debate since the Reagan years about the future of conservatism.
Liberals dismiss the exercise as a sham intended to distract attention from enduring ties between wealthy interests and conservative policy and politicians. That is a point implicitly recognized by many Republicans, who are looking for ways to defend the party's small-government philosophy without being portrayed by Democrats as imprudently abstemious and against middle-class interests.
They are starting to talk about focusing less on reductions in marginal income tax rates -- long the primary goal of Reagan-era supply-siders -- and more on tax changes, like increasing the child credit or reducing payroll taxes, that would more directly address the stagnation in middle-class incomes and growing inequality.
Portraying deficit reduction as an end unto itself, Mr. Reed said, would miss an opportunity for Republicans to connect with voters who are concerned about their families and neighborhoods.
''There's a danger if the Republican Party is only seen as the party that cuts government spending, because that is a necessary but insufficient rationale for a majority party,'' he said.
In an article in Commentary titled ''How to Save the Republican Party,'' two veterans of President George W. Bush's White House, Michael Gerson and Peter Wehner, said the party could rebuild itself with a social mobility agenda that extends beyond low taxes, cutting back tax breaks for corporations, breaking up big banks, helping poor people reach and graduate from college, and improving health care for children.
''Rather than being exclusively focused on budget numbers or individual economic rights, Republicans would be demonstrating a limited but active role for government: helping individuals attain the skills and values -- the social capital -- that allow them to succeed in a free economy,'' they wrote.
For now, the debate about the future of the party remains detached from legislative politics. Mr. Boehner has more than enough trouble navigating the demands of various stripes of conservatives on a daily basis without introducing a more activist strain of policy into the Republican agenda. In talking about taxes, he continues to emphasize reducing income tax rates.
But with the automatic budget cuts likely to remain in force for some time, if not permanently, attention in Washington will shift to long-term budget plans to be introduced in the coming weeks by Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, the Republican vice-presidential nominee last year, and Senate Democrats and Mr. Obama.
It is those documents that provide both sides with their best opportunity to define for voters what they will stand for over the remainder of Mr. Obama's presidency and beyond.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Obama on Friday, when $85 billion in automatic spending cuts began to take effect. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEWEL SAMAD/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
 Speaker John A. Boehner on Thursday. ''Spending is out of control,'' he said on NBC on Sunday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX WONG/GETTY IMAGES) (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX INCREASES (88%); BUDGETS (88%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); IMMIGRATION (73%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); SEX OFFENSES (72%); PUBLIC DEBT (71%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (70%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (57%); GAYS & LESBIANS (57%); MARRIAGE (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN BOEHNER (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2013



118 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1163 words

HEADLINE: Seeking Compromise, President Reaches Out To the Rank and File

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WEISMAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- With few avenues left for winning a comprehensive budget deal that can reverse the across-the-board spending cuts that took effect over the weekend, President Obama has begun reaching out to senators in a bid to isolate Republican leaders in Congress and force a compromise.
In conversations last week with Senators Lindsey Graham of South Carolina and John McCain of Arizona, both Republicans, and in a wider outreach to rank-and-file members of Congress that a top White House official said began this weekend, Mr. Obama hopes to build a broad consensus on deficit reduction that includes new revenue, despite the uncompromising stance of Republican leaders in the House and the Senate.
''Our hope is that as more Republicans start to see this pain in their own districts, that they will choose bipartisan compromise over this absolutist position,'' Gene Sperling, the director of the president's National Economic Council, said Sunday on the NBC program ''Meet the Press.'' 
Appearing immediately before him on the program, Speaker John A. Boehner reinforced his opposition to any deal to reverse the cuts in military and domestic programs -- $85 billion this year and nearly $1 trillion over 10 years -- that includes raising new revenue. But he did leave open a narrow path to a comprehensive budget agreement that could restore at least some of the money at some point.
Mr. Boehner said Mr. Obama had already raised nearly $1 trillion to finance his health care program and, in January, won $650 billion from tax increases on high incomes.
But Mr. Boehner offered some hope that the budget process -- which begins this week with the expected passage by the House of a spending measure, known as a continuing resolution, to keep the government operating for the rest of the year -- could still end in a broad agreement that lowers the deficit, overhauls the tax code and undoes at least some of the automatic spending cuts.
''I don't think anyone quite understands how it gets resolved,'' he acknowledged. ''After we do our continuing resolution, we'll begin to work on our budget. The House has done a budget every year that I've been speaker. The Senate hasn't done a budget for four years. They've committed to do a budget this year.
''And I hope that they do. And out of that discussion and out of that process, maybe we can find a way to deal with our long-term spending problem.''
It was not clear whom Mr. Obama had called as part of his new Senate strategy, disclosed on Sunday by Mr. Sperling. Mr. Graham did emerge from wide-ranging White House talks with the president last week with a renewed call for deficit reduction that includes as much as $600 billion in new revenue -- and revisits the across-the-board cuts known as sequestration.
''Really, it's the chance to do something big,'' Mr. Graham said in an interview. ''We need multiple trillion-dollar savings, without destroying the Defense Department. We need to do it smartly over a 20- or 30-year period, rather than one year or 10 years. So if you bend the curve on entitlements, I'm willing to do revenues. Then we can take a second look at sequestration.''
An aide to Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, said that Mr. Obama tried to reach Ms. Collins this weekend but that they had not yet connected.
But aides to several senators who have participated in groups or committees looking for a bipartisan deal said their offices had not received any such calls from the president.
The path to a less arbitrary approach to deficit reduction is narrow and uphill, lawmakers of both parties say. House Republican leaders are adamant that they want no changes to the tax code, including closing loopholes that both sides agree are wasteful. Instead, they say that any closing of loopholes or changes to the tax code should be part of a comprehensive effort to simplify the code and lower tax rates while keeping the level of revenue received by the government the same.
''Republicans want tax reform. We want to bring rates down for all Americans so that we've got a fairer tax code,'' Mr. Boehner said. ''But to arbitrarily pull out a couple of tax expenditures and to say, 'Well, we ought to use that to get rid of the sequester' -- listen, every American knows Washington has a spending problem.''
The Senate's top two Republican leaders, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky and John Cornyn of Texas, are increasingly taking that same position. Both fear a primary challenge from their right flank as they move toward re-election campaigns next year.
Mr. McConnell, the minority leader, appearing on the CNN program ''State of the Union,'' gave no indication that he was willing to undo the automatic cuts with new revenue, only with cuts in other parts of the budget.
''We think it's important to the American people to keep this commitment,'' he said. ''We're willing to do it. We're willing to talk about reconfiguring the same spending over the next several months.''
The White House was left to hope that rank-and-file senators can build momentum for a bipartisan deal that isolates Republican leaders and exerts pressure that cannot be resisted.
''I have talked to a number of colleagues on both sides of the aisle, many of whom are disgusted with the current state of affairs,'' Ms. Collins said in an interview on Friday.
Ms. Collins has already begun work with Senator Mark Udall, Democrat of Colorado, on legislation to mitigate the impact of the across-the-board cuts by giving the Obama administration more latitude to spread them around. She said those efforts could put lawmakers on a path toward a consensus on reversing the cuts as their effect builds through the fiscal year, which ends on Sept. 30.
But, Ms. Collins said, Mr. Obama has to speak frankly to the public about the tough changes she says are needed over the long term to Social Security and Medicare as the population ages and costs continue to rise. It is not enough to keep repeating, as Mr. Sperling did on Sunday, that Mr. Obama is prepared to compromise, she said.
''The president has to go first with plans for Medicare and Social Security,'' Ms. Collins said. ''Then I think you will see more receptivity on the Republican side to an overhaul of the tax code'' that raises more revenue.
Senator Kelly Ayotte, Republican of New Hampshire, said Sunday on the ABC program ''This Week'' that she, too, would be open to more revenue in a broad, bipartisan agreement that deals with entitlement programs.
''If we're going to increase revenue again, it's got to go to the debt with real entitlement reform and real tax reform where you actually lower rates,'' Ms. Ayotte said.
Mr. Sperling said Sunday that Mr. Boehner had already offered $1 trillion in additional revenue over 10 years in back-room talks with the president in December. About $600 billion in tax increases took effect in January.
''If he was keeping his offer on the table,'' Mr. Sperling said, ''he would at least be willing to consider $400 billion in more revenues.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); TAX LAW (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (66%); HEALTH CARE (64%); TAX REFORM (63%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN BOEHNER (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (72%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2013



119 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 735 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
7:30 P.M. (HBO) JOHN GUARE: A YOUNGARTS MASTERCLASS For more than 30 years the organization now known as National YoungArts Foundation has offered scholarships and mentors to emerging high school artists. This latest installment of the Emmy-nominated ''Masterclass'' series, directed by the Oscar-winning filmmakers Karen Goodman and Kirk Simon and featuring sessions between acclaimed artists and students, focuses on Mr. Guare (above) -- the author of plays including ''A Free Man of Color,'' ''The House of Blue Leaves'' and ''Six Degrees of Separation'' -- as he advises writers at a workshop in Rome. Their assignment is to wander the city for inspiration and then compose a monologue drawing on their experiences in the voice of an imagined character, all while being encouraged by Mr. Guare to pursue ''weird vibes'' and ''go into the darkness.''
7 A.M. (CUNY) ONE TO ONE Ann Kirschner, the university dean of the William E. Macaulay Honors College of the City University of New York, discusses her new book, ''Lady at the O.K. Corral: The True Story of Josephine Marcus Earp,'' about the New York-born common-law wife of the Old West lawman Wyatt Earp. 
11 A.M. (Fox Business) THE CYBER THREAT This five-day program examines the risk that hacking poses to the economy, businesses and taxpayers through interviews with Scott Borg, the director and chief economist with the United States Cyber Consequences Unit; Jon Iadonisi, a founder and the chief executive of the White Canvas Group; and Gen. Michael V. Hayden, a former director of the Central Intelligence Agency, among others.
11:30.M. (Starz) ORANGES AND SUNSHINE (2011) Emily Watson, left, portrays Margaret Humphreys, a social worker in Nottingham, England, who, starting in 1986, exposed the deportation of as many as 130,000 children from orphanages and group homes in Britain to Australia between the 1940s and 1967. One deportee, now an adult, recalls that he was told at 10 that he was being sent to a sunny paradise where he could pick oranges off trees. Instead many of the youngsters found themselves forced into hard labor and enduring physical cruelty and sexual abuse at places like the Bindoon Boys Town, presided over by the Christian Brothers, a Roman Catholic order. The victims were informed that their parents were dead, while their parents -- mainly unwed mothers deemed unfit -- were told that their children had been placed for adoption in better homes. ''This film presents a chilling portrait of bureaucratic stonewalling and denial as Margaret presents her evidence to politicians who meet her accusations with indifference and skepticism, express only a vague regret and assume no responsibility,'' Stephen Holden wrote in The New York Times about this drama, directed by Jim Loach from Ms. Humphreys's 1994 book, ''Empty Cradles.''
8 P.M. (ABC) THE BACHELOR: THE WOMEN TELL ALL The bachelorettes rejected by Sean Lowe dish the dirt on the season so far.
8 P.M. (NBC) THE BIGGEST LOSER The final five contestants receive makeovers by the fashion expert Tim Gunn and the hairstylist Ken Paves. Then they reveal their looks to family members and friends.
8 P.M. (National Geographic) ARE YOU TOUGHER THAN A BOY SCOUT? Six elite Boy Scouts compete against three men in a variety of challenges in this new reality series. The contest begins with canoe jousting in Sequoia National Forest in California.
9 P.M. (C-Span) FIRST LADIES: INFLUENCE & IMAGE The channel, in collaboration with the White House Historical Association, continues its examination of the private lives and public roles of the nation's first ladies with this overview of Abigail Adams.
9 P.M. (BBC America) TOP GEAR Jeremy Clarkson and Richard Hammond design a car for older drivers. James May cruises around London in a new Range Rover before heading to Nevada to test it against a military vehicle. And James McAvoy is the star in a reasonably priced car.
10 P.M. (Bravo) LA SHRINKS Venus Nicolino, a life coach and mother of four boys; Gregory Cason, a psychologist specializing in cognitive therapy and living what he calls a ''monogamish'' life with his partner of 23 years; and Eris Huemer, a licensed marriage and family therapist forced to confront issues with her own husband, deal with Los Angeles clients including one whose rage is set off by traffic, a homophobic man whose identical twin is gay and a couple with a dwindling sex life. KATHRYN SHATTUCK

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); FILM (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); FILM DIRECTORS (77%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (76%); CYBERCRIME (69%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (67%); ORPHANS (66%); COHABITATION (65%); ADOPTION (61%); DEPORTATION (61%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (60%); SINGLE PARENTS (60%); SEX OFFENSES (60%); RELIGION (60%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL HAYDEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (73%); ENGLAND (72%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2013



120 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 163 words

HEADLINE: Felix Rohatyn on Jobs

 BODY:
To the Editor:
A Feb. 5 editorial was right to call for more jobs and higher pay. As chairman of New York City's Municipal Assistance Corporation in the 1970s, I saw firsthand how the city avoided financial collapse and won a bright future, thanks to millions of New Yorkers who supported their banks and their unions working together to save each other and the city. 
As you indicate, ''the administration and Congress have been consumed with deficit reduction.'' This is counterproductive because it slows the economy when it is weak. You correctly call for a forceful labor agenda that includes a higher minimum wage -- one of the most effective ways to lift the economy.
In the 1970s, New York City avoided bankruptcy because wise political leaders like Gov. Hugh L. Carey believed both in strong labor unions and robust banks and companies. We need more of that kind of thinking today.
FELIX ROHATYN New York, Feb. 22, 2013
The writer is a special adviser to Lazard Frères & Company.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (88%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (88%); WAGES & SALARIES (88%); LABOR UNIONS (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); MINIMUM WAGE (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2013



121 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1448 words

HEADLINE: A Jester No More, Italy's Gadfly Tosses Its Politics Into Turmoil

BYLINE: By LIZ ALDERMAN and ELISABETTA POVOLEDO; Liz Alderman reported from Rome, and Elisabetta Povoledo from Marina di Bibbona, Italy.

 BODY:
ROME -- A populist with wild hair, a booming voice and untucked shirts, Beppe Grillo now holds the fate of Italy -- and to some extent Europe -- in his hands.
After winning a quarter of the votes in last week's national election, Mr. Grillo, a comedian turned activist, is being courted by Italy's traditional political players, but having thumbed his nose at them for years, he is having none of it. He has ruled out such alliances, throwing Italian politics into a logjam.
He refers to former Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi, who sought a return to power, as ''the psycho dwarf'' and has steadfastly rejected appeals by Pier Luigi Bersani, the leader of the center-left Democratic Party, to join forces to govern, dismissing him as ''a dead man walking.''
In a rare interview at his seaside home in Marina di Bibbona on Sunday, Mr. Grillo said it would be ''inadmissible'' for him to ensure the stability of a future Italian government. ''It would be like Napoleon making a deal with Wellington.'' 
Barefoot and wearing faded jeans and a gray T-shirt with an image of Gandhi, he said his goal was to do away with a system that had ''disintegrated the country'' and build ''something new'' that would restore Italy to a true participatory democracy. ''We can change everything in the hands of respectable people, but the existing political class must be expelled immediately,'' he said.
Mr. Grillo typifies a new style of politician rising from the fires of the European Union's long-running economic crisis and voter discontent in other countries. Like Alexis Tsipras, the young upstart in Greece who rode an anti-austerity wave to head the second-largest parliamentary party, or Yair Lapid, who tapped into a national frustration with social inequality in Israel, these politicians are not extremists but generally reformist leftists.
In refusing to play ball with the establishment powers, whom they consider irredeemably corrupt, the newcomers are fraying nerves in Brussels and Berlin.
''There is the sense that the European project is at risk with what happens in Italy if Grillo blames the E.U. for problems along with Germany, the enforcer,'' said Moisés Naím, a senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in Washington. ''If he gets away with that, other politicians will also do it, and there may be contagion.''
Now that his political crusade, called the Five Star Movement, has been handed a powerful mandate, Mr. Grillo's challenge will be to decide how to use it to change an establishment that has long viewed him as a demagogic, even reckless, man who risks taking Italy down the path of Greece.
Mr. Grillo rejected those charges in the interview, in which his at-home persona bore little resemblance to the inflammatory populist whipping up crowds into an indignant rage. ''How can we be accused of destroying something that's already destroyed?'' he said, speaking in measured tones. ''They've devoured the country, and now they can't govern.''
Over the years, he has gathered huge followings after being barred from Italian television in the 1980s for mocking corrupt politicians. With a background in accounting, he has also taken on scandal-ridden businesses that have cost shareholders and taxpayers spectacular amounts through mismanagement, including the Parmalat dairy empire, Telecom Italia and the bank Monte dei Paschi di Siena.
His biggest edge, however, has been exploiting the power of the Internet and social media to get his message out. When he started a political blog in 2005, people logged in by the millions to engage in debate.
Buoyed by the momentum, he formed his Five Star Movement a little more than three years ago, based on a manifesto of improving public water, transportation, development, Internet connection and availability, and the environment.
Soon, Five Star candidates, known in the press as Grillini, began making a mark in local elections, grabbing seats in the legislatures of the Sicily region and in the city of Parma by addressing issues that embedded politicians rarely took on.
Candidates -- mostly eager professionals younger than 45 -- post videos and profiles of themselves on Mr. Grillo's blog and are then chosen through an online vote. Ethics standards are strict: No criminal record or previous political affiliations are permitted. Doing without official cars and other perks of office is a must. Lawmakers must quit after two terms and may keep only a small percentage of the monthly salary that Italian elected representatives typically earn. The rest will most likely be put into a fund for small and medium businesses planning to expand and create jobs.
Before the national vote, the most striking success had come in Sicily, where the party won 15 of 90 seats in the regional assembly in October. It has since scored some legislative victories on critical issues in the party's platform, largely by backing proposals sought by the movement's members, regardless of which party makes them, said Francesco Cappello, the party's deputy leader there.
Recently, for instance, lawmakers approved a plan by the Democratic Party to halt a costly public works contract for a bridge over the Strait of Messina, which divides Sicily from the mainland. Mr. Grillo, in a wet suit, swam it in October in one hour, a stunt he said had shown why the bridge was hardly needed.
Such tactics may be effective at shifting legislative agendas at a regional level. But maneuvering in the political shark tank of Rome will require a different approach.
The party ''has the problems of a movement that grew quickly,'' said Roberto Biorcio, a sociology professor at Bicocca University in Milan and an author of a recent book about the Five Star Movement. ''So there will be some issues of inexperience.''
Mirella Liuzzi, 27, an expert on social media, is one of the 109 Grillini who will enter the lower house in Rome soon. She said she was looking forward to standing in Parliament, but acknowledged that it would be ''a tough mandate.'' Already, the movement's voters are begging her not to disappoint them, she said.
On Sunday, all of the newly elected Grillini kicked off several days of meetings in Rome to learn about lawmaking.
''Even if it isn't a political party, it will have to do the sorts of things that a political party normally does,'' Mr. Biorcio said.
In the interview, Mr. Grillo said the movement would try to develop a consensus platform through discussion and set out legislative goals by May. Among the top measures is a so-called citizenship salary, a type of unemployment insurance for hard-hit Italians. Policies would be funded by cutting waste, corruption and rampant political spending. Further savings would come from withdrawing Italian forces from Afghanistan, capping state pensions at 5,000 euros a month and overturning tax amnesties, among other steps.
The big question is still whether Five Star lawmakers will simply be reactive and prone to blocking legislation they deem unfavorable. After Mr. Grillo refused to ally the movement with other parties, his detractors pointed out that most of his talk involves pulling down rather than building up.
His stance has rekindled fears that Italy may pivot back toward the center of the euro crisis, which Mr. Grillo blames for worsening the lives of ordinary Italians. He has called for a nationwide referendum on whether Italy should remain in the euro zone, and declared the spread between yields on Italy's and Germany's bonds a ''hallucination'' -- a claim that rings hollow while thousands of small businesses are closing weekly as foreign investors drive up interest rates to reflect political uncertainty.
The departing prime minister, Mario Monti, saved Italy -- at least temporarily -- from having to ask for an international bailout. The risk is that Mr. Grillo has the effect of reversing those gains, making the situation harder for the people he is fighting for.
Mr. Grillo brushed off those concerns. Markets would respond positively, he said, ''if we work with transparency and serenely, if we are honest and abolish conflict of interest, and pass laws against criminality, and if we support small and medium businesses and transform Italy into a community.''
Back in Sicily, Rosario Crocetta, the region's center-left president, said he was skeptical about Mr. Grillo's ability to guide the movement's legislators in Rome.
''The time has come for Grillo to decide whether he is the pied piper of a protest movement that is an end to itself, or take on the institutional responsibilities for which he asked citizens for a mandate,'' Mr. Crocetta said. ''He has to show voters whether he was elected to help the country, or to lead it into chaos.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Beppe Grillo wants Italy's political class ''expelled immediately.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY GIANNI CIPRIANO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (65%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

PERSON: SILVIO BERLUSCONI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ROME, ITALY (92%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (58%) ITALY (99%); EUROPE (93%); GREECE (90%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); BELGIUM (79%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2013



122 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2013

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 577 words

HEADLINE: IHT Quick Read: March 4

BYLINE: THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE


HIGHLIGHT: Doctors say a baby with H.I.V. has been cured; a man suspected of wildlife smuggling operations seems beyond reach in Laos; an escalating battle between union workers and Amazon in Germany; more Indian students are taking the International Baccalaureate; and the Premier League continues to flaunt its international soccer talent. 

 BODY:
 NEWS Doctors announced on Sunday that a baby had been cured of an H.I.V. infection for the first time, a startling development that could change how infected newborns are treated and sharply reduce the number of children living with the virus that causes AIDS. Andrew Pollack and Donald G. McNeil Jr. report. 
Interviews with officials in five countries and a review of hundreds of pages of government and court documents provide strong evidence that a Laotian man, Vixay Keosavang, is a linchpin of wildlife smuggling operations. The case is especially frustrating to those outside Laos, who say Mr. Vixay appears untouchable as long as he remains in his home country, where, they say, officials have refused to do a thorough investigation despite the reams of evidence presented to them. Thomas Fuller reports from Hong Tong, Laos.
Secretary of State John Kerry announced Sunday that the United States would provide $250 million in assistance to Egypt after Egypt's president promised to move ahead with negotiations with the International Monetary Fund over economic reforms. Michael R. Gordon reports from Riyadh.
On the eve of the National People's Congress, the chief of China's Communist Party, Xi Jinping, is emphasizing his role as a champion of the military, using the armed forces to cement his political authority and present a tough stance in growing territorial disputes in the Pacific region. Chris Buckley reports from Hong Kong.
Four months after President Obama won a second term, the only issue truly uniting Republicans is a commitment to shrinking government through spending cuts, low taxes and less regulation. Richard W. Stevenson reports from Washington.
Britain's most senior Roman Catholic cleric, Cardinal Keith O'Brien, acknowledged Sunday that he had been guilty of sexual misconduct, a week after he announced his resignation and said he would not attend the conclave to choose the next pope. Cardinal O'Brien, the head of the church in Scotland, is the highest-ranking figure in the church's recent history to make such an admission. John F. Burns reports from London.
A brief bit of guerrilla theater last week was the latest skirmish in an escalating battle between ver.di, one of the largest unions in Germany, and Amazon, which employs 8,000 permanent workers at eight distribution centers in the country. Deservedly or not, Amazon's labor relations have lately come under intense scrutiny by German media. Jack Ewing reports from Bad Hersfeld, Germany.
Swiss citizens voted Sunday to impose some of the world's most severe restrictions on executive compensation, ignoring a warning from the business lobby that such curbs would undermine the country's investor-friendly image. Raphael Minder reports from Geneva.
 EDUCATION More Indian students are choosing to take the International Baccalaureate over their own national curriculum - even those who are not planning on heading overseas. Gayatri Rangachari Shah reports from Mumbai.
 FASHION In Paris, a new take on tailoring is the story for winter 2013. Suzy Menkes reviews from Paris.
 ARTS The key has long been a symbol of power, wealth, and possibility. Now the traditional key is disappearing in favor of alternative technologies. Alice Rawsthorn reports from London.
 SPORTS The Premier League continues to flaunt its international soccer talent, as Japanese and Uruguayan players knocked in hat tricks for Manchester United and Liverpool on Saturday. Rob Hughes reports from London.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INFANTS & TODDLERS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); CHILDREN (90%); SOCCER (90%); ESTATE TAX (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); EVIDENCE (89%); RELIGION (86%); LABOR UNIONS (84%); SPORTS & RECREATION (79%); CURRICULA (78%); LOBBYING (76%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); SMUGGLING (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); AIDS & HIV (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); POLITICS (72%); MISCONDUCT (70%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (68%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (67%); ECONOMIC POLICY (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%); RESIGNATIONS (50%) IHT Rendezvous

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); XI JINPING (79%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (79%) EGYPT (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (91%); CENTRAL EUROPE (85%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); SCOTLAND (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); HONG KONG (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2013



123 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 410 words

HEADLINE: HSBC's Profit Fell 17% in 2012 on Money Laundering Fine

BYLINE: JULIA WERDIGIER


HIGHLIGHT: HSBC, Britain&#8217;s biggest bank, said net profit fell 17 percent, to $13.5 billion, last year because of a record fine to settle money laundering charges in the United States and changes to the value of its own debt. 

 BODY:
LONDON - HSBC, Britain's biggest bank, said on Monday that net profit fell 17 percent last year because of a record fine to settle money laundering charges and changes related to the value of its own debt. 
Profit fell to $13.5 billion from $16.2 billion in 2011, failing to meet analysts' expectations. The bank also missed its own target of return on equity of 12 to 15 percent. Its shares fell 2.6 percent in early trading in London on Monday.
Douglas J. Flint, HSBC's chairman, said in a statement that last year was "a difficult one for all at HSBC as we addressed the restructuring of the firm against a lower-growth economic backdrop and with legacy issues and regulatory challenges imposing a further set of imperatives."
The bank's chief executive, Stuart T. Gulliver, added that he expected the market environment to remain "difficult," but that HSBC would benefit from growth of the economies in China and the United States even if European markets continued to struggle.
To fulfill his pledge to increase profitability, Mr. Gulliver took the bank out of some markets, sold business divisions and eliminated jobs. HSBC has closed or sold 46 businesses and investments since 2011, including four this year. The bank sold its stake in Ping An Insurance of China for $9.4 billion and offloaded its credit card unit in the United States to Capital One Financial for $2.6 billion. HSBC also sold its unit in Panama to Bancolombia for $2.1 billion last month.
In December, HSBC agreed to a record $1.92 billion fine to settle charges with American authorities that the bank breached rules against money laundering, including that it handled money transfers worth billions of dollars for countries under United States sanctions.
HSBC, based in London, generates more than half of its profit in Asia. Growth in China has helped the bank compensate for shrinking or slower-growing income in Europe since the beginning of the financial crisis. Europe was the only region where HSBC's earnings declined last year.
The bank said it had made solid progress on gradually reducing the size of its consumer lending and mortgage portfolio in the United States. HSBC's fastest-growing business last year was its retail banking and wealth management operation.
HSBC added that it planned to increase the first three interim dividends this year by 11 percent.

        
Barclays Posts Loss of $1.3 Billion and Plans to Cut 3,700 Jobs
        
With R.B.S. Settlement, Legal Tab for Banks Grows and Grows

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (91%); MONEY LAUNDERING (91%); HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); FINES & PENALTIES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); RETAIL BANKING (78%); EURO CRISIS (77%); DIVIDENDS (76%); DIVESTITURES (76%); LAYOFFS (74%); CONSUMER LENDING (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (69%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (60%) Banking and Financial Institutions; HSBC Holdings PLC; London (England); HSBC Holdings PLC|HBC|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Wall Street Earnings

COMPANY: HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (92%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORP (66%); BANCOLOMBIA SA (54%); PING AN INSURANCE (GROUP) CO OF CHINA LTD (54%)

ORGANIZATION: HSBC Holdings PLC

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (92%); HSB (PAR) (92%); HBC (NYSE) (92%); 0005 (HKSE) (92%); BK (NYSE) (85%); COF (NYSE) (66%); CIB (NYSE) (54%); 2318 (HKSE) (54%) HSBC Holdings PLC; HBC; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%) UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (93%); CHINA (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); ASIA (79%); ENGLAND (74%) London (England)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2013



124 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Lens)

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2013

SECTION: MULTIMEDIA

LENGTH: 911 words

HEADLINE: Seeing Contrasts Along Two Sides of Cyprus

BYLINE: JESSE NEWMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Though Cyprus is smaller than Connecticut, Alexandros Demetriades has covered 22,000 miles in his trips there. He is hoping to capture a complex place that has been divided for 40 years. 

 BODY:
Alexandros Demetriades spent his childhood summers in Kyrenia, a picturesque resort town in Cyprus nestled between the rugged Besparmak Mountains and the sparkling blue waters of the Mediterranean. He would awaken to the smell of warm bread from the bakery next door and, if he was lucky, go for a ride with his father in the family's small motorboat.
All that changed in 1974, when Turkey, in response to a Greek-backed coup attempt in Cyprus, invaded the island and cleaved it in half, claiming the north - including Kyrenia - for Turkish Cypriots and leaving Greek Cypriots the south. Like hundreds of thousands of people who owned property on the wrong side of the dividing line, Mr. Demetriades, a Greek Cypriot, never stepped foot in his family's home again. 
"You can't even see it now," he said. "It's part of a military base that we have no access to."
Although he never returned to the house in Kyrenia, Mr. Demetriades, 45, recently embarked on a two-year journey that took him to almost every other corner of the island. All told, he has covered more than 22,000 miles around Cyprus, a nation smaller than Connecticut. In his pictures, it appears as a land of stark contrasts - deep shadows and blinding white light, great beauty and real ruin.
"I'm trying to understand the people living here," he said. "I think in many ways I was trying to see if there is a reconciliation possible between the two sides."
In fact, there is more to it than that. Mr. Demetriades was 7 when Cyprus was split in two, and a high school student when his family left for the United States. He became an American citizen, attended college and graduate school in the United States and found work in finance. In 1994, he returned to Cyprus, devoted himself to fine art and founded a multimedia company.
Then, hoping to "figure out my place in this place," he began taking pictures.
"I always have a little mix when I'm here," Mr. Demetriades said. "Sometimes I feel I belong and sometimes I feel I don't. When I came back I decided I wanted to do something photographically. I thought this would be a good place to start."
Each of his trips around Cyprus began and ended at his home in the capital, Nicosia, which itself is divided by a United Nations-patrolled buffer zone that stretches across the island. Although the border opened in 2003, traversing it is still limited to designated checkpoints and requires a valid identification or passport.
Throughout Cyprus, he said, the news is not good. The country has been blindsided by the European financial crisis. And ever since reunification plans were scuttled in 2004, there has been little real hope of reconciliation.
"I always felt like I was crossing into another country," Mr. Demetriades said of his excursions to the north. "I felt both overwhelmed by sadness but I think hopeful at the same time. I can't say that I'm very optimistic."
Chief among the things that trouble Mr. Demetriades about the state of affairs in Cyprus are the lack of trust and the mutual suspicion that still exist between inhabitants on both sides of the island. "Something has broken, and I'm not sure if it's fixable," he said.
Even more striking to him was the quiet acquiescence of both Greek and Turkish Cypriots to a political stalemate that has kept them estranged from one another for decades. "Things aren't really moving in any direction," he said. "There's been a lot of talk by different political players in the region who influence the situation. But the people are always the ones who bear the brunt of what's going around."
All of this is what Mr. Demetriades tried to capture.
"My goal is to bottle up as much emotion as I can," he said. "In Cyprus, which is part of this larger family of the Balkans and Middle East, there's always a lot of emotions running."
While photographing his homeland, Mr. Demetriades rarely set out with a specific mission. He started shooting early and kept going until his batteries ran out.
"I usually just aimlessly wander until I feel something wakes me up, something moves me," he said. "I try not to think about it too much. The minute I see something, I react. The more unfocused you are at the moment, the more startled you are when things happen around you. I let things startle me."
Everywhere he went, Mr. Demetriades saw symbols of conflict and compromise. In both the north and south, he took pictures of young children with flowers - a Greek Cypriot boy smelling a lily (above), a Turkish Cypriot girl holding a carnation in her mouth (Slide 15).
"I felt that it was symbolic of the younger generation maybe moving towards bridging the gap between the two sides," he said.
But another shot showed a different mood that persists: when four young boys played along a concrete wall, a child's hand dominated the foreground (below).
"I was shooting in the buffer zone on the north side and at some point this kid just pulled out his hand and said, 'Enough. Stop,' " he said. "I clicked the shutter and that was the picture. That was kind of symbolic. There's still a barrier to a lot of things. There's a wall that sits between the two sides even though the borders are open."

Mr. Demetriades's "Intemporality" first came to our attention by way of Fotovisura. 
 Follow Lens on Facebook and Twitter. 

        
In the Grecian Caves Where Time Slows Down
        
The Human Toll of Europe's Economic Statistics
        
Capturing a Childhood Idyll in France
        
Pictures of the Day: Turkey and Elsewhere
        
Pictures of the Day: Greece and Elsewhere

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EURO CRISIS (89%); PHOTOGRAPHY (87%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (85%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); CHILDREN (78%); BAKERIES (72%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (69%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (68%); HIGH SCHOOLS (68%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (67%); CITIZENSHIP (66%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (63%); DEBT CRISIS (61%); COUPS (56%) Alexandros Demetriates; Black-and-white photography; Cypriots; Cyprus; European sovereign debt crisis; FotoVisura; Greece; Kyrenia; Nicosia; Turkey; Children and Childhood; European Sovereign Debt Crisis (2010- ); Photography; Youth; Mediterranean Sea; Showcase

GEOGRAPHIC: MEDITERRANEAN SEA (94%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%) CYPRUS (96%); TURKEY (94%); MEDITERRANEAN (94%); GREECE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%) Cyprus; Greece; Mediterranean Sea; Turkey

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2013



125 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 930 words

HEADLINE: Minimal Wages, Minimal Families

BYLINE: NANCY FOLBRE


HIGHLIGHT: The proposed increase in the federal minimum wage to $9 an hour will raise incomes for families with children and help young adults start families of their own, even though it won&#8217;t lift them all out of poverty, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Nancy Folbre is an economics professor at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst. She recently edited and contributed to "For Love and Money: Care Provision in the United States." 
Announcing his support for an increase in the federal minimum wage to $9 an hour, President Obama called attention to the needs of children: "Even with the tax relief we've put in place, a family with two kids that earns the minimum wage still lives below the poverty line. That's wrong."
Many Americans share his concerns: 71 percent of Americans polled in mid-February by the Pew Research Center for the People and the Press support the proposed increase, including 50 percent of Republicans. 
Influential economists have announced their support as well, including many affiliated with the Initiative on Global Markets at the Booth School of Business at the University of Chicago. Of 38 economists in the group, 18 agreed, 4 disagreed, 12 were uncertain and 4 had no opinion or didn't answer.
Every time increases in the minimum wage are proposed, a centuries-long history of concerns about the impact of the labor market on family life comes into play, setting the stage for fierce debates over regulation.

The classical political economists of the late 18th and early 19th centuries believed that the forces of supply and demand would always be constrained by the cost of subsistence, setting a floor under wages. After all, if the wages that workers received were not sufficient to keep them alive, the supply of labor would be reduced, driving wages back up again.
Because people don't live forever, the costs of subsistence should include the costs of producing replacement workers, namely, raising children. But as many young children and unmarried women began entering wage employment in the 19th century, it became apparent that an increase in the supply of workers without family responsibilities could potentially drive average wages well below the level adequate to support children.
Market forces, in other words, could discourage, even penalize, family commitments.
In the United States, the "family values" argument for a minimum wage gained political traction on the state level long before federal legislation was passed in 1938. As the historian Alice Kessler-Harris explains, this argument bolstered efforts to reinforce traditional gender roles by discouraging the employment of married women. At the same time, it called attention to the difficulties wage earners faced in supporting dependents.
This historical legacy shows up in calculations, like the one President Obama offered above, that seem to presume that a minimum wage for one parent working full-time should be able to support not only two children but also a spouse who stays home to take care of them. Similar assumptions are often used in state-level estimates of the hourly wage required to bring a working family over the poverty line or a higher standard such as a locally designated living wage. On the other hand, these same estimates show that the costs of child care largely wipe out the net contribution of a second earner's wage income.
As I emphasized in a previous post, conventional measures of poverty are seriously out of date. Application of the Census Bureau's new Supplemental Poverty Measure suggests that a $9 minimum wage would not necessarily bring working families over the threshold.
Any way you look at it, adults taking responsibility for young children need considerably higher earnings than those who don't, even taking into account the tax relief President Obama referred to (primarily the earned income tax credit).
As Lawrence Mishel of the Economic Policy Institute points out, the median worker's real hourly compensation (real earnings plus benefits) has stagnated over the last 10 years, and the declining real value of the minimum wage has contributed to increased income inequality.
The resulting economic stresses are bad for children, bad for working parents and bad for family formation and stability. In 2010, children represented 24 percent of the United States population, but 34 percent of all those living in poverty.
Critics of the proposed increase in the minimum wage object that it would increase unemployment. But proponents point to considerable evidence, nicely summarized by Brad Plumer at The Washington Post's Wonkblog, that this potential effect would be small or nonexistent,
Critics like the economist David Neumark also insist that the policy is not effectively aimed at poor families, because many individuals earning the minimum are young people living with their parents. But proponents like Natalie Sabadish and Doug Hall of the Economic Policy Institute emphasize that about 80 percent of workers who will be directly affected are over age 20.
Many young people earning the minimum wage are living at home. Some can't afford to do otherwise. And while their parents may be helping them out with living expenses, the wages they earn will determine their opportunity to enroll in college, pay off their debts, save money and start a family of their own.
So, the debate circles back to the dilemma acknowledged by classical political economy in the 19th century. The forces of supply and demand, left to themselves, treat labor like any other commodity. But labor itself is produced outside the market, by families and communities who must struggle to find ways to support their contributions to the future.

        
Austerity for Posterity
        
Capitalism and the Kids
        
Why the Minimum Wage Doesn't Explain Stagnant Wages
        
Economic Inequality and the Changing Family
        
About That 99 Percent ...

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MINIMUM WAGE (92%); FAMILY (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); HISTORY (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); STRIKES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); POLITICS (77%); MARRIAGE (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); TAX LAW (71%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (66%) Economic Policy Institute; Families and Family Life; Kessler-Harris, Alice; Today's Economist

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (84%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%) Economic Policy Institute

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%) Kessler-Harris, Alice

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2013



126 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 328 words

HEADLINE: Temasek Increases Stake in Spanish Energy Concern

BYLINE: MARK SCOTT


HIGHLIGHT: Singapore&#8217;s sovereign wealth fund Temasek Holdings said on Monday that it had increased its stake in the Spanish energy company Repsol in a deal worth around $1.3 billion. 

 BODY:
LONDON - Singapore's sovereign wealth fund Temasek Holdings said on Monday that it had increased its stake in the Spanish energy company Repsol in a deal worth around 1 billion euros, or $1.3 billion. 
The announcement is the latest effort by Repsol to ease pressure on its credit rating after Argentina nationalized the company's 57 percent stake in the local energy firm Repsol YPF, which had provided large returns for its parent company.
Repsol agreed last week to sell a number of natural gas assets to Royal Dutch Shell for $4.4 billion in a bid to reduce the Spanish company's debt burden. Repsol said the deal would reduce its outstanding net debt by half, to just under $3 billion. 
 Under the terms of the latest deal, Temasek will increase its holding in Repsol by five percentage points, to 6.3 percent, after Repsol sold shares to Temasek at a slight discount to its closing share price on Friday.
"The investment in Repsol deepens our exposure to the energy sector," Tay Sulian, a managing director at Temasek, said in a statement. Shares in Repsol rose 2.3 percent in early afternoon trading in Madrid on Monday.
In response to Respol's efforts, several of the international rating agencies, including Moody's Investors Service, recently have revised their outlook on Repsol's debt from negative to stable.
Several Middle Eastern and Asian sovereign wealth funds have acquired sizable minority stakes in large American and European companies since 2007, though not every deal has been profitable.
After investing around $1.5 billion in the British bank Barclays at the height of the financial crisis, Temasek later sold its stake in the firm at a loss in 2009.
Temasek also has several other energy bets in its portfolio, including Chesapeake Energy, which has been shedding assets to reduce debt resulting from a decline in energy prices in the United States.

        
Thai Magnate's $11.2 Billion Bid Poised to Win Fraser & Neave
        
China's Bid for Nexen May Survive a Rejection

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (94%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); DIVESTITURES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); CREDIT BUREAUS (77%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (75%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (73%); NATIONALIZATION (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (72%) Energy and Power; Madrid (Spain); Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Repsol YPF SA; Singapore; Temasek Holdings; Repsol YPF SA|REPYY|Other OTC; Energy; Mergers & Acquisitions

COMPANY: REPSOL SA (94%); ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (85%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (67%)

ORGANIZATION: Repsol YPF SA; Temasek Holdings

TICKER: REP (MCE) (94%); RDSA (LSE) (85%); RDSA (AMS) (85%); RDS.B (NYSE) (85%); RDS.A (NYSE) (85%) Repsol YPF SA; REPYY; Other OTC

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (94%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (94%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (94%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (94%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADRID, SPAIN (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (73%) SPAIN (93%); SINGAPORE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); MIDDLE EAST (67%) Madrid (Spain); Singapore

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2013



127 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 1722 words

HEADLINE: This Week in Small Business: It's On

BYLINE: GENE MARKS


HIGHLIGHT: The budget cutting begins. New home sales are up, manufacturing is up, even music sales are growing. How to get the most from YouTube. And do you let employees work from home? 

 BODY:
What's affecting me, my clients and other small-business owners this week.
 The Sequester: Already Hurting? 
The sequester budget cuts take hold, and Jim Tankersley says it will sock an already vulnerable economy. Scott Sumner explains how we got into this mess. Some feel the sequester cuts are already hurting small businesses. But E. Scott Adler and John Wilkerson say things are bad, but not bad enough, and another blogger says there are nine great things about the sequester. James Walter and Corey Ross say that alternative lending for small businesses will get a boost.
 The Economy: Pricing Pressure 
Steven Hansen says new home sales in January were "beautiful," but the economy grew only 0.1 percent in the last quarter. Manufacturing sentiment improved in Richmond, manufacturing activity increased (but at a slower pace) in Texas, and manufacturing activity was down in Chicago. Home Depot's co-founder says small businesses are struggling. Consumer confidence rebounds but is still at recession levels. New orders for durable goods (pdf) fell but music sales are growing for the first time since Napster. An Ernst & Young report says that pricing pressure is among the biggest risks and opportunities ahead this year. 
 The Fed: Currency Realignment 
The Federal Reserve chairman defends the central bank's monetary stimulus (here's the full speech). Jonathan Spicer and Ann Saphir say Ben S. Bernanke's challenge is to "prime markets for a policy turn." And Paul Krugman says Mr. Bernanke is a hippie. The dollar surges, and one blogger believes there will be a realignment of the currency system. Al Bredenberg says that ending currency manipulation will help manufacturers.
 Management: A New C.E.O. for Vistage 
Ben Schiller thinks that Whole Foods may be a viable model for the future of capitalism. A new report advises couples to run their weddings like small businesses. Here is how an owner of a technology company powers his business (and this is how this guy became an accomplished party crasher). Vistage International names a new chief executive, and Groupon fires Andrew Mason, who writes an awesome goodbye letter. Rhonda Campbell explains why expanding your production capabilities is necessary to keep your customers satisfied. A document-filing service explains how to make mistakes intelligently. Brian Solis shares some fascinating facts on business failures. A chocolatier shares her thoughts about running a niche business. And a new study answers the big question: Do small-business owners have better sex?
 Your People: Time Wasters 
Yahoo's chief tells her employees they can no longer work from home. Wellness incentives at many companies are becoming financially attractive. But if that's not your thing, then a company sweepstakes may help your employees become healthier. Joanne Tucker explains why you need to have a written health and safety policy: "You, as the employer, have overall and final responsibility for health and safety in the workplace." These are the 10 biggest time wasters at the office. More employees are raiding their retirement accounts. This is how one successful company hires and fires employees. A determined teenager walks 10 miles to a job interview (but another business owner hires him instead). A naked guy gets locked out of his hotel room.
 Finance: Banks Are Doing Fine 
The banking industry's earnings were 19 percent higher than last year and the second-highest ever. But JPMorgan lays off 4,000 workers. January's leasing volume was up 16 percent from a year ago. Scott Grannis says there is no shortage of money but here are a few reasons banks still aren't lending to you. A mom-to-be lets online voters pick her baby's name for $5,000. Capital One Financial expands its partnership with a global microlender. Gary Emmanuel says there are five reasons equity-based crowdfunding won't work. A Kickstarter-funded film wins an Oscar. Here's how to pitch a venture capitalist when you're in high school. A bookkeeper gives advice for using tools (and common sense procedures) to prevent financial fraud, and Savannah Bobo says here's what to expect if you use an automated payroll system.
 Mobile: Payments Heating Up 
MasterCard expands its mobile payment system. Samsung offers a new mobile payment service. Another IOS app is introduced to help small and growing businesses accept credit card transactions. Google is chipping away (pdf) at Apple's mobile market for businesses. These are the three winners from the Mobile Premier Awards. Francisco Rosales offers compelling proof that mobile is changing business. Here are five mobile apps that can help you learn more about your customers.
 Start-Up: In Prisons 
Start-up mania hits California's most notorious prison. Chris Groscurth says "competent leaders" are among the three must-haves for changing a start-up's culture. A start-up quietly delivers smart wires to big power players. Janine Popick says these are the wrong reasons to start a business. Joshua Turner feels there is never a wrong age to start a business. Jenny Fulbright offers advice for starting and running a service business. Bruce Nussbaum says "indie capitalism" is on the rise.
 Around the Country: Selling Pickles to China 
An owner of a "bicycle academy" explains why he chose a Volkswagen van for his business. Michigan's Black Chamber of Commerce celebrates Black History Month by promoting entrepreneurship. Brad Tuttle explores the "" for gently used cars. March will be small-business month for a bunch of northern Ohio communities. A North Carolina small business increases sales of pickles in China and becomes the Ex-Im Bank's 500th "express insurance" customer. Macy's and Penney are fighting over Martha Stewart.
 Around the World: Another Cruise Ship 
A new study from DHL finds the world today is less globally connected than it was in 2007. The British economy grew more than previously thought in 2012. In July, Honda plans to do something it hasn't done for almost 50 years. South Koreans chow down on McDonald's french fries, while North Korea approves 28 model hairstyles. Taiwan's smaller start-ups realize that co-working is the way to go. A report from Italy explains the election mess. An abandoned Russian cruise ship drifts towards Europe. China suffers a lull in manufacturing and its biggest weekly cash drain ever. The Onion warns that Chinese third-graders are falling behind American high school students in math and science.
 Red Tape: Start-Up Legislation
The Internal Revenue Service reminds that it has a small-business and self-employed tax center. Nelson Nigel asks if your company is ready for government procurement: "The tendering process is something you're almost always given only a single shot at. If you fail to make a good impression the first time around, you'll usually have a hard time getting the government to give you another chance." Felix Salmon says the pending Startup Act 3.0 is a no-brainer.
 Marketing: Pricing Secrets 
Here are the answers to questions about lead nurturing and marketing automation. Chris Penn says the secret to setting prices is to base them on value. Heidi Cohen says there are four cornerstones of content marketing, and these are the four types of content people love to share. When selling, Geoffrey James believes that you have three decision makers to win over. And Mike Major says you should avoid these four sales mistakes. David Frey lists 13 elements of effective advertising. Here's a place to get some marketing training for the Web. Anum Hussain says there are eight big marketing campaign mistakes to stop making.
 Social Media: Using YouTube 
Here's how to make the most of Twitter's promoted advertising. Anna Farmery shares three social media tactics for business-to-business consumers, and Louise Julig explains how business-to-business marketers are benefiting from Facebook. Here are 20 examples of how some companies advertise their text-messaging campaigns through their Web sites. And this list defines all of the social media marketing acronyms. Liz Lockard says these three Google Analytics insights will matter to your business. Jim Smith shares thoughts on getting the most from YouTube. A baby tries to nap, but it's just not happening.
 Technology: A 3-D Car 
Microsoft upgrades its cloud-based Office 365 for businesses while two small businesses say yes and one says no to the Microsoft Surface Pro. A brilliant machine separates Oreos. An innovative motion controller for PCs starts shipping in May. This is a practical guide to live chat implementation. Here are six utilities to supercharge your laptop. A Skype competitor hits 175 million users. Deimar Gutierrez says 3-D printing is the new hotbed of innovation and that it will affect every business. It will be used to build NASA's spare parts and rocket engines, and a 3-D printed car is as strong as steel, half the weight, and nearing production.
 Tweet of the Week 
@indecision - One way to get people to care about sequestration is to get Jennifer Lawrence to say something wacky about it.
 The Week's Bests 
 Jennifer Warawa wants to know if you're really listening: "Maybe there are clues about career challenges, struggles with a project or just general dissatisfaction. Maybe an e-mail was an employee's cry for help and because you only had time to gloss over it, you missed their message all together. It's no wonder so many people today feel disconnected or unheard - most people don't have time (or make time) to listen."
 Glenn Muske says that you have a secret advantage to use in battle against huge marketing budgets. "Small-business owners develop deep connections with their customers. Those connections arise from close interactions. In such an interaction, the owners can identify the specific problems the customer is trying to solve. They can find the unfilled niche and learn how to attract an audience."
 This Week's Question: Do you let employees work from home?
 Gene Marks owns the Marks Group , a Bala Cynwyd, Pa., consulting firm that helps clients with customer relationship management. You can follow him on Twitter. 

        
This Week in Small Business: The Clock Is Ticking
        
This Week in Small Business: Free Furniture!
        
This Week in Small Business: Leave the Building
        
This Week in Small Business: Reinventing the Toilet
        
This Week in Small Business: Meet Your Start-Up Mate

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: NEW HOME SALES (91%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); HOME BASED EMPLOYMENT (89%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (86%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); RECESSION (77%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (76%); FACTORY ORDERS (74%); CUSTOMER SATISFACTION (73%); NEW ORDERS (72%); CURRENCIES (70%); CENTRAL BANKS (70%); SWEEPSTAKES (69%); CONFECTIONERY MFG (69%); DURABLE GOODS (69%); EXECUTIVES (63%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (62%) Small Business; Start-ups; United States Economy; Dashboard

COMPANY: ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (55%); GROUPON INC (52%)

TICKER: GRPN (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (55%); NAICS541860 DIRECT MAIL ADVERTISING (52%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (77%); PAUL KRUGMAN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2013



128 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 328 words

HEADLINE: Temasek Increases Stake in Spanish Energy Concern

BYLINE: MARK SCOTT


HIGHLIGHT: Singapore&#8217;s sovereign wealth fund Temasek Holdings said on Monday that it had increased its stake in the Spanish energy company Repsol in a deal worth around $1.3 billion. 

 BODY:
LONDON - Singapore's sovereign wealth fund Temasek Holdings said on Monday that it had increased its stake in the Spanish energy company Repsol in a deal worth around 1 billion euros, or $1.3 billion. 
The announcement is the latest effort by Repsol to ease pressure on its credit rating after Argentina nationalized the company's 57 percent stake in the local energy firm Repsol YPF, which had provided large returns for its parent company.
Repsol agreed last week to sell a number of natural gas assets to Royal Dutch Shell for $4.4 billion in a bid to reduce the Spanish company's debt burden. Repsol said the deal would reduce its outstanding net debt by half, to just under $3 billion. 
 Under the terms of the latest deal, Temasek will increase its holding in Repsol by five percentage points, to 6.3 percent, after Repsol sold shares to Temasek at a slight discount to its closing share price on Friday.
"The investment in Repsol deepens our exposure to the energy sector," Tay Sulian, a managing director at Temasek, said in a statement. Shares in Repsol rose 2.3 percent in early afternoon trading in Madrid on Monday.
In response to Respol's efforts, several of the international rating agencies, including Moody's Investors Service, recently have revised their outlook on Repsol's debt from negative to stable.
Several Middle Eastern and Asian sovereign wealth funds have acquired sizable minority stakes in large American and European companies since 2007, though not every deal has been profitable.
After investing around $1.5 billion in the British bank Barclays at the height of the financial crisis, Temasek later sold its stake in the firm at a loss in 2009.
Temasek also has several other energy bets in its portfolio, including Chesapeake Energy, which has been shedding assets to reduce debt resulting from a decline in energy prices in the United States.

        
Thai Magnate's $11.2 Billion Bid Poised to Win Fraser & Neave
        
China's Bid for Nexen May Survive a Rejection

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (94%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); DIVESTITURES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); CREDIT BUREAUS (77%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (75%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (73%); NATIONALIZATION (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (72%) Energy and Power; Madrid (Spain); Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Repsol YPF SA; Singapore; Temasek Holdings; Repsol YPF SA|REPYY|Other OTC; Mergers & Acquisitions

COMPANY: REPSOL SA (94%); ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (85%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (67%)

ORGANIZATION: Repsol YPF SA; Temasek Holdings

TICKER: REP (MCE) (94%); RDSA (LSE) (85%); RDSA (AMS) (85%); RDS.B (NYSE) (85%); RDS.A (NYSE) (85%) Repsol YPF SA; REPYY; Other OTC

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (94%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (94%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (94%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (94%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADRID, SPAIN (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (73%) SPAIN (93%); SINGAPORE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); MIDDLE EAST (67%) Madrid (Spain); Singapore

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2013



129 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2013

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 687 words

HEADLINE: Green Groups Decry Sequester's Effects

BYLINE: CHRISTOPHER F. SCHUETZE


HIGHLIGHT: From environmental programs to renewable energy support to all kinds of inspections, the more than $80 billion in automatic budget cuts will have an impact. 

 BODY:
Weeks after President Obama promised to develop sustainable energy and green jobs and to fight climate change - first in his second Inaugural Address, and then in his State of the Union Message - the realities of American politics have set in.
The first $85.3 billion in automatic federal budget cuts known as the sequester started taking effect on Friday. 
Republicans accuse the president and his supporters of needlessly trying to scare the public by overstating the possible effects of the budget cuts. And my colleague Michael Shear reports that so far, three days in, their impact has not been immediately felt. Environmentalists say that will not last. 
President Obama has sought to highlight how the cuts could endanger thousands of defense-industry jobs, but others are warning that the reduced budget will take funds from renewable-energy programs, environmental protection, disaster relief, food and water inspections and scientific research.
Last month, Steven Chu, the secretary of energy, warned a U.S. Senate committee that sequestration would affect the push toward renewable energy (a pdf of the letter is on the Senate site).
"Under sequestration, funding reductions would decelerate the nation's transition into a clean energy economy, and could weaken efforts to become more energy independent and energy secure," he wrote.
He also warned that cuts to the Department of Energy's Office of Science would affect the work of 25,000 researchers and staff working in 10 laboratories across the country.
At the Environmental Protection Agency, some staffers will temporarily lose their jobs, as furloughs lasting until the end of September are handed down.
Reuters reported on an email from the acting E.P.A. head, Bob Perciasepe, who told his employees that despite preparing for the cuts, "furloughs are inevitable."
Among its other roles, the agency is to release new rules governing greenhouse gas emissions from new power plants.
The E.P.A. also warned that it would have to reduce the number of environmental inspections, enforcement of rules at Superfund sites (sites contaminated by hazardous substances), groundwater cleanup actions and much more.
"The cuts we will see mean fewer inspectors to keep toxins out of our food, fewer watchdogs to keep toxins out of the air we breathe and the water we drink, and more tax breaks for the billion-dollar companies that prefer to pollute with impunity to protect every penny of their record profits," said Michael Brune, the executive director of the Sierra Club, the American environmental group, in a statement.
Federal disaster relief will also see cuts, with more than $900 million being cut from Federal Emergency Management Agency, or FEMA. The agency has been instrumental in the federal response to increasingly extreme weather events that are the result of a changing climate. 
There's currently some debate on whether the sequester will slow the current rebuilding efforts in the wake of Hurricane Sandy.
The National Park system stands to lose some $110 million of federal funding.
"From Yellowstone to Cape Cod, the Grand Canyon and Great Smoky Mountains, our national heritage and local economies are at risk," wrote Tom Kiernan, president of the National Parks Conservation Association.
Hours will be reduced, visitors' centers will close and some rangers, educators and personnel will lose their job, according to leaked documents obtained by the group.
"Make no mistake: The arbitrary, across-the-board cuts that will reduce our food inspections, lock gates at our national parks, dirty our drinking water and throw hundreds of thousands of Americans out of work are not because of Washington gridlock," said Franz Matzner, associate director of government affairs for the Natural Resources Defense Council, an environmental group. "They are the product of GOP obstructionists protecting loopholes for millionaires and subsidies for oil companies."

        
Amid Global Trade Fight, a Bright Year for Solar Use in the U.S.
        
IHT Special Report: Oil & Money
        
Sustainable Innovation: The Ethanol Stove
        
Aid Groups Push for Clean Energy
        
Championing Solar Power, on Land and Sea

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); BUDGET CUTS (91%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); INSPECTIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (88%); DISASTER RELIEF (88%); EXECUTIVES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); WEATHER (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); SCIENCE FUNDING (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); SUPERFUND (75%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (74%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (73%); EMISSIONS (73%); HURRICANES (73%); POWER PLANTS (73%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL TESTING (73%); GREENHOUSE GASES (73%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (72%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (70%); COMPANY PROFITS (70%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (69%); SCIENCE NEWS (68%); FOOD CHARITIES (68%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (68%); NATIONAL PARKS (68%); HURRICANE SANDY (68%); WATER POLLUTION (66%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (66%) Alternative and Renewable Energy; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Environmental Protection Agency; Sustainability

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (82%) Environmental Protection Agency

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); STEVEN CHU (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2013



130 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 959 words

HEADLINE: President Announces Choice for Budget Chief

BYLINE: JACKIE CALMES and RICHARD W. STEVENSON


HIGHLIGHT: In selecting Sylvia Mathews Burwell, President Obama enlisted another Clinton-era veteran for his economic team. 

 BODY:
WASHINGTON - In picking Sylvia Mathews Burwell to be his budget director, President Obama on Monday again enlisted a Clinton-era veteran for his economic team as it deals with fiscal and partisan challenges that make the earlier time seem like the good old days.
Mr. Obama announced Mrs. Burwell's nomination, along with his cabinet-level choices for the Energy Department and the Environmental Protection Agency, before an East Room audience. He used the occasion to denounce the across-the-board cuts to military and domestic spending, known as sequestration, which took effect on Friday when he and Republicans in Congress failed to agree on an alternative deficit reduction package. 
The president said that Mrs. Burwell, who is subject to Senate confirmation, would work with the acting director of the Office of Management and Budget, Jeffrey D. Zients, to "do everything in their power to blunt the impact of these cuts on businesses and middle-class families."
"But eventually a lot of people are going to feel some pain," he said. "That's why we've got to keep on working to reduce our deficit in a balanced way."
The president defines balanced deficit reduction as combining spending cuts, including in entitlement programs like Medicare, with new revenues from curbing tax breaks for the wealthy and corporations. Yet Republicans in Congress signaled anew their opposition to any tax increases.
House Republicans introduced a measure that would extend current spending levels, which expire on March 27, to the end of the fiscal year on Sept. 30 to avoid a government-wide shutdown late this month. All the spending is subject to the automatic cuts, but the measure adjusts military accounts to cushion the impact.
As Mr. Obama sought to keep attention on the dislocations and the job losses ahead from the cuts, he convened his cabinet for the first time in his second term to discuss the impact if the reductions are not reversed.
"We are going to manage it as best we can, try to minimize the impacts on American families, but it's not the right way for us to go about deficit reduction," the president said to reporters who were briefly allowed into the room as the meeting began.
Though both parties say a compromise to replace sequestration this year is unlikely, Mr. Obama said, "I will continue to seek out partners on the other side of the aisle so that we can create the kind of balanced approach of spending cuts, revenues, entitlement reform that everybody knows is the right way to do things."
Further partisan maneuvering is ahead as House Republicans and Democrats who control the Senate introduce separate budgets for the next fiscal year that starts Oct. 1, underscoring their differences over government's size and priorities.
Representative Paul D. Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin and chairman of the House Budget Committee, greeted Mrs. Burwell's nomination warmly.
"In her previous tenure at O.M.B., she helped a Democratic president commit to a balanced budget and work with a Republican Congress to get it done," he said in a statement.
While it is the Senate that votes on her nomination, Mrs. Burwell is not expected to encounter serious resistance.
Mrs. Burwell largely came to Mr. Obama's attention on the recommendation of one of her several Clinton administration mentors, Jacob J. Lew, now the secretary of the Treasury. When Mr. Lew was budget director for Mr. Clinton, Mrs. Burwell - then Sylvia Mathews - was his deputy.
Another mentor was Robert E. Rubin. When he was the first director of the National Economic Council at the start of the Clinton presidency, he chose as staff director Mrs. Burwell, who had been a Rhodes scholar. She followed Mr. Rubin when he became Treasury secretary, serving as his chief of staff. Later she was promoted to deputy White House chief of staff and deputy budget director.
She was among the ambitious Democratic aides who orbited around Mr. Rubin, won promotions and then pursued careers outside government. Now Mrs. Burwell, who left Washington after the Clinton years to work for the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation in Seattle and then the Walmart Foundation in Arkansas, is poised to join those who returned to government with Mr. Obama.
Mr. Rubin's fiscally moderate influence and the broader experience of the Clinton years - marked by repeated budget fights with Republicans, and ultimately a balanced-budget agreement - was formative for many of those who came to the Obama administration. They included Gene Sperling, now director at the National Economic Council as he was for Mr. Clinton, and Peter R. Orszag, Mr. Obama's first budget director.
Mr. Orszag, now a vice chairman of Citigroup, said: "Sylvia is an ideal nominee for O.M.B. director because she combines a previous stint in Washington with outside-the-Beltway experience. And she's smart, hard-working and good at making the trains run."
Yet times have changed since the Clinton era. The kind of bipartisan compromises Mr. Clinton made with Speaker Newt Gingrich have proven elusive for Mr. Obama given the influence of antigovernment, antitax conservatives in constraining Speaker John A. Boehner's negotiating ability.
And as Mr. Obama is eager to get on with the rest of his agenda - including immigration, gun safety and early education initiatives - that could leave Mrs. Burwell to manage the existing fiscal agenda rather than help chart a new one that would, through a deal on entitlement programs and revenues, stabilize the long-term debt.

        
Obama Defends His Record on Diversity in Appointments
        
The Weekend Word: Budget Wars
        
Fight Over Spending Cuts a Prelude to Budget Battles Ahead
        
Critical Differences Belie Hopes for a Grand Bargain
        
Polls Show Dissatisfaction With Country's Direction, but Support for Obama's Agenda

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); FAMILY (78%); MEDICARE (77%); TAX LAW (74%); LEGISLATION (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (71%) Appointments and Executive Changes; Burwell, Sylvia Mathews; Elmendorf, Douglas W; Federal Budget (US); Geithner, Timothy F; Lew, Jacob J; Obama, Barack; Office of Management and Budget (US); Orszag, Peter R; Rubin, Robert E; Sperling, Gene; Summers, Lawrence H; On Washington

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (91%) Office of Management and Budget (US)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); PAUL RYAN (79%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (73%); PETER ORSZAG (73%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (73%) Burwell, Sylvia Mathews; Elmendorf, Douglas W; Geithner, Timothy F; Lew, Jacob J; Obama, Barack; Orszag, Peter R; Rubin, Robert E; Sperling, Gene; Summers, Lawrence H

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2013



131 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Taking Note)

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 542 words

HEADLINE: Return of the Romneys

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSENTHAL


HIGHLIGHT: In an interview with Chris Wallace, Mitt and Ann Romney explain why their side lost. 

 BODY:
Mitt Romney, and his wife, Ann, have had four months to reflect on the 2012 presidential campaign and what it all meant. But time doesn't always breed wisdom. In an interview with Chris Wallace of Fox News on Sunday, the couple seemed detached from reality.
Both acknowledged - though not in these exact words - that they spent much of the race in a Republican bubble, in which the going assumption was that the whole country had turned against Mr. Obama. 
Mr. Romney said he and his wife "were convinced that we would win. We saw that the polls were very close. But we knew that the energy and passion was with our voters."
Using similar language, Mrs. Romney admitted: "I think we were not aware - you know we certainly had the passion coming from our side - and I don't think we were as aware of the passion that was coming from the other side. I think we were a little blindsided by that."

Now that the race is long over, this cloud or "blindness" has not lifted. Both Mitt and Ann Romney seem to think that their side lost because Americans never had a chance to see the real Mitt.
"The weakness that our campaign had, and that I had, is we weren't effective in taking my message primarily to minority voters, to Hispanic Americans, African Americans, other minorities," Mr. Romney told Mr. Wallace. "That was a real weakness. We did very well with the majority population, but not with minority populations. And that was a - that was a failing. That was a real mistake."
In other words, it wasn't Mr. Romney's policies that so many non-white-male voters rejected, it was his messaging. He just couldn't figure out a way to persuade people who would suffer under a Republican economic agenda that, really, they should want to suffer.
He repeatedly came back to the idea that he had merely failed to communicate. In one particularly odd moment, he allowed that he had "underestimated" the appeal of health care reform "among lower incomes," but did not fault himself for never suggesting an alternative package. He merely said he "didn't do as good a job at connecting with" lower-income voters as he should have.
And why didn't he do a good job connecting?
When Mr. Wallace noted that the couple's son, Tagg, was frustrated that the campaign would not let the candidate "show his more open, compassionate side," Mrs. Romney replied: "It was partly - it's true. But it was not just the campaign's fault. I believe it was the media's fault as well, is that he was not giving - being given a fair shake, that people weren't allowed to really see him for who he was."
They were convinced they would win, because they had all the passion on their side; now that they've lost, they blame their communications strategy, and the press.
To be fair, Mr. Romney is not totally in denial. He knows, at least, that the Republican Party doesn't really care what he thinks anymore. "I recognize that as the guy who lost the election, I'm not in a position to tell everybody else how to win, alright? They're not going to listen and I don't have the credibility to do that anyway. But I still care."

        
How Is Romney Still Competitive?
        
What Citizenship Means
        
Mitt Romney's Hamptons Weekend
        
Another Dismal Jobs Report, Another Misguided Attack from the Right
        
When the Truth is Not Enough

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (76%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (71%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (70%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (50%) Presidential Election of 2012; Romney, Ann; Romney, Mitt; Wallace, Chris; Featured Posts

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (72%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (72%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); BARACK OBAMA (58%) Romney, Ann; Romney, Mitt; Wallace, Chris

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2013



132 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2013

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 659 words

HEADLINE: Developing Education Initiatives for City's Young Mexican Immigrants

BYLINE: KIRK SEMPLE


HIGHLIGHT: A foundation&#8217;s efforts are progressing, with 17 proposals for preliminary grants now under review. 

 BODY:
The numbers alone were stark and worrisome: About 41 percent of all Mexican immigrants 16 to 19 years old in New York City have dropped out of school, according to census statistics - more than double the rate of any other major immigrant group and more than four times the city's overall rate.
In addition, only about 6 percent of Mexican immigrants 19 to 23 years old who do not have a college degree are enrolled in college - a small fraction of the rates among other major immigrant groups and the native-born population. 
These statistics highlighted some immigrants' advocates' long-held worries regarding the city's fastest growing immigrant population. The figures' publication in an article in The New York Times in November 2011 provoked a groundswell of responses both in and beyond the Mexican diaspora.
Officials at Deutsche Bank Americas Foundation, based in New York City, were among those moved by the article to act. 
"It just struck a chord," Gary Hattem, president of the foundation, explained in a recent interview. "It resonated with me very strongly as a New Yorker." 
Last October, the foundation convened a meeting of several dozen representatives of community organizations that work with the Mexican immigrant population in New York. In a conference room at the bank's headquarters - with panoramic views of downtown New York, the harbor and beyond - community organizers, academics and others brainstormed about the most dire needs, educational and otherwise, in the Mexican diaspora. 
With notes from that meeting, foundation officials created an initiative designed to improve the educational and economic achievement of the Mexican population in New York City, with an emphasis on children and their families. 
The foundation's plan imagines networks of nonprofit organizations that help to establish and promote educational programs in neighborhoods with large populations of residents of Mexican descent. The plan also seeks to promote civic engagement in the Mexican diaspora. 
"The city's Mexican immigrant community has little civic representation; there are no public officials who directly and vocally advance solutions to their needs," the foundation wrote in a description of the project. "As such, this initiative will further support nonprofits and communities to assume that role and responsibility."
In January, the foundation issued a request for proposals, seeking applications for three-month "planning grants" of $5,000 to $10,000. The foundation plans to award 8 to 10 of the grants. Of those projects, the foundation will choose three to five for "implementation grants" of $75,000 to $150,000 a year, renewable up to two times. 
"The premise of this effort is really about grounding this work in neighborhoods with high concentrations of Mexicans and bringing to bear the strengths of this community," Mr. Hattem, the foundation president, said. "We can be a social engineer." He added, "As a philanthropy, we're in a position to take a risk and test some ideas." 
By last week's deadline for the planning grant applications, the foundation had received 17 proposals involving 45 nonprofits as well as City Department of Education schools and the City University of New York for networks in all five boroughs. 
"The response exceeded my expectations," Nicole Rodriguez Leach, a vice president of the foundation, said in an e-mail on Friday. "Very exciting!" The foundation plans to announce the grant recipients this month. 
"It is a finite population," Mr. Hattem said of the Mexicans and Mexican-Americans the initiative is aiming to help. "So we do have an opportunity here to watch a population and hopefully change its trajectory." 

        
CUNY to Open Institute Devoted to Mexican Studies
        
In Artist's Game Show, the Prize Is a Passport
        
Fewer Illegal Immigrants in New York, Study Finds
        
As Immigration Takes Center Stage, Thoughts From Walt Whitman
        
Critics of State's Campaign Finance Laws Seek Philanthropists' Help

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (91%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (88%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (78%); CENSUS (78%); CHILDREN (77%); FAMILY (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); FOUNDATIONS (73%); PHILANTHROPY (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); CHARITIES (73%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (71%); POPULATION GROWTH (58%) Deutsche Bank AG; Immigration and Emigration; Mexican-Americans; Philanthropy; Deutsche Bank AG|DB|NYSE; Immigration; Schools

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Deutsche Bank AG

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (56%); DBK (FRA) (56%); DBK (BIT) (56%); DBETN (JSE) (56%); DBA (ASX) (56%); DB (NYSE) (56%) Deutsche Bank AG; DB; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); MEXICO (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2013



133 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 865 words

HEADLINE: Why Carried Interest Is a Capital Gain

BYLINE: STEVE JUDGE


HIGHLIGHT: Little discussion has focused on how carried interest actually functions and why it was treated as a long-term capital gain in the first place, the author writes. 

 BODY:
 Steve Judge is the president and chief executive of the Private Equity Growth Capital Council. 
The current debates on tax reform and government spending levels have often focused on raising taxes on carried interest. While many, including a recent opinion piece in The New York Times by Lynn Forester de Rothschild, have homed in on carried interest to raise revenue, little discussion has focused on how carried interest actually functions and why it was treated as a long-term capital gain in the first place.
Furthermore, changing the tax treatment of carried interest would not generate the significant revenue needed to close our huge budget shortfall. Some of the latest proposals on carried interest would deprive private equity, venture capital and real estate partnerships of the same long-term capital gains treatment available to other kinds of businesses - and would only pay for merely 3.1 hours a year in federal government operations. 
In order to understand why carried interest is a capital gain, we should first examine whatprivate equity does. Private equity is an industry of investors with management expertise and vision who form partnerships with pension funds, university endowments and charitable foundations to buy companies. It is the epitome of patient capital, investing in promising companies poised for growth and those in need of a turnaround. 
The average private equity investment spans three to seven years. Companies owned by private equity are located throughout the country, touching nearly every community. More than eight million people work at private equity-owned businesses based in the United States.
Private equity funds are a partnership between the firm, or general partner, and the investors, also known as limited partners. Partnerships are the oldest form of business. 
In the case of private equity, the managers contribute their understanding of the companies to buy, operational expertise and, often, capital to the partnership. The limited partners - pensions, endowments and foundations - contribute just capital to the endeavor. 
The partnership structure results in an alignment of interest between the private equity general partner and their investors to expand companies over the long term. Private equity firms are true owners in the companies they buy. Because they develop strategic business plans, sit on boards and work to strengthen the companies they own over many years, the income they receive is a capital gain.
The private equity firm is compensated with this alignment of interest in mind. Typically private equity investors are paid a 2 percent management fee, on which they pay ordinary income tax rates, and a 20 percent carried interest of the partnership's profits that is only paid after limited partners receive a preferred return of 8 percent. 
Carried interest, therefore, is the profits share on the sale of a capital asset and not "ordinary income" as some would have it treated. In other words, it is a capital gain within a partnership and is rightfully taxed at the long-term capital gains rate - provided that the asset, or company, is held for more than one year. 
The aristocratic argument presented by Ms. de Rothschild and others that capital gains treatment should only be available to those with money to invest would advance a policy that puts a higher value on financial contributions than vision, hard work and other forms of "sweat equity."
The underlying principle is no different than two friends who partner together to purchase a restaurant. One might bring capital and the other brings expertise. The restaurant could be in disrepair or a great concept that needs additional capital to expand. The chef identifies the restaurant to buy and possesses the skills to manage the restaurant and add value to the enterprise over time. The friend has the capital to invest, but doesn't possess the operational or investment skills to generate a return. 
When they sell the restaurant years later, both partners receive capital gains treatment on their long-term investment. A private equity partnership works in the same way. This is Partnership Law 101.
The capital gains rate exists to provide incentive for investment partnerships to take risks, invest hundreds of billions of dollars of capital into new and existing businesses and contribute operational expertise to improve these businesses over time. 
The Joint Committee on Taxation, a nonpartisan committee of Congress, has pegged the additional revenue from carried interest at just $16.85 billion over 10 years. The joint committee estimate even includes the controversial enterprise value provision, which experts believe constitutes two-thirds of the total revenue assumption.
Permanent tax increases on private equity, venture capital and real estate in exchange for a short-term spending patch does not come close to solving our country's fiscal situation. Policy makers should reject calls to eliminate this incentive for long-term economic growth in exchange for 3.1 hours of federal government operations.

        
With Tax Advantages Looking Shaky, Private Equity Seeks a New Path
        
Private Equity Firms See a Brighter 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRIVATE EQUITY (95%); TAX LAW (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GENERAL PARTNERSHIPS (88%); LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS (88%); ENDOWMENTS (87%); WRITERS (79%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TAX REFORM (74%); INCOME TAX (74%); VENTURE CAPITAL (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (73%); PENSION FUNDS (72%); MUTUAL FUNDS (72%); FOUNDATIONS (71%); CHARITIES (71%); BUSINESS PLANS (69%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (69%) Capital Gains Tax; Private Equity; Another View

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2013



134 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 475 words

HEADLINE: What Economists Think About Raising the Minimum Wage

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: A recent survey of elite economists found significant disagreement over the effects of raising the minimum wage on low-skilled job seekers. 

 BODY:
As Christina D. Romer wrote in a column on Sunday, there is some disagreement among economists about the prudence of raising the minimum wage. The Initiative on Global Markets at the University of Chicago's Booth School of Business recently queried a panel of 38 economic experts on the subject, and the responses were mixed, particularly on the effect on low-skilled job seekers. (Nancy Folbre mentioned this survey in passing in her weekly post; here are the fuller findings.) 
These were the responses to the first question, which dealt with whether raising the minimum wage would make it more difficult for low-skilled workers to find jobs.
As you can see, of those who responded, about a quarter said they were "uncertain" about the proposition. Exactly zero percent said they either agreed or disagreed "strongly."
It's no wonder there's so much expert uncertainty on this question, given the contentious and tangled literature on the subject. Twenty years ago, a groundbreaking study by Alan Krueger (now chairman of President Obama's Council of Economic Advisers) and David Card was the first to use empirical data to study an increase in the minimum wage. It found that raising the wage did not reduce employment. Repeat studies since then have had more mixed results, and some have shown negative, though generally small, employment effects.
Ask economists about whether raising the minimum wage is worth the potential risks to low-skilled workers, though, and the responses tend to be much more favorable to a minimum-wage increase:
Nearly half of the panelists agreed or strongly agreed that the benefits of raising the minimum wage and indexing it to inflation outweighed the costs. In the comments section, several of the economists mentioned that other policies, like the earned income tax credit, might be better suited to addressing the needs of low-income workers. Professor Romer had mentioned this in her column, as well.
These responses do not necessarily reflect the beliefs of all economists, the way a traditional poll might aim to be; rather, the panelists are among the more elite members of their profession and were selected to represent some of the better-known conservative, liberal, young and old scholars. They include Nobel laureates, John Bates Clark Medal recipients, Econometric Society fellows, past presidents of both the American Economic Association and American Finance Association, past Democratic and Republican members of the President's Council of Economic Advisers, and editors of leading economic journals. A full list of the respondents and their comments can be found at the IGM Forum Web site.

        
Labs for Testing Fiscal Policy Positions
        
Americans Want to Cut Spending. They Just Don't Know What to Cut.
        
Gaming the System
        
Alan Blinder on the Lessons of the Financial Crisis
        
Who Lost Work During the Great Recession?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MINIMUM WAGE (94%); EMPLOYMENT (93%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); RECESSION (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); AWARDS & PRIZES (77%); SCIENTIFIC METHOD (75%); NOBEL PRIZES (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (67%); CONSERVATISM (66%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (65%); LIBERALISM (62%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (62%); POLITICAL PARTIES (60%); INCOME TAX (50%) Economics (Theory and Philosophy); Minimum Wage; Polls and Public Opinion

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (84%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2013



135 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2013

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 653 words

HEADLINE: Developing Education Initiatives for City's Young Mexican Immigrants

BYLINE: KIRK SEMPLE


HIGHLIGHT: A foundation&#8217;s efforts are progressing, with 17 proposals for preliminary grants now under review. 

 BODY:
The numbers alone were stark and worrisome: About 41 percent of all Mexican immigrants 16 to 19 years old in New York City have dropped out of school, according to census statistics - more than double the rate of any other major immigrant group and more than four times the city's overall rate.
In addition, only about 6 percent of Mexican immigrants 19 to 23 years old who do not have a college degree are enrolled in college - a small fraction of the rates among other major immigrant groups and the native-born population. 
These statistics highlighted some immigrants' advocates' long-held worries regarding the city's fastest growing immigrant population. The figures' publication in an article in The New York Times in November 2011 provoked a groundswell of responses both in and beyond the Mexican diaspora.
Officials at Deutsche Bank Americas Foundation, based in New York City, were among those moved by the article to act. 
"It just struck a chord," Gary Hattem, president of the foundation, explained in a recent interview. "It resonated with me very strongly as a New Yorker." 
Last October, the foundation convened a meeting of several dozen representatives of community organizations that work with the Mexican immigrant population in New York. In a conference room at the bank's headquarters - with panoramic views of downtown New York, the harbor and beyond - community organizers, academics and others brainstormed about the most dire needs, educational and otherwise, in the Mexican diaspora. 
With notes from that meeting, foundation officials created an initiative designed to improve the educational and economic achievement of the Mexican population in New York City, with an emphasis on children and their families. 
The foundation's plan imagines networks of nonprofit organizations that help to establish and promote educational programs in neighborhoods with large populations of residents of Mexican descent. The plan also seeks to promote civic engagement in the Mexican diaspora. 
"The city's Mexican immigrant community has little civic representation; there are no public officials who directly and vocally advance solutions to their needs," the foundation wrote in a description of the project. "As such, this initiative will further support nonprofits and communities to assume that role and responsibility."
In January, the foundation issued a request for proposals, seeking applications for three-month "planning grants" of $5,000 to $10,000. The foundation plans to award 8 to 10 of the grants. Of those projects, the foundation will choose three to five for "implementation grants" of $75,000 to $150,000 a year, renewable up to two times. 
"The premise of this effort is really about grounding this work in neighborhoods with high concentrations of Mexicans and bringing to bear the strengths of this community," Mr. Hattem, the foundation president, said. "We can be a social engineer." He added, "As a philanthropy, we're in a position to take a risk and test some ideas." 
By last week's deadline for the planning grant applications, the foundation had received 17 proposals involving 45 nonprofits as well as City Department of Education schools and the City University of New York for networks in all five boroughs. 
"The response exceeded my expectations," Nicole Rodriguez Leach, a vice president of the foundation, said in an e-mail on Friday. "Very exciting!" The foundation plans to announce the grant recipients this month. 
"It is a finite population," Mr. Hattem said of the Mexicans and Mexican-Americans the initiative is aiming to help. "So we do have an opportunity here to watch a population and hopefully change its trajectory." 

        
CUNY to Open Institute Devoted to Mexican Studies
        
Chasing a Name Lost to Time
        
Harmony on the Subway Platform
        
2 Views of Buildings Around Grand Central: Special or Just Old
        
Already Competing With the Boys, Girls Get Their Own Wrestling League

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (91%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (88%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (78%); CENSUS (78%); CHILDREN (77%); FAMILY (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); FOUNDATIONS (73%); PHILANTHROPY (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); CHARITIES (73%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (71%); POPULATION GROWTH (58%) Deutsche Bank AG; Immigration and Emigration; Mexican-Americans; New York City; Philanthropy; Deutsche Bank AG|DB|NYSE; Immigration; Schools

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Deutsche Bank AG

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (56%); DBK (FRA) (56%); DBK (BIT) (56%); DBETN (JSE) (56%); DBA (ASX) (56%); DB (NYSE) (56%) Deutsche Bank AG; DB; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); MEXICO (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2013



136 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Ross Douthat)

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 986 words

HEADLINE: The Deficit Reduction We Deserve

BYLINE: ROSS DOUTHAT


HIGHLIGHT: How a dysfunctional Washington delivered the kind of deficit cutting that voters claim to want. 

 BODY:
Over the weekend, my colleague Jackie Calmes noted the peculiar reality that Washington has come close to achieving its short-term deficit reduction goals, but the real drivers of our long-term debt haven't been touched:
... If the latest cuts stick, the two parties will have achieved nearly the full amount of deficit reduction over the next decade that economists and market analysts have promoted. Yet the mix comes with substantial downsides. 
It does not add up to the "grand bargain" that the two parties had been seeking, because it leaves virtually untouched the entitlement programs - Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security - that are responsible for projections of an unsustainably rising federal debt in coming decades.
Meanwhile, my colleague Annie Lowrey had an amusing piece in which she interviewed members of the vanishingly small minority of Americans (12 percent, in the last Times poll) who say that they approve of the job Congress is doing. Here's a snippet:
Brenda Carroll, a schoolteacher and political independent who lives near Seattle ... recalled that at one point politicians had wanted to make George Washington something like a king, and argued that when it comes to political incompetence, other countries have it far worse than the United States.
Other answers were simpler. Clyda Mellett of Tennessee, who described Medicare as her top political interest [emphasis mine - R.D.], offered an unqualified thumbs-up. "I think they're doing great," she said.
Would that more Americans had the honesty and self-awareness of Clyda Mellett! Because the reality is that for all the ire directed toward the Obama-era Congress, the measures that our elected representatives have actually undertaken lately, however haltingly and acrimoniously - a mix of defense cuts, discretionary spending cuts, and tax increases on the rich, with Medicare and Social Security left essentially untouched - are roughly what Americans of all political persuasions claim to want. This is clear enough from years and years of polling, but a Slate/YouGov survey from late last year brought an unusual dose of clarity to the question, by forcing respondents to actually wade through specific options on their way to achieving $900 billion in savings. Here are the results:
The most popular deficit-cutting option is an income tax increase, selected by more than 80 percent of participants. Relatively few respondents (35 percent), however, wanted to let the Bush-era tax cuts expire entirely. Instead, most respondents who favored higher taxes wanted taxes to return to Clinton-era levels for those making $250,000 or more (as Obama proposed before the election).
The second-place choice, favored by about two-thirds of respondents, cut non-defense discretionary spending by 1 percent annually for an entire decade. Respondents chose this option even though the survey made clear that it would limit government services.
Almost 64 percent of respondents favored reducing defense spending by 1 percent annually. Again, respondents chose this option in spite of a warning that this cut would harm military capabilities.
Meanwhile ...
The least popular deficit reduction options, by a significant margin, were cuts to entitlement programs. Only 27 percent of respondents supported cutting Social Security for the elderly, and only 34 percent supported cutting Medicare. These findings are consistent with other public opinion research, but what's striking here is that people were reluctant to cut Social Security and Medicare even when they fell short of their deficit reduction target, and were forced to consider more of the options we gave them.
And again, if you drew up a policy blueprint based on these preferences, it might well look something like what Congress has actually done: The top tax rate has gone back to Clinton-era levels, discretionary spending and military spending have each taken a big hit, and entitlements have been touched barely at all. The public may hate the process and the spectacle, but there's a sense in which they're getting exactly what they're asking for.
I've oversimplifying a bit, admittedly. Liberals would probably argue that even given the public's preferences, the overall policy balance has been tilted too heavily toward spending cuts - and the Slate polling does, indeed, show surprising support (around 50 percent) for adding a broad-based carbon tax or a sales tax on top of the tax increases on the rich, and/or for raising tax revenue by closing loopholes and deductions. Of course, more than half of the respondents also wanted to repeal the coverage expansions in the health care law, which liberals would presumably be less enthused about, and the deduction whose elimination attracted the most support was the state and local tax deduction, beloved of blue-state politicians and residents alike. But it's fair to suggest that voters might be open to a more revenue-centric approach to deficit reduction than the path Congress has actually taken, and that wiser policies than the sequester meat-ax are compatible with the public's stated preferences.
What's clear, though, is that something like the current "soak the rich and hack away at everything but Medicare" approach has vastly more support than any kind of serious entitlement reform. This is bad news for conservatives trying to keep the government's share of G.D.P. within historic norms, bad news for liberals who would prefer that the government do more than just deliver Social Security checks and Medicare reimbursements, and probably bad news for today's economy and tomorrow's federal balance sheet alike. But since it's what the voters says they want, maybe they should take their cues from Clyda Mellett and throw a little more love to the Congress that's been giving it to them.

        
American Catholicism: Decline But Not Exhaustion
        
In Search of Republican Reformers
        
Gun Control and Suicide
        
A Rout and Its Consequences

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX INCREASES (85%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); BUDGETS (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (75%); POLITICS (73%); INCOME TAX (60%); MEDICAID (55%) Federal Budget (US); Obama, Barack; Senate; United States

ORGANIZATION: Senate

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (87%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) United States

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2013



137 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 475 words

HEADLINE: What Economists Think About Raising the Minimum Wage

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: A recent survey of elite economists found significant disagreement over the effects of raising the minimum wage on low-skilled job seekers. 

 BODY:
As Christina D. Romer wrote in a column on Sunday, there is some disagreement among economists about the prudence of raising the minimum wage. The Initiative on Global Markets at the University of Chicago's Booth School of Business recently queried a panel of 38 economic experts on the subject, and the responses were mixed, particularly on the effect on low-skilled job seekers. (Nancy Folbre mentioned this survey in passing in her weekly post; here are the fuller findings.) 
These were the responses to the first question, which dealt with whether raising the minimum wage would make it more difficult for low-skilled workers to find jobs.
As you can see, of those who responded, about a quarter said they were "uncertain" about the proposition. Exactly zero percent said they either agreed or disagreed "strongly."
It's no wonder there's so much expert uncertainty on this question, given the contentious and tangled literature on the subject. Twenty years ago, a groundbreaking study by Alan Krueger (now chairman of President Obama's Council of Economic Advisers) and David Card was the first to use empirical data to study an increase in the minimum wage. It found that raising the wage did not reduce employment. Repeat studies since then have had more mixed results, and some have shown negative, though generally small, employment effects.
Ask economists about whether raising the minimum wage is worth the potential risks to low-skilled workers, though, and the responses tend to be much more favorable to a minimum-wage increase:
Nearly half of the panelists agreed or strongly agreed that the benefits of raising the minimum wage and indexing it to inflation outweighed the costs. In the comments section, several of the economists mentioned that other policies, like the earned income tax credit, might be better suited to addressing the needs of low-income workers. Professor Romer had mentioned this in her column, as well.
These responses do not necessarily reflect the beliefs of all economists, the way a traditional poll might aim to be; rather, the panelists are among the more elite members of their profession and were selected to represent some of the better-known conservative, liberal, young and old scholars. They include Nobel laureates, John Bates Clark Medal recipients, Econometric Society fellows, past presidents of both the American Economic Association and American Finance Association, past Democratic and Republican members of the President's Council of Economic Advisers, and editors of leading economic journals. A full list of the respondents and their comments can be found at the IGM Forum Web site.

        
Labs for Testing Fiscal Policy Positions
        
Americans Want to Cut Spending. They Just Don't Know What to Cut.
        
Gaming the System
        
Alan Blinder on the Lessons of the Financial Crisis
        
Who Lost Work During the Great Recession?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MINIMUM WAGE (94%); EMPLOYMENT (93%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); RECESSION (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); AWARDS & PRIZES (77%); SCIENTIFIC METHOD (75%); NOBEL PRIZES (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (67%); CONSERVATISM (66%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (65%); LIBERALISM (62%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (62%); POLITICAL PARTIES (60%); INCOME TAX (50%) Economics (Theory and Philosophy); Minimum Wage; Polls and Public Opinion

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (84%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2013



138 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 475 words

HEADLINE: What Economists Think About Raising the Minimum Wage

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: A recent survey of elite economists found significant disagreement over the effects of raising the minimum wage on low-skilled job seekers. 

 BODY:
As Christina D. Romer wrote in a column on Sunday, there is some disagreement among economists about the prudence of raising the minimum wage. The Initiative on Global Markets at the University of Chicago's Booth School of Business recently queried a panel of 38 economic experts on the subject, and the responses were mixed, particularly about the effect on low-skilled job seekers. (Nancy Folbre mentioned this survey in passing in her weekly post; here are the fuller findings.) 
These were the responses to the first question, which dealt with whether raising the minimum wage would make it more difficult for low-skilled workers to find jobs.
As you can see, of those who responded, about a quarter said they were "uncertain" about the proposition. Exactly zero percent said they either agreed or disagreed "strongly."
It's no wonder there's so much expert uncertainty on this question, given the contentious and tangled literature on the subject. Twenty years ago, a groundbreaking study by Alan Krueger (now chairman of President Obama's Council of Economic Advisers) and David Card was the first to use empirical data to study an increase in the minimum wage. It found that raising the wage did not reduce employment. Repeat studies since then have had more mixed results, and some have shown negative, though generally small, employment effects.
Ask economists about whether raising the minimum wage is worth the potential risks to low-skilled workers, though, and the responses tend to be much more favorable to a minimum-wage increase:
Nearly half of the panelists agreed or strongly agreed that the benefits of raising the minimum wage and indexing it to inflation outweighed the costs. In the comments section, several of the economists mentioned that other policies, like the earned income tax credit, might be better suited to addressing the needs of low-income workers. Professor Romer had mentioned this in her column, as well.
These responses do not necessarily reflect the beliefs of all economists, the way a traditional poll might aim to be; rather, the panelists are among the more elite members of their profession and were selected to represent some of the better-known conservative, liberal, young and old scholars. They include Nobel laureates, John Bates Clark Medal recipients, Econometric Society fellows, past presidents of both the American Economic Association and American Finance Association, past Democratic and Republican members of the President's Council of Economic Advisers, and editors of leading economic journals. A full list of the respondents and their comments can be found at the IGM Forum Web site.

        
Labs for Testing Fiscal Policy Positions
        
Americans Want to Cut Spending. They Just Don't Know What to Cut.
        
Gaming the System
        
Alan Blinder on the Lessons of the Financial Crisis
        
Who Lost Work During the Great Recession?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MINIMUM WAGE (94%); EMPLOYMENT (93%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); RECESSION (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); AWARDS & PRIZES (77%); SCIENTIFIC METHOD (75%); NOBEL PRIZES (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (67%); CONSERVATISM (66%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (65%); LIBERALISM (62%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (62%); POLITICAL PARTIES (60%); INCOME TAX (50%) Economics (Theory and Philosophy); Minimum Wage; Polls and Public Opinion

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (84%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2013



139 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 331 words

HEADLINE: Jeb Bush Appears to Support Middle Ground on Citizenship for Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: SARAH WHEATON


HIGHLIGHT: The former governor of Florida, a prominent Republican voice on immigration, advocates giving illegal immigrants a permanent legal status, but not a special path to citizenship. 

 BODY:
As Congressional Republicans stake out an approach to overhauling the nation's immigration system, a high-profile voice has emerged in support of a middle-ground option for the 11 million immigrants already in the country illegally. 
Jeb Bush, a former governor of Florida and the younger brother and son of former presidents, has been one of the Republican Party's most outspoken voices on the importance of Hispanic outreach, advocating not just a change in tone but also a comprehensive approach to immigration.
In his new book, "Immigration Wars," Mr. Bush and his co-author, Clint Bolick, a lawyer at the libertarian Goldwater Institute in Phoenix, outline a plan that would offer those already in the United States illegally a way to stay here as permanent legal residents. But, as he has emphasized in a series of interviews, they should not be provided a special route to become citizens. "To do otherwise would signal once again that people who circumvent the system can still obtain the full benefits of American citizenship," Mr. Bush and Mr. Bolick write, according to The Huffington Post, which obtained a copy of the book a day ahead of its release. 
But unlike some on the right who would preclude the possibility that illegal immigrants could ever attain citizenship, Mr. Bush would offer them an option: "However, illegal immigrants who wish to become citizens should have the choice of returning to their native countries and applying through normal immigration processes that now would be much more open than before."
In ruling out a special path to citizenship, Mr. Bush seems to moving closer to a group of House Republicans who have expressed openness to a permanent legal status as a form of compromise.

        
Romney Will Address Conservative Conference
        
Economic Nudge for an Immigration Overhaul
        
Priebus Re-elected to Lead Republican National Committee
        
Rubio and Paul Embody Conservative Debate Over Foreign Policy
        
Senate Judiciary Committee Likely to Vote on Bipartisan Guns Bill

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (94%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (94%); CITIZENSHIP (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); BOOK REVIEWS (71%); WRITERS (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%) Bush, Jeb; Illegal Immigrants; Presidential Election of 2016; United States Politics and Government; The Caucus

PERSON: ARIANNA HUFFINGTON (58%) Bush, Jeb

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2013



140 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 948 words

HEADLINE: Long-Overshadowed Bay Bridge Will Go From Drab Gray to Glowing

BYLINE: By MALIA WOLLAN

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO -- For decades the San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge has been considered, when it is considered at all, as a headache for commuters and a place not to be in an earthquake.
But that reputation is set to change Tuesday night when the artist Leo Villareal will switch on what is being billed as the world's largest L.E.D. light sculpture. The public art installation, ''The Bay Lights,'' will illuminate the bridge's 1.8-mile western span with 25,000 undulating white lights.
''My inspiration comes from the motion around the bridge, the kinetic activity of boats, water, clouds, traffic,'' Mr. Villareal said. 
From a distance, it will appear as a shimmering illuminated mass, but Mr. Villareal controls each light individually with a software program he developed. He turns the whole thing on and off from his laptop.
Mr. Villareal's ability to fuse technology into his art is particularly apt here in a city awash in new tech wealth and buzzing with the frenetic energy of start-ups and highly caffeinated computer programmers.
The light sculpture, which will be on every night for two years, has become a darling of moneyed Silicon Valley types. The project is privately financed and is estimated to cost some $8 million.
Already restaurants with bridge views are booked and boat cruise operators are creating new tours for viewing the glowing infrastructure. Organizers estimate the lights will bring in $97 million to the local economy.
The unlikely star of all this fawning attention is the unassuming Bay Bridge.
When it opened to traffic Nov. 12, 1936, the city celebrated with five days of parades, a Navy air show and a regatta.
But just five months later, the Golden Gate Bridge followed with its flashier, red-painted steel spanning the more picturesque mouth of the bay. It quickly became an international tourist destination, while the Bay Bridge toiled along in utilitarian, gray obscurity. Last year some 40 million cars crossed the Golden Gate Bridge, while the Bay Bridge carried more than 100 million cars.
''These bridges really came up as twin sisters, one quite beautiful and one very hard working,'' said Ben Davis, who originally approached Mr. Villareal about adorning the bridge in lights. As founder of the agency responsible for branding on the newly constructed, $6.4 billion eastern span of the Bay Bridge, Mr. Davis has spent years thinking about the bridge's legacy. ''This project will elevate the Bay Bridge, at least for a while, above the Golden Gate Bridge,'' he said.
When both bridges recently celebrated their 75th anniversaries, San Francisco showered the Golden Gate Bridge in an elaborate fireworks show while the Bay Bridge's birthday went by seemingly unnoticed. The Bay Bridge has also suffered other, graver, setbacks along the way.
In the 1989 Loma Prieta earthquake, a section of the bridge's eastern span collapsed, killing a driver and closing the bridge for a month. Since then the bridge has undergone a series of seismic retrofits, including the new eastern span scheduled to open later this year.
While the sheer size of ''The Bay Lights'' installation is a first for San Francisco, in recent years many cities across the world have hosted contemporary public art projects writ large, sometimes very large.
The artist Olafur Eliasson's ''The Waterfalls,'' went up in New York in 2008 and featured four man-made waterfalls, some as tall as 120 feet (cost: $15 million). In 2005, Christo and Jeanne-Claude's ''The Gates,'' had Central Park draped in one million square feet of saffron-colored fabric (cost: $21 million).
Nicholas Baume, director of the Public Art Fund, a New York based nonprofit organization, said of ''The Bay Lights,'' ''What this project confirms for me is the wide recognition that when you invite artists to participate in creating works for all kinds of urban public places, it adds tremendous vitality to those cities.''
Mr. Villareal, 46, is best known for large-scale light sculptures that are in the permanent collections of the Museum of Modern Art in New York and the National Gallery of Art in Washington. Though he now lives in New York City, Mr. Villareal started his career in Silicon Valley. In the 1990s, he worked at the Interval Research Corporation, a technology company in Palo Alto, Calif., started by Paul Allen, co-founder of Microsoft. Mr. Villareal designed his first light sculpture in 1997 for Burning Man, an arts festival in the Nevada desert.
The tech industry has given generously to the project despite a reputation for being closefisted when it comes to philanthropy.
Marissa Mayer, chief executive at Yahoo, is among the project's patrons. Ron Conway, one of Silicon Valley's most prolific investors, described the bridge in its natural state as ''bland,'' so he donated some $50,000. Paul Buchheit, an early Google employee who created the first version of Gmail gave about $250,000.
For Mark Pincus, chief executive of Zynga, maker of online games like Farmville, and his wife, Alison, donating money and organizing fund-raisers also offered a private perk; they can see the light sculpture from their San Francisco home.
Some arts groups are encouraged by Silicon Valley's support for the project. ''I'm hopeful that this is a sign that all the wealth in the tech sector will mean a new wave of investment in public art,'' said Tom DeCaigny, director of cultural affairs for the San Francisco Arts Commission.
And while patrons prepare for celebratory cocktail parties with prime bridge views, the lights will also be visible, for free.
''The great thing about public arts is it does not cost anything to see,'' Mr. Baume said. ''There are no tickets for admission, it is there for everybody.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The western span of the San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge is illuminated by a light sculpture by Leo Villareal, below, who operates the lights from his computer. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CELEBRITIES (77%); VISUAL ARTS (77%); CRUISES (74%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); ANNIVERSARIES (68%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (68%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (65%); TOURISM (50%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (95%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (90%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2013



141 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 822 words

HEADLINE: The Brutality Cascade

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
Let's say you were a power hitter during baseball's steroids era. You may have objected to steroids on moral and health grounds. But many of your competitors were using them, so you faced enormous pressure to use them too.
Let's say you are a student at a good high school. You may want to have a normal adolescence. But you are surrounded by all these junior workaholics who have been preparing for the college admissions racket since they were 6. You find you can't unilaterally withdraw from the rat race and still get into the college of your choice. So you also face enormous pressure to behave in a way you detest. 
You might call these situations brutality cascades. In certain sorts of competitions, the most brutal player gets to set the rules. Everybody else feels pressure to imitate, whether they want to or not.
The political world is rife with brutality cascades. Let's say you are a normal person who gets into Congress. You'd rather not spend all your time fund-raising. You'd like to be civil to your opponents and maybe even work out some compromises.
But you find yourself competing against opponents who fund-raise all the time, who prefer brutalism to civility and absolutism to compromise. Pretty soon you must follow their norms to survive.
Or take a case in world affairs. The United States is a traditional capitalist nation that has championed an open-seas economic doctrine. We think everybody benefits if global economics is like a conversation, with maximum openness, mutual trust and free exchange.
But along comes China, an economic superpower with a more mercantilist mind-set. Many Chinese, at least in the military-industrial complex, see global economics as a form of warfare, a struggle for national dominance.
Americans and Europeans tend to think it is self-defeating to engage in cyberattacks on private companies in a foreign country. You may learn something, but you destroy the trust that lubricates free exchange. Pretty soon your trade dries up because nobody wants to do business with a pirate. Investors go off in search of more transparent partners.
But China's cybermercantilists regard deceit as a natural tool of warfare. Cyberattacks make perfect sense. Your competitors have worked hard to acquire intellectual property. Your system is more closed so innovation is not your competitive advantage. It is quicker and cheaper to steal. They will hate you for it, but who cares? They were going to hate you anyway. C'est la guerre.
In a brutality cascade the Chinese don't become more like us as the competition continues. We become more like them. And that is indeed what's happening. The first thing Western companies do in response to cyberattacks is build up walls. Instead of being open stalls in the global marketplace, they begin to look more like opaque, rigidified castles.
Next, the lines between private companies and Western governments begin to blur. When Western companies are attacked, they immediately turn to their national governments for technical and political support. On the one hand, the United States military is getting a lot more involved in computer counterespionage, eroding the distance between the military and private companies. On the other hand, you see the rise of these digital Blackwaters, private security firms that behave like information age armies, providing defense against foreign attack but also counterattacking against Chinese and Russian foes.
Pretty soon the global economy looks less like Monopoly and more like a game of Risk, with a Chinese military-industrial complex on one part of the board and the Western military-industrial complex on another part.
Brutality cascades are very hard to get out of. You can declare war and simply try to crush the people you think are despoiling the competition.
Or you can try what might be called friendship circles. In this approach, you first establish the norms of legitimacy that should govern the competition. You create a Geneva Convention of domestic political conduct or global cyberespionage. Then you organize as broad a coalition as possible to agree to uphold these norms.
Finally, you isolate the remaining violators and deliver a message: If you join our friendship circle and abide by our norms, the benefits will be overwhelming, but if you stay outside, the costs will be devastating.
In his effort to fight what he regards as Republican zealots, President Obama is caught between these two strategies. He never quite pushes budget showdowns to the limit to discredit Republicans, but he never offers enough to the members of the Republican common-sense caucus to tempt them to break ranks.
Clearly the second option is better for dealing with the Chinese. Establish a Geneva Convention that bans cyberactivity against citizens and private companies. Establish a broad coalition to enforce it.
Unfortunately, standard-setting is a dying art these days, so we are living with these brutality cascades.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); STEROIDS (90%); ILLICIT STEROID USE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (77%); FUNDRAISING (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (69%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (63%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (60%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2013



142 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 930 words

HEADLINE: President Announces Choice for Budget Chief

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES and RICHARD W. STEVENSON

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- In picking Sylvia Mathews Burwell to be his budget director, President Obama on Monday again enlisted a Clinton-era veteran for his economic team as it deals with fiscal and partisan challenges that make the earlier time seem like the good old days.
Mr. Obama announced Mrs. Burwell's nomination, along with his cabinet-level choices for the Energy Department and the Environmental Protection Agency, before an East Room audience. He used the occasion to denounce the across-the-board cuts to military and domestic spending, known as sequestration, which took effect on Friday when he and Republicans in Congress failed to agree on an alternative deficit reduction package. 
The president said that Mrs. Burwell, who is subject to Senate confirmation, would work with the acting director of the Office of Management and Budget, Jeffrey D. Zients, to ''do everything in their power to blunt the impact of these cuts on businesses and middle-class families.''
''But eventually a lot of people are going to feel some pain,'' he said. ''That's why we've got to keep on working to reduce our deficit in a balanced way.''
The president defines balanced deficit reduction as combining spending cuts, including in entitlement programs like Medicare, with new revenues from curbing tax breaks for the wealthy and corporations. Yet Republicans in Congress signaled anew their opposition to any tax increases.
House Republicans introduced a measure that would extend current spending levels, which expire on March 27, to the end of the fiscal year on Sept. 30 to avoid a government-wide shutdown late this month. All the spending is subject to the automatic cuts, but the measure adjusts military accounts to cushion the impact.
As Mr. Obama sought to keep attention on the dislocations and the job losses ahead from the cuts, he convened his cabinet for the first time in his second term to discuss the impact if the reductions are not reversed.
''We are going to manage it as best we can, try to minimize the impacts on American families, but it's not the right way for us to go about deficit reduction,'' the president said to reporters who were briefly allowed into the room as the meeting began.
Though both parties say a compromise to replace sequestration this year is unlikely, Mr. Obama said, ''I will continue to seek out partners on the other side of the aisle so that we can create the kind of balanced approach of spending cuts, revenues, entitlement reform that everybody knows is the right way to do things.''
Further partisan maneuvering is ahead as House Republicans and Democrats who control the Senate introduce separate budgets for the next fiscal year that starts Oct. 1, underscoring their differences over government's size and priorities.
Representative Paul D. Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin and chairman of the House Budget Committee, greeted Mrs. Burwell's nomination warmly.
''In her previous tenure at O.M.B., she helped a Democratic president commit to a balanced budget and work with a Republican Congress to get it done,'' he said in a statement.
While it is the Senate that votes on her nomination, Mrs. Burwell is not expected to encounter serious resistance.
Mrs. Burwell largely came to Mr. Obama's attention on the recommendation of one of her several Clinton administration mentors, Jacob J. Lew, now the secretary of the Treasury. When Mr. Lew was budget director for Mr. Clinton, Mrs. Burwell -- then Sylvia Mathews -- was his deputy.
Another mentor was Robert E. Rubin. When he was the first director of the National Economic Council at the start of the Clinton presidency, he chose as staff director Mrs. Burwell, who had been a Rhodes scholar. She followed Mr. Rubin when he became Treasury secretary, serving as his chief of staff. Later she was promoted to deputy White House chief of staff and deputy budget director.
She was among the ambitious Democratic aides who orbited around Mr. Rubin, won promotions and then pursued careers outside government. Now Mrs. Burwell, who left Washington after the Clinton years to work for the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation in Seattle and then the Walmart Foundation in Arkansas, is poised to join those who returned to government with Mr. Obama.
Mr. Rubin's fiscally moderate influence and the broader experience of the Clinton years -- marked by repeated budget fights with Republicans, and ultimately a balanced-budget agreement -- was formative for many of those who came to the Obama administration. They included Gene Sperling, now director at the National Economic Council as he was for Mr. Clinton, and Peter R. Orszag, Mr. Obama's first budget director.
Mr. Orszag, now a vice chairman of Citigroup, said: ''Sylvia is an ideal nominee for O.M.B. director because she combines a previous stint in Washington with outside-the-Beltway experience. And she's smart, hard-working and good at making the trains run.''
Yet times have changed since the Clinton era. The kind of bipartisan compromises Mr. Clinton made with Speaker Newt Gingrich have proven elusive for Mr. Obama given the influence of antigovernment, antitax conservatives in constraining Speaker John A. Boehner's negotiating ability.
And as Mr. Obama is eager to get on with the rest of his agenda -- including immigration, gun safety and early education initiatives -- that could leave Mrs. Burwell to manage the existing fiscal agenda rather than help chart a new one that would, through a deal on entitlement programs and revenues, stabilize the long-term debt.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama chose Sylvia Mathews Burwell to lead the Office of Management and Budget. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); FAMILY (78%); MEDICARE (77%); TAX LAW (74%); LEGISLATION (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (83%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); PAUL RYAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2013



143 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; YANJI JOURNAL; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1030 words

HEADLINE: Caught in North Korea, Sold in China, Crabs Knit Two Economies

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ

 BODY:
YANJI, China -- At the Red Sun restaurant, a short-order joint on Crab and Beer Streets, live crabs with plump legs wriggle in a cooled tank, fresh from the North Korean coast just two and a half hours away by road.
The cook and owner, Jin Yuansheng, douses the prized crabs in boiling water and adds them to the steaming platters of sea cucumbers, shrimp and squid, also from North Korean waters, that he brings to the table. 
This border town in China's cold and poor northeast abuts North Korea along the icy Tumen River, where a bridge serves as the gateway for a lively commerce in shellfish plumbed from the Sea of Japan off North Korea. It is an exotic niche business in the more than $11 billion annual trade between North Korea and China, which is dominated by China's purchases of cheap North Korean iron ore and coal.
Since a third nuclear test by North Korea last month, China has resisted the request of the United States to impose new United Nations sanctions intended to slow North Korea's expanding nuclear weapons capacity. China has also balked at suggestions that North Korea's commercial trade should be put under United Nations sanctions.
By encouraging trade with North Korea, China aims to prevent North Korea's government from collapsing, an outcome that could result in a Korean Peninsula allied to the United States. And business with North Korea serves a domestic goal: it helps employment and incomes in needy Jilin Province, where an estimated two million ethnic Koreans live.
That is where the crabs come in. Scooped from 3,000-foot-deep waters by trawlers crewed by North Korea workers, they are first taken to the North Korean port of Rason, a special enterprise zone serving foreign investors and largely financed by China. The crabs are trucked in ice to the Chinese border town of Quanhe, and then brought to the market in Yanji, or flown to cities across China as a delicacy for the affluent.
''Getting the crabs here is a delicate operation,'' said Mr. Jin. ''If they are too hot en route, they can die, and if they are too cold, they can freeze to death.''
Like many border towns in tough regions around the world, Yanji offers a peephole into forbidden territory. People here, especially the ethnic Koreans, talk of a love-hate relationship with their neighbor, run by one of the most isolated and brutal governments in the world. For the repressed people of North Korea, there appears to be sympathy among residents on the Chinese side of the border.
The shadow of North Korea can be felt in many ways here. Underground, refuges protect defectors from North Korea who are brave enough to risk escaping across the Tumen River. Aboveground, shops sell North Korean foodstuffs: expensive mushrooms advertised as truffles, ginseng root, and powder ground from the gall bladder of bears and sold as a boost to the immune system.
At the Kuanshi Art Gallery, pastel paintings of landscapes by North Korean artists sell briskly, bought by Chinese collectors with a taste for nostalgia, said Li Hezhang, the gallery director. Five North Korean artists are invited every year to Yanji, where they stay for a few months painting made-to-order images requested by the gallery, Ms. Li said.
For centuries Korea was a part of the Chinese feudal tributary system, sending gifts to the Chinese court and submitting to the pre-eminence of the Chinese emperor, an arrangement that bred an attitude of superiority by the Chinese toward Koreans.
Here in proximity, tinges of that arrogance persist, and seafood traders who travel to Rason, reputed to be a showcase of modernity compared with much else in North Korea, remark at how backward it is. ''Like China in the '50s,'' said Mr. Jin.
For Chinese traders, importing crab is a lucrative business. They sell not only to upscale restaurants around China, but also to banquet organizers. The sales pitch stresses what is called the purity of the waters around impoverished North Korea compared with the more polluted seas around industrialized Japan and South Korea.
''The fishermen capture the crab deep down, so it is high quality,'' said Qu Baojie, whose company imports crab from Rason. ''South Korea and Japan can't compete.''
His crab, branded as Crab Earth, Crab Heaven, is featured at the buffet of the Golden Jaguar, a fashionable Beijing restaurant, and is sold in red boxes suitable for business gifts, he said.
The fishing operations in Rason, an ice-free port that gives year-round sea access to China's northeastern provinces, work fairly smoothly, Mr. Qu said. Fishing trawlers equipped with South Korean gear ply the waters at night, returning to shore about 4 a.m.
Their catches are then transferred to a state-owned plant where some crabs are packed live and others are processed, he said. About 300 North Korean workers are employed during the peak September to December fishing season. Fishing during the breeding season of June to September is banned, he said.
His crab business flourishing, he recently bought a new processing factory in Yanji, Mr. Qu said.
Some of the crab meat was vacuum packed in clear plastic, and sold to other Chinese traders, who in turn dispatched it to the United States, he said. The brand name of North Korean crab meat sold in the United States? ''They slap on their own brands,'' he said of the American buyers.
He said North Korea's recent nuclear test would have few consequences for his business. China will continue to invest in Rason, where business conditions had steadily improved, he said. The Agricultural Bank of China, one of China's big banks, recently opened a branch in the city, making it possible to pay his suppliers, and the North Koreans now allow Chinese traders to take their cellphones into North Korea.
Even though China is by far North Korea's biggest investor, the North Korean government distrusts the traders, and they are kept apart from North Korean workers, he said. When he has driven to Rason, he has stayed at a state-owned hotel catering specifically to Chinese.
''I don't care about politics,'' said Mr. Qu. ''There hasn't been any impact from the test on my business, and I don't think there will be. Anyway, China has rented Rason for 50 years.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Crabs imported from North Korea at a market in Yanji, China. China has resisted efforts to put sanctions on trade with its neighbor.
 A customer outside the Red Sun restaurant in Yanji. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ADAM DEAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAPS: Yanji has a love-hate relationship with North Korea. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL FISHING (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (76%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (69%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (52%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JILIN, CHINA (91%); NORTHEAST CHINA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (79%) CHINA (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2013



144 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1170 words

HEADLINE: High Hopes, New Challenges

BYLINE: By BEN STRAUSS

 BODY:
HAVANA -- On Sunday, the morning after Cuba's 5-2 triumph against Brazil in Fukuoka, Japan, its opening game in this year's World Baseball Classic, Sigfredo Barros ventured to the tree-lined Central Park here to partake in the musings of La Peña del Parque Central, a group of men who gather each day to debate baseball.
A 67-year-old with a white push broom mustache and an easy sense of humor, Barros is a 42-year veteran baseball writer for Granma, the official newspaper of Cuba's Communist Party. Among the country's most passionate fans, he is something of a rock star. He was immediately surrounded by dozens of the men, who were eager to engage in the back and forth, creating a scene that might exist in the United States if sports radio were suddenly converted to face-to-face exchanges and no one ever hung up the phone. The opinions flew at Barros, seemingly all at once.
''Brazil was easy! Wait until we have to play Japan.'' 
''The lineup is thin. We have no pitching!''
''A win is a win. Let's be happy today.''
After 15 minutes, Barros lighted a cigarette and politely extricated himself from the group. ''This tournament is the most important we have for the team and the country,'' he said later. ''It is like the World Cup for soccer in Brazil.''
In Cuba, where the domestic league, or National Series, is strictly amateur and players must defect to play in Major League Baseball, the national team is the pinnacle of the sport. The World Baseball Classic is a rare chance to compete against the world's best talent, whipping this baseball-mad country into a fervor.
Yet beneath the shell of excitement, this year's tournament comes at a challenging moment for Cuban baseball. In addition to the well-documented defections of players to the United States, there are also worries that diluted talent in the National Series is not properly preparing players for the national team. And with international tournaments like the Olympics eliminating baseball, there are suddenly fewer marquee international amateur tournaments in which to compete. Taken together, the contributing factors have created concern, if not quite a crisis, and put even more emphasis on the Classic.
''Baseball players grow like the grass in Cuba,'' Barros said. ''But it is a very interesting question to think about the future.''
With most citizens in communist Cuba earning no more than the equivalent of $20 each month, gathering to view the Classic in bars and restaurants is a difficult economic proposition. Most watched Saturday night's game at home, where MLB Network's video feed was available, but without any of the commercials and dubbed with play-by-play from Cuban announcers. It left the usually bustling streets of Havana quiet for a weekend night.
In the inaugural tournament, in 2006, Cuba surprised many pundits with its run to the championship round before losing to Japan. In 2009, the team advanced to the second round of group play.
Barros, who did not travel to Japan because of two knee operations he had last year, turned wide-eyed and giddy remembering the 2006 tournament.
''It was hard for people in Cuba with heart trouble,'' he said.
Alexei Ramirez, who played on the 2006 team and is now a shortstop with the Chicago White Sox, recalled returning to Havana and being met by government officials and later by Fidel Castro after a parade down the Malecón, a boulevard that runs along the Gulf coast.
''I remember it like it was yesterday,'' Ramirez said with a wide smile. ''There was nothing like it.''
But Ramirez, like several other Cuban stars from past Classics, including Yoenis Cespedes of Oakland and Aroldis Chapman of Cincinnati, defected and is now in the major leagues. He is barred from returning to his home country, much less playing for it.
As one of the members of the Peña lamented, ''Imagine our team with Alexei, Chapman and Cespedes.''
According to the Web site BaseballdeCuba.com, 169 Cubans have played in the major leagues. That includes 22 defectors who have made their debut since 2000, compared with 10 in the 1990s, suggesting that the path to the United States for ballplayers is becoming more attractive.
''The younger guys have been more and more likely to leave,'' said Peter Bjarkman, the author of ''A History of Cuban Baseball, 1864-2006.'' ''There isn't as much depth. There are still great stars, but the overall quality of the Cuban league is down.''
This year, the National Series is attempting to remedy that by reducing the number of teams for the second half of the season, to 8 from 16. When the Cuban players return from the Classic, only the top eight teams in the standings will compete, drafting the best players from teams that have been eliminated.
On an island with a population of 11 million, there has been much debate over whether 16 teams -- one located in each province, and the municipality of the Isla de la Juventud -- is practical for preparing players for the national team. Some have pointed out that before the Castro-led revolution in 1959, the Cuban professional league consisted of only four teams, although they played almost exclusively in Havana.
''It is an important decision for the Cuban game,'' Barros said. ''This will help us elevate the play of our national team, which is the most important.''
But where, exactly, the national team will play has recently become another hurdle. Baseball was removed from the Olympics for the 2012 Games, and the Baseball World Cup, run by the International Baseball Federation, was discontinued in 2011 (there is hope for an iteration of the tournament to begin in 2015). The Caribbean Series would seem an ideal fit for the Cuban national team, but the team did not compete this year because it could not afford what was said to be a $1 million entrance fee.
Still, such worries have done little to dampen the enthusiasm for this year's Classic. The fanatics here speak in reverence of Frederich Cepeda, the outfielder who was one of two unanimous all-tournament selections at the 2009 Classic, and Alfredo Despaigne, who set a Cuban league record with 36 home runs last season.
Cuba followed its win over Brazil with a 12-0 thumping of China the next day (the game began at 2:30 a.m. local time Monday), clinching a place in the second round -- and raising hopes just a little higher.
''There are some very strong teams,'' Barros said, guarding against too much optimism when asked about Cuba's chances to win the Classic.
The Peña, too, was back in session Monday, huddled next to the statue of José Martí, a leader in the Cuban struggle for independence from Spain in the 19th century. The morning sun soon peeked through the cloud cover, brightening the impressive baroque facade of Havana's Grand Theater, which overlooks the park.
Voices rose and arms gesticulated wildly as lineup changes were questioned and pitching rotations discussed. Joaquin Vizquel, a member of the Peña, stood a few feet from the main scrum. As he watched his countrymen, he said, ''I want Cuba to win so badly, and I think it is possible.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Clockwise from top, photographs of players and Fidel Castro on the walls of a restaurant
the sportswriter Sigfredo Barros, center, talked with fans
baseball merchandise in Havana's Old Town
second baseman Raul Gonzalez at the World Baseball Classic. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BEN STRAUSS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 TORU HANAI/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (94%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); AMATEUR SPORTS (78%); SPORTS AWARDS (78%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (78%); CELEBRITIES (77%); SOCCER (73%); RADIO FORMATS (70%); WRITERS (70%); POP & ROCK (69%); RESTAURANTS (60%); POLITICAL PARTIES (55%)

PERSON: FIDEL CASTRO (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KYUSHU, JAPAN (73%) BRAZIL (94%); CUBA (93%); JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2013



145 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1182 words

HEADLINE: A Private Boom Amid Detroit's Public Blight

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY; Bill Vlasic contributed reporting.

 BODY:
DETROIT -- Private industry is blooming here, even as the city's finances have descended into wreckage.
In late 2011, Rachel Lutz opened a clothing shop, the Peacock Room, which proved so successful that she opened another one, Emerald, last fall. Shel Kimen, who had worked in advertising in New York, is negotiating to build a boutique hotel and community space. Big companies like Blue Cross Blue Shield have moved thousands of workers into downtown Detroit in recent years. A Whole Foods grocery, this city's first, is scheduled to open in June.
On Friday, just as Michigan's governor, Rick Snyder, was deeming an outside, emergency manager a necessity to save Detroit's municipal finances, the once-teetering Big Three automakers were reporting growing sales.
''It's almost a tale of two cities here,'' said Ms. Lutz, who is 32. ''I tripled my projections in my first year.'' 
Around the country, as businesses have recovered, the public sector has in many cases struggled and shrunk. Detroit may be the most extreme example of a city's dual fates, public and private, diverging.
At times, the widening divide has been awkward, even tense. As private investors contemplated opening coffee bean roasters, urban gardening suppliers and fish farms, Detroit firefighters complained about shortages of equipment, suitable boots and even a dearth of toilet paper.
''You've got to walk before you run, and for many years we weren't even walking,'' William C. Ford Jr., executive chairman of the Ford Motor Company, said of the developments of late within Detroit's private sector. ''But now it's really interesting. Even as the political and financial situations continue to deteriorate, in spite of that, there is very hopeful business activity taking place.''
In the eyes of some, the signs of a private sector turnaround have only served to accentuate divisions: a mostly black city with an influx of young, sometimes white artists and entrepreneurs; a revived downtown but hollowed-out neighborhoods beyond; an upbeat mood among business leaders even as the city's frustrated elected officials face diminished, uncertain roles under state supervision.
''There's been way too much focus on the corporations and not enough on the residents,'' said Krystal Crittendon, a candidate for mayor and a critic of government incentives, including tax breaks, that have helped encourage some of the projects. ''Private businesses are coming in and basically purchasing properties for a penny, but meanwhile there's no concentration on the neighborhoods and the common folks. We have to be sure everyone participates in this recovery.''
Daniel F. McNamara, the president of the Detroit Fire Fighters Association, described the city's economic growth as ''small little pockets'' in an otherwise painful cityscape where services like fire protection have shrunk to too few firefighters and too many shuttered fire companies.
''If you're a hedged investor, this is great,'' Mr. McNamara said. ''There are lots of attempts at tremendous things going on. But for you and me, has our world changed any? Not so much. There are so many individual tragedies going on.''
No doubt the picture here remains murky and unfinished. For all the talk of a private sector renaissance, demographers say that much of the economic growth remains mostly around the downtown and midtown sections, a small fraction of a vast 139-square-mile city that is otherwise wrestling with vacant homes, empty blocks, darkened streetlights, crime fears and overburdened police officers. While businesses have returned to Detroit, some others have left, and this city's most essential problem, its swiftly dipping population, demographers say, has yet to reverse itself.
This city grew up around the automobile, becoming home to more than 1.8 million residents by 1950, before the population began sinking along with a decline of manufacturing, wide-scale flight to the suburbs, and the travails of the American automobile industry. From 2000 until 2010, Detroit's population dropped by 25 percent, the biggest percentage loss during that decade for any American city with more than 100,000 people, aside from New Orleans, which had been pummeled by a hurricane. About 707,000 people live here now, by recent estimates, though some demographers say the city has already lost more residents.
But so much misery also brought newcomers: out-of-town investors who learned of properties for sale at prices unimaginable in other cities and young entrepreneurs, artists and musicians who said they valued Detroit, in part, for its grit and its seemingly wide open spaces, the very elements that had made some people flee. Business incubators, like TechTown, began emerging, and Michigan business executives began reinvesting in the city, among them figures like Dan Gilbert, the founder of Quicken Loans, who has bought building after building downtown.
Meanwhile, Detroit's car companies have experienced what had once seemed like the unlikeliest of comebacks after the financial crisis. General Motors and Chrysler emerged from bankruptcy filings and government bailouts to far more upbeat signs -- and with investments in Detroit. Not long ago, Chrysler moved its regional marketing team into a downtown building here, and an assembly plant in the city, Jefferson North, was retooled to produce a new version of the Jeep Grand Cherokee sport utility vehicles, among the company's hottest sellers.
Governor Snyder's announcement last week that the city had reached the point of financial emergency drew new, widespread awareness to the crisis, but business leaders here said they had been well aware of the government's misery -- and defiantly moving on in the face of it -- for years. In a way, some viewed the announcement as merely a public acknowledgment of a long-held truth, raising the prospect that the public sector might eventually be sorted out and catch up to industry.
''Everything has sort of been operating on separate tracks,'' said Kurt Metzger, director of Data Driven Detroit, a nonprofit organization that tracks demographic, economic and housing trends in the region. ''The business and philanthropic communities had basically just decided to go ahead in spite of government.''
Still unanswered, though, is how a shifting government alignment may change the business climate. Mr. Snyder's decision would shore up Detroit's finances with a state-assigned manager granted sweeping powers to merge or eliminate city departments, call for the sale of city assets, and adjust contracts with labor unions. That move has created new uncertainty for some entrepreneurs about what exactly that may mean for business.
''The honest answer is, I just don't know,'' said Ms. Kimen, the hotel and community space developer, whose plans for the Eastern Market neighborhood include something like a cross between a museum and a public library. She said she had at various points considered Maine, Memphis, even Alaska before she left New York City in 2011 for Detroit. ''I'm here and I'm committed,'' she said, adding, ''This city has had so many heartbreaks.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Detroit headquarters of General Motors in the distance. The company is thriving again. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. D. POOLEY/GETTY IMAGES) (A1)
Demographers say Detroit's economic growth is occurring mostly around a small fraction of the vast 139-square-mile city. But Detroit continues to struggle with vacant homes, empty blocks, darkened streetlights, crime fears and an overburdened police force. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY REBECCA COOK/REUTERS
 FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (78%); RETAILERS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (74%); MAYORS (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); GARDENING (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); AUTOMAKERS (69%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); TAX INCENTIVES (60%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); ANTHEM BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD OF OHIO (57%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (57%)

PERSON: RICK SNYDER (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2013



146 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1180 words

HEADLINE: Cabinet Picks Could Take On Climate Policy

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER and MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama on Monday named two people to his cabinet who will be charged with making good on his threat to use the powers of the executive branch to tackle climate change and energy policy if Congress does not act quickly.
Mr. Obama nominated Gina McCarthy, a tough-talking native of Boston and an experienced clean air regulator, to take charge at the Environmental Protection Agency, and Ernest J. Moniz, a physicist and strong advocate of natural gas and nuclear power as cleaner alternatives to coal, to run the Department of Energy.
The appointments, which require Senate confirmation, send an unmistakable signal that the president intends to mount a multifaceted campaign in his second term to tackle climate change by using all the executive branch tools at his disposal.
But even with Ms. McCarthy and Mr. Moniz in place, Mr. Obama would have to confront major hurdles in trying to refashion the American way of producing and consuming energy, the same hurdles that stymied climate and energy policy in his first term. 
Among the first of those is a decision on the Keystone XL pipeline, which the administration appears inclined to approve over the vociferous objections of environmental advocates.
Mr. Obama, in introducing the nominees at the White House on Monday, recognized the political and economic delicacy of the task facing both of them.
''So these two over here,'' he said, gesturing toward Ms. McCarthy and Mr. Moniz, ''they're going to be making sure that we're investing in American energy, that we're doing everything that we can to combat the threat of climate change, that we're going to be creating jobs and economic opportunity in the first place.''
It is a difficult, even paradoxical task. Addressing climate change and ensuring domestic energy independence have sometimes proved to be contradictory goals, analysts said.
''The president himself has framed the challenge of going all in to cut the pollution that causes climate change while still having an 'all-of-the-above' energy policy,'' said Gene Karpinski, the president of the League of Conservation Voters. ''We need to make sure we lean heavily on the clean energy alternatives and all the measures that cut carbon pollution, and don't in essence take two steps forward and one step back. We will not solve the problem that way.''
Mr. Obama has embraced the boom in unconventional natural gas production, which has brought lower energy prices and reduced emissions as utilities switch from coal to natural gas to produce electricity. But the production of natural gas through hydraulic fracturing, known as fracking, presents difficult environmental issues, including the possibility of groundwater contamination and the unregulated release of methane, a potent greenhouse gas.
Natural gas is cleaner than coal, but it is still a fossil fuel that even its advocates see as a bridge fuel rather than a long-term answer to climate change.
Mr. Obama has also pursued increased offshore drilling for oil and gas in the Gulf of Mexico and the Arctic Ocean, an enterprise fraught with environmental peril, as the BP oil spill in the gulf in 2010 and Shell's mishaps in the Arctic last year dramatized.
In leaning toward construction of the pipeline, the administration would be embracing a project to carry heavy crude oil from tar sands formations in Alberta to refineries in Texas. That would result in the delivery of 800,000 barrels of oil a day from a friendly source and thousands of construction, refinery and spinoff jobs. But a State Department environmental impact report issued Friday notes that extracting, shipping and refining the Canadian oil would produce measurably more greenhouse gas emissions than other types of oil.
Michael A. Levi, a climate and energy fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, said that the appointments of Ms. McCarthy, 58, and Mr. Moniz, 68, represent a continuation of the president's first-term policies rather than a sharp break. The two are practical, practiced insiders who put a premium on finding workable solutions and have more experience navigating the federal bureaucracy and Congress than the officials they have been tapped to succeed, Lisa P. Jackson at the E.P.A. and Steven Chu at Energy.
''Putting it all together,'' Mr. Levi said, ''it appears to reinforce the president's stated desire to push forward on a variety of different fronts. These are not people who want to use a club casually. They are not about to use rigid regulations to try to force deep changes in the U.S. economy, but they are also people who want to do big things.''
The E.P.A., which the Supreme Court granted authority to regulate carbon dioxide and other heat-trapping gases, is in the midst of writing regulations governing such emissions from new power plants. Those rules, expected to be completed this year, would essentially bar construction of any new coal-fired power plants unless they included the means to capture carbon gases, a technology that does not yet exist on a commercial scale.
But to make a real dent in the nation's emissions, the agency must then devise emissions limits for existing plants, a hugely controversial project that could force the shutdown of dozens of older coal-burning power plants, cause a steep drop in domestic demand for coal and trigger a sharp rise in energy prices.
No matter how carefully written -- and Ms. McCarthy is an expert on federal air quality law -- any such regulations would be subject to intense opposition in the courts, and in Congress, which could seek to overturn the regulations.
David Doniger, the director of the climate and clean air program at the Natural Resources Defense Council, said that the big issues before the Obama administration were the budget, immigration, gun control and climate. ''Climate change is the only one of these where he has the authority to take significant action under laws the Congress has already passed, principally the Clean Air Act, and the energy efficiency laws that Moniz will be implementing,'' Mr. Doniger said.
''The two agencies can work together,'' he said. ''We think these two appointees both very seriously get climate change.''
In addition to the E.P.A., the Energy Department has a strong role in the government's climate change efforts, said Dan W. Reicher, who served in two assistant secretary positions at the department while Mr. Moniz was an under secretary during the Clinton administration.
Some actions would be fairly direct, like setting additional efficiency standards for appliances. The department also still has $17.5 billion in loan guarantee authority for new nuclear projects, Mr. Reicher pointed out, and has primary responsibility for handling civilian nuclear wastes -- a problem that is vital to the future of the civilian nuclear power industry.
The Energy Department's failure to begin accepting waste by the contractual deadline, which was in 1998, costs billions of dollars in penalties to taxpayers. And, he said, the department would most likely play a role in another of Mr. Obama's priorities: reducing nuclear weapons.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gina McCarthy
Ernest J. Moniz (A1)
 Ernest J. Moniz, nominated to the Energy Department, and Gina McCarthy, named to the E.P.A. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY REGULATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (77%); EMISSIONS (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (77%); GREENHOUSE GASES (77%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (76%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (76%); AIR POLLUTION (76%); METHANE (76%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (75%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (72%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (72%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (72%); APPROVALS (71%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (70%); WATER POLLUTION (66%); JOB CREATION (65%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2013



147 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1164 words

HEADLINE: Come Home, America

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH COBBS HOFFMAN. 
Elizabeth Cobbs Hoffman, a professor of American foreign relations at San Diego State University, is the author, most recently, of ''American Umpire.''

 BODY:
SAN DIEGO
EVERYONE talks about getting out of Iraq and Afghanistan. But what about Germany and Japan?
The sequester -- $85 billion this year in across-the-board budget cuts, about half of which will come from the Pentagon -- gives Americans an opportunity to discuss a question we've put off too long: Why we are still fighting World War II?
Since 1947, when President Harry S. Truman set forth a policy to stop further Soviet expansion and ''support free peoples'' who were ''resisting subjugation by armed minorities or by outside pressures,'' America has acted as the world's policeman.
For more than a century, Britain had ''held the line'' against aggression in Eurasia, but by World War II it was broke. Only two years after the Allies met at Yalta to hammer out the postwar order, London gave Washington five weeks' notice: It's your turn now. The Greek government was battling partisans supplied by Communist Yugoslavia. Turkey was under pressure to allow Soviet troops to patrol its waterways. Stalin was strong-arming governments from Finland to Iran. 
Some historians say Truman scared the American people into a broad, open-ended commitment to world security. But Americans were already frightened: in 1947, 73 percent told Gallup that they considered World War III likely.
From the Truman Doctrine emerged a strategy comprising multiple alliances: the Rio Pact of 1947 (Latin America), the NATO Treaty of 1949 (Canada and Northern and Western Europe), the Anzus Treaty of 1951 (Australia and New Zealand) and the Seato Treaty of 1954 (Southeast Asia). Seato ended in 1977, but the other treaties remain in force, as do collective-defense agreements with Japan, South Korea and the Philippines. Meanwhile, we invented the practice of foreign aid, beginning with the Marshall Plan.
It was a profound turn even from 1940, when Franklin D. Roosevelt won a third term pledging not to plunge the United States into war. Isolationism has had a rich tradition, from Washington's 1796 warning against foreign entanglements to the 1919 debate over the Treaty of Versailles, in which Henry Cabot Lodge argued, ''The less we undertake to play the part of umpire and thrust ourselves into European conflicts the better for the United States and for the world.''
World War II, and the relative impotence of the United Nations, convinced successive administrations that America had to fill the breach, and we did so, with great success. The world was far more secure in the second half of the 20th century than in the disastrous first half. The percentage of the globe's population killed in conflicts between states fell in each decade after the Truman Doctrine. America experienced more wars (Korea, Vietnam, the two Iraq wars, Afghanistan) but the world, as a whole, experienced fewer.
We were not so much an empire -- the empire decried by the scholar and veteran Andrew J. Bacevich and celebrated by the conservative historian Niall Ferguson -- as an umpire, one that stood for equal access by nation-states to political and economic gains; peaceful arbitration of international conflict; and transparency in trade and business.
But conditions have changed radically since the cold war. When the United States established major bases in West Germany and Japan, they were considered dangerous renegades that needed to be watched. Their reconstructed governments also desired protection, particularly from the Soviet Union and China. NATO's first secretary general, Hastings Ismay, famously said the alliance existed ''to keep the Russians out, the Americans in, and the Germans down.''
Today, our largest permanent bases are still in Germany and Japan, which are perfectly capable of defending themselves and should be trusted to help their neighbors. It's time they foot more of the bill or operate their own bases. China's authoritarian capitalism hasn't translated into territorial aggression, while Russia no longer commands central and eastern Europe. That the military brass still talk of maintaining the capacity to fight a two-front war -- presumably on land in Europe, and at sea in the Pacific -- speaks to the irrational endurance of the Truman Doctrine.
Our wars in the Middle East since 2001 doubled down on that costly, outdated doctrine. The domino theory behind the Vietnam War revived under a new formulation: but for the American umpire, the bad guys (Al Qaeda, Iran, North Korea) will win.
Despite his supporters' expectations, President Obama has followed a Middle East policy nearly identical to his predecessor's. He took us out of Iraq, only to deepen our commitment to Afghanistan, from which we just now pulling out. He rejected the most odious counterterrorism techniques of George W. Bush's administration, but otherwise did not change basic policies. Mr. Obama's gestures toward multilateralism were not matched by a commensurate commitment from many of our allies.
Cynics assert that the ''military-industrial complex'' Dwight D. Eisenhower presciently warned against has primarily existed to enrich and empower a grasping, imperialist nation. But America was prosperous long before it was a superpower; by 1890, decades before the two world wars, it was already the world's largest and richest economy. We do not need a large military to be rich. Quite the opposite: it drains our resources.
Realists contend that if we quit defending access to the world's natural resources -- read, oil -- nobody else would. Really? It's not likely that the Europeans, who depend on energy imports far more than the nation that owns Texas and Alaska would throw up their hands and bury their heads in the sand. It's patronizing and naïve to think that America is the only truly ''necessary'' country. Good leaders develop new leaders. The Libyan crisis showed that our allies can do a lot.
The United States can and should pressure Iran and North Korea over their nuclear programs. It must help to reform and strengthen multilateral institutions like the United Nations, the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. It must champion the right of small nations, including Israel, to ''freedom from fear.'' But there are many ways of achieving these goals, and they don't all involve more borrowing and spending.
Partisan debates that focus on shaving a percentage point off the Pentagon budget here or there won't take us where we need to go. Both parties are stuck in a paradigm of costly international activism while emerging powers like China, India, Brazil and Turkey are accumulating wealth and raising productivity and living standards, as we did in the 19th century. The long-term consequences are obvious.
America since 1945 has paid a price in blood, treasure and reputation. Umpires may be necessary, but they are rarely popular and by definition can't win. Perhaps the other players will step up only if we threaten to leave the field. Sharing the burden of security with our allies is more than a fiscal necessity. It's the sine qua non of a return to global normalcy.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BEN JONES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WORLD WAR II (90%); BUDGETS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); HISTORY (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); BUDGET CUTS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (76%) UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); IRAQ (93%); JAPAN (93%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (92%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (88%); PHILIPPINES (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); FINLAND (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); NORTHERN EUROPE (79%); TURKEY (79%); UKRAINE (57%); GREECE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2013



148 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 574 words

HEADLINE: Record Fine Drags Down HSBC's Annual Earnings

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER

 BODY:
1:49 p.m. | Updated
LONDON -- HSBC, Britain's biggest bank, said on Monday that its net profit fell 17 percent last year because of a record fine to settle money laundering charges and changes related to the value of its debt.
Profit fell in 2012 to $13.5 billion from $16.2 billion a year earlier, failing to meet analysts' expectations. The bank also missed its own target of return on equity of 12 to 15 percent, recording only 8.4 percent on the measure last year. Its shares fell 2.5 percent in London on Monday. 
Despite the drop in earnings, HSBC disclosed Monday that 204 employees were each paid more than £1 million, or about $1.5 million, last year, compared with 192 who received more than £1 million a year earlier. The bank cut its bonus pool to $3.7 billion in 2012 from $4.2 billion across the entire company but slightly increased the amount it set aside to pay its investment banking staff.
The bank's chief executive, Stuart T. Gulliver, earned a total of $7.4 million last year, including benefits, pension and an annual bonus of $1.95 million, compared with $8 million a year earlier.
Douglas J. Flint, HSBC's chairman, said in a statement that last year was ''a difficult one for all at HSBC as we addressed the restructuring of the firm against a lower-growth economic backdrop and with legacy issues and regulatory challenges imposing a further set of imperatives.''
Mr. Gulliver added that he expected the market environment to remain ''difficult,'' but that HSBC would benefit from growth of the economies in China and the United States even if European markets continued to struggle.
To fulfill his pledge to increase profitability, Mr. Gulliver took the bank out of some markets, sold business divisions and eliminated jobs. HSBC has closed or sold 46 businesses and investments since 2011, including four this year. The bank sold its stake in Ping An Insurance of China for $9.4 billion and sold its credit card unit in the United States to Capital One Financial for $2.6 billion. HSBC also sold its unit in Panama to Bancolombia for $2.1 billion last month.
In December, HSBC agreed to a record $1.92 billion fine to settle charges with United States authorities that the bank breached rules against money laundering, including that it handled money transfers worth billions of dollars for countries under United States sanctions.
The bank has also had to set aside money to pay clients who were improperly sold some financial products. ''The level of complaints received was higher in volume and over a more sustained period than previously assumed,'' the bank said in its earnings report. HSBC had to set aside more than $2 billion to compensate customers, which prompted its British operations to report a loss for last year.
HSBC, based in London, generates more than half of its profit in Asia. Growth in China has helped the bank compensate for shrinking or slower-growing income in Europe since the beginning of the financial crisis. Europe was the only region where HSBC's earnings declined last year.
The bank said it had made solid progress on gradually reducing the size of its consumer lending and mortgage portfolio in the United States. HSBC's fastest-growing business last year was its retail banking and wealth management operation.
HSBC added that it planned to increase the first three interim dividends this year by 11 percent.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); FINES & PENALTIES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (77%); MONEY LAUNDERING (77%); DIVESTITURES (75%); BONUS PAY (74%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); EXECUTIVES (52%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (50%)

COMPANY: HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (92%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORP (63%); BANCOLOMBIA SA (52%); PING AN INSURANCE (GROUP) CO OF CHINA LTD (52%)

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (92%); HSB (PAR) (92%); HBC (NYSE) (92%); 0005 (HKSE) (92%); BK (NYSE) (85%); COF (NYSE) (63%); CIB (NYSE) (52%); 2318 (HKSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2013



149 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 517 words

HEADLINE: Nominee for Japan's Central Bank Vows Aggressive Action

BYLINE: By HIROKO TABUCHI

 BODY:
TOKYO -- The nominee to become the next Bank of Japan governor said Monday that he would do ''whatever is needed'' to finally end deflation in the world's third-largest economy. 
Haruhiko Kuroda, the nominee, who announced last week that he would resign as president of the Asian Development Bank, also called on the government to put its finances on a sounder footing to maintain investor confidence in the country's long-term solvency.
''If I am confirmed as governor, I will clearly communicate to markets that I am prepared to do whatever it takes to beat deflation,'' Mr. Kuroda told a confirmation hearing in Parliament.
''The Japanese economy has suffered from deflation for over 10, almost 15 years, which is a global anomaly of the most extreme. As prices have fallen, corporate profits and wages have shrunk, depressing consumption and investment and triggering even lower prices in a vicious cycle,'' he said.
''But to avoid a rise in interest rates and a loss of confidence in Japan's public finances, it is also critical to restore fiscal health in the mid- to long term,'' Mr. Kuroda said.
If confirmed, Mr. Kuroda is set to lead a crucial part of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's three-pronged plan to spur economic growth. Mr. Abe has pledged to push the Bank of Japan to do more to pump money into the economy, spend generously on public works to stimulate growth and draw on private sector expertise to devise a fresh economic strategy that would make that growth sustainable. The Japanese economy ranks only behind those of the United States and China in size.
Under pressure from Mr. Abe, the central bank has already promised to expand its asset-purchase program to achieve a 2 percent inflation goal, compared with a negative rate of inflation that has dogged Japan for most of the last 15 years. Japan has also kept its policy interest rate close to zero for years, to no avail.
Mr. Kuroda said, however, that the ''scale and scope'' of the Bank of Japan's asset purchases had so far not been enough to achieve inflation and that it would be natural for the central bank to buy longer-term bonds.
He also acknowledged that as Japan tackled deflation, the yen would weaken, but he stressed that devaluation was a side effect of an economic policy to bolster growth and not a goal in itself. His comments were in response to concerns that policies that weakened the yen would touch off a global round of devaluations as countries sought to weaken their currencies to lift their exports.
''There is evidence that currencies tend to fall for countries that ease monetary policy on a large scale,'' Mr. Kuroda said, ''but the B.O.J.'s policy is not targeting currencies.''
''The important thing is to ensure price stability and achieve the 2 percent price stability goal, although it could affect currencies in that process,'' he said.
The opposition Democratic Party, which still leads Mr. Abe's Liberal Democratic Party in Parliament's upper house, has signaled that it will not block Mr. Kuroda's nomination. The current Bank of Japan governor, Masaaki Shirakawa, is scheduled to step down on March 19.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Haruhiko Kuroda said at a parliamentary hearing on Monday that he would do ''whatever it takes'' to attack Japan's deflation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KYODO NEWS, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); DEFLATION (91%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); INFLATION (89%); DEVALUATION (84%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); CONSUMPTION (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (72%); BONDS (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%)

COMPANY: ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (72%); BANK OF JAPAN (58%)

ORGANIZATION: ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (58%)

TICKER: ATB (ASX) (72%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (72%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%)

PERSON: SHINZO ABE (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (89%) JAPAN (99%); ASIA (92%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2013



150 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1104 words

HEADLINE: Chinese Stocks Plunge on Plan to Tax Home Sales

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA and KEITH BRADSHER; David Barboza reported from Shanghai and Keith Bradsher from Hong Kong.

 BODY:
SHANGHAI -- Faced with a difficult combination of an economy addicted to cheap credit, exorbitant real estate prices fueled by that credit and mounting public concern that housing is no longer affordable, China's government is laying plans for steep new taxes on home sellers.
But those plans set off a sharp drop in Chinese stocks on Monday, as investors worried that the taxes could take a heavy toll on developers, an important sector of the Chinese economy. Any slowdown in real estate investment could ripple quickly across the entire economy, reducing demand for steel, cement, household appliances and many other mainstays of China's manufacturing-dependent economy. 
China's cabinet, or State Council, said late Friday that it would insist that home sellers pay a uniform 20 percent capital gains tax on their profit. The government also said it would make it harder for people to buy a second home.
Because China, as the world's second-largest economy behind the United States, now plays an increasingly important role in global demand for many goods, the drop in Chinese share prices quickly reverberated through stock and commodity markets across Asia. Stocks in Europe also fell; in the United States the stock market dipped early but recovered to register modest gains by the end of the day.
Fearing a real estate bubble, the Chinese government began imposing a series of administrative measures through 2011 and engineered a slowdown in bank lending that, by last spring, had turned into an actual credit squeeze. Real estate prices weakened slightly, but the measures also resulted in a steep deceleration in the construction industry last spring and summer, causing a sharp slowdown in economic growth across China.
''This shows the government is determined to dampen the property market,'' said Patrick Chovanec, chief strategist at Silver Crest Asset Management in New York and a former professor at Tsinghua University in Beijing. ''But they go through cycles when they want to pump up the economy, and then they want to cool it down. And this is what's happening again.''
The slowdown alarmed China's leaders and prompted them to unleash a flood of fresh credit last autumn and this winter from banks, semiregulated trusts and other sources.
With loans readily available again, there are signs now that rising real estate prices might be back. The National Statistics Bureau reported that prices jumped in 54 of the 70 cities tracked by the government in January. In Shanghai, for example, average property prices were up as much as 40 percent in the first two months of the year, compared to the same time last year.
''Despite the policy-induced slowdown in activity, Chinese property remains on a wildly unsustainable path,'' Mark Williams, an economist at Capital Economics, wrote in a research note. ''Developers actually completed just short of 11 million properties last year.''
In another worrying trend for the Chinese government, the flood of credit in the last few months has failed to cause a sharp uptick in sectors other than real estate; instead, the Chinese economy seems to be settling into a slower long-term growth rate even when receiving strong monetary stimulus.
The Chinese state news media said in recent days that the government was considering other measures in the hope of holding down housing prices. The announcements led to a weekend rush among those eager to buy and sell properties before the policy took effect.
With analysts predicting a sharp drop in property transactions after the policy takes effect, the Shanghai composite index fell 3.65 percent Monday to close at 2,273.40. In Hong Kong, the Hang Seng Index dropped 1.5 percent, to 22,537.81. Property developers were hit particularly hard. Shares of Vanke, one of the biggest property developers in China, fell the daily limit of 10 percent in Shenzhen. Poly Real Estate also dropped 10 percent in Shanghai. Early Tuesday, Chinese markets showed signs of stabilizing as shares gained slightly.
As share prices fell on Monday, the government opened its annual parliamentary meeting in Beijing, a session that is expected to complete the nation's once-a-decade leadership transition and also set the agenda for the leadership team. Among the major challenges Beijing's new leaders face is how to cope with a widening income gap and how to address inflation and the high cost of housing for ordinary Chinese. Another social issue is a generational divide, as tens of millions of young people are finding that home prices have soared far beyond their buying capacity.
A popular comparison among recent college graduates is that their typical paycheck of $500 a month means that in an entire year, they could save only enough to buy two square meters, or 21.5 square feet, of an apartment in a large coastal city, and then only if they spent nothing on food or anything else. Buying an 800-square-foot apartment could take the paychecks of an entire career, by that calculation.
Affluent families often spend heavily to help children buy their first homes, particularly sons -- a popular perception holds that young men have trouble finding spouses if they do not own a home. But buying a city apartment with family backing is seldom an option for the more than 10 million rural residents pouring into Chinese cities each year, as China maintains one of the world's fastest paces of urbanization.
Compounding the national angst over high real estate prices this winter has been a series of cases in which low-ranking government officials and bank managers on modest salaries have mysteriously been found to own dozens of homes. Some Chinese cities have responded to the acrimony in recent weeks by severely restricting public access to real estate records. The government's plan for a capital-gains tax on home sellers is a new suggestion that had received little public discussion. Previous tax plans to cool the sector had been focused on introducing annual taxes on the assessed value of luxury homes, which have experienced the fastest appreciation over the last decade.
The Chinese government has pushed hard for the annual tax because it would raise the carrying cost of homes and prompt more owners to rent or sell their homes, instead of leaving them vacant as speculative investments, as many do now. But local governments lack systems for assessing the value of homes. And many developers and homeowners have argued strenuously that an annual tax would be unfair because the government already owns the land in China and issues very long leases for it, requiring that a sizable fee be paid up front for each year of the lease.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Construction in Beijing. China's real estate market is overheated again. (B1)
 In Beijing, a model of a new apartment complex, above, and workers heading to a construction site, right. Investors feared the new tax would lead to a national economic slowdown. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KIM KYUNG-HOON/REUTERS) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (95%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (78%); HOUSING BUBBLE (78%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); SILVER MARKETS (72%); STATISTICS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: EVERGRANDE REAL ESTATE GROUP LTD (92%)

TICKER: 3333 (HKSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS236116 NEW MULTIFAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (92%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (92%); SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (92%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (93%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); EAST CHINA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2013



151 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 606 words

HEADLINE: Despite News on China, Dow Closes on a High

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Investors brushed off early anxiety about a potential slowdown in China and pushed the Dow to its highest close of the year.
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 38.16 points, or 0.27 percent, to 14,127.82. The index is a fraction of a percentage point away from its nominal record close of 14,164, reached on Oct. 9, 2007.
Stocks initially dropped at the opening bell as investors showed concern that new steps introduced by the Chinese government to cool China's booming housing market would hurt growth in the world's second-largest economy after the United States. 
China plans to raise minimum down payments in areas where prices are deemed to be rising too fast and crack down on efforts to evade limits on how many properties each buyer can acquire.
''The U.S. market continues to digest the negative news and hang tough,'' said Ryan Detrick, a senior strategist at Schaeffer's Investment Research.
The stock market has rallied this year on optimism that the American housing market is recovering and signs that companies are hiring more. Strong corporate earnings and continuing economic stimulus from the Federal Reserve have also helped push stock prices higher.
Despite having already logged strong gains this year, stocks may still be able to maintain their momentum as investors move money out of bonds, said Robert T. Lutts, chief investment officer at Cabot Money Management.
''It's all about where the money is going,'' Mr. Lutts said. ''If the money that is sitting on the sideline, or in bonds, is moving into equities, that alone is enough to create that shift.''
Investors put $2.8 billion into stock mutual funds in the week ending Feb. 27, according to Lipper, which tracks mutual fund data. That is the eighth straight week investors have put more money into stocks.
On Monday, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 7 points, or 0.46 percent, to 1,525.20. The Nasdaq composite index gained 12.29 points, or 0.39 percent, to 3,182.03.
The Dow has risen 7.8 percent so far this year and the S.& P. 500 index is 6.9 percent higher; the yield on the 10-year Treasury note remains below 2 percent. On Monday, the price of the 10-year Treasury note fell 10/32, to 101 3/32. Its yield rose to 1.88 percent, from 1.85 percent late Friday.
For now, stocks are likely to trend higher as investors who missed the rally at the start of the year are buying stocks on any drops in the market, said Scott Wren, a senior equity strategist at Wells Fargo Advisors.
Janet Yellen, vice chairwoman of the Federal Reserve, said on Monday that she did not see risks at the moment from the central bank's low-interest-rate policies. The Fed is buying $85 billion each month in Treasury and mortgage-backed securities to keep long-term interest rates very low.
Investors' enthusiasm is being held in check by the automatic government budget cuts that took effect Friday after President Obama and Congress failed to reach a budget deal. Economists expect the cuts to hurt economic growth. Both Republicans and Democrats pledged to retroactively undo the cuts.
Among the stocks on the move on Monday, Select Comfort, a manufacturer of specialty mattresses, fell $3.23, or 15.7 percent, to $17.28, after the company warned that it would probably fall short of its first-quarter goals as a result of lower-than-expected sales.
Hess gained $2.30, or 3.5 percent, to $68.84, after the company said it would get out of the retail business, energy trading and marketing to focus on exploration and production.
Apple fell $10.42, or 2.4 percent, to $420. The stock has now fallen 12 out the last 14 trading days and is trading at its lowest point in a year.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); BONDS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (87%); MUTUAL FUNDS (79%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); TRENDS (75%); BOND MARKETS (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (66%); EXECUTIVES (66%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO ADVISORS LLC (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2013



152 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 742 words

HEADLINE: Texans Rebut Governor On Expansion Of Medicaid

BYLINE: By MANNY FERNANDEZ

 BODY:
AUSTIN, Tex. -- Hundreds of activists and uninsured Texans plan to rally at the steps of the Capitol here Tuesday, increasing the pressure on Gov. Rick Perry and other Republican leaders to switch their stance on expanding Medicaid, a major provision of President Obama's health care overhaul.
Mr. Perry has told federal officials that Texas has no intention of expanding Medicaid, the government health insurance program for low-income and sick people, saying he would not take part in socializing health care and admitting millions of Texans into an unsustainable program at a cost of billions to taxpayers. When Mr. Perry made his decision official in July, he wrote of standing ''with the growing chorus of governors who reject the Obamacare power grab.'' 
In recent weeks, however, that chorus has diminished, as several Republican governors who had resisted the expansion -- including Chris Christie of New Jersey and Rick Scott of Florida -- said they would accept federal money to expand the program. Meanwhile, the number of state organizations and individuals who vocally support an expansion in Texas has grown.
Several cities and counties have passed resolutions calling for expansion of the program -- including the City Councils of Austin and Waco -- as have health care and financial experts, including Elena Marks, former director of health policy for the City of Houston, and Ray Perryman, an influential economist in Waco. The Texas Medical Association, which represents more than 47,000 physicians and medical students, asked state leaders to expand the program while instituting reforms. The Chambers of Commerce in Dallas, Fort Worth, San Antonio and other cities also support expansion.
Texas has the highest rate of uninsured residents of any state, 24 percent of the population, officials said. Supporters said the Medicaid expansion would provide coverage to more than one million low-income Texans and ease the burden on local taxpayers, who help support the public hospitals now providing much of the care to the uninsured.
The federal law covers 100 percent of the costs for the first three years of the state's Medicaid expansion, and in the years that follow, Texas would not pay more than 10 percent. From 2014 to 2023, about $100 billion would be available to the state in an expansion, with Texas having to pay about $15 billion in that time, supporters said.
''If you have a chance to provide that coverage and improve health care, then in the long run, you're going to have a healthier, more productive state,'' said Dr. Roland A. Goertz, the chief executive of the Waco Family Health Center, which treats thousands of Medicaid and uninsured patients annually.
A spokeswoman for Governor Perry, Lucy Nashed, said his position had not changed.
''It would be irresponsible to add more Texans and dump more taxpayer dollars into a broken and unsustainable system that already consumes a quarter of our budget, making it harder to pay for other things like public safety and education,'' Ms. Nashed said. ''Medicaid should transform into a system that gives the states flexibility to tailor the program to serve the needs of their specific and unique challenges.''
Critics of Mr. Perry's stance have grown increasingly brazen. In January, protesting activists interrupted Mr. Perry's State of the State address at the Capitol. One of the most significant developments for Medicaid advocates came the day before, however, when a report by the state's former deputy comptroller, Billy Hamilton, described expansion as smart, affordable and fair.
The report found a substantial impact on the Texas economy. In fiscal years 2014 to 2017, the injection of $27.5 billion in new federal Medicaid money would increase the state's economic output by nearly $68 billion, said the report, which was sponsored by two religious-based advocacy groups, Texas Impact and Methodist Healthcare Ministries.
Some leaders, including State Senator Tommy Williams, a Republican and chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, have insisted that the state needs flexibility to administer a ''Texas solution,'' like requiring co-pays and deductibles for Medicaid recipients and enrollment in private or employer plans if available.
The likelihood of a compromise remains unclear. Officials with the federal Department of Health and Human Services said they were not currently in talks with Mr. Perry's office, but welcomed conversations with him and other governors.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MEDICAID (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (77%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); HOSPITALS (72%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (71%); CITIES (71%)

ORGANIZATION: HOUSTON TEXANS (86%); TEXAS MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (54%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (90%); RICK SCOTT (77%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (93%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (73%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (58%) TEXAS, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2013



153 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1451 words

HEADLINE: A Stealthy Subsidy Aiding Big Businesses Is Growing

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH and LOUISE STORY

 BODY:
The last time the nation's tax code was overhauled, in 1986, Congress tried to end a big corporate giveaway.
But this valuable perk -- the ability to finance a variety of business projects cheaply with bonds that are exempt from federal taxes -- has not only endured, it has grown, in what amounts to a stealth subsidy for private enterprise.
A winery in North Carolina, a golf resort in Puerto Rico and a Corvette museum in Kentucky, as well as the Barclays Center in Brooklyn and the offices of the Goldman Sachs Group and the Bank of America Tower in New York -- all of these projects, and many more, have been built using the tax-exempt bonds that are more conventionally used by cities and states to pay for roads, bridges and schools.
In all, more than $65 billion of these bonds have been issued by state and local governments on behalf of corporations since 2003, according to an analysis of Bloomberg bond data by The New York Times. During that period, the single biggest beneficiary of such securities was the Chevron Corporation, which issued bonds with a total face value of $2.6 billion, the analysis showed. Last year it reported a profit of $26 billion. 
At a time when Washington is rent by the politics of taxes and deficits, select companies are enjoying a tax break normally reserved for public works. This style of financing, called ''qualified private activity bonds,'' saves businesses money, because they can borrow at relatively low interest rates. But those savings come at the expense of American taxpayers, because the interest paid to bondholders is exempt from taxes.
What is more, the projects are often structured so companies can avoid paying state sales taxes on new equipment and, at times, avoid local property taxes. While some deals might encourage businesses to invest where they might otherwise not have invested, there are few guarantees that job creation or other economic benefits actually occur.
Budget analysts say these bonds amount to a government subsidy, in the form of forgone tax revenue. While it is difficult to calculate the precise dollar amount of the subsidy, given the number and variety of these bonds, experts say the annual cost to federal taxpayers could run into the billions.
''The federal government doesn't cut a check for this, but it costs the government in terms of lower tax revenue,'' said Lisa Washburn, a managing director at Municipal Market Advisors, an independent municipal research firm in Concord, Mass., that assisted The Times with its analysis.
''If these companies were to issue taxable bonds instead, then the federal government would receive tax revenues on them.''
Ms. Washburn added that the gain to companies, and bond buyers, can be big and long-lasting.
Chevron used most of its federally tax-free borrowings to expand a refinery in Pascagoula, Miss. Archer Daniels Midland, the agribusiness giant, used about $180 million in tax-exempt bonds to improve its grain-processing facilities in Indiana and Iowa. Alcoa raised $250 million to renovate an aluminum plant in Iowa.
Such financing arrangements are now worrying some state and local officials. Many are concerned that the budget battles in Washington will mean less federal money for them, and that the federal government might try to limit the scope of their own tax-free financing.
Some of the subsidized business projects are almost indistinguishable from public works. American Airlines, for instance, another big user of tax-exempt bonds over the last decade, used $1.3 billion of these securities to finance a new terminal at Kennedy International Airport. That terminal is owned by the City of New York; American is the builder, the borrower and a tenant.
As political controversy over the federal deficit has mounted, some fiscal experts have taken aim at this sort of tax-exempt borrowing. The team at the Bipartisan Policy Center led by Alice M. Rivlin, a former member of the Federal Reserve, and Pete V. Domenici, the former Republican senator, has called for ending it. A spokeswoman for the center said that such a change could bring in $50 billion for the federal government over 10 years.
The Obama administration would take a different approach, capping the value of the tax break that wealthy bond buyers enjoy, whether they buy private activity bonds or conventional municipal bonds. Some of the bonds in The Times's analysis are subject to the alternative minimum tax, but taxpayers who incur the A.M.T. typically do not buy those bonds. There are also tax-exempt private activity bonds that are used for hospitals and universities. The Times did not include those in the analysis, because they do not benefit profit-making companies.
It was Ms. Rivlin who, as founding director of the Congressional Budget Office, issued one of the first major reports on private activity bonds, which the report said were invented by officials in Mississippi eager to attract business during the Depression. In a 1981 report, Ms. Rivlin found that the bonds were in much wider use than previously understood. Companies were using the federal subsidy to build Kmarts, McDonald's restaurants, private golf courses and tennis clubs -- even a topless bar and an adult bookstore in Philadelphia.
''These trends have cast into sharp relief the questions concerning the public purpose'' of the subsidy, Ms. Rivlin wrote at the time. ''So far, federal legislation has left the definition of 'public purpose' to state and local governments.''
Finally, in 1986, in a sweeping tax reform signed by President Ronald Reagan, Congress set limits on qualified private activity bonds, giving each state a yearly allotment. Some projects, like airports and wharves, were not subject to the yearly limits. Others could not be financed with tax-exempt bonds at all, including golf courses, stadiums, hotels, massage parlors and tanning salons.
But over time, Reagan-era concerns about budget deficits faded, and so did some of the limits on tax-exempt private activity bonds. The Government Accountability Office reported in 2008 that use had risen to a record high and that once-forbidden projects like stadiums, hotels and golf courses were back.
''It is not clear whether facilities like these provide public benefits to federal taxpayers,'' the G.A.O. stated in its report.
In the years since 1986, Congress has lifted the caps on some states' or cities' allotments, often in response to natural disasters and other emergencies.
After the terrorist attacks in 2001, for example, Congress approved $8 billion worth of tax-exempt Liberty Bonds, which were in addition to New York State's normal allotment and could be used to keep companies from moving out of the neighborhood near ground zero. Goldman Sachs used around $1.6 billion of tax-exempt bonds under the program to help pay for its headquarters in Lower Manhattan. In a related program, Goldman agreed to keep 8,900 jobs in the city but has not met that level for the last three years, according to public records.
A spokesman for Goldman did not dispute that its jobs levels have been below 8,900 but said the bank was meeting its obligations.
The Liberty Bond program allowed for a limited amount of tax-exempt financing for projects beyond Lower Manhattan. That's how One Bryant Park L.L.C. was able to use $650 million of tax-exempt bonds to build the Bank of America Tower in Midtown.
In 2005, Congress created a similar program to spur rebuilding in areas of Louisiana, Alabama and Mississippi that were ravaged by Hurricane Katrina. The Times's data shows that much of the bond proceeds went to the oil and gas industry, or to showcase projects like hotels or the Superdome. In 2008, Congress passed the Heartland Disaster Tax Relief Act, a bond program to help 10 Midwestern states hit by flooding and tornadoes. The goal was to help businesses rebuild their destroyed property. But by the time the program was set to expire at the end of last year, the criteria had been expanded to include new businesses.
One of those businesses was Orascom Construction Industries of Egypt, which raised $1.2 billion of tax-exempt bonds to build a fertilizer plant in Iowa. Another was the Fatima Group of Pakistan. In December, a Fatima subsidiary raised $1.3 billion, tax-exempt, to build a fertilizer plant in Mount Vernon, Ind.
But weeks later, Indiana received alarming news: Pentagon officials said that fertilizer from Fatima's operations in Pakistan had been turning up in Afghanistan, in homemade bombs used against American troops. Gov. Mike Pence of Indiana has delayed the project while the Defense Department investigates. The $1.3 billion is now sitting in escrow and will have to go back to the bond buyers if the project is rejected.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Construction of Barclays Center in Brooklyn, top
the Bank of America Tower in Midtown Manhattan, above
and the headquarters of Goldman Sachs in Lower Manhattan, right, was financed with bonds that are exempt from federal taxes. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES
TINA FINEBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 MARIO TAMA/GETTY IMAGES) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX LAW (91%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (89%); BONDS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (78%); SALES TAX (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); US TERRITORIES (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); PROPERTY TAX (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); BOND ISSUES (72%); BOND MARKETS (72%); JOB CREATION (71%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (71%); FOOD INDUSTRY (66%); INTEREST RATES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (61%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (58%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); CHEVRON CORP (83%); ARCHER-DANIELS-MIDLAND CO (60%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%); CVX (NYSE) (83%); ADM (NYSE) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (83%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (83%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (83%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (83%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (60%); NAICS311224 SOYBEAN & OTHER OILSEED PROCESSING (60%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (60%); NAICS111191 OILSEED & GRAIN COMBINATION FARMING (60%); SIC2075 SOYBEAN OIL MILLS (60%); SIC2066 CHOCOLATE & COCOA PRODUCTS (60%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (60%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); PUERTO RICO (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2013



154 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 971 words

HEADLINE: Obama Faces Political Risks in Emphasizing Effects of Spending Cuts

BYLINE: By MICHAEL D. SHEAR

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- As the nation's top Democrat, President Obama has a clear imperative: to ratchet up pressure on Republicans for across-the-board spending cuts by using the power of his office to dramatize the impact on families, businesses and the military.
But as president, Mr. Obama is charged with minimizing the damage from the spending reductions and must steer clear of talking down the economy. A sustained campaign against the cuts by the president could become what one former aide called ''a self-fulfilling kind of mess.'' 
As a result, Mr. Obama is carefully navigating between maximizing heat on Republicans to undo the cuts while mobilizing efforts to make sure that the steep spending cuts do not hurt Americans. His advisers acknowledge the potential political perils ahead as the president struggles to find the right kind of balance.
At his first cabinet meeting of his second term on Monday, Mr. Obama called the cuts an ''area of deep concern'' that would slow the country's growth, but promised to ''manage through it'' while pursuing a robust agenda. It was an echo of his formulations from the White House podium on Friday, when he began to dial back the dire warnings about long lines at airports and furloughs of F.B.I. agents, to name a couple, that he had made over the past several weeks.
''I've instructed not just my White House but every agency to make sure that regardless of some of the challenges that they may face because of sequestration, we're not going to stop working on behalf of the American people,'' Mr. Obama said, using the formal name for the spending cuts.
The president's approach is unlikely to satisfy Mr. Obama's most partisan backers, who view blaming Republicans for the deep spending cuts -- especially in the military -- as a tantalizing opportunity for political gain. And stepping back from a battle over the cuts could allow the significantly lower spending to become the ''new normal'' for the federal budget.
But a high-profile focus on the cuts in the months ahead is risky, too.
If severe economic pain ultimately fails to materialize, Mr. Obama could be blamed for hyping the situation, much like his cabinet secretaries were in recent weeks. (Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano, for example, was criticized for declaring the nation would be ''less safe'' because of furloughs of border patrol agents.)
Seeking short-term political gain with the spending cuts could also make more difficult the president's hopes for a longer-term budget deal with Republicans on taxes and entitlement spending.
Mr. Obama's team is keenly aware that the more he focuses on the cuts, the more he threatens to divert attention from his second-term priorities on guns, immigration and preschool.
''You can't simply put them on hold and simply deal with this,'' David Axelrod, a former top adviser to Mr. Obama, said in an interview. The danger of sounding the alarm on the sequester, he said, is that ''you can so magnify the impact of it so that it becomes an even bigger self-fulfilling kind of mess.''
Mr. Obama was careful during his first term to seize on any bit of good economic news so that no one could accuse him of hurting the economy by his statements. That desire to be upbeat -- as in 2010, when administration officials declared a ''recovery summer'' just before the economy dipped again -- sometimes got him into trouble.
The question now for the president is how much to keep up the drumbeat of concern about the spending cuts in the weeks ahead.
In talking points distributed by the White House to Democratic pundits on Friday, advisers suggested focusing on how Republican refusal to accept tax increases will ''threaten our national security and hundreds of thousands of middle-class jobs and our entire economy while too many Americans are still looking for work.''
But the document also urges them to make the point that it is time to turn to other issues. Former Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the Democratic leader during the Clinton years and the first term of George W. Bush, said he expects the president will not spend much time talking about the cuts.
''What he has to do is say, 'I warned you about this, it's going to happen, it's gradual, but at the same time, we've got a country to run,' '' Mr. Daschle said. ''You're not going to hear him with much more hyperbolic rhetoric.''
Senior White House aides said as much on Friday before Mr. Obama formally signed the order putting the cuts into effect. They told reporters that sequestration cuts would not be the only thing the president talks about -- or even the majority of what he talks about -- in the weeks ahead.
But they said he will try to score a political point when opportunities arise.
Aides continue to bet that they will. Even without Mr. Obama's intervention, White House officials said they expect the effect of the cuts will slowly become more visible.
Government workers will begin forced furloughs in April, air control towers in small towns will eventually close and a lack of overtime for airport security officers will make lines longer over time.
''This is a slow-roll disaster instead of a meteor hitting,'' said Matt Bennett, a Clinton-era adviser and the vice president for communications at Third Way, a liberal research group. ''It's coming on slowly. You are going to see it popping up.''
But it's also possible that the severe angst is limited to relatively small communities of interest: federal workers, defense contractors, service providers who depend on government grants. If that happens, Mr. Obama would have little leverage to use against Republicans.
''It's imperative not to lose sight of the rest of the agenda,'' said Jim Manley, a former top aide to Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader. ''They are smart enough to realize it's a delicate balancing act.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama on Monday at the first cabinet meeting of his second term. It was also the first cabinet meeting for Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel, next to him. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (72%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (70%); BORDER CONTROL (60%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); CHUCK HAGEL (78%); JANET NAPOLITANO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2013



155 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1113 words

HEADLINE: 8 High School Students Win Times Scholarships

BYLINE: By DAVID GONZALEZ

 BODY:
The first hill -- Freshman Hill -- is the worst. That is what Eugenia Lotova remembered the first time she tackled the cross-country course at Van Cortlandt Park in the Bronx. Out of breath and strength, but not luck and determination, she pushed herself through the curves, up craggy paths and past tree-lined corridors. She was 14.
''At the end of the race, you realize that the reason the subsequent hills don't seem so big is that you've overcome the first one, the steepest one, the Freshman one,'' she wrote in a scholarship application. ''You learn that after each fight uphill, there's a downhill where you loosen your stride and admire the breathtaking view.''
She has run well, on and off the course. Eugenia, now in her last year at Stuyvesant High School in Manhattan, is among this year's class of eight graduating seniors who have won New York Times College Scholarships. They will each receive up to $7,500 in aid, a summer internship at The Times and mentoring from Times employees and former scholars. Since the program's inception, in 1999, 235 Times scholars have gone on to college and careers in fields like medicine, law, finance and teaching. 
In this year's group, culled from 450 applicants, are the true tough kids of the city -- survivors. Some have lost parents to cancer or crime. Two were orphaned. Others have endured a father's red-faced rage from hitting a crack pipe, or confronted a mentally ill mother's befuddled stare on a winter's sidewalk. One student's father was shot in the taxi he drove to support the family. One soothed her solitude playing with dolls plucked from the trash.
Though shaped by their pasts, they are defined by something more enduring. In a society in which enormously wealthy athletes are treated as heroes, these teenagers, who have nothing but an intense desire to succeed, give new currency to that word.
''They represent the best of New York City and The New York Times,'' said Ria Coyne, an education consultant who has been with the program -- and read every application -- since it began. ''It's too bad we can't support more of them. This program changes students' lives.''
The other scholars are Annalise Armenta, of the Scholars' Academy in Queens; Peggy Chen, of the High School of Economics and Finance in Manhattan; Eddy Cruz, of Cardinal Hayes High School in the Bronx; Kevin Hidalgo of KIPP NYC College Prep High School in Harlem; Blanca Melendez, of the High School of Telecommunication Arts and Technology in Brooklyn; Amanda Simon, from DeWitt Clinton High School in the Bronx; and Kamara Swaby, from Brooklyn Technical High School.
Peggy Chen's parents worked hard, coming home exhausted from factories and truck routes, while their children did their homework and helped with housework. She always turned to her sister Jiamei for advice, rather than worry her parents, who had enough troubles. Jiamei became her friend, her guiding star.
On Valentine's Day -- the day Peggy learned she had won the scholarship -- she arrived home bearing presents for her mother.
''I walked home with a balloon and flowers,'' she said. ''Then, I got the call that I won. I told my mother I had three Valentine's Day presents for her -- the flowers, the balloon and the best for last. My sister was like 'Oh my God! The New York Times!' She gave me like 10 high-fives that night.''
College has always been a goal for the scholars, even if the path seemed impossible. Kevin Hidalgo was groomed for college, and he prepares to graduate from high school knowing he will have to work even harder. His father, an assistant bakery manager at the Fairway Market in Harlem, reminds him he is ''the mirror'' to his younger brothers -- the one they will mimic. Right now, that example begins as a soon-to-graduate member of his school's founding class. He is off to the University of Pennsylvania to study business.
''Everything I've done before has been a lead up,'' Kevin said. ''When I learned I got into UPenn, everybody in my family started crying. When I won the New York Times scholarship, we saw that financial barriers would not hold me back from accomplishing what I want to do in life. It made education an option.''
The thought of college itself -- with all the courses, activities and experiences it has to offer -- thrills Blanca Melendez. She already likes to write, and she may pursue psychology or social work. But she admits that since there is so much she wants to explore, she is a bit undecided about what she wants to do. For too long, she said, she had to worry about what she had to do, dealing with her mother's illness and other responsibilities at home.
''I just want to grow as a person and find out who I am outside of the life I have had for the past 17 years,'' Blanca said. ''I want to get away from having seen so many different things. I want to get better. I want to have a happy life.''
All of them have gotten a head start on celebration. Amanda Simon recalls jokingly how she had to pry loose the scholarship notification letter from her father. Yet it was also a bittersweet moment for her, since DeWitt Clinton, the high school whose alumni include the writer James Baldwin and A. M. Rosenthal, a former executive editor of The Times, has been better known in recent years for being a candidate for closing as a failing school. ''People talk about the school's achievements from the past,'' Amanda said. ''But Clinton is still doing something right.''
Of course, doing the right thing has been part of Eddy Cruz's daily life at another storied Bronx school, Cardinal Hayes. From the moment he walked through its doors, past the marble hall to classrooms that have nurtured generations of future doctors, lawyers (and a newspaper reporter or two), he knew.
His teachers never let him forget.
''Since Day 1 at Hayes, they always motivated me to do great things,'' he said. ''Hayes made me realize my potential. They told me I had star quality inside me.''
Eddy, who lives not too far from the school, hopes to study medicine, something he set his considerable mind to attending an enrichment program at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine. There, he learned from the experiences of other African-American and Latino doctors, who shared with him their journeys along similar paths. The highlight, for him, was being able to shadow one of them, a trauma surgeon, at Jacobi Medical Center in the Bronx.
''I felt that surgery was the thing for me,'' he said. ''I'm the type of guy that if there is a need to fix something, I want to fix it right away. I'm not patient with things. I like to see the outcome. Sometimes you have to wait. But you'll get to you're goal. But until it's done right, I won't stop.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The 2013 winners of college scholarships are, from left, Kevin Hidalgo, Annalise Armenta, Eddy Cruz, Peggy Chen, Amanda Simon, Kamara Swaby, Eugenia Lotova and Blanca Melendez. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EARL WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (90%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (74%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); ADOLESCENTS (73%); COCAINE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2013



156 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 470 words

HEADLINE: Egypt Needs to Act

 BODY:
President Obama's decision to provide $250 million in aid to Egypt is a vote of confidence in a country that is critical to stability in the region but is also teetering on the edge of economic disaster. It is now up to Egypt's government -- and its opponents -- to create the political and economic consensus that can leverage the American money to turn around their failing state. 
Secretary of State John Kerry, who announced the aid in Cairo on Sunday, made clear that the responsibility for finding common ground falls first on President Mohamed Morsi. Mr. Morsi's job is to persuade the political opposition to join him in a suite of economic reforms that would raise taxes, trim energy subsidies and pave the way for a much larger $4.8 billion loan package from the International Monetary Fund. The I.M.F. loan, in turn, would open the door to even more aid and investment from financial institutions and other countries.
Cooperation is also required of the opposition. Egypt desperately needs strong democratic institutions and a more robust economy to right itself and move toward a better future. Instead, the various combatants have settled into a pattern of recurring political and economic crises, betraying the revolution that overthrew the dictator Hosni Mubarak. The latest setback occurred last week when the main opposition group, the National Salvation Front, warned that it would boycott parliamentary elections scheduled for late April because Mr. Morsi's Islamist-led government had failed to guarantee that the vote would be free and fair.
Their concerns are legitimate. Instead of working toward an inclusive government, Mr. Morsi and his party have consolidated power, rushed through a flawed, bitterly contested Constitution, failed to reform a corrupt police force, and proposed a new law that will severely limit the right to peaceful assembly and encourage further police abuse. Yet the opposition itself has not offered a coherent alternative that could challenge the Muslim Brotherhood at the ballot box. And boycotting the parliamentary elections seems self-defeating.
After the State Department urged all parties to participate in the elections, some opposition leaders refused to meet Mr. Kerry because they ''reject American pressure.'' That too seems self-defeating. Frankly, it is hard to know what the opposition really wants from Washington. One moment it warns against interference, the next it faults the Americans for not being tougher on Mr. Morsi.
Mr. Kerry urged all Egyptians to ''come together'' to meet the country's challenges, meanwhile assuring them that the United States is ''committed not to any party, not to any one person, not to any specific political point of view,'' but to democracy, human rights, freedom of expression and tolerance. This struck exactly the right note.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); BOYCOTTS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (73%); MUBARAK RESIGNATION (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (72%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (68%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (66%); CORRUPTION (63%); POLICE FORCES (63%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%)

PERSON: MOHAMMED MORSI (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (74%); HOSNI MUBARAK (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (79%) EGYPT (97%); UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2013



157 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 630 words

HEADLINE: The Effects of the Federal Budget Cuts

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Singing the Sequester Soap Opera'' (Op-Ed, March 2):
Joe Scarborough is definitely correct that the sky did not and will not fall owing to the sequester, and that the White House may have overplayed its hand on this point.
But I take issue with some of his numbers. First, he notes that ''the actual cuts implemented this year will amount to only $42 billion out of a $3.5 trillion budget.'' But he's referring to the fiscal year, which ends in September. To most people ''the year'' means the calendar year, over which the actual cuts will amount to $66 billion. 
Also, by law -- foolish law, but that's another matter -- those cuts are restricted to parts of the budget, so instead of the 1 percent that Mr. Scarborough claims, they amount to over 5 percent as a share of the parts they actually hit (for example, the defense cuts are 8 percent).
Finally, it is widely agreed upon by nonpartisan analysts that if the cuts remain in place, they will eventually shave half a point off gross domestic product growth this year and lead to the loss of hundreds of thousands of jobs. If the sequester sticks, the unemployment rate will also stick -- at its already elevated level of 8 percent.
That's not recessionary, but it's terrible public policy.
JARED BERNSTEIN Washington, March 2, 2013
The writer is an economist with the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities and a former economic adviser to Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.
To the Editor:
Like the House Republican he once was, Joe Scarborough not only diminishes the potential harm of the sequester's cuts but also argues that the primary problem in the United States right now is the debt. Wrong on both counts. The Congressional Budget Office estimates that 750,000 jobs will be lost because of these cuts. This is real harm, to real families.
In addition, the sequester will cut federal unemployment benefits (''As the Cuts Hit Home,'' editorial, March 2), squeezing the unemployed to the breaking point. The real, immediate problem facing this country is unemployment, not debt. The G.O.P. and its cheerleaders got it wrong with the Bush tax cuts, the war in Iraq, their economic policies, their obstruction of President Obama and their continued drumbeat about the debt.
If only the sequester had called for deep salary cuts for Congress and the pundits who are mouthpieces for the G.O.P., then House Republicans would have joined the president in a balanced deal that would have saved America's families from this unnecessary pain.
BARBARA WEBER-FLOYD Westhampton Beach, N.Y., March 2, 2013
The writer is a former journalist who has covered both national politics and business.
To the Editor:
There is an almost palpable sense of smugness and self-satisfaction as Joe Scarborough ridicules the administration and its alleged hyperbole.
It is his blatant disregard for the real impact on real lives that is so appalling. President Obama has attempted to give a face to an abstraction, speaking of the effects of sequestration: from the young children not in the Head Start program, to the federal worker with an unwanted unpaid furlough, to the long-term unemployed who will see benefits slashed. Mr. Scarborough sees only numbers on a page.
This is not Armageddon. But I wonder how Mr. Scarborough would have reacted had this money come from the revenue side of the equation by removing irrational and unnecessary tax benefits to hedge fund managers and subsidies to oil industry giants. Would he have been so cavalier in his words?
What Mr. Scarborough sees as de minimis feels to me like an extension of Mitt Romney's comments about the 47 percent, dripping with contempt and disregard for the welfare of so many. This country is far more than a mathematical equation.
ROBERT S. NUSSBAUM Fort Lee, N.J., March 2, 2013

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ERIC HANSON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); WRITERS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); RECESSION (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (73%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (71%); EMPLOYMENT (71%); BUDGET FORECASTS (70%); LAYOFFS (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%); TAX LAW (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); NATIONAL DEBT (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); WAGES & SALARIES (65%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: JOE BIDEN (79%); JARED BERNSTEIN (57%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2013



158 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 470 words

HEADLINE: Czech Republic: Senate Accuses President of Treason

BYLINE: By DAN BILEFSKY and HANA DE GOEIJ; Hana de Goeij reported from Prague and Dan Bilefsky from Budapest.

 BODY:
The Czech Senate voted on Monday to accuse the outgoing president, Vaclav Klaus, of high treason. The vote was a largely symbolic rebuke of Mr. Klaus, a vociferous euroskeptic who has often polarized Czech society. 
The decision to forward a treason complaint to the country's Constitutional Court was prompted by an amnesty granted by Mr. Klaus on Jan. 1, freeing more than 6,000 prison inmates and halting the prosecutions of some prominent business executives and officials who were charged with fraud. Czechs across the country, which has grappled with endemic corruption since it overthrew Communism in 1989, reacted with anger, tearing Mr. Klaus's portrait from the walls of schools and offices. Senators also accused Mr. Klaus, 71, of undermining the Constitution by, among other things, failing to sign a plan to set up a bailout fund for Europe, even though it was approved by Parliament.
The Senate, which is dominated by the president's political opponents on the left, took the matter up in a closed session Monday and voted 38 to 30 in favor of the charges, according to three senators who were present.
If Mr. Klaus is found guilty, it would have little practical effect on his presidency. He would be stripped of office, but his term ends on Thursday anyway; he would also lose his presidential pension and the right to run again for president. Even so, analysts said, the Senate's action tars his legacy, and may inhibit future presidents, who play a largely ceremonial role but have the power to appoint judges, issue pardons and influence foreign policy.
''I do not think that even Vaclav Klaus, the well-known egotist that he is, would say that this is a happy or respectful departure,'' said Tomas Sedlacek, former adviser to a previous president, Vaclav Havel. ''Nor do I think he realized just how deeply he had upset people.''
Eliska Wagnerova, an independent senator who formerly served on the Constitutional Court, said it was Mr. Klaus's disrespect of the rule of the law and the constitution, that led her to vote in favor of the treason charges on Monday. ''This decision will make the people realize that the president can't act as a monarch, and must behave as a first among equals,'' she said in an interview.
Mr. Klaus, an iconoclast known for his conservative views, dismissed the vote as a political game.
To his many supporters, he is a courageous renegade and defender of liberty in the mold of Margaret Thatcher, and helped shepherd the Czech Republic to a market economy after Communism fell. But to his critics, he has been all too willing to turn a blind eye to corruption. After his term ends on Thursday, he is scheduled to join the Cato Institute, a libertarian research and advocacy group in Washington.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREASON (91%); CORRUPTION (89%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (77%); LITIGATION (77%); AMNESTY (76%); APPROVALS (76%); EXECUTIVES (73%); CONSERVATISM (72%); JUDGES (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); BAILOUTS (68%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%)

PERSON: VACLAV KLAUS (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CZECH REPUBLIC (97%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2013



159 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 483 words

HEADLINE: Banks' Suit Against MBIA Over Restructuring Is Dismissed

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
MBIA, the bond insurer, on Monday won the dismissal of a lawsuit by the Bank of America Corporation and Société Générale that challenged its 2009 restructuring, and its shares climbed 24 percent. 
Justice Barbara R. Kapnick of New York State Supreme Court said Eric R. Dinallo, the state insurance superintendent at the time, was not ''arbitrary and capricious'' in authorizing a split of MBIA's municipal bond business from a structured finance unit that had suffered big losses from guaranteeing debt backed by risky mortgages.
Bank of America and Société Générale, the French bank, were the remaining plaintiffs among 18 financial companies that said the split of MBIA defrauded them as policyholders.
They said it left the MBIA Insurance unit undercapitalized, and siphoned $5 billion from the unit to benefit another entity, the National Public Finance Guarantee Corporation, at their expense.
But in her decision, Justice Kapnick said it was not her job to second-guess Mr. Dinallo's decision, which had a rational basis. MBIA had supported the restructuring as a means to help unfreeze municipal finance markets after the 2008 financial crisis.
''Dinallo found that the transaction was 'fair and equitable,' '' Justice Kapnick wrote, because it would leave MBIA Insurance ''solvent and that those policyholders' claims would be paid as they came due.'' She said Mr. Dinallo interpreted the law in a manner that was not ''irrational or unreasonable.''
Justice Kapnick said her decision did not affect claims by the banks against MBIA itself in a case that the state's highest court, the Court of Appeals, allowed to go ahead in June 2011.
The judge oversaw a three-week nonjury proceeding over the restructuring last May and June in her Manhattan court.
Robert J. Giuffra Jr., a partner at Sullivan & Cromwell representing Bank of America and Société Générale, said the banks planned to appeal the decision.
MBIA's chief executive, Joseph W. Brown, said in a statement that he was pleased with the decision, and that the company, based in Armonk, N.Y., looked forward to resolving the remaining litigation.
After Justice Kapnick's ruling, MBIA's shares surged $2.47 to close at $12.78 on the New York Stock Exchange.
In their lawsuit, Bank of America and Société Générale sought to force MBIA to set aside $2.09 billion in dividends, cash and securities it had received from its insurance unit for the benefit of creditors.
Alternatively, the banks sought to force the state, or MBIA Insurance directors, to sue the parent company to recover that sum.
A Bank of America spokesman, Lawrence Grayson, and a Société Générale spokesman, Jim Galvin, said in separate statements: ''We continue to believe that MBIA wrongfully transferred $5 billion from its structured finance subsidiary, to the harm of its policyholders, which we intend to prove in the separate fraudulent conveyance litigation that is under way.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUITS & CLAIMS (91%); INSURANCE (90%); LITIGATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (90%); INSURANCE POLICIES (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); APPEALS (89%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (78%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (77%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (77%); APPEALS COURTS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); EXECUTIVES (68%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (96%); SOCIETE GENERALE SA (92%); MBIA INC (92%); SULLIVAN & CROMWELL LLP (82%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK COURT OF APPEALS (58%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (96%); BAC (LSE) (96%); 8648 (TSE) (96%); GLE (PAR) (92%); GLE (BIT) (92%); MBI (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (96%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); NAICS525190 OTHER INSURANCE FUNDS (92%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); SIC6351 SURETY INSURANCE (92%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (82%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2013



160 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 970 words

HEADLINE: San Francisco's Thriving Agency Start-Up Scene

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
PEOPLE in the advertising business need not head to an amusement park if they feel like riding a roller coaster. All they have to do is work in San Francisco.
The San Francisco ad market is well-known, even notorious, for its continual ups and downs, rising and falling with both the economy and the state of the technology industry. The highs and lows have been particularly pronounced since the mid-1990s, as agencies benefited mightily from the dot-com boom, then tried to survive the debacle of the subsequent bust. If they made it through, they were left to figure out their place in a landscape increasingly dominated by digital powerhouses like Facebook and Google.
''It's been the most interesting ad market in the country in the last 15 years, going through a lot of metamorphoses,'' said Amy Hoover, president at Talent Zoo in Atlanta, which specializes in recruiting employees for agencies in advertising, public relations and social media. 
After the dot-com bust, ''we were overwhelmed with calls from people saying, 'I came in on Monday and the office was closed,' '' Ms. Hoover said. ''As the tech sector rebuilt itself, you started to see shops popping up and, as digital exploded again, it's been this Wild West recently.''
Almost all the start-ups have involved executives who were already working in the market. One, to be announced on Tuesday, also includes an agency holding company, Project WorldWide, based in the Detroit suburb of Auburn Hills, Mich., which is making a bet on the market's viability by bankrolling the start-up of a San Francisco agency named Argonaut.
(The Argonaut name seems to be part of a pattern of offbeat nomenclature in the San Francisco market that also includes agencies like Cutwater, Dojo, Eleven, Mekanism, Odopod, Sequence, Signal to Noise and AKQA, for the initials of its chief executive, Ajaz Khowaj Quoram Ahmed.)
''The Bay Area is quite vibrant these days,'' said Robert G. Vallee Jr., chairman and chief executive at Project WorldWide. ''There's a lot of opportunity out there.''
Agencies in San Francisco are benefiting from a trend in which marketers that once used only agencies with which they had defined relationships on accounts -- agencies of record, in industry parlance -- are handing out creative assignments to other shops, Mr. Vallee said.
Ms. Hoover identified another trend: The San Francisco ad market is being influenced by the entrepreneurial spirit of nearby Silicon Valley as agency employees are inspired to go into business for themselves with ''a lot of breakoffs, guys starting their own thing.''
That describes some of the six founders of Argonaut, among them the co-chief creative officers, Rick Condos and Hunter Hindman, who worked as a creative team at perhaps the most prominent agency in San Francisco, Goodby, Silverstein & Partners, part of the Omnicom Group; Max Heilbron, the head of strategy, who had been group brand strategy director at Goodby, Silverstein; and Robbie Whiting, the head of creative technology and production, who had been head of creative technology at another well-regarded local agency, Duncan/Channon.
''We're taking a lot of inspiration from the San Francisco kind of start-up mentality,'' Mr. Hindman said. ''We want to be agile, act quick and be artful.''
Jordan Warren, the president of Argonaut, said he believed the San Francisco ad market has been ''coming back, and coming back in the right way.''
''It's not about chasing fads and buying the hype'' this time around, said Mr. Warren, who has spent 20 years in leadership posts at local agencies like Eleven and Signal to Noise. ''It's about people getting their hands dirty and building sustainable things, delivering value.''
The sixth principal of Argonaut, Conal O' Doherty, whose title is head of growth, has worked at agencies in San Francisco as well as markets like Barcelona, Spain.
The ad business in San Francisco ''has a long history of iconoclastic personalities,'' said Courtney Buechert, chief executive at Eleven, which opened in 1999. That has helped ''make the market independent and inherently entrepreneurial,'' he said.
He cited figures like Howard Gossage, who was an early proponent of Marshall McLuhan and green marketing, and Hal Riney, whose agency, Hal Riney & Partners, is now Publicis & Hal Riney, part of the Publicis Groupe.
''The dot-com boom was crazy; I don't think anyone had seen anything like it since the Gold Rush,'' Mr. Buechert said. ''But since then, there have been different kinds of agencies growing, thriving here, agencies that have enjoyed the true benefit of the new technology, accountability, which has made them more metrics-centric, concerned about results, and media-agnostic, interested in new things like social media and not just advertising.''
There is even a new agency in the market that is wearing its heart on its sleeve by including the letters ''SF'' in its name.
''I'm not sure many people start agencies with the initials of the city,'' said Jamie Barrett, a partner at BarrettSF. In May, he left Goodby, Silverstein, where he had been partner and executive creative director, to start the agency with Patrick Kelly, another former executive at Goodby, Silverstein.
''We are proud of the market and excited about the market,'' said Mr. Barrett, whose fledgling shop has two clients, the California Redwood Association and the Pacific-12 Networks. He and Mr. Kelly are bringing in a third partner, Pete Harvey, who also joins from Goodby, Silverstein.
''There's almost no better place to be'' than the San Francisco market, because of the proximity to Silicon Valley, said Mr. Harvey, who has also worked in cities like Boston and Los Angeles.
''You get people knocking on the door with wild ideas,'' he added, ''which inspires you to make your own business a little more innovative and interesting.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Argonaut, the newest advertising agency start-up in San Francisco, is being opened by, from left, Jordan Warren, Robbie Whiting, Max Heilbron, Hunter Hindman, Conal O' Doherty and Rick Condos. It is being backed by Project Worldwide. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES CHIANG)
 Pete Harvey, center, is joining BarrettSF, an agency founded by Patrick Kelly, left, and Jamie Barrett. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL KENNEDY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); EXECUTIVES (88%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); SOCIAL MEDIA (69%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (69%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (67%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (58%); FACEBOOK INC (56%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%); FB (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (71%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2013



161 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 257 words

HEADLINE: American Ends Bid for Seoul Cabinet

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN

 BODY:
SEOUL, South Korea -- A South Korean-born American business executive who was nominated by President Park Geun-hye to be the minister of future creation and science withdrew on Monday, blaming political gridlock that has delayed his confirmation hearing in the National Assembly. 
The choice of Jeong H. Kim, a former president of Bell Labs in New Jersey, to fill South Korea's newly created post of minister of future creation and science had been the highlight of Ms. Park's government reorganization. Bell Labs is the research arm of Alcatel-Lucent, the telecommunications equipment maker.
Mr. Kim, 52, was the first noncitizen appointed to a cabinet post in South Korea, and the ministry he was asked to lead is a powerful new agency that Ms. Park considers crucial to re-energizing the economy.
''I left behind what I have built in the United States and returned home so I could devote the rest of my life to the country where I was born,'' Mr. Kim said Monday at a news conference. ''But as I watched the confusion over the government reorganization bill, my dreams were also shattered.''
The bill remained bogged down as lawmakers argued over the scope of the new ministry, which would absorb responsibilities for science, technology and other innovation-related matters from other ministries.
The main opposition group, the Democratic United Party, accused Ms. Park of trying to use the ministry as a political tool to control broadcasting. Allegations of government influence over broadcast journalism have been a volatile issue in South Korea.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ASIAN AMERICANS (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (75%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (75%); PRESS CONFERENCES (67%); JOURNALISM (67%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (55%)

COMPANY: ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (71%)

TICKER: ALU (PAR) (71%); ALU (NYSE) (71%); ALU (BIT) (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (71%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (71%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2013



162 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Lens)

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2013

SECTION: MULTIMEDIA

LENGTH: 1638 words

HEADLINE: Gordon Parks's Harlem Family Revisited

BYLINE: JOHN EDWIN MASON and JESSE NEWMAN


HIGHLIGHT: A Gordon Parks photo essay in Life magazine made the Fontenelle family in Harlem the face of American poverty. It also forged an enduring bond between Mr. Parks and Richard Fontenelle, the family&#8217;s only child to live past 30. 

 BODY:
In March 1968, Gordon Parks published a portrait of an African-American child with disheveled clothes in Life magazine. His lips were swollen and cracked from eating plaster, in a futile attempt to ward off hunger. His eyes were plaintive and haunting.
Richard Fontenelle was too young to understand, but he and his family became the faces of urban poverty for millions of Americans. The photo essay Mr. Parks produced - "A Harlem Family," which is now on exhibit at the Studio Museum in Harlem - changed Mr. Fontenelle's life, and the lives of every member of his family, forever. It sparked in him a desire to succeed, and a lifelong friendship with Mr. Parks.
Three days after the show opened, Mr. Fontenelle died of heart attack. He was 48 years old.
Yet his was a life of triumph savored: Of the eight Fontenelle children who appeared in "A Harlem Family," he was the only one who lived past his 30th birthday and built a stable family life. He gave much of the credit for his success to his mother and to Mr. Parks, who became a father figure to him. 
"His whole life kind of centered around that event," his widow, Michelle, said of his feelings about being in the groundbreaking photo essay. "I guess he took from that 'What can I do with my life not to be like my brothers and sisters? What can I do with my life not to cause my mother this grief? What can I do with my life to make her life better?'"
Telling the Fontenelles' story was a personal crusade for Mr. Parks. As he recalled in his memoir "To Smile in Autumn," the assignment came at the end of the long, hot summer of 1967, a period of urban uprisings in black America. His editors asked him - the only African-American photographer on the magazine's staff - to explain to them and to Life's readers why the nation's inner cities were going up in flames.
To Mr. Parks, the answers were clear: racism and poverty. To bring these political and economic abstractions to life, he knew that he had to focus on the daily lives of a single, impoverished black family.
The "cold hawk of winter was over the ghetto," Mr. Parks remembered, by the time he introduced himself to Norman and Bessie Fontenelle, Richard's parents, and convinced them to allow him to tell their story. They were a family in deep distress. Norman had been laid off from his job and could not find steady work. He and his wife struggled to feed their eight children and to keep their fourth-floor Harlem apartment warm.
Mr. Parks left his camera at home during the first week that he spent with them. Instead, he got to know the family and allowed them to become comfortable with his presence in their cramped apartment. By the time he pulled out his camera, he said in the 2004 documentary film "Family Portrait," "I was practically in the family ... I was like Uncle Gordon."
During the month that he spent with the Fontenelles, Mr. Parks took hundreds of photographs. The 25 that appeared in "A Harlem Family" were spread over 16 pages, printed in gritty black and white. They seemed to claim the authority of documentary truth, yet their dark tones and shadows hinted at the subjectivity of Mr. Parks's vision by refusing to reveal everything that he and his camera saw.
Bessie emerged as the story's heroine, the gravitational force struggling to hold the family together. Mr. Parks described her sympathetically, writing in the magazine that she "appears to be a strong woman, especially in the early part of the day, when she looks younger than 39. As the day wears on, she seems to age with it. By nightfall she has crumbled into herself. 'All this needing and wanting is about to drive me crazy,' she said to me one evening."
Another photograph early in the essay depicted her as the faltering sun around which the family orbited. She and four of her children were shown at the offices of the Poverty Board (Slide 1), with Bessie centered in the frame, facing the camera. Two of her children leaned on her shoulders, seeming to draw strength from her and, at the same time, to offer her support.
A young Richard dozed off in her lap.
Bessie and Richard also appeared in the essay's final image (Slide 13). Few readers would have been prepared for it, despite the essay's relentlessly grim tone. Published without a caption, it covered an entire two-page spread. In it, Bessie was seen lying on her bed, seemingly exhausted. One arm shielded her eyes, while Richard nestled under the other, staring directly into Mr. Parks's lens. Norman had beaten her while in a drunken rage, leaving her neck scratched and swollen. She had thrown a pot of boiling water on him in retaliation, sending him to the hospital.
Those images jolted Life's readers, whose response to "A Harlem Family" was immediate and overwhelming. Hundreds of letters poured into the magazine's offices expressing sympathy and pledging money. Encouraged by the response, Mr. Parks urged Life to contribute enough additional money to buy and furnish a new home in Springfield Gardens, Queens, for the Fontenelles.
"Most important," Mr. Parks wrote in "A Hungry Heart," another memoir, "the magazine helped Norman get a job."
But the Fontenelles' new beginning came to a sudden end. A little over a year after the story was published, Life ran an editor's note under the headline, "Tragedy in a House that Friends Built." Late one night, the house had gone up in flames. Norman and his son Kenneth died in the fire; Bessie and the other children survived. The house and everything in it was destroyed. The family had only lived in the home for three months.
Bessie refused to allow Life to rebuild her new home; she wanted to move back to Harlem. The magazine, Mr. Parks wrote in "A Hungry Heart," "found her a comfortable apartment and gave her money to get started again."
Devastated by the episode, the family began what seemed to be an inevitable decline as AIDS and the streets claimed the lives of one child after another. Yet Richard escaped his siblings' fate. His widow, Michelle, said that his success was because of his belief in himself, his mother's support, and his enduring relationship with Mr. Parks.
"Richard lived beyond Fontenelle years," Michelle said in her apartment, where she keeps a large self-portrait by Mr. Parks. "He was almost 50. He did so much beyond what he ever expected to do. No one would have expected to see him living now."
At the time of his death, he had achieved middle-class success. The father of four children, he was married to his wife for 21 years. He had been employed by Columbia University for 23 years, having worked his way up from porter to maintenance supervisor. He composed music and ran a recording studio in his spare time.
Though he vowed never to be a statistic like his siblings - or the young victim seen in the Life photo essay - he remained proud to be a Fontenelle. "'You know, my family was in Time-Life magazine,'" Michelle recalled him telling new friends. "Even through all the adversities and the negative sides to the story, it didn't matter to him. It was just, 'This is my family and this is how we lived and this is where we come from. But this is where we're going and this is what I'm doing with my life now.'"
Bessie was overprotective of Richard, Michelle said. Small wonder, given how his siblings' lives were destroyed by drugs, poverty and mental illness. He stuck close to her and grew up never abusing drugs or seeing the inside of a jail cell.
In "Family Portrait," Mr. Parks mentioned that Bessie's belief in Richard was a faith that mingled with worries about his safety. She once told him that if "anything happens to me, I hope you look in on him now and then," he said. 
He did. Over the years the two grew close. When Richard built a recording studio in the basement of the building where he lived and worked, Mr. Parks offered him advice on the music business. Later, he and Michelle would attend Mr. Parks's exhibits. In Richard's office, there is still a newspaper clipping from a 1997 New York Times article announcing a retrospective of Mr. Parks's work at the Corcoran Gallery of Art in Washington. Accompanying the story is Mr. Parks's famous photo of the Fontenelles at the welfare office.
"He loved Gordon to death," Michelle said. "I kid you not. He couldn't talk enough about Gordon. He couldn't. He would always say, 'I remember when Gordon and I would sit down and talk about...' He would just call him. If he had a question about something or if he was just feeling a little bit down, he would give Gordon a call."
This was especially true, Michelle said, after Bessie died in 1990. In some ways, Mr. Parks became the final - and most enduring - link to his family.
"I think it was comforting for him to know that there was still someone there," Michelle said. "Through all of his family being gone and not having no one really to reach out to, on that side of the family, it was as if Gordon was that outlet for him."
Yet a flesh and blood reminder of his past and future lives on. Among the four children that Richard is survived by is a son. His first name is Kenneth, for the brother who died in that house fire so many years ago in Queens.
His middle name is Gordon, for the man who changed everything.
And his last name is Fontenelle.
 Reporting assistance provided by Kia Gregory. 
 "Gordon Parks: A Harlem Family 1967," will be on view at the Studio Museum in Harlem through June 30. The catalog, "Gordon Parks: A Harlem Family, 1967," is available from Steidl publishers. 
John Edwin Mason teaches African history and the history of photography at the University of Virginia. Follow @johnedwinmason and @nytimesphoto on Twitter. Lens is also on Facebook. 

        
Gordon Parks: 'A Lasting Love'
        
Capturing a Childhood Idyll in France
        
The Fashionable Mr. Parks
        
Dodging the Police at the 1968 Democratic Convention
        
Seeing Contrasts Along Two Sides of Cyprus

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); CHILDREN (90%); FAMILY (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); RACE & RACISM (89%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (78%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (75%); CITY LIFE (71%); CITIES (71%); EXHIBITIONS (70%) 1967; A Harlem Family; Bessie Fontenelle; Black-and-white photography; Gordon Parks; Gordon Parks Foundation; Jesse Newman; John Edwin Mason; Kia Gregory; Life (Magazine); Richard Fontenelle; Studio Museum in Harlem; The Fontenelle Family; Parks, Gordon; Blacks; Children and Childhood; Deaths (Obituaries); Families and Family Life; Photography; New York Times; Harlem (Manhattan, NY); Queens (NYC); Essay

ORGANIZATION: Life (Magazine); New York Times; Studio Museum in Harlem

PERSON: Parks, Gordon

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (96%) Harlem (Manhattan, NY); Queens (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2013



163 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1082 words

HEADLINE: The Worst Possible Way to Cut Spending

BYLINE: BRUCE BARTLETT


HIGHLIGHT: Fundamental differences on government&#8217;s role, and a fair amount of posturing, are keeping Congress and the president from finding a better way to address budget deficits than across-the-board cuts, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Bruce Bartlett held senior policy roles in the Reagan and George H.W. Bush administrations and served on the staffs of Representatives Jack Kemp and Ron Paul. He is the author of "The Benefit and the Burden: Tax Reform - Why We Need It and What It Will Take." 
One big problem in the sequestration debate is that both sides have been talking past each other, with unstated assumptions underlying their statements and positions. There is also a great deal of posturing going on that disguises more agreement than the public knows. 
The guiding Republican premise is that there is a vast amount of fat and waste in the federal government. Just as when individuals are overweight, a diet will improve their health.
Contrary to popular belief, Democrats don't disagree that many programs could be cut substantially without harming government's core mission. The problem is twofold. First, they disagree with Republicans on which programs are wasteful. Second, Republicans tend to believe that any program they disagree with, philosophically, is, per se, money wasted. 
Democrats, I think, are more inclined to think that money spent inefficiently, that doesn't advance a program's basic purpose, is the primary source of wasteful spending.
In general, Republicans think of national security as the federal government's primary function and just about everything else as optional. Democrats don't disagree that national security is a core function of government but also believe that it has a responsibility to help those who can't help themselves and to improve the quality of life of all Americans.
Thus in broad terms, Republicans seek to protect national security spending while Democrats are more concerned about domestic spending. From this dichotomy was born the idea of the sequester, which both Republicans and Democrats agreed to in 2011 in the deal that increased the federal debt limit.

The assumption was that both sides would fight equally to protect their sides of the budget and from this struggle something better would emerge than a sequester, which everyone viewed as a meat-ax approach. It tends to be forgotten now, but simultaneous with the budget deal Congress established a Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction that was expected to propose a better mix of spending cuts and revenue increases to achieve the bipartisan deficit target.
In the end, the so-called super committee failed. Republicans simply refused to consider any revenue increases, and Democrats opposed a deficit package consisting entirely of spending cuts.
I'm not sure what everyone thought would happen if the super committee failed, but my impression is that everyone supporting the initial budget deal just assumed that sequestration would never actually occur. No Plan B was put in place.
So people looked to the presidential election to somehow clarify the situation. Although Republicans were initially chastened by their failure to win back the White House, they quickly convinced themselves that because they remained in control of the House of Representatives, this meant there was broad public support for their approach to the deficit of spending cuts only and no tax increases whatsoever.
Republicans reluctantly accepted tax increases in the fiscal cliff deal on Jan. 1, feeling they had no choice, because failure to act would have involved a very large automatic tax increase, as all the tax cuts enacted over the previous decade expired under existing law.
They treated this retreat as giving in to extortion and resolved to double down on their insistence that there would not be one penny of tax increase in any new budget deal to replace the sequestration. For his part, President Obama has repeatedly said that eliminating tax loopholes must be part of any new deal.
Economists generally agree that "tax expenditures" such as loopholes and subsidies are the same thing as direct spending. But Republicans insist there is a fundamental philosophical difference between keeping your own money, even through an unjustified and egregious tax loophole, and receiving a check from the government.
The stalemate has been something akin to the situation leading up to the First World War: all parties knew a disaster loomed but were unable to find a way to stop it.
Conservatives appear to believe that the sequester is a big nothing, that cutting 9 percent out of nonmilitary spending and 13 percent from military spending can be borne easily. There is more than enough fat and waste in the budget to permit such cuts, they believe, without jeopardizing anything vital.
The problem, as Democrats say, is that many of the cuts are to muscle and bone, not fat. The sequester mechanism requires that cuts come equally from every line item in the budget except for a few areas, such as veterans' programs, that were exempted in the original legislation.
It's as if an overweight person adopted a diet that cut the same percentage from fat, liver, kidneys and other vital organs equally. That's obviously nuts, but essentially what the sequester does to the budget. The cuts are indiscriminate, leaving bloated programs still bloated, while those that were underfinanced to begin with may lose their ability to function at all.
One thing that has surprised everyone in the sequestration debate has been how blasé Republicans have been about cutting military spending. The House minority leader, Steny Hoyer of Maryland, has said that Democrats miscalculated, thinking Republicans would fight hard to protect the military and thus be forced to negotiate.
My theory is that Republicans have concluded that the military would suffer worse under any budget deal that replaces the sequester. They may also believe they can replace military cuts resulting from sequestration in future appropriations bills.
It's too soon to say whether the pain of the sequester will be enough to force Congress to end it or replace it with something more rational. According to the Bipartisan Policy Center, a Washington think tank, past sequesters have seldom been allowed to run their course.
Insiders generally believe that the impending expiration of government funding for fiscal year 2013, on March 27, will provide the vehicle for compromise. But as yet, the outlines of such a compromise are opaque.

        
Labs for Testing Fiscal Policy Positions
        
Putting a Number on Federal Education Spending
        
Mismeasurement of Federal Spending, Investment and Saving
        
Americans Want to Cut Spending. They Just Don't Know What to Cut.
        
Preschool Economics

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BUDGET DEFICITS (91%); US CONGRESSIONAL SUPER COMMITTEE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); BUDGET CUTS (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); WRITERS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); NATIONAL DEBT (74%); ELECTIONS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); TAX LAW (72%); DEBT CEILING (71%); TAX REFORM (57%) Federal Budget (US); Hoyer, Steny H; Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction; Today's Economist

ORGANIZATION: Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction

PERSON: STENY HOYER (73%); RON PAUL (73%); GEORGE H W BUSH (73%) Hoyer, Steny H

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2013



164 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 495 words

HEADLINE: Standard Chartered's Profit Rises Despite U.S. Fine

BYLINE: MARK SCOTT


HIGHLIGHT: The British bank said its annual net profit rose slightly, to $4.8 billion, as the firm&#8217;s businesses in emerging economies offset a $667 million fine in the United States connected to illegal money transfers. 

 BODY:
 7:23 a.m. | Updated 
LONDON - The British bank Standard Chartered posted a slight increase in annual net profit in 2012, reporting on Tuesday that its fast-growing businesses in emerging economies offset a $667 million fine in the United States connected to illegal money transfers. 
The bank, based in London, reported that annual net income rose less than 1 percent, to $4.8 billion, compared with 2011, while revenue rose 8 percent, to $19.1 billion. It was the 10th consecutive year that Standard Chartered had reported a yearly increase in its profit.
Its vast operations across Asia, Africa and the Middle East helped protect the bank from many of the problems affecting developed economies like the United States and Europe.
Standard Chartered's chief executive, Peter A. Sands, said in a statement on Tuesday that the bank had been hurt by the large financial penalties it agreed to pay in a settlement with American authorities last year related to illegal money transfers for Iranian and Sudanese banks.
"The $667 million settlements dented our profit growth and damaged our reputation," Mr. Sands said. "There is no single tool to reinforce culture, no magic recipe, and no organization of nearly 90,000 people can ensure that everyone does everything perfectly all the time."
The bank said it had taken steps, including the appointment of several new nonexecutive board members, to improve how it dealt with these issues in the future.
Shares in Standard Chartered rose 2.7 percent in afternoon trading in London on Tuesday. The bank said it had cut the combined bonus pool for its staff by 7 percent, to $1.4 billion, last year, while Mr. Sands's bonus fell around 10 percent, to $3.2 million.
Despite the cloud created by the fines, Standard Chartered has continued to expand in emerging markets by taking advantage of growing demand for financial services from both local companies and international entities looking to invest.
The bank said its operating income in China grew 21 percent last year, to $1 billion, as it benefited from expanding its local branch network sixfold since 2003. Standard Charted said it was now active in 25 emerging economies where its annual growth was in double digits.
Mr. Sands cautioned that the financial problems of developed economies were having an effect on emerging markets, as Western companies cut back on purchases of goods from countries like China and Indonesia.
"The underlying problems of the weaker euro zone countries have not gone away," he added. "Our markets in Asia, Africa and the Middle East are not immune."
The bank said its core Tier 1 equity ratio, a measure of a bank's ability to weather financial shocks, stood at 11.7 percent last year, a slight decline from 2011, while its return on equity rose to 12.8 percent.
Standard Chartered added that it was increasing its shareholder dividend by 11 percent, to 84 cents.

        
Standard Chartered's Shares Rally on Settlement
        
HSBC Sells U.S. Loan Portfolio for $3.2 Billion

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (91%); FINES & PENALTIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); DIVIDENDS (78%); MONETARY UNIONS (72%); EURO ZONE (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%); SHAREHOLDERS (67%); BONUS PAY (64%); EXECUTIVES (54%) Fines (Penalties); London (England); Standard Chartered Bank PLC; Financial Services; Wall Street Earnings

ORGANIZATION: Standard Chartered Bank PLC

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPE (92%); CHINA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); ASIA (92%); AFRICA (92%); SUDAN (79%); INDONESIA (79%); ENGLAND (73%) London (England)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2013



165 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 537 words

HEADLINE: Why Don't We Have Deflation?

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Sticky question, sticky answer. 

 BODY:
Whenever you see a piece suggesting that the US economy has entered a "new normal" of slow growth, you're likely to see someone making the argument that if the economy actually had lots of excess capacity, we should be seeing deflation. And the question of why we don't have deflation is a good one. It is, however, a question that people like me have answered repeatedly; unfortunately, it seems that this analysis hasn't been making it to, say, a number of current and former Fed officials. 
So here's a restatement of what we think we know. Long-time readers will find this familiar, but as a number of commenters have wisely pointed out, there are a lot of people reading this blog now who weren't reading it a year or two ago. (We're adding Twitter followers at around 20,000 a month, which is some indication of the number of newbies).
OK, first things first: back when the crisis started, I did expect to see deflation, Japanese style, if it went on for an extended period. I was wrong - and I did what you're supposed to do (but far too people actually do) when they're wrong, which is to look for an explanation of your error that is consistent with the available evidence.
One immediate thing to look at was to see whether what was happening to inflation in the United States was consistent with historical experience of deep slumps that we know involved the economy operating well below capacity for an extended period. And it turned out that the Japanese deflation (which has never been very fast in any case) is pretty much unique. The IMF looked at Protracted Large Output Gaps - PLOGs - and found that in general inflation gets squeezed toward, but not below, zero:
And our own history actually points in the same direction: the 1930s were marked by sharp deflation in the early years, but considerable inflation as the economy partially recovered, even though unemployment remained very high.
So inflation seems "sticky". But why? One immediate thought was that we might be looking at the effects of downward nominal wage rigidity: employers are very reluctant to engage in actual wage cuts. Way back in 1996 Akerlof, Dickens and Perry suggested that this would make inflation stubborn at low rates, breaking the usual link between high unemployment and disinflation.
Still, how can you tell if sticky inflation reflects sticky wages, as opposed to being the result of an economy that really doesn't have very much slack? The answer is that sticky wages should leave a "signature" in the wage data: a large number of workers whose wages neither rise nor fall, and a rising number of such workers as the economy slumps. Sure enough, researchers at the San Franciso Fed found exactly that:
Actually, once you start looking for it, downward nominal rigidity is everywhere. For example, Catherine Rampell had a great piece pointing out that starting salaries at elite law firms have been frozen at precisely $160,000 for years:
The bottom line is that we have a lot of evidence suggesting that the failure of deflation to materialize reflects wage rigidity, not absence of economic slack. And it is therefore frustrating to see supposedly well-informed people talk about this issue as if none of that work had been done.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DEFLATION (90%); INFLATION (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (87%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2013



166 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 385 words

HEADLINE: The Life Expectancy Zombie

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Definitely a wow moment. 

 BODY:
So, one of the moments in my debate with JoScar - which wasn't as bad as I felt, but should have gone much better - was my "wow" when JS raised the old line that life expectancy was 62 when Social Security started, so the program was no big deal. 
Well, that's still a "wow" thing: it's incredible that people are still making that argument; when someone says something like that, he's just proved himself ignorant, disingenuous, or both.
Let me just turn this over to the Social Security administration's post on the issue:
If we look at life expectancy statistics from the 1930s we might come to the conclusion that the Social Security program was designed in such a way that people would work for many years paying in taxes, but would not live long enough to collect benefits. Life expectancy at birth in 1930 was indeed only 58 for men and 62 for women, and the retirement age was 65. But life expectancy at birth in the early decades of the 20th century was low due mainly to high infant mortality, and someone who died as a child would never have worked and paid into Social Security. A more appropriate measure is probably life expectancy after attainment of adulthood.
As Table 1 shows, the majority of Americans who made it to adulthood could expect to live to 65, and those who did live to 65 could look forward to collecting benefits for many years into the future. So we can observe that for men, for example, almost 54% of the them could expect to live to age 65 if they survived to age 21, and men who attained age 65 could expect to collect Social Security benefits for almost 13 years (and the numbers are even higher for women).
Also, it should be noted that there were already 7.8 million Americans age 65 or older in 1935 (cf. Table 2), so there was a large and growing population of people who could receive Social Security. Indeed, the actuarial estimates used by the Committee on Economic Security (CES) in designing the Social Security program projected that there would be 8.3 million Americans age 65 or older by 1940 (when monthly benefits started). So Social Security was not designed in such a way that few people would collect the benefits.
I should have been ready to see this zombie attack me during the debate, but I wasn't. Silly me. Well, as a friend used to say, none of us are human.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LIFE EXPECTANCY (91%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); POPULATION SIZE (76%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (74%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (72%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (72%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (69%); RETIREMENT AGE (68%); INFANT MORTALITY (51%)

ORGANIZATION: SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2013



167 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 496 words

HEADLINE: In Video Series, Wall St. Leaders Reflect on Their Careers

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Hamilton E. James, president and chief operating officer of the Blackstone Group, discusses his life and career in a video series created by OneWire, a financial services recruitment firm. 

 BODY:
[Video: Hamilton James, president of the private equity giant Blackstone Group. Watch on Youtube.]
Hamilton E. James, the president and chief operating officer of the Blackstone Group, is one of the most powerful figures on Wall Street, overseeing an alternative investment empire from offices on Park Avenue on Manhattan. But it was not always so. 
In his junior year at Harvard, Mr. James, who is known as Tony, determined that he was "unemployable, since I applied to 300 jobs and didn't get any of them," he says in an interview with OneWire, a financial services recruitment firm.
The interview, which was published on Monday evening, is the latest installment in OneWire's video series, "Open Door," which showcases top financial professionals offering career advice. In addition to Mr. James, the series has featured interviews with James J. Dunne III of Sandler O'Neill & Partners; Jeffrey T. Leeds of Leeds Equity Partners; and William T. Comfort Jr., a former chairman of Citigroup Venture Capital.
 The video series lends some sheen to OneWire, founded in 2008 by Skiddy von Stade, an executive search specialist who started his career in the insurance industry. OneWire allows financial professionals (or aspiring professionals) to build a career profile, upload a résumé and apply to jobs in the site's catalog of listings.
Mr. von Stade plans to release a new video every other week, with Glenn Hutchins of the private equity firm Silver Lake and Deborah C. Wright, chief executive of Carver Bancorp, among the upcoming interviewees.
"The purpose of this video series is to help young people better understand how these highly successful people went from grade school to where they are today," Mr. von Stade said in an interview. "But it's helpful for anyone of any level."
The videos also show the human side of some well-known Wall Street figures.
Mr. James, who spoke to Mr. von Stade the day after Hurricane Sandy hit New York last fall, describes his upbringing in rural Massachusetts. "It was a very simple existence of a country kid spending most of his time in the woods or building tree houses," Mr. James says in the video.
After failing to find a job, Mr. James went to Harvard Business School, and then in 1975 to the investment bank Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, which at the time was a "creative, growing place." Once there, he rose to become co-head of mergers and acquisitions, and then built the firm's merchant banking business. He stuck with the firm for two years after its merger with Credit Suisse First Boston in 2000.
Those experiences provided valuable lessons to Mr. James.
"It's a hell of a lot more fun to be at a young company where you're building something than a big company where you're trying to defend and hold your own against the inroads that the young companies make," he says in the video.
After the merger with Credit Suisse, he says, staff departures made the experience "like holding onto an ice cube that kept melting in your hands."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRIVATE EQUITY (92%); EXECUTIVES (91%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MERGERS (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (87%); MERCHANT BANKING (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENTS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (75%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (75%); VENTURE CAPITAL (72%); INSURANCE (70%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (68%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (68%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (60%); HURRICANE SANDY (50%) Financial Services; Private Equity

COMPANY: BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (92%); SANDLER O'NEILL + PARTNERS LP (69%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (58%); CARVER BANCORP INC (54%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (51%)

TICKER: BX (NYSE) (92%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); CSGN (SWX) (58%); CS (NYSE) (58%); CARV (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (54%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (54%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2013



168 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 462 words

HEADLINE: Private Equity and Venture Capital Investments Rise in Latin America

BYLINE: VINOD SREEHARSHA


HIGHLIGHT: Private equity and venture capital firms last year committed $7.9 billion to invest in Latin America, although fundraising was down significantly as smaller firms raised more than big firms. 

 BODY:
RIO DE JANEIRO - Private equity and venture capital firms last year committed $7.9 billion to invest in Latin America, a substantial jump of 21 percent over the previous year, the Latin American Private Equity and Venture Capital Association said Tuesday. 
The number of investments in 2012 also grew to 237, a 37 percent increase over 2011, according to an annual report released by the association during the SuperReturn Latin America Conference, being held here. 
Many of the firms are flocking to consumer and retail companies, as those sectors accounted for 40 percent of the total. Deals in information technology more than doubled in both quantity and value. 
On the flip side, fundraising was cut in half, coming in at $5.6 billion compared to $10.3 billion in 2011. But the association cautioned that the decrease did not reflect a lack of appetite of international investors to commit capital to Latin America. 
Rather, it indicated that money is going toward smaller funds rather than large ones, the association said. In addition, larger investors like Advent International, Southern Cross, the Carlyle Group and Gávea spent the year putting to use the capital they had raised over the last two years rather than seeking out new money.
"We do not have this phenomena in Latin America of large investors raising new funds every year as often occurs in the United States," Patrice Etlin, Advent International's managing partner based in São Paulo, said in an interview with DealBook.
Despite the drop in fundraising, 42 funds were raised in 2012, compared with 35 in 2011, suggesting that the smaller funds were gaining prominence. 
Mr. Etlin, who is also the association's chairman, said that he expected a similar pattern this year, where Latin America would have an increase in new investments but not in fundraising. 
Despite the economic malaise in Brazil, the country attracted the most money, accounting for $5.7 billion of the total amount. 
Brazil, as it has in past years, lead the region in receiving investments, 72 percent of the total amount invested and 62 percent of the number of deals. 
Mexico had no appreciable increase in number of deals but total dollars committed grew by 50 percent. Still, by comparison, Brazil accounted for 147 deals representing $5.7 billion in investments, while Mexico had only 21 deals for $684 million. 
Mr. Etlin seems many positive developments in Mexico, but said that he still expected that this year, "Brazil will be the main destination for investments." 
"It will be a very strong year for Brazil, particularly if valuations start to get more reasonable with a deteriorating macroeconomic condition," he added. 

        
In the Hunt for Capital, Private Equity Executives Outnumber Investors
        
Carlyle's Investment Ideas, by Podcast

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRIVATE EQUITY (95%); VENTURE CAPITAL (93%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); RETAILERS (70%); INTERVIEWS (69%); PODCASTING (50%) Advent International Corp; Carlyle Group LP; Latin America; Private Equity; Venture Capital; Carlyle Group LP|CG|NASDAQ

COMPANY: ADVENT INTERNATIONAL CORP (93%); CARLYLE GROUP LP (90%)

ORGANIZATION: Advent International Corp; Carlyle Group LP

TICKER: CG (NASDAQ) (90%) Carlyle Group LP; CG; NASDAQ

INDUSTRY: NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (93%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (93%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (89%) BRAZIL (95%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); MEXICO (93%); UNITED STATES (79%) Latin America

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2013



169 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(ArtsBeat)

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2013

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 256 words

HEADLINE: Manhattan Theater Club to Stage Play by Amanda Peet

BYLINE: ALLAN KOZINN


HIGHLIGHT: Amanda Peet, a television and theater actress, has written &#8220;The Commons of Pensacola,&#8221; about a family grappling with the fallout from the financial crisis. 

 BODY:
The actress Amanda Peet will get her first professional credit as a playwright next season when Manhattan Theater Club stages "The Commons of Pensacola," her work about a family grappling with the fallout from the financial crisis. 
Neither a date nor a theater for the premiere has been set, nor has the rest of the theater's season. But Mandy Greenfield, the company's artistic producer, described the work as "thrilling," adding that Lynne Meadow, its artistic director, has been working closely with Ms. Peet on the script. Ms. Meadow will direct the production. 
Ms. Greenfield also confirmed a report on the Showbiz411 Web site that Sarah Jessica Parker of "Sex and the City" fame and Blythe Danner (currently on Broadway in "Nice Work If You Can Get It") are considering the lead roles. None of the other casting has been announced. 
"They came here, and they did a reading, and we're talking with them about it," Ms. Greenfield said. "We're all very excited about it." 
Ms. Parker and Ms. Danner appeared together in the Manhattan Theater Club's 1995 production of A. R. Gurney's "Sylvia." Neither of their representatives responded immediately to questions about whether they were committed to the new play.

        
Jessica Hecht and Judith Light to Star in New Richard Greenberg Play
        
Movie Attention for Chastain Gives 'Heiress' a Broadway Bounce
        
Manhattan Theater Club and Ars Nova Announce Recipients of Inaugural Commissions
        
Theater Talkback: For Off-Broadway Theater, the Perils of Prosperity
        
Shanley's Trilogy Finale: The Drama Behind the Drama

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: THEATER COMPANIES (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); THEATER (78%); FILM (78%); WRITERS (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (76%) "The Commons of Pensacola" (Play); Danner, Blythe; Manhattan Theater Club; Meadow, Lynne; Parker, Sarah Jessica; Peet, Amanda; Theater; New York City

ORGANIZATION: Manhattan Theater Club

PERSON: SARAH JESSICA PARKER (90%) Danner, Blythe; Meadow, Lynne; Parker, Sarah Jessica; Peet, Amanda

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2013



170 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2013

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 867 words

HEADLINE: Living in His Van, Trying to Rebuild a Life Upended by a Bullet

BYLINE: COREY KILGANNON


HIGHLIGHT: &#8220;Of all the people who got shot, the shooter has the best life,&#8221;said Andrzej Leonik, a victim of a serial shooting spree in 2006. 

 BODY:
 Update, March 14 | Many readers have written wondering how to donate to Mr. Leonik. You may send a check made out to him to:

Andrzej Leonik
P.O. Box 863697
Ridgewood, N.Y. 11386
Andrzej Leonik's problems started one summer night in 2006 after he returned from his carpentry job, changed shirts into a red tank top and took his Boston terrier, Sonia, for a walk on 56th Drive in Maspeth, Queens, where he lived.
Suddenly, a man in a green Cadillac pulled up, aimed a 9-millimeter pistol at Mr. Leonik and shot him in the right leg. Mr. Leonik fell, and Sonia jumped onto his chest. 
The bullet shattered Mr. Leonik's femur and his life, which has unraveled in the ensuing years. Now he and Sonia spend their days and nights living in his 2005 minivan. On cold nights he leaves the engine running, and his dog sleeps on his chest as he reclines in the front seat. 
"Recently, I woke up with frostbite on my toe," Mr. Leonik, 53, said in a recent interview outside the van. 
The shooter was Matthew Colletta, an unemployed bricklayer with a long history of mental illness and erratic behavior. Mr. Colletta, then 34, went on a serial shooting spree that night in August 2006, leaving one person dead and five wounded, including Mr. Leonik.
He wandered Queens shooting people wearing red or riding in red cars, prosecutors said, because he believed he was being threatened by the Bloods gang, which is identified with the color red. None of the shooting victims were members of the gang. 
Mr. Leonik, the first victim, lay on the ground as Mr. Colletta sped off, but he remembered the shooter's face and testified before a grand jury to help indict Mr. Colletta, and then testified at his trial. Mr. Colletta was convicted of murder and other charges, and was sentenced to 384 years to life.
"While Colletta's sentencing served as a measure of justice, it did not, regrettably, undo the immense pain and suffering that he caused Mr. Leonik," said the Queens district attorney, Richard A. Brown, adding that, "Mr. Leonik today is literally a broken man, who has lost his livelihood and home, and is reduced to living out of his car."
After the shooting, Mr. Leonik underwent a series of surgeries to repair his right femur. Fifteen long screws were put in, to stabilize the damaged bone. But to this day, Mr. Leonik's leg still causes him pain and swells to nearly double the width of his left leg, so that he cannot pull on a pair of loose jeans. Since the shooting he has been unable to climb stairs or lift heavy objects.
He lost a full-time job working for a contractor renovating Manhattan apartments and has been limited to part-time carpentry. After a couple of days on his feet, he needs nearly a week of rest to let the swelling and pain in his leg subside, he said. He walks with a cane and is waiting to be scheduled for a knee replacement, which he hopes will allow him to work more than the part-time schedule he puts in for a contractor renovating a townhouse in Long Island City. 
George Badinter, who owns the townhouse, noticed that Mr. Leonik was living out of his minivan, and he made many phone calls to city agencies on Mr. Leonik's behalf. But he had no luck getting him any help. Mr. Badinter found out Mr. Leonik had been the subject of an article in The New York Times by looking him up on the Internet. 
Inside his van, Mr. Leonik keeps a shoe box filled with bottles of prescription medicine - he said he takes 20 pills a day - for ailments as varied as pain, high blood pressure and depression.
Mr. Leonik said that after living for seven years in his Maspeth apartment he fell behind in rent and was forced out by a marshal in August. He tried staying with a friend and with his two married daughters, but he felt he was imposing. Mr. Leonik said he emigrated to New York from Poland with his daughters in 2002. 
"I don't want to be a burden on them," said Mr. Leonik, adding that he has been unable to secure public assistance and other social services because he has not been able to get help completing required paperwork.
Returning to Poland is not an option, he said, because, "Back there, I would just be lost - there is no jobs, no money."
He had hoped to file a lawsuit against the city or the shooter, he said, but added that, "I asked many lawyers but they said, 'The city's not responsible for crazy people, and crazy people have no money.'"
He said that when the cold night permeates his minivan and Sonia is shivering on his chest and his leg is throbbing, he begins to envy others, even the man who shot him. At least prisoners have their meals and shelter provided for, at taxpayer expense.
"Of all the people who got shot, the shooter has the best life," he said, adding that he still refuses to wear red.
Still, he said, he would not switch places with him. He hopes to borrow money to rent a simple studio and get back on his feet.
"I came here to make a better life and support my kids in college," he said. "I should be able to prosper on my own and get out of this predicament."

        
Statistics Challenge Cuomo's Claim of Record Job Growth
        
Insurgent St. Patrick's Day Parade Comes Into Its Own
        
Guns and the Pulpit
        
Son Charged With Murder in Case of Dismembered Body
        
At Mass, Texting With God

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FIREARMS (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%); SENTENCING (86%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (86%); DOGS (76%); MURDER (75%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (75%); MOTOR VEHICLES (75%); MINIVANS (73%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (71%); GANGS (70%); INDICTMENTS (69%); GRAND JURY (69%); LITIGATION (69%); TESTIMONY (68%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (68%); COLD INJURIES (68%); DAMAGES (66%); MASONRY CONTRACTORS (66%); INTERVIEWS (66%); BUILDING RENOVATION (64%); MENTAL ILLNESS (51%) Labor and Jobs; Murders and Attempted Murders; Queens (NYC); Crime & Public Safety

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) Queens (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2013



171 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1161 words

HEADLINE: Trail of Fraud and Vengeance Leads to Kabul Bank Convictions

BYLINE: By MATTHEW ROSENBERG; Azam Ahmed, Habib Zahori and Sangar Rahimi contributed reporting.

 BODY:
KABUL, Afghanistan -- If Kabul Bank's founder, Sherkhan Farnood, had not decided on a summer day three years ago that revenge was worth self-incrimination, he might never have seen the inside of a courtroom.
But the halting and often obstructed investigation he helped fuel that day culminated on Tuesday with the first convictions in the Kabul Bank fraud scandal, a spectacular implosion of corruption that has undermined the credibility of the Afghan government and its Western benefactors.
Mr. Farnood was one of 21 people found guilty on Tuesday. But it was specifically his conviction and that of his chief executive and former bodyguard, Khalilullah Frozi, that American and European officials had warned would be necessary if billions of dollars of international aid was to continue to flow to Afghanistan. The two masterminds were convicted of a crime akin to fraud, sentenced to five years in prison and fined hundreds of millions of dollars, considerably lesser results than prosecutors had sought.
The path to those verdicts had been laid out in dozens of interviews since Kabul Bank nearly collapsed in 2010, with the main players offering details of the fraud scheme and their decision-making, including Mr. Farnood, shareholders and Afghan, American and European officials. 
In the summer of 2010, Mr. Farnood stood atop a huge pyramid of fraudulent loans and kickbacks. But things were beginning to crumble, threatened by a perilously overstretched balance sheet and a power struggle for control of the bank among Mr. Farnood, Mr. Frozi and two other major shareholders.
Mr. Farnood was losing.
The enmity had become so great that Mr. Farnood was telling friends that he would rather bring down the bank than let his rivals have it.
In July, he got his chance when two American law enforcement agents investigating the mysterious flight of billions of dollars in cash from Afghanistan walked through the doors of his office in Dubai. Kabul Bank appeared to play only a tangential role in the cash smuggling. But the investigators had heard about the power struggle at the bank. They had a hunch that Mr. Farnood might talk.
He did more. Mr. Farnood, who had once won an event at the World Series of Poker Europe, went all in.
Within days, he was telling the Americans how the bank was basically a Ponzi scheme. Depositors put in money, and its owners took it out through fraudulent loans, lining the pockets of a narrow clique tied to President Hamid Karzai and his first vice president, Muhammad Qasim Fahim.
He told them how Mahmood Karzai, the president's brother, had bought a 7 percent stake in Kabul Bank with a loan from the bank. He told them how Haseen Fahim, the first vice president's brother, had taken millions of dollars deposited by Afghans to finance his own businesses, at least one of which won business from the American-led coalition. He told them about how millions in deposits had been used to finance President Karzai's re-election campaign the year before.
He even told the investigators about the luxury villas he had bought in Dubai in his own name. How did he and his partners cover up a nearly $900 million fraud for so many years? Very simply, he explained: among their more creative ploys was to create fake letterheads and rubber stamps needed to make legitimate-looking paper trails for fictitious companies that were used to siphon money from the bank.
''I knew that this could be potentially huge,'' said one American official familiar with the investigation, ''when we found out there had been almost no capital ever invested in the bank.'' The capital infusions in the bank's records were financed with its own loans.
By midsummer in 2010, the Americans had warned the Afghan central bank about fraud at Kabul Bank. Regulators seized it that August.
By then, 92 percent of Kabul Bank's loan portfolio -- roughly $861 million, or about 5 percent of Afghanistan's annual economic output at the time -- had gone to 19 people or companies, according to an audit by Kroll Associates, an investigative firm.
The ensuing government bailout cost about $825 million. While the United States and European countries have insisted that they did not directly finance the bailout, their aid money filled the holes the rescue had opened in the Afghan government budget.
Yet even after the convictions on Tuesday, doubts lingered about the Afghan government's commitment to fighting corruption.
Exhibit A was the relatively light sentences for Mr. Farnood and Mr. Frozi. The fines did not come with confiscation orders, and it was unclear if there was any way to force payment.
Nor was it clear if the men would spend any time in prison. Both have been living under a loose form of house arrest, sometimes lunching at Kabul restaurants and, in Mr. Farnood's case, occasionally hosting high-stakes poker games. There was no word whether that setup would change.
American and European officials, along with Afghan observers, have expressed concern that neither Mahmood Karzai nor Haseen Fahim have been charged with any crimes.
Equally worrying, they say, was that a handful of regulators who had tried to repair the damage at Kabul Bank were convicted on Tuesday of crimes similar to negligence. One was fined, and the others were sentenced to between 6 and 30 months in prison. Their inclusion on the docket was seen as punishment from President Karzai's inner circle, which had completed the prosecution list, Afghan officials said.
The other defendants convicted on Tuesday were largely bank employees who benefited little from the theft. They all received prison sentences ranging from 6 to 30 months.
As for Mr. Farnood, who refused to comment after the verdicts, only he can say whether talking to the Americans turned out to be a good wager.
People familiar with his thinking have said he calculated the odds this way: connections often equal impunity in Afghanistan, and he figured he could keep his riches and his freedom while keeping the bank out of the hands of Mr. Frozi.
In the weeks after the bank was seized by regulators, it looked like a good bet. He and Mr. Frozi were called into Mr. Karzai's office about two weeks after the collapse and were told that they would not be prosecuted if they returned the money they had stolen, Mr. Farnood said in an interview.
Mr. Farnood did try to help track down some of the stolen money, Afghan and American investigators have said. In fact, his information has led to most of the recoveries so far, which are estimated to total between $200 million and $400 million.
In the estimation of Afghan and American investigators, Mr. Farnood's theft, like his ploy with the American investigators, was the act of a gambler.
''He was doing what he had always done -- he was trying to make money into more money,'' said the American official familiar with the investigation. Mr. Sherkhan, he added, ''saw an angle -- flipping villas in Dubai, or turning one thing into another -- and everyone would be richer.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sherkhan Farnood, the Kabul Bank founder, in court Tuesday. He had told American investigators about fraud. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHAH MARAI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); VERDICTS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); CORRUPTION (77%); SENTENCING (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); FINES & PENALTIES (76%); BRIBERY (76%); CRIMINAL FINES (76%); PONZI SCHEMES (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); SCANDALS (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (71%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (71%); JAIL SENTENCING (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%); POKER (66%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (93%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (77%) AFGHANISTAN (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (90%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2013



172 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTSBEAT; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 217 words

HEADLINE: A Play by Peet Could Attract Stars

BYLINE: By ALLAN KOZINN

 BODY:
The actress Amanda Peet will get her first professional credit as a playwright next season when Manhattan Theater Club stages ''The Commons of Pensacola,'' her work about a family grappling with the fallout from the financial crisis. 
Neither a date nor a theater for the premiere has been set, nor has the rest of the theater's season. But Mandy Greenfield, the company's artistic producer, described the work as ''thrilling,'' adding that Lynne Meadow, its artistic director, has been working closely with Ms. Peet on the script. Ms. Meadow will direct the production.
Ms. Greenfield also confirmed a report on the Showbiz411 Web site that Sarah Jessica Parker of ''Sex and the City'' fame and Blythe Danner (currently on Broadway in ''Nice Work If You Can Get It'') are considering the lead roles. None of the other casting has been announced.
''They came here, and they did a reading, and we're talking with them about it,'' Ms. Greenfield said. ''We're all very excited about it.''
Ms. Parker and Ms. Danner appeared together in the Manhattan Theater Club's 1995 production of A. R. Gurney's ''Sylvia.'' Neither of their representatives responded immediately to questions about whether they were committed to the new play.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); THEATER (90%); THEATER COMPANIES (90%); WRITERS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%)

PERSON: SARAH JESSICA PARKER (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2013



173 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 875 words

HEADLINE: Craft Beer's Larger Aspirations Cause a Stir

BYLINE: By CLAY RISEN

 BODY:
Time was, beer came in one size: whether bottle or can, the stuff inside measured a reliable 12 ounces. But walk into a craft-beer store these days and you'll see shelf after shelf taken over by giants: 22-ounce ''bombers,'' 750-milliliter wine bottles, even three-liter jeroboams.
Several new, high-profile breweries are putting their product only in so-called large-format bottles. Dogfish Head Brewery, one of the bigger, better-known craft breweries in the country, will soon dedicate one of its two bottle-filling lines just to the 750-milliliter format. 
The trend toward large bottles is part of what is being called the ''wine-ification'' of beer, the push by many brewers to make their product as respectable to pair with braised short ribs as is a nice Chateauneuf-du-Pape, and at a price to match. Bottles sell for as much as $30 in stores and much more on restaurant menus.
But they are getting a chilly reception from many drinkers. Internet message boards dedicated to craft beer are replete with complaints that large bottlesare too expensive and, thanks to their typically higher alcohol content, a challenge to finish in one sitting. Unlike wine, a beer is nearly impossible to recork.
The backlash is particularly troublesome for merchants and restaurateurs, who say it can be hard to persuade customers to commit to these big, boozy beers. ''They'll say, 'I wish that came in a smaller bottle, because that would just ruin the night for me,' '' said Ben Granger, the owner of Bierkraft, a craft-beer store in Park Slope, Brooklyn.
Last year, only about 3.5 percent of craft beer was sold in 22-ounce bottles, the most common large-format size, according to the market research firm SymphonyIRI. But craft-beer sales in general are booming (at about 12 percent a year, while the overall beer market remains flat), and many brewers are enthusiastic about big bottles.
''We do believe in the future of this format,'' said Sam Calagione, the founder and chief executive of Dogfish Head, in Milton, Del.
Brewers have many reasons to go big. Prestige, for one: high-end craft beer is being made with ever more exotic ingredients, like cacao nibs and imported honey, and it is often aged in whiskey or wine barrels. After all that, why hide it in an anonymous six-pack-size bottle?
That pride is part of a bigger shift, an attempt to move beyond beer's workaday roots, to redefine it as something on the same level as wine or fine spirits and to attract people who prefer sidling up to an Italian red rather than an imperial stout.
''It comes down to the whole experience we want people to have when drinking our beers,'' said Ben Weiss, the director of marketing for the Bruery in Placentia, Calif., which uses only 750-milliliter bottles. ''We want you to share it with a friend, pour it into a glass and actually experience the beer rather than just grab it and start drinking.''
Cost is also an issue. Cacao nibs and imported honey are expensive, and brewers say there is a ceiling for what consumers will pay for a 12-ounce bottle, one that doesn't seem to exist for larger bottles, especially when they're aimed at wine drinkers.
''A wine consumer in general accepts pricing stratification for 750 milliliters,'' Mr. Calagione said. ''They understand that an amazing bottle of merlot can cost three times as much as a bad bottle of merlot.''
But while large bottles do have their partisans, many craft-beer drinkers bristle at the format, which they see as the alcoholic equivalent of neighborhood gentrification. Although the traditional 12-ounce bottle is hardly becoming extinct, these fans lament that all the interesting, innovative new releases seem to go into bottles that cost as much as a good bottle of wine.
''Priced per ounce, a 750-milliliter bottle can be twice as expensive as a six pack,'' said Michael Tonsmeire, an economist and home brewer in Washington.
Moreover, many beer drinkers are uncomfortable with the notion of drinking beer like wine, to be split among several people and pondered. And the idea of drinking a 750-milliliter bottle alone can be daunting.
''It's like having one entire wine bottle,'' Mr. Tonsmeire said. ''I'm a decently sized male, and if I really wanted to, I could drink one. But that's not a great Tuesday night.''
Large-format bottles aren't catching on with restaurant patrons as fast as many brewers would like, either. While fine beer may be cheaper than fine wine, diners are still used to beer as an inexpensive, by-the-glass proposition; even big spenders can suffer sticker shock.
''It's a matter of perceived value,'' said Jon Langley, until recently the beer sommelier at DBGB Kitchen and Bar in Manhattan. (He left in January to open Torst, a bar in Greenpoint, Brooklyn.) ''Any format above a 12-ounce can be problematic to sell to people.''
Ultimately, traditionalists say that what irks them the most about the big bottles is that they send the signal that beer is trying to be something that it's not: that it needs to be more like wine or scotch to win over elite consumers.
''As soon as you say you want to be more like wine, the battle is lost,'' said Mr. Granger of Bierkraft. ''I don't think beer and beer culture need to be more like wine. I think they need to keep being themselves.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, Mike Garrett, an inventory coordinator at Dogfish Head Brewery, inspects 750- milliliter bottles. Right, a lineup, large and small, of craft beer at Bierkraft in Brooklyn. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JUSTIN WILLIAMS
 MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEER & ALE (94%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (90%); BREWERIES (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (78%); BEVERAGE PACKAGING (78%); RETAILERS (77%); TRENDS (75%); MARKET RESEARCH (74%); RESTAURANTS (72%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (52%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: ACTRIS AG (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312120 BREWERIES (91%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (91%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2013



174 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 645 words

HEADLINE: Roy Brown Jr., Edsel Designer, Dies at 96

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY

 BODY:
Roy Brown Jr., a car designer for Ford Motor whose signature creation, the supposedly futuristic but ultimately ill-fated Edsel, became a synonym for bold, bad ideas not long after it was introduced in 1957, died on Feb. 24 in Michigan. He was 96.
His death was announced in Michigan news media outlets. 
Even as the Edsel, his most notable work, fell far short of sales goals, lost hundreds of millions of dollars, became an enduring punch line and prompted an overseas transfer for its designer, Mr. Brown remained satisfied with it.
''I'm proud of the car,'' he told The Sun-Sentinel of Florida in 1985. ''There is not a bad line on the car.''
Many initial assessments agreed.
''The Edsel will be radically different,'' said an article in The New York Times previewing the new model in 1957.
''The difference in style is spectacular,'' the article added. ''The front end emphasizes a vertical grille that lends a distinctive continental flair. The rear-end assembly is also distinctive. Horizontal taillights sweep across the trunk lid to form a pattern like the graceful wingspread of a sea gull.''
But early praise and anticipation -- Ford directors stood and applauded along with Henry Ford II when they were given a preview of the design -- soon gave way to public mockery.
The vertical grille with the ''continental flair'' was compared to a toilet seat and later became known as the ''horse collar.'' (Mr. Brown's initial grille design was far sleeker but was reworked out of concerns about getting enough air to the engine.) New features -- the push-button shifter, the ''floating'' speedometer -- had complications. (Making seat belts standard, however, was a trend that caught on.)
Many people felt the Edsel's indulgences -- in chrome, size and sheer steel bulk -- seemed out of touch by the time it appeared on the market, during an economic downturn. Others said the car was hurt by excessive expectations.
Ford spent lavishly on advertising, including television commercials, but the company struggled to clarify the market position of Edsel's various models, which sold for $2,400 to $3,800. Edsels were less expensive than some Mercury models, Ford's midlevel brand, although they were sometimes presented as near equals to Lincoln, the luxury category.
''This car was kind of aimed at a market that didn't really exist,'' said Matt Anderson, the curator of transportation at the Henry Ford, a museum in Dearborn, Mich.
Even the name of the car confused some people. It was named for Edsel Ford, the only child of the company founder, who served as president of the company until his death in 1943.
The Edsel was out of production by the end of 1959 and would sell a little more than half of the 200,000 cars Ford projected. Mr. Brown was transferred to England, where he helped design successful European models for Ford, including the Cortina. He returned to the United States in the mid-1960s and continued to work at Ford until 1974.
Roy Abbott Brown Jr. was born Oct. 30, 1916, in Hamilton, Ontario. His family moved to the Detroit area when he was a teenager. Survivors include his wife of 42 years, Jeanne Brown; four children from a previous marriage, Georgianna Byron, Reginald Brown, Penny Beesley and Mark Brown; a sister, Betty Klepinger; five grandchildren; two great-grandchildren; and two great-great-grandchildren.
For all its commercial struggles, the Edsel has been revered as a collectible for decades -- and Mr. Brown drove one into his 90s.
Robert Mayer, who brokers Edsels and sells Edsel parts online at Edsel World, said that he just recently sold some original drawings Mr. Brown made in the 1990s of what an Edsel might have looked like had the line endured.
''If you are unprejudiced and look at the car, it's beautiful,'' Mr. Mayer said of the original models. ''The young people who have never heard of it look at it and think it's beautiful.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Roy Brown Jr., who created and drove Edsels into his 90s, is shown here in Las Vegas in 1998. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RALPH FOUNTAIN/LAS VEGAS REVIEW JOURNAL, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); AUTOMOTIVE ENGINEERING (90%); NEW PRODUCTS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); SALES PLAN (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (62%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (60%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (85%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (85%); F (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2013



175 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1106 words

HEADLINE: California, on Brink of Recovery, Braces for Setback on Federal Aid

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO -- After years of ballooning budget deficits, California finally seemed on firmer footing. Unemployment remained high, but revenues and housing prices were up. Taxpayers even voted themselves a tax increase to bring deficits down.
And then came the automatic federal budget cuts known as sequestration.
As the $85 billion in spending cuts slowly roll out nationwide, California officials are girding themselves for a blow not only to the state's large military industry but also to its nascent economic recovery. Still, experts say, it will most likely slow down, though not derail, the state's economic growth.
The cuts, which began to take effect on Friday and will accelerate as time passes, will amount to a loss of an estimated $9 billion for California this year. The military industry will incur the biggest reduction, $3.2 billion, but education, social programs and other areas that were hit particularly hard by California's budget turmoil in recent years will also face cuts.
State officials await word from Washington on exactly how the cuts will be put in place in the weeks and months ahead, hoping that the long-term ripple effects on California's consumers and businesses will become clearer. 
''It's very frustrating for a state like California, where we've had housing-market and job-market gains beginning to solidify here,'' said Jason Sisney, the director of state finance at the nonpartisan California Legislative Analyst's Office. ''And just as that's happening, we have the federal government taking actions that could impede that recovery.''
Despite the size of military and federal programs in California, the state's $2 trillion economy is larger and more diverse than the economies of other states, and less dependent on federal workers.
''California will be an average state,'' said Stephen Levy, the director of the Center for Continuing Study of the California Economy. ''We won't be hit less, and we won't be hit more.''
Jerry Nickelsburg, an economics professor and expert on the California economy at the Anderson School of Management at the University of California, Los Angeles, said: ''But is it sufficient to choke off the recovery in California? I think the answer is no. Will it slow the growth of the California economy? The answer is yes.''
Because the automatic budget cuts had been set up to force Democrats and Republicans to negotiate over cuts and spending -- and not to be actually put in place -- California officials, like their counterparts in other state capitals, have received only general guidance so far from the Office of Management and Budget on how to carry out the cuts. But in the coming weeks, federal agencies are expected to provide details on their respective spending cuts.
''As we learn more the specifics on how they're going to do that, then we will have a better sense of how it will impact the state,'' said H. D. Palmer, a deputy director at the California Department of Finance.
State officials could have to adjust for the cuts in the state budget revision scheduled for May. In January, Gov. Jerry Brown announced the first balanced budget in years, thanks largely to a temporary tax surcharge that voters approved in November.
The budget cuts are expected to be felt strongly in the San Diego area, where the military industry plays a significant role in the economy. According to the White House, California's 64,000 civilian military workers will be furloughed starting next month, most likely by losing a day of work a week over several months. The White House estimates that the furloughs will total a $400 million reduction in gross pay this year.
Military contractors in the area are also bracing for cuts.
Marion C. Blakey, the president of the Aerospace Industries Association, a trade group based in Arlington, Va., said larger contractors could absorb the loss of an anticipated order. But smaller members, she said, could be forced to lay off highly paid engineers, and in that way dampen the regional economy.
''These are companies that often do not have the resilience and flexibility to take this kind of body blow,'' Ms. Blakey said, adding that these were typically highly specialized companies incapable of quickly shifting their businesses. ''As an industry, we are very concerned about the third and fourth tier in the supply chain, and California has a lot of those kinds of companies.''
Gregory Bloom, a member of the trade group's executive board and the president of Seal Science, a 120-employee aerospace company in Irvine, Calif., said his business had already suffered from the cuts. Because of the uncertainty surrounding federal financing of military-related programs, his company had lost two top engineers and was unable to fill four existing engineering positions, he said.
''In my entire career, I've never been in a situation where I can't at least put some probability on what's going to happen,'' Mr. Bloom said, adding that he had delayed expanding capacity at a plant as a result. ''There's absolutely no way to plan.''
The cuts could hurt California's schools and colleges, whose budgets have been slashed in recent years. The University of California system is expected to face at least a 5 percent cut in the $3.5 billion it receives annually in federal research money. Cuts in federal student aid programs will affect the next academic year.
''As a family starts to plan for what's going to happen next year -- how much money do I need to send my son or daughter to school? -- these are unknowns right now until we get more information from the federal government,'' said Gary Falle, the University of California's associate vice president for federal government relations.
According to the White House, California will also lose $88 million in federal money for primary and secondary education this year. Though Washington accounts for less than 11 percent of the state's budget for schools, that share has taken on increasing weight in recent years because of state cuts, said Erika Webb-Hughes, an official at the California Department of Education's government affairs division.
The cuts are likely to affect disadvantaged students the most, including those with disabilities, Ms. Webb-Hughes said. The uncertainty of the magnitude of the cuts will also make it difficult for school districts to plan for next year because, by state law, they must notify staff members of their future employment status by March 15.
''People will be sending out pink slips,'' Ms. Webb-Hughes said. ''Even if at the end of the year there is a miraculous agreement in the Congress that averts a majority of this issue, the damage is already done.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The University of California system may lose at least 5 percent of the $3.5 billion it receives each year in research money. Above, the Irvine campus. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID MCNEW FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (88%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); TAX LAW (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2013



176 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; HUGO CHáVEZ | 1954-2013; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 2211 words

HEADLINE: Hugo Chávez, Leader Who Transformed Venezuela, Dies at 58

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO; María Eugenia Díaz contributed reporting.

 BODY:
CARACAS, Venezuela -- Hugo Chávez, who died on Tuesday at 58, rose from poverty in a dirt-floor adobe house to unrivaled influence in Venezuela as its president, consolidating power and wielding the country's oil reserves as a tool for his Socialist-inspired change.
With a televangelist's gift for oratory, Mr. Chávez led a nationalist movement that lashed out at the United States government, moneyed Venezuelans and his own disaffected followers, whom he often branded as traitors.
He was a dreamer with a common touch and enormous ambition. He maintained an almost visceral connection with the poor, tapping into their resentments, while strutting like the strongman in a caudillo novel. His followers called him Comandante.
But he was not a stock figure. He grew up a have-not in an oil-rich country that prized ostentatious consumption. He was a man of mixed ancestry -- African, indigenous and Spanish -- who despised a power structure dominated by Europeanized elites. As a soldier he hated hunting down guerrillas, but had no qualms about using weapons to seize power, as he and a group of military co-conspirators tried but failed to do in 1992. Even so, he rose to power in democratic elections, in 1998. 
In office, he upended the political order at home and used oil revenues to finance client states in Latin America, notably Bolivia and Nicaragua. Inspired by Simón Bolívar, the mercurial Venezuelan aristocrat who led South America's 19th-century wars of independence, Mr. Chávez sought to unite the region and erode Washington's influence.
''The hegemonic pretensions of the American empire are placing at risk the very survival of the human species,'' he said in a 2006 speech at the United Nations. In the same speech he called President George W. Bush ''the devil.''
For years, he succeeded in curbing American influence. He breathed life into Cuba, the hemisphere's only Communist nation, with economic assistance; its revolutionary leader, Fidel Castro, was not only an ally but also an inspiration. He forged a Bolivarian alliance with some of Latin America's energy-exporting nations, like Ecuador and Bolivia, and applauded when they expelled American ambassadors, as he had done. He asserted greater state control over Venezuela's economy by nationalizing dozens of foreign-owned assets, including oil projects controlled by Exxon Mobil and other large American corporations.
Though he met opposition at home, he enjoyed broad support, in part by going into the slums to establish health clinics staffed by Cuban doctors and state-run stores selling subsidized food. These and other social welfare programs could be corrupt and inefficient, but they made the poor feel included in a society that had long ignored them.
At the same time, he was determined to hold onto and enhance his power. He grew obsessed with changing Venezuela's laws and regulations to ensure that he could be re-elected indefinitely and become, indeed, a caudillo, able to rule by decree at times. He stacked his government with generals, colonels and majors, drawing inspiration from the leftist military officers who ruled Peru and Panama in the 1970s.
A bizarre governing apparatus subject to his whims coalesced around him. State television cameras recorded nearly every public appearance, many of them to make surprise, unscripted announcements, often in his military uniform and paratrooper's red beret. He might rail against Venezuela's high consumption of Scotch whisky -- he did not drink alcohol, his aides said -- or its high demand for breast augmentation surgery. He once stunned citizens by decreeing a new time zone for the nation, a half-hour behind its previous one.
'Astute and Manipulative'
Dr. Edmundo Chirinos, a psychiatrist who got to know Mr. Chávez as a patient, described him in a profile in The New Yorker in 2001 as ''a hyperkinetic and imprudent man, unpunctual, someone who overreacts to criticism, harbors grudges, is politically astute and manipulative, and possesses tremendous stamina, never sleeping more than two or three hours a night.''
Mr. Chávez would delight in angering his critics in rich countries. He heaped praise, for instance, on Ilich Ramírez Sánchez, the Venezuelan terrorist better known as Carlos the Jackal, with whom he corresponded.
''I defend him,'' Mr. Chávez said of his friend, who was jailed in France on charges of murdering two French police agents and a Lebanese informer in Paris in 1975. ''I don't care what they say tomorrow in Europe.''
No mentor was more supportive than Mr. Castro, who well understood how important Venezuela's subsidized oil shipments were to Cuba's fragile economy. An ally from the start of Mr. Chávez's presidency in 1999, he offered help in one of Mr. Chávez's most difficult moments, a coup d'état that removed him from office for 48 hours in April 2002. Mr. Castro telephoned Venezuela's top military officials, pressing them to assist in returning Mr. Chávez to office.
The collapse of the coup, which received tacit support from the Bush administration, and Mr. Chávez's swift return to power signaled a shift in his presidency. Seemingly chastened, Mr. Chávez promised compromise and harmony in the future. But instead of reconciliation, his response was retaliation.
He began describing his critics as ''golpistas,'' or putschists, while recasting his own failed 1992 coup as a patriotic uprising. He purged opponents from the national oil company, expropriated the land of others and imprisoned retired military officials who had dared to stand against him. The country's political debate became increasingly poisonous, and it took its toll on the country.
Private investors, unhinged over Mr. Chávez's nationalizations and expropriation threats, halted projects. Hundreds of thousands of scientists, doctors, entrepreneurs and others in the middle class left Venezuela, even as large numbers of immigrants from Haiti, China and Lebanon put down stakes here.
The homicide rate soared under his rule, turning Caracas into one of the world's most dangerous cities. Armed gangs lorded over prisons, as they did in previous governments, challenging the state's authority. Simple tasks, like transferring the title of a car, remained nightmarish odysseys eased only by paying bribes to churlish bureaucrats.
Other branches of government often bent to his will. He fired about 19,000 employees of Petróleos de Venezuela, the national oil company, in response to a strike in 2002 and 2003. In 2004, he stripped the Supreme Court of its autonomy. In legislative elections in 2010, his supporters preserved a majority in the National Assembly by gerrymandering.
All the while, Mr. Chávez rewrote the rule book on using the media to enhance his power. With ''Aló Presidente'' (''Hello, President''), his Sunday television program, he would speak to viewers in his booming voice for hours on end. His government ordered privately controlled television stations to broadcast his speeches. While initially skeptical of social media, he came to embrace Twitter, attracting millions of followers.
He also basked in the comforts allowed him as head of state in a nation with some of the largest oil reserves outside the Middle East. He traveled in a luxurious Airbus A-319. In one jaunt around Venezuela in 2007 with the actor Sean Penn, he roamed the plane regaling foreign journalists with tales from his days as a soldier.
That outing was a rare glimpse of a man -- twice married and the father of four -- who guarded his privacy. Most times his government would not even say which official residence he might be sleeping in, although his aides did reveal that he smoked cigarettes in private and enjoyed coffee; at one point early in his presidency, he consumed as many as 26 cups of espresso a day.
Mr. Chávez understood the value of humor in his speeches, and he used it freely. But he was also a master of the political insult. ''Apátrida'' (stateless one) and ''escuálido'' (squalid person) -- just two of the terms he used for his opponents -- became part of the Venezuelan lexicon. Another insult was used against those he perceived as mimicking North American cultural mores. ''Pitiyanqui,'' he called them, roughly translated as ''little Yankee.''
The Rise of a Rebel
Hugo Rafael Chávez Frías was born on July 28, 1954, the second of six sons of primary school teachers who lived in an adobe house in Sabaneta, a town in the western Venezuelan state of Barinas, a region known for its cattle estates. His impoverished parents sent him and his older brother, Adán, to live with their grandmother. Mr. Chávez played baseball as a boy before enrolling in Venezuela's military academy at 17.
After graduating, he joined a counterinsurgency unit roaming the state of Anzoátegui in eastern Venezuela, assigned to subdue a Maoist rebel group called Red Flag. There, in the late 1970s and early '80s, Mr. Chávez, then a junior communications officer, began chafing at the brutal treatment of guerrillas and questioning the inequality that Red Flag had hoped to eliminate.
Soon he helped create a clandestine cell of like-minded young officers within the army, drawing on the guidance of Douglas Bravo, a leftist guerrilla leader who advocated using the nation's petroleum reserves as a tool for radical change. They called their group the Bolivarian Revolutionary Movement.
Reading voraciously on Venezuelan history and global politics, Mr. Chávez began to articulate a national ideology, much as Mr. Castro had done in Cuba. One of his biographers, Cristina Marcano, said Mr. Chávez had spoken of being influenced by ''The Green Book,'' the three-volume political tract by Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi of Libya.
Once in power, Mr. Chávez established ties with Colonel Qaddafi and other Middle Eastern leaders who similarly used oil resources to buttress nationalist governments.
Those who knew Mr. Chávez well, before he emerged from obscurity during the failed 1992 coup attempt, saw another side to his intellectual development. Herma Marksman, a history professor who was Mr. Chávez's mistress from 1984 to 1993, said he loved to have her read aloud to him from books while he drove a car aimlessly through the streets of Caracas. ''He would hang on every word, especially if it was fiction by García Márquez,'' Ms. Marksman said in a 2006 interview, referring to the Nobel-prize winning Colombian novelist Gabriel García Márquez.
Throughout the 1980s, Mr. Chávez and his fellow conspirators waited for the right moment to try to seize power. Venezuelans were becoming increasingly restive over a political system permeated with corruption. A decline in oil prices in the 1980s, along with years of fiscal mismanagement, left Venezuela perpetually on the edge of crisis.
'Por Ahora'
By February 1992, Mr. Chávez and his army associates decided it was time to act. Their rebellion gained tenuous control over several important cities, including Maracaibo and Valencia, but Mr. Chávez, commanding five army units, failed to capture Caracas, the capital. President Carlos Andrés Pérez eluded capture. Mr. Chávez, aware that the coup had failed, surrendered.
But before he surrendered, he shrewdly struck a deal that lay the groundwork for his rise later in the decade: he persuaded officials to allow him to appear briefly on national television. Slim in his officer's uniform and wearing a beret, he looked into the camera and addressed his supporters.
''Comrades, unfortunately for now the objectives we set for ourselves have not been possible to achieve,'' he said, adding that ''new possibilities will arise again.'' Two words, ''por ahora,'' meaning ''for now,'' would remain with Venezuelans.
He and other rebellious officers were court-martialed, and Mr. Chávez was sent to prison. But in two years he was freed by President Rafael Caldera in fulfillment of an election pledge. After leaving prison, Mr. Chávez divorced his wife, Nancy Colmenares. He is survived by their three children, Rosa Virginia, María Gabriela and Hugo Rafael; and another daughter, Rosinés, from his second marriage, to Marisabel Rodríguez, who left him in 2002.
After his release, Mr. Chávez went on a 100-day tour of Venezuela, weaving together a broad coalition of support. After founding a political party, the Fifth Republic Movement, he ran for president in 1998 at a time of intense dissatisfaction with Venezuela's political elite. He easily defeated Henrique Salas Romer, a Yale-educated economist, and Irene Sáez, a former Miss Universe.
At the time of his rise, he was able to rally support for a new constitution. But his attempts to consolidate power fully were eventually blocked as opposition to his rule persisted.
Still, he created what few thought possible in a market economy at the dawn of the 21st century: a governing structure revolving around a single willful, mercurial personality -- a man who seemed to believe in his own myth. Between trips to Cuba for treatment, that force of personality helped him to win a re-election campaign in October 2012. Even a setback would only embolden him. After he unexpectedly lost a referendum on a constitutional overhaul in 2007, he set about reminding citizens that his efforts to install a new order were not over. On billboards across Caracas appeared the words ''por ahora.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Hugo Chávez of Venezuela greeted supporters during a political rally in Guarico, southwest of the capital, Caracas, in November 2006. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PRESIDENCIA, VIA AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
After spending two years in prison for his role in a coup attempt, Mr. Chávez was released in 1994 and welcomed by supporters in Caracas. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CARLOS HERNANDEZ/REUTERS)
Mr. Chávez in 2011, the year he was given a diagnosis of cancer. Throughout his treatment he kept many details about his illness secret. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LEO RAMIREZ/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
Fidel Castro was a steadfast mentor and ally of Mr. Chávez, who breathed life into Cuba with economic assistance. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUAN MABROMATA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi of Libya was said to have inspired Mr. Chávez with his political tract, ''The Green Book.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUAN CARLOS SOLORZANO/MIRAFLORES PRESS, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 ''We stand by Iran at every moment, in every situation,'' Mr. Chávez told President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad in 2006. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BEHROUZ MEHRI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); SLUM DWELLINGS (73%); ENERGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (72%); ELECTIONS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (67%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (50%)

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (52%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (52%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (52%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (94%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); FIDEL CASTRO (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); BOLIVIA (92%); LATIN AMERICA (91%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); ECUADOR (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2013



177 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 315 words

HEADLINE: DealBook Online

BYLINE: By PETER LATTMAN, SUSANNE CRAIG, MARK SCOTT and JULIA WERDIGIER

 BODY:
TRIAL TO PROCEED A Federal District Court judge in Dallas denied a request by Mark Cuban, below, to dismiss a nearly five-year-old insider trading lawsuit brought against him by federal securities regulators. A trial is scheduled for June. 
Judge Sidney A. Fitzwater decided that the Securities and Exchange Commission's civil action against Mr. Cuban could proceed to trial. Mr. Cuban has maintained that he has done nothing wrong. PETER LATTMAN
FRAUD SENTENCE A federal judge in California has sentenced Philip Horn, a former Wells Fargo broker who pleaded guilty to defrauding more than a dozen clients, to two years in jail.
The judge, Gary A. Feess, noted in handing down the sentence on Monday that Mr. Horn had already paid more than $1 million in restitution, according to a news release issued by André Birotte Jr., the United States attorney for the Central District of California. SUSANNE CRAIG
SLOW RESPONSE British authorities failed to spot interest-rate manipulation by big banks because they were concentrated on responding to the financial crisis, according to an internal review by the country's financial watchdog released on Tuesday.
The review, by the Financial Services Authority, said that officials had become too focused on containing the financial crisis to analyze information connected with the rate-rigging. ''The F.S.A. did not respond rapidly,'' Adair Turner, above, the agency's chairman, said in a statement. MARK SCOTT
WINDING DOWN The British bank HSBC made some progress on Tuesday in shrinking its consumer loan portfolio in the United States, which has been a drag on its earnings.
HSBC agreed to sell a portfolio of personal unsecured loans and mortgages to Springleaf Finance and the Newcastle Investment Corporation for $3.2 billion in cash. HSBC also said it was selling Springleaf its loan servicing facility in London, Ky. JULIA WERDIGIER
nytimes.com/dealbook

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (92%); SUITS & CLAIMS (91%); JUDGES (91%); SECURITIES LAW (91%); LITIGATION (91%); SENTENCING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); GUILTY PLEAS (79%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (79%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); INSIDER TRADING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (77%); LAWYERS (75%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); CONSUMER LENDING (67%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); NEWCASTLE INVESTMENT CORP (65%)

ORGANIZATION: FINANCIAL SERVICES AUTHORITY (55%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (58%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (84%); NCT (NYSE) (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (65%)

PERSON: MARK CUBAN (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (54%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2013



178 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 422 words

HEADLINE: Businesses Report a Solid Expansion

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (AP) -- American service companies grew in February at the fastest pace in a year, buoyed by higher sales, more new orders and solid job growth. The gain suggests higher taxes have yet to slow consumer spending on services. 
The Institute for Supply Management said on Tuesday that its index of nonmanufacturing activity rose to 56 in February from 55.2 in January. Any reading above 50 indicates expansion.
The report measures growth in industries that cover 90 percent of the work force, including retail, construction, health care and financial services. A solid recovery in the housing market helped drive the index higher.
Service companies also kept adding jobs last month. A measure of service sector hiring fell only slightly after reaching a nearly seven-year high in January.
''This survey does bode well for both activity and employment in the second quarter,'' Paul Dales, an economist at Capital Economics, said in a note to clients.
In the I.S.M. survey, 13 of the 18 industries reported expansion, including construction, real estate, finance and insurance and utilities.
The growth suggested that Americans were spending more despite an increase in Social Security taxes that took effect on Jan. 1. The higher payroll taxes cost a household earning $50,000 about $1,000 a year; a household with two highly paid workers will have up to $4,500 less.
The companies surveyed by the I.S.M. cover many industries that are closely tied to consumer spending, like retail, hotels and restaurants, and arts and entertainment. And those companies expect consumers to keep spending. Order backlogs grew at the fastest pace in 20 months, a sign that many companies could not keep up with rising sales. Stockpiles also rose strongly.
Anthony Nieves, the chairman of the I.S.M. survey committee, said the increases in both categories pointed to higher future sales.
''Companies are gearing up for more volume, more activity,'' Mr. Nieves said.
The report also pointed to continued growth in hiring at service companies last month. Labor Department figures showed that service and construction companies added an average of 195,000 jobs from November through January. The I.S.M. includes construction hiring in its service index; the Labor Department measures those jobs separately from service hiring.
The government will release the February employment report on Friday. Economists on average are expecting an increase of 160,000 jobs, with the unemployment rate holding steady at 7.9 percent, according to a survey by Bloomberg News.

GRAPHIC: A construction worker at a new-home site in Phoenix. Strength in the housing market helped drive the I.S.M. index higher. JUSTIN SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); NEW ORDERS (89%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); RETAIL CONSTRUCTION (75%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); RESTAURANTS (73%); CORPORATE TAX (72%); HOUSING MARKET (71%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (65%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (72%); BLOOMBERG LP (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (51%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2013



179 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; MOVIE REVIEW; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 565 words

HEADLINE: A Work in Progress, From the Inside Out

BYLINE: By STEPHEN HOLDEN

 BODY:
An alternate title for ''Gut Renovation,'' Su Friedrich's cranky, sarcastic documentary polemic about the gentrification of a Brooklyn neighborhood, might be ''The Rape of Williamsburg.'' Ms. Friedrich, an independent filmmaker, moved there in 1989 when it was an artists' haven and a multiethnic, working-class neighborhood with a vibrant street life. After the City Council passed a rezoning ordinance in 2005, an area 6 blocks wide and 17 blocks long became the site of a frantic real estate boom.
The developers who swarmed into Williamsburg were offered 25-year tax abatements to build condominiums. A visual leitmotif is a map on which Ms. Friedrich marks off 173 sites with new construction. Her nickname for the neighborhood is Condoburg. 
To justify the demolition of much of the area, developers claimed that industry in Williamsburg was moribund. Not true, insists Ms. Friedrich, who interviewed many owners of small businesses on the eve of their evictions.
Where they are resigned and fatalistic, Ms. Friedrich is fighting mad. She is a provocateur who films the mostly white, affluent new arrivals making their way through the rubble and describes the climate as one of ''fancy names, fancy dogs and nannies with fancy strollers.'' She paints graffiti on a construction fence -- ''artists used to live here'' -- and shouts at a group of developers: ''Welcome to the neighborhood. You're ruining it!'' One friend, she says, suggested that she call the film ''I Hate the Rich,'' a feeling she doesn't deny.
Her contemptuous attitude is distilled in intertitles like the gushy comment ''Honey, it's just like Paris.'' The accompanying image, however, suggests a cheap architectural cartoon of the kind of structure that you might find in an instant housing development in a California desert.
The funniest scene involves the removal of a giant rock, which is too large and heavy to be carted away in one piece, a problem that takes weeks to solve. It is finally removed by breaking it up.
Late in the movie Ms. Friedrich makes the rounds of the new condos, pretending to be a prospective buyer, and we hear the mechanical sales pitches and survey the cramped, high-priced spaces.
The financial crisis of 2008 temporarily dampens the enthusiasm, and one project, financed by Lehman Brothers, is temporarily stalled. Eventually, though, the condo fever catches up with Ms. Friedrich, who had renovated an abandoned loft in a commercial building.
In the first sign of trouble, city inspectors descend to check on code violations. The laissez-faire attitude that had allowed Ms. Friedrich and her partner, Cathy Quinlan (credited as a writing and editing consultant on the film), to live in an industrial space hardened, and they were forced to move.
The images of Williamsburg in the wake of a gold rush are not attractive. As pictured by Ms. Friedrich, who photographed the movie, it is a mostly ugly architectural mishmash executed without an overall vision, beyond the prospect for developers of making as much money as quickly as possible.
Gut Renovation
Opens on Wednesday in Manhattan.
Written, directed and edited by Su Friedrich; director of photography, Ms. Friedrich; writing and editing consultant, Cathy Quinlan; released by Outcast Films. At Film Forum, 209 West Houston Street, west of Avenue of the Americas, South Village. Running time: 1 hour 21 minutes. This film is not rated.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Su Friedrich mapping construction in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, in her film ''Gut Renovation,'' which criticizes gentrification. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SU FRIEDRICH/OUTCAST FILMS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); FILM (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); ZONING (76%); EVICTION (76%); ORDINANCES (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); INSPECTIONS (76%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (75%); BUILDING & HOUSING INSPECTIONS (75%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (75%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); VANDALISM (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); CITIES (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (67%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2013



180 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1242 words

HEADLINE: Construction That Focuses on Health of Residents

BYLINE: By JOE GOSE

 BODY:
Doctors, social agencies and community groups that have long been frustrated by the inability to alleviate environmental conditions that contribute to ailments like heart disease and obesity are promoting the idea that a shift in land-use planning and design can stanch some of the harmful influences.
The concept is being put to one of its earliest and biggest tests in the La Alma/Lincoln Park neighborhood near downtown Denver. That's where the city's housing authority used a relatively new decision-making tool known as a health impact assessment to draft a redevelopment plan that encourages physical activity and environmental sustainability.
To that end, the redevelopment of buildings in the 17-acre project, known as Mariposa, will incorporate ecologically advanced construction materials and practices, and a combination of geothermal and solar power will generate up to 60 percent of the development's energy.
Residents will also find naturally lighted and centrally located staircases enticing them away from the elevators, as well as neighborhood gardens to encourage a better diet. 
''As we talked to residents, we began to learn from their perspective that having new housing would be great, but that it alone wouldn't improve their quality of life or create a path to success or sustainability for them,'' said Ismael Guerrero, executive director of the Denver Housing Authority. ''So we came at this from the point of view of, How are we going to transform this neighborhood into a healthy, vibrant community?''
Advocates of health impact assessments hope that Mariposa will convince more developers to use the tool, which examines environmental, economic and social influences on health.
While communities and other organization have conducted these types of assessments in road construction, energy developments and other projects, the studies are also ideally suited to guide transit-oriented developments, infrastructure improvements and urban redevelopment in low-income neighborhoods.
Health impact assessments have been a mainstay in Europe and other countries for several years, but proponents say they did not appear in the United States until 1999. Now some 200 of these assessments have been completed or are under way here, up from 50 four years ago, said Dr. Aaron Wernham, project director for the Health Impact Project, a collaboration of the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation and Pew Charitable Trusts that helps finance health impact assessments.
''People in the public health world and in the business and development world are waking up to the need to get at health care problems and bring down health care costs,'' he said. ''So we see a fair amount of uptake in certain sectors -- the health impact assessment is out there and growing.''
A typical assessment comprises six steps that primarily identify a project's potential health impacts and ways to mitigate them. Community interaction is crucial to the process. In 2009, Mariposa's assessment by Mithun, an architectural firm, and other organizations, included more than 140 community meetings, held 12 steering committee meetings, and received more than 550 comments.
Erin Christensen, an associate principal at Mithun, points to a nine-year-old affordable housing project in Seattle that already can show a link between design and health. The community suffered from a high rate of asthma, and working with the Seattle Housing Authority and others, Mithun called on medical research to create about 60 ''Breathe Easy Homes.'' The homes feature hard floors instead of carpeting, high efficiency air filters and low-allergen landscaping, among other elements aimed at reducing asthma triggers.
A study in 2010 performed by the University of Washington School of Public Health found that the Breathe Easy residents had reduced emergency room and urgent care visits by 67 percent and that symptom-free days had increased by 61 percent.
''As designers, that was the first time that we had really seen a direct relationship shown between the built environment and the health of residents,'' Ms. Christensen said.
Working on Mariposa gave Mithun the opportunity to take a more ''comprehensive and holistic'' approach by integrating a health impact assessment into the design process for the first time, she added.
Among other issues, Mariposa's assessment found that more than 55 percent of the neighborhood's predominantly Latino residents were overweight, about 75 percent had high blood pressure or were borderline, and nearly 40 percent had a condition that prevented them from working.
Mr. Guerrero said the plan for Mariposa is largely geared toward attracting private investment to the neighborhood, which is one of the city's oldest, nestled near a light rail station, a higher education campus and the popular Art District on Santa Fe.
To accomplish that, the authority is replacing 250 affordable housing units with 800 mixed-income rental and for-sale units slated for completion in 2018. It has constructed 100 units of senior housing, and this year it plans to complete another 190 units that will be a mix of affordable, work force and market-rate rental apartments, and town homes.
The average income in the neighborhood is around $11,000 a year, Mr. Guerrero said, and he hopes that the project will attract people earning $30,000 to $100,000 annually.
To date, the notion that living and economic conditions can influence health has mostly dominated public project and policy decisions. Private developers are probably not very familiar with health impact assessments, said Patrick L. Phillips, the chief executive of the Urban Land Institute. But that's about to change, he predicted. The institute is about six months away from introducing a major initiative focusing on ways to improve health through the built environment. ''What has struck us is how quickly these assessments have emerged as a public concern sufficient to be incorporated within the traditional land-use decision-making regulatory framework,'' Mr. Phillips said.
Still, a push to widen the use of health impact assessments in real estate developments could run into obstacles.
Right now assessments are largely voluntary, though some federal and state lawmakers have made efforts to mandate them, said Jonathan Heller, co-founder of Human Impact Partners, an Oakland, Calif., company that conducts health impact assessments and trains others to perform them.
Mr. Heller and other assessment advocates anticipate that private developers will see the tool simply as a cost-adding measure or a way for community activists to stall or stop proposed projects.
But Douglas R. Bigley, the chief executive of Urban Housing Communities, a developer based in Santa Ana, Calif, has embraced the assessments. In addition to building affordable housing, the commercial developer also tries to provide services that a neighborhood lacks. He said that the collaborative nature of health impact assessments can reveal information that would alter building and design plans. If an assessment showed that residents lack access to health care, for example, Urban Housing might create a community room designed to accommodate occasional visits from mobile clinics.
''We use the health impact assessments to reach out to the community to figure out what the surroundings really look like,'' Mr. Bigley said. ''The more issues we're aware of, the more we can do to sculpt a development to meet the needs of the neighborhood.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Denver Housing Authority, led by Ismael Guerrero, right, with residents and an agency official, Kimball Crangle, second from left, is replacing homes with buildings like the 100-unit Tapiz at Mariposa, left. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRIS SCHNEIDER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN DEVELOPMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HEART DISEASE (78%); OBESITY (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (78%); CHARITIES (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (74%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (70%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (70%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (69%); SOLAR ENERGY (68%); EXECUTIVES (65%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (62%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (94%) COLORADO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2013



181 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 930 words

HEADLINE: Europe's Finance Chiefs Reject British Move to Ease Caps on Bank Bonuses

BYLINE: By JAMES KANTER; Mark Scott contributed reporting from London.

 BODY:
BRUSSELS -- The British government stood isolated on an important European Union issue Tuesday after finance ministers from elsewhere in the bloc rejected its effort to water down proposed limits on bankers' bonuses.
The ministers, taking up rules provisionally approved last week by representatives of the European Parliament and member states, broadly agreed on Tuesday to cap bonuses at no more than the annual salary for bankers working in the 27-nation European Union and for those working for European-based banks worldwide. The ministers left the door open for further concessions that could permit some slightly higher bonuses.
The bonus caps, which are subject to formal approval by a majority of member states, among other steps, are aimed at reining in the risky, but potentially high-reward, behavior that contributed to the financial crisis. 
British officials and bankers have warned that the limits could make it harder to keep London, Europe's main financial hub, competitive with financial centers like New York, Singapore and Hong Kong.
During the ministers' meeting here on Tuesday, George Osborne, the British chancellor of the Exchequer, told his colleagues that the measures could have the ''perverse'' effect of raising fixed salaries, making it harder to punish bankers for bad investments or ethical lapses by revoking their bonuses.
But facing almost certain defeat on the issue, Mr. Osborne struck a conciliatory tone, saying he would endorse the rules ''if we make progress in the next couple of weeks.''
The rules are drafted to apply to a banker working in New York for a British bank like Barclays, and to a banker in London working for an American bank like Citigroup.
A bonus could not be higher unless the bank's shareholders approved, and even then it could not exceed twice the salary.
British officials, speaking on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss the issue publicly, said their government would seek to raise the limits on some types of bonuses given in stocks or bonds that would vest in the future. But the legislation was expected to pass in close to its current form.
''It looks like the key points will hold,'' said Philip Davies, a partner in London at Eversheds, an international law firm. He predicted that the bonus caps would put London's financial district, known as the City, at a competitive disadvantage to banking hubs like Wall Street and Hong Kong.
''The long-term effect on the City remains to be seen.'' he said. ''But as it now stands, alternative jurisdictions that are able to offer more favorable terms look to have a significant recruitment edge.''
Banks are concerned about how the proposed caps would affect them, said several legal specialists who are advising banks based in the City. Some are even seeking legal advice as to whether the European officials are authorized to limit bonuses.
While no bank appears to be ready to take the issue to court, specialists say that will remain a possibility as long as questions about how the bonus caps will work remain unanswered.
When Michel Barnier, the European commissioner responsible for financial regulation, was asked whether he thought any legal challenge would succeed, he replied, ''Good luck.''
Some financial institutions are looking at ways to devise compensation packages around long-term incentives that would allow bankers to receive sizable compensation despite any new controls. Yet advisers acknowledge that it would be difficult for leading banks to defend such moves, because of widespread public anger over the industry's past excesses.
Mr. Osborne's foes called the European Union's rebuke a sign that the Conservative government led by Prime Minister David Cameron, which has called a referendum on Britain's membership in the bloc, was increasingly unable to influence policy making in Europe.
''This government needs to take a crash course in finding friends and influencing E.U. partners,'' said Arlene McCarthy, a member of Britain's Labour Party in the European Parliament and a senior member of the chamber's Economic and Monetary Affairs Committee.
Ms. McCarthy said she supported the caps as the only way to rein in bankers. But she complained that the Cameron government had failed to win more favorable terms for the City ''because of a kind of arrogance'' toward its partners in the European Union.
Ireland, which holds the rotating presidency of the bloc, helped broker talks on the bonus caps last week with legislators of the European Parliament. On Tuesday, Michael Noonan, the Irish finance minister, said, ''Now there is very little further we can do for'' Britain. ''We pushed the negotiations to quite a degree, and we got the best possible compromise,'' he said.
Mr. Osborne was in a bind over how forcefully to argue for changes. He was under acute pressure from members of the Conservative Party who favor a tough line against European rules that they consider at odds with British interests.
Adding to that pressure was a growing challenge from the United Kingdom Independence Party, which wants to pull Britain out of the European Union.
But supporting high pay for bankers angers significant sections of British voters, who are struggling in a weak economy. Many of them also resent the banking industry for receiving several giant bailouts paid for by taxpayers.
Mr. Osborne also needed to temper his criticism because the caps are part of a legislative package that included something his government favors: tougher rules about how much capital European banks most hold in reserve to protect against losses.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: George Osborne, right, Britain's finance chief, meeting with other ministers Tuesday in Brussels. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OLIVIER HOSLET/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EUROPEAN UNION (91%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); APPROVALS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BONDS (78%); ETHICS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); LEGAL SERVICES (64%); SHAREHOLDERS (63%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); EVERSHEDS LLP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (91%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (58%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (52%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (52%)

PERSON: GEORGE OSBORNE (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (94%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (91%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) EUROPE (98%); UNITED KINGDOM (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); BELGIUM (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2013



182 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; THE FEMALE FACTOR; Pg. 

LENGTH: 959 words

HEADLINE: In Cuba, Equality Is Two-Sided

BYLINE: By LUISITA LOPEZ TORREGROSA

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Just after Raúl Castro grabbed the world's attention with his decision to step down from the presidency of Cuba when his term expires in 2018 -- effectively ending the half-century Castro era -- a new report on the status of Cuban women arrives to stir further debate in Washington's policy circles, among conservative Cubans and among feminists.
Called ''Women's Work: Gender Equality in Cuba and the Role of Women Building Cuba's Future,'' the report credits the top leaders of the revolution, principally Fidel and Raúl Castro, with mandating and enforcing rules and laws guaranteeing gender equality and women's rights, which have made Cuba among the highest-ranking nations in the advancement of women. 
The study, released Monday, was written by Sarah Stephens, executive director of the Center for Democracy in the Americas, a Washington-based nonprofit that supports opening relations with Cuba and lifting the U.S. embargo. After a decade of research in Cuba on a number of economic and social issues, Ms. Stephens and her associates train their eyes on the progress women have made in four decades and examine whether it can be sustained.
In an interview at her office, Ms. Stephens said, ''What I want to get at, what's important, is that one of the great things in Cuba, part of the social project of the revolution, was equality, including equality for women -- and that mattered.''
Yet, perhaps inevitably, this equality has a double edge.
''What I heard from a lot from women is that all of that is all well and good, but it's no equality that was earned or achieved by women from the bottom up. It was something that was decided at the top and set into law,'' she said.
María Ileana Faguaga Iglesias, an anthropologist and historian who said that the story of Cuba's progress toward equality was overstated, expressed the frustration of highly educated women. ''We have to distinguish that access to university studies does not necessarily give us power,'' she said in the report. ''What's more, to be in positions that are supposedly positions of power does not necessarily permit the exercise of power.''
Ms. Stephens agreed with the women's frustrations. ''They deal with sexism and machismo every day, in the home, in the workplace, everywhere,'' she said. ''It's just not enough to have good laws.''
Still, there are feel-good elements to women's progress in Cuba.
Cuba consistently ranks high in international surveys on women. The Overseas Development Institute in Britain rates Cuba in the top 20 nations for its progress relative to the Millennium Development Goals, which were adopted worldwide after a U.N. summit meeting in 2000. The World Economic Forum's 2012 Global Gender Gap Report ranked Cuba 19th among 135 countries, up one notch from 2011, one of only two Latin American nations in the top 20 (Nicaragua was ranked ninth). By comparison, the United States fell to 22 from 17 in the survey, which measured the health, literacy, economic status and political participation of women.
Those figures aside, women make up only 38.1 percent of Cuba's work force. That is an improvement, the report published this week notes, but lags behind most of Latin America. Less than 40 percent of working-age women are employed, and Cuban women earn on average less than half what men make, mostly because men have access to higher-paying jobs.
Like women just about everywhere, women in Cuba want more female leaders in the high ranks of government and party. According to the report, they make up only 7 percent of the Cuban Communist Party's ruling Politburo, 14 percent of the Party Secretariat and 22 percent of the Council of Ministers; only one has enjoyed the rank of vice president (there are five).
With a more open private-sector economy, more women are now working for themselves, starting businesses, earning money and gaining self-confidence. But others fear that the reduction in state jobs and the more competitive economy will end their state-guaranteed benefits and leave them by the wayside.
In an e-mail from Havana, where he was visiting last week, Richard E. Feinberg, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, called the report a ''superb study'' that correctly pointed at areas where the United States could get involved, like ''helping female entrepreneurs gain skills, networks, markets and capital for success in Cuba's increasingly market-oriented economy.''
Jane Harman, the director, president and chief executive of the Woodrow Wilson Center in Washington and a former member of the U.S. Congress, said, ''The story is two steps forward and one step backward. True, the revolution incorporated women's equality in Cuba's Constitution and legal architecture. But the story of work opportunities for women in Cuba shows a gender gap, which could worsen under the regime's economic reform policies. Whether or not one favors major change in U.S. policy toward Cuba (which I personally do), shining light on the need to make Cuban women full partners in Cuba's future is in everyone's interest.''
A two-time visitor to Cuba, Dr. Cynthia McClintock, a professor of political science and international affairs at George Washington University in Washington, said by telephone that the study ''is not a naïve romantic whitewash.'' She criticized Washington for shutting off Cuba despite its strides in meeting many of the U.N. Millennium Development Goals. ''It's a contradiction,'' she said. ''Here's a country which has been doing well at this, but we don't want to deal with it.''
For now, with its poor economy and lack of jobs, Cuba is losing people. In 2011 alone, 40,000 Cubans, more than half of them women, left the island. ''I'm the only one left,'' a secretary lamented. ''All my friends are abroad.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOMEN (92%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (90%); GENDER EQUALITY (90%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (89%); RANKINGS (88%); HISTORY (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (77%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); INTERVIEWS (73%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (69%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (68%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (68%)

PERSON: RAUL CASTRO (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2013



183 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 940 words

HEADLINE: U.N. Resolution Aims At North Korean Banks

BYLINE: By RICK GLADSTONE; Gerry Mullany contributed reporting from Hong Kong, Jane Perlez from Beijing, and Choe Sang-hun from Seoul, South Korea.

 BODY:
The United Nations Security Council moved closer on Tuesday to expanding sanctions on North Korea for its nuclear and ballistic missile activities. The United States and China introduced a resolution that would target North Korean bankers and overseas cash couriers, tighten inspections of suspect ship and air cargo, and subject the country's diplomats to invasive scrutiny and increased risk of expulsion.
Passage of the measure, drafted in response to the third North Korean underground nuclear test three weeks ago, seemed all but assured, in part because China -- North Korea's major benefactor -- participated in drafting the language. It would be the fourth Security Council sanctions resolution on North Korea, which has defied the previous measures with increasing belligerence. A vote was expected on Thursday. 
Infuriated, North Korea vowed to scrap the 1953 armistice that halted the Korean War and threatened to attack the United States with what the North Korean government news agency called an arsenal of diverse ''lighter and smaller nukes.''
American officials played down the North Korean warning, which echoed bombastic admonitions that have become part of the standard fare from the North. Still, the threat of a North Korean nuclear attack seemed all the more provocative, coming two days after North Korea conveyed a message of friendship to a visiting American group that included Dennis Rodman, the former basketball star.
Susan E. Rice, the United States ambassador to the United Nations, who introduced the resolution in a closed session of the 15-member Security Council, told reporters afterward that it ''builds upon, strengthens and significantly expands the scope of the strong U.N. sanctions already in place.''
For the first time, she said, the resolution would target ''the illicit activities of North Korean diplomatic personnel, North Korean banking relationships, illicit transfers of bulk cash and new travel restrictions.'' In the past, North Korea has been accused of running extensive counterfeiting and illegal drug enterprises, to raise much-needed hard currency.
Ms. Rice declined to predict whether the North would respond with another nuclear test or other retaliation. ''All I can tell you is that the international community is united and very firm in its opposition to North Korea's illicit nuclear and missile programs,'' she said. ''And the more provocations that occur, the more isolated and impoverished, sadly, North Korea will become.''
The Americans did not publicly release the resolution text. But a Security Council diplomat familiar with the measure, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the language may still be subject to revision, said it broke new ground with restrictions and prohibitions on North Korean banking transactions, new travel restrictions and increased monitoring of North Korean ship and air cargo.
The diplomat also said that the resolution added a special lubricant and valve, needed for uranium enrichment, to items that North Korea cannot import.
The resolution would also place greater scrutiny on North Korean diplomatic personnel who are suspected of carrying proscribed goods and cash under the guise of official business, exposing them to possible deportation. ''We know there are diplomats out there cooking up deals and moving funds around,'' the Security Council diplomat said.
Among the other provisions, the diplomat said the resolution also included new language aimed at enforcement that had been absent from the earlier resolutions. It requires, for example, that if a North Korean cargo vessel crew refuses a host country's request for inspection, the host is under a legal obligation to deny the vessel port access.
If a cargo plane is suspected of carrying prohibited goods to or from North Korea, the resolution would urge, but not require, that it be denied permission to fly over any other country -- a new provision that could affect China, which routinely permits North Korean flights over its territory.
Previous rounds of sanctions have blacklisted trading and financial firms believed to be directly involved with nuclear and missile work. The sanctions have also restricted the importation of luxury goods, an effort directed at the country's ruling elite.
American officials said privately that the latest resolution did not go as far as they would have liked, reflecting China's insistence that the punitive measures remain focused on discouraging North Korea's nuclear and missile behavior and avoid actions that could destabilize the country and lead to an economic collapse.
But the text was stronger than what some North Korean experts had anticipated, particularly the measures that could slow or frustrate the country's banking activities and extensive dependence on cash payments in its trade with other countries.
''Going after the banking system in a broad brush way is arguably the strongest thing on this list,'' said Evans J. R. Revere, a former State Department specialist in East Asian and Pacific affairs, and now senior director at the Albright Stonebridge Group, a Washington-based consulting company. ''It does begin to eat into the ability of North Korea to finance many things.''
Mr. Revere attributed North Korea's reaction on Tuesday to an accumulation of perceived affronts: China's cooperation in drafting the sanctions, the annual military exercises under way between the United States and South Korea, and a hardened attitude by the South's newly elected president, Park Geun-hye.
''This is North Korea's way of saying, 'We know you guys are doing several things, and here is our response,' '' Mr. Revere said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (89%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); KOREAN WAR (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); LEGISLATION (76%); INSPECTIONS (73%); CURRENCIES (61%); BASKETBALL (50%); COUNTERFEITING (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (94%); UNITED NATIONS (84%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: SUSAN RICE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2013



184 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 497 words

HEADLINE: General Says 20,000 Troops Should Stay In Afghanistan

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The American commander in the Middle East said on Tuesday that he had recommended that 13,600 United States troops remain in Afghanistan after the combat mission ends in 2014, a number slightly higher than the one being considered by NATO and Pentagon officials. 
The officer, Gen. James N. Mattis of the Central Command, revealed his recommendation during a hearing of the Senate Armed Services Committee, where he also said that a NATO contribution to an enduring mission in Afghanistan could equal half of the American deployment, for a total alliance troop presence of 20,000 under his proposal.
President Obama has not decided on the size of any troop deployment after 2014, which would also require agreement with the government in Kabul.
During a session of NATO defense ministers last month, alliance officials discussed a proposal for training, support and counterterrorism operations in Afghanistan after 2014 that envisioned a force of up to 9,500 American troops and up to 6,000 more from other coalition nations.
George Little, the Pentagon press secretary, said those talks focused on a smaller range of 8,000 to 12,000 troops over all, including American and allied contributions. There are about 66,000 American troops in Afghanistan today, with that number to drop to 32,000 by early next year.
Discussing Syria, General Mattis told the Senate that providing weapons and other lethal aid to rebels fighting to oust President Bashar al-Assad was complicated, and potentially self-defeating, since the situation was so chaotic that the arms could end up in the possession of militants linked to terrorist organizations.
His assessment of Iran's nuclear program is that Tehran is enriching uranium at a pace far beyond any peaceful purpose, but that he fully supports economic sanctions. General Mattis warned Iran not to view reductions in American deployments in the region as a sign of weakness; they were brought on by budget cuts under the sequester.
In particular, he noted that he had other combat assets to make up for the decision to deploy just one aircraft carrier in the region, rather than two. ''I have what it takes to make it the enemy's longest day and their worst day,'' General Mattis said. ''And we'll get the other carrier out there quickly to reinforce.''
General Mattis testified alongside Adm. William H. McRaven, commander of the Special Operations Command, who also was questioned on the impact of the sequester on his ability to carry out training and missions.
Admiral McRaven said the sequester cut of $900 million per year for the Special Operations Command would be made even worse by reductions in money to the various armed services that support his organization and its personnel.
''So the service cuts that they take compound the problem of Special Operations support,'' he said. ''I get a tremendous amount of my support from the various services, and that will absolutely affect the Special Operations capability of this nation.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (91%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); COUNTERTERRORISM (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); NAVAL VESSELS (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); TERRORISM (73%); BUDGETS (73%); MILITARY VESSELS (71%); BUDGET CUTS (62%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%)

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (58%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (73%) AFGHANISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); SYRIA (79%); IRAN (73%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2013



185 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1254 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Catholics in Poll See a Church Out of Touch

BYLINE: By LAURIE GOODSTEIN and MEGAN THEE-BRENAN; Allison Kopicki, Dalia Sussman and Marina Stefan contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Roman Catholics in the United States say that their church and bishops are out of touch, and that the next pope should lead the church in a more modern direction on issues like birth control and ordaining women and married men as priests, according to the latest New York Times/CBS News poll.
Seven out of 10 say Pope Benedict XVI and the Vatican have done a poor job of handling sexual abuse, a significant rise from three years ago. A majority said that the issue had led them to question the Vatican's authority. The sexual abuse of children by priests is the largest problem facing the church, Catholics in the poll said.
Three-fourths of those polled said they thought it was a good idea for Benedict to resign. Most wanted the next pope to be ''someone younger, with new ideas.'' A majority said they wanted the next pope to make the church's teachings more liberal. 
With cardinals now in Rome preparing to elect Benedict's successor, the poll indicated that the church's hierarchy had lost the confidence and allegiance of many American Catholics, an intensification of a long-term trend. They like their priests and nuns, but many feel that the bishops and cardinals do not understand their lives.
''I don't think they are in the trenches with people,'' said Therese Spender, 51, a homemaker in Fort Wayne, Ind., who said she attended Mass once a week and agreed to answer further questions after the poll. ''They go to a lot of meetings, but they are not out in the street.''
Even Catholics who frequently attend Mass said they were not following the bishops' lead on issues that the church had recently invested much energy, money and credibility in fighting -- artificial birth control and same-sex marriage.
Eric O'Leary, 38, a funeral director in Des Moines who attends Mass weekly, said: ''I would like them not to be so quick to condemn people because of their sexual preference or because of abortion, or to refuse priests the right to get married or women to be priests. I don't think the church should get involved in whether or not people use birth control.''
The nationwide telephone poll was conducted on landlines and cellphones from Feb. 23 to 27, when many Catholics were still absorbing news of the first resignation of a pope in 600 years. The margin of sampling error is plus or minus four percentage points for the 580 Catholics, who were oversampled for purposes of analysis in the survey of 1,585 adults.
Benedict, a soft-spoken scholar and a church traditionalist, had apparently made little impression on American Catholics in his eight years as pope. Half of those in the poll said they either had no opinion of him or had not heard enough about him. Nevertheless, 4 in 10 had a favorable opinion, and only one in 10 unfavorable.
''He's written three or four books, and his writings are incredible,'' said Leonard Lefebvre, 70, a retired economist in Tequesta, Fla. ''He's continued on course, and he's held the religion to where it's supposed to be at.''
The poll suggested that the papacy no longer occupies the exalted position it once did. Asked whether the pope is infallible when he teaches on matters of morality and faith, 40 percent said yes, 46 percent said no, and 14 percent said they did not know. Nearly 8 in 10 Catholics polled said they would be more likely to follow their conscience on ''difficult moral questions'' than to follow the pope's teachings.
When asked which ''one thing'' they would ''most like to see the next pope accomplish,'' the most common responses that respondents volunteered were, in order: bring people back to church, modernize the church, unify the church, and do something about sexual abuse.
A spate of new information about prelates hiding the misdeeds of pedophile priests appeared to have taken a toll. A higher percentage of Catholics said the pope and the Vatican had done a poor job of handling reports of past sexual abuse recently (69 percent) compared with 2010 (55 percent), when the abuse scandal flared in many European countries. This is despite the church's many reforms in the last 10 years and reports of abuse by priests in the United States declining drastically.
Majorities said they wanted to see the next pope maintain the church's opposition to abortion and the death penalty, even though they themselves were not opposed to them. Three-quarters of Catholics supported abortion under at least some circumstances, and three-fifths favored the death penalty.
''I can understand how the Catholic Church stands against it,'' said Geri Toni, 57, of abortion. ''We are not supposed to kill. That is one of our Ten Commandments.''
''But as a woman,'' said Ms. Toni, who lives in Fort Myers, Fla., and attends Mass weekly, ''I have to make sense of it, and I believe choice comes down to the individual.''
On every other hotly debated issue, Catholics wanted the next pope to lead the church in an about-face. Seven of 10 Catholics polled said the next pope should let priests marry, let women become priests and allow the use of artificial methods of birth control. Nine of 10 said they wanted the next pope to allow the use of condoms to prevent the spread of H.I.V. and other diseases.
Sixty-two percent of Catholics said they were in favor of legalizing marriage for same-sex couples. Catholics approved of same-sex marriage at a higher rate than Americans as a whole, among whom 53 percent approved.
John Sadel, 28, a supervisor in a plastics production facility in Bethlehem, Pa., said, ''I'm not saying change everything the church stands for, but you need to evolve with the times if you want to remain a viable religion.''
The American bishops also appear to have lost ground among their own flock in their campaign to fight the White House rule that requires employers to provide insurance coverage for contraceptives -- a campaign the bishops say is about religious freedom.
One year ago, two-thirds of Catholics polled said that religiously affiliated employers, like hospitals or universities, should be allowed to opt out of covering birth control for their female employees because of religious or moral objections. In the most recent poll, only about half of Catholics said they agreed.
The issue has become a political litmus test, with Catholic bishops and religious conservatives saying that their religious freedom is being threatened by President Obama's policies. But when asked what the debate is about, only 40 percent of Catholics polled said ''religious freedom,'' while 50 percent said ''women's health and their rights'' -- an indication that Mr. Obama's framing of the issue is holding sway even among many Catholics.
Catholics seemed to feel far more warmly toward their local priests than those in the hierarchy. Seven in 10 Catholics in the poll said they felt that their parish priests were ''in touch with the needs of Catholics today.'' Eighty-five percent of those who attend Mass said the sermons were excellent or good.
Nearly two-thirds of Catholics polled said they had not changed the amount of money they contributed to the church in the last few years; 16 percent said they gave more; 17 percent said less. Of those giving less, half said it was because of financial circumstances, and one-quarter cited unhappiness with the church.
Nationwide, bishops are closing parish churches and schools to save money and to respond to changing demographics. The reorganization is so sweeping that the poll found that 11 percent of Catholics who attend Mass said their parish church had closed or merged in the last few years.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: American Catholics and the Church: Do you think the following are in touch or out of touch with the needs of Catholics today?
 The Next Pope: Should the next pope be for or against ... (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (99%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (97%); POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); MARRIAGE (89%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (78%); TRENDS (77%); CONTRACEPTION (77%); SEX OFFENSES (76%); RESIGNATIONS (76%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (72%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (71%); CHILD ABUSE (71%); GAYS & LESBIANS (62%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (60%)

PERSON: POPE BENEDICT XVI (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ROME, ITALY (79%); FORT WAYNE, IN, USA (54%) INDIANA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (94%); HOLY SEE (93%); ITALY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2013



186 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1209 words

HEADLINE: Long Isolated Behind a Freeway, Santa Monica's Civic Center Rejoins Its City

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

 BODY:
SANTA MONICA, Calif. -- In contrast to many other places in the Los Angeles area, this small city along the Pacific Ocean has long been easy for pedestrians to navigate -- except when it comes to its Civic Center. City Hall, the courthouse and the Civic Auditorium are isolated from the city's vibrant and walkable downtown, separated by the Santa Monica Freeway, overly wide streets and a dreary expanse of parking lots.
A 2005 city planning document concluded that much of the Civic Center reflected ''the malaise of urban America today.''
Finally, after many years of workshops and hearings, significant steps are being taken to better integrate this section with downtown. Two major construction projects are well under way, including the first new residential development on Ocean Avenue in many years. (Ocean Avenue is actually one street away from the steep bluff overlooking the water.) 
On a three-acre site stretching from Ocean Avenue to Main Street, the Related Companies and its partners are building a $350 million residential complex that will include 158 condominiums, 160 income-restricted rental apartments and 20,000 square feet of retail space. The new development, called the Village at Santa Monica, is bounded on the north by an extension of Olympic Boulevard called Olympic Drive.
Many of the condos, being developed in partnership with the Resmark Companies, a private equity company in Los Angeles, will overlook the second project, which is across Olympic Drive. There, the city has molded six flat acres of parking lots into a $47 million publicly financed park with hills and fountains as well as two steel-ribbed shell-shaped observation decks for gazing at the ocean and the Santa Monica Pier.
The park, to be known as Tongva Park after the area's first settlers, was designed by James Corner Field Operations, one of the creators of the High Line park on the West Side of Manhattan. Though Santa Monica, which has a population of about 90,000, offers striking ocean and mountain views, officials say the city is short on open space for playgrounds and picnic areas.
Both the housing complex and the park are being built on land the city bought in 2000 for $53 million from the RAND Corporation, the research and public policy group with headquarters in Santa Monica. RAND began buying up land near the ocean in the 1950s and accumulated 15 acres by the 1970s.
The research company had sought for years to replace its outdated, sprawling building with money obtained through a land sale or a development deal but confronted fierce resistance from the community, which feared being overrun by commercial construction. The stalemate was broken when a city manager persuaded the City Council to buy the land. RAND retained 3.7 acres and in November 2004 completed a new 309,000-square-foot elliptical-shaped building on that site.
Now, nearly a decade later, RAND's headquarters building is getting some new neighbors.
Though many residential developments in California face inward and are cut off from their surroundings by security gates, William A. Witte, chief executive of Related California, said a deliberate effort was made to make the new development ''porous.'' Separating the market-rate condos and the rental apartments is a walkway that will be accessible to the public. Building heights will vary from six stories to 10. ''By breaking up the mass, it made it more interesting,'' Mr. Witte said.
Although Related has not begun marketing the condos, which are expected to be completed by the end of the year, Mr. Witte said he expected prices to start at $700,000 for one-bedrooms. Getting construction financing was challenging, he said, both because of the economy and because the development sits on city-owned land. Financing was ultimately provided by Wells Fargo and HSBC.
Buyers are likely to include people in the technology and entertainment industries who work nearby, in an area that Mr. Witte said was sometimes referred to as ''Silicon Beach.'' Some inquiries have also come from second-home buyers.
To win the right to develop the condos, Related agreed to prepay its 99-year, $20 million ground lease -- money that was used to help defray the cost of the income-restricted units. Related's partner in the apartment development is the Community Corporation of Santa Monica, a nonprofit organization. It is the largest single development of affordable units that the city has ever been involved in, said Andy Agle, director of housing and economic development. Residents will be selected by lottery, with preference given to people who live or work in Santa Monica.
Mr. Agle said the need for such apartments in Santa Monica, one of the costliest places to live in Southern California, had risen sharply. In the dozen years after the 1999 enactment of a law that allowed rents to rise to market rate as apartments became vacant, some 60 percent of regulated units were removed from the system, he said. ''There was a strong community consensus that we wanted this to be a mixed-income area,'' he said, referring to the Civic Center.
Public input was also important in creating the park, which is intended to link the Civic Center, the pier, the Palisades Park along the bluffs, and downtown Santa Monica, officials said. ''When we looked at old photographs, we saw that this used to be an arroyo, where rivers washed down to the bluffs to the water,'' said Lisa Tziona Switkin, an associate partner at James Corner Field Operations. ''The sweeps and curves were inspired by the Southern California landscape.''
The designers created four hills, each with separate functions. One will feature horticultural displays, and another will accommodate picnicking or informal gatherings; a third has a playground, with shiny purple and yellow play forts, and the fourth is meant for enjoying panoramic views. Expected to be finished by the fall, the park is likely to draw visitors from other parts of Los Angeles, with some potentially arriving by public transportation. A new light-rail line that now goes from Los Angeles to Culver City is in the process of being extended to Colorado Boulevard and Fourth Street, a block away from the park.
James Corner's firm has also redesigned the one-acre park in front of city's low-slung white ''Deco Moderne'' City Hall on Main Street. The building was completed in 1939 as a Public Works Administration project. The new Ken Genser Square, named for a popular former mayor and city councilman, will serve as a more formal civic space than Tongva Park, Ms. Switkin said.
More remains to be done to fulfill Santa Monica's longstanding goal of improving its Civic Center. The city hopes eventually to renovate and update City Hall, but no money is available to do that now, said Miriam Mulder, the city architect.
And the dissolution of the state's redevelopment agencies, a cost-cutting measure, meant that a $50 million plan to update the city's 1958 Civic Auditorium, between Fourth and Main Streets, also had to be shelved. The city is seeking alternative ways to finance that project, officials said.
Still, said Karen Ginsburg, the city's director of community and cultural services, the residential complex and the new Tongva Park will go a long way toward realizing the city's vision.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A residential complex referred to as the Village and a new city park are under construction next to the Santa Monica City Hall and Civic Center. A slide show on the development is at nytimes.com/realestate. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EMILY BERL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); CITIES (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (88%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (76%); NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (74%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (74%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (74%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (69%); PRIVATE EQUITY (65%); PUBLIC POLICY (60%)

COMPANY: RAND CORP (63%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (73%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2013



187 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1236 words

HEADLINE: Anger and Kudos as Florida Governor Tacks Left

BYLINE: By LIZETTE ALVAREZ; Christine Jordan Sexton contributed reporting from Tallahassee, Fla.

 BODY:
MIAMI -- A few days after Gov. Rick Scott of Florida endorsed a Medicaid expansion, a U-turn so sharply executed that it flabbergasted his supporters, the head of a local Tea Party group typed up a ''breakup note.''
''I'm trying to determine how the Medicaid expansion is going to pay for the surgery to remove the knife planted in my back,'' Henry Kelley, the Tea Party leader and an early supporter of Mr. Scott, wrote on his blog.
''This was his issue, his singular core issue,'' Mr. Kelley said later in an interview. ''This is why we rallied around him.''
Mr. Scott, 60, a former health care executive who won the governorship by calling for deep budget cuts and fiercely criticizing President Obama's health care bill, has, in his third year in office, marched toward the political center, a necessity in this diverse swing state. 
Facing stubbornly low approval ratings, Mr. Scott has crisscrossed the state advertising his enthusiasm for education, state workers, highways, commuter rails, early voting, the disabled, environmental protection and jobs. With Florida's economy slowly burbling to life and a tiny budget surplus, the governor's proposed budget of $74.2 billion is one of the largest in Florida history and includes a $2,500 across-the-board pay increase for teachers.
Along the way, Mr. Scott has danced in a music class, hugged teachers, quipped about his bald head and sprinkled cartoon-size checks around the state like a reborn Ebenezer Scrooge.
Democrats are as puzzled as Republicans. ''Medicaid expansion, Obamacare, teacher bonuses -- who is this guy?'' Chris Smith, the State Senate minority leader, asked on Twitter.
In a recent interview at Wynnebrook Elementary School in West Palm Beach, Mr. Scott, wearing black cowboy boots emblazoned with an alligator and Florida flags, defended his new pragmatism, saying re-election concerns played no role in them. He did not change, he said, so much as Florida's economy and deficit changed, freeing him to spend some money.
He points to the state's 7.9 percent unemployment rate, the lowest in four years, and the 200,000 new jobs in the state. ''If you look, I have been extremely consistent,'' he said. ''It's what I talked about when I ran: jobs, education and cost of living.''
And Medicaid? Mr. Scott said he decided to support the expansion for three years, but only after the federal government assured Florida a waiver to begin a managed-care style approach to the program.
He still disagrees with the health care law, but recognizes that ''the Supreme Court upheld the law and the president got re-elected. Because of that you have to say, what's in the best interest of my citizens?'' said Mr. Scott, who also was lobbied heavily by the health care industry. ''I represent 19.2 million Floridians. I have to make the best decisions I can for them.''
Other groups are pleased as well. Environmentalists, who once pilloried him for slashing state regulatory agencies, now have a seat at his table. In fact, they are consulted regularly.
''I think the governor has a turned a corner,'' said Eric Draper, the executive director of the Florida Audubon Society and a leading environmental advocate in the state. ''He recognized how important this is to Floridians.''
Tea Party members, on the other hand, can no longer get the governor's office on the phone. ''Nobody in his leadership circle is even contacting us,'' said Mr. Kelley, the head of the Fort Walton Beach Tea Party. ''We are not being asked our opinion.''
Many Republicans, including members of Mr. Scott's cabinet, are apoplectic over his support for the Medicaid expansion. A special committee looking at the issue in the State House voted to reject it. The State Senate is still studying the issue, but the House committee vote may have killed it.
Mr. Scott's reversal has set off rumbling about a possible primary challenge in 2014. But many state Republican leaders say a contested primary would be counterproductive, given that former Gov. Charlie Crist, a Republican turned Democrat, is considering another run.
''There is not going to be a primary challenge to the governor,'' said State Senator John Thrasher. ''He is strong. He is well-funded.''
Al Cardenas, the chairman of the American Conservative Union, said he was ''concerned'' but not ''alarmed'' about Mr. Scott's Medicaid decision. And at this point, he said, there was not much ''appetite'' among donors for a primary challenge.
Mr. Scott does have Republican supporters who say that after a slow start, he is finding his way.
''This governor is doing what a good business leader does, which is lash his policies to the new realities,'' said Don Gaetz, the Republican president of the State Senate. Mr. Scott, he said, referring to cutting the deficit, administered ''tough medicine'' in tough times and now ''wants to reward them when times are better.''
In his first year in office, Mr. Scott chose to introduce his budget in a rural town surrounded by Tea Party supporters.
That year, he sought $4.6 billion in budget cuts, including steep drops in education, while pushing for large corporate tax breaks (both were tempered by the Legislature). He successfully pushed for measures that linked teacher pay to merit, shrank unemployment benefits and required state workers to contribute 3 percent to their retirement. He laid off thousands of workers and returned $2.4 billion in federal dollars that would have financed a high-speed rail line.
His policies led to a tangle of expensive legal challenges. And polls found that he had turned off an overwhelming number of voters.
Mr. Scott is still trying to undo that first impression.
''If he is going to get re-elected, he needs to rebrand, reboot and repackage,'' said Ana Navarro, a Republican political strategist in Florida.
One on one, Mr. Scott is the opposite of his confounding public persona. Even his detractors call him a nice guy. Genial, down to earth and genuinely curious, the governor can disarm with a quip or a goofy grin.
''He's the kind of guy I would like to have as a neighbor,'' Mr. Gaetz said. ''If he borrowed a lawn mower and returned it, it would be full of gas and working properly.''
Florida has a high number of uninsured residents, a situation that Mr. Scott said he understood. His family was poor enough that his mother, Esther, considered putting him up for adoption.
His family, living in Missouri, had no health insurance, and his mother struggled to pay medical bills for his father's heart ailment and his brother's hip disease. ''I know what my mom went through,'' Mr. Scott said. ''She was scared to death.''
Her sudden death last year badly shook the governor, and he said she played a role in his Medicaid decision.
Some Democrats welcome his ''epiphanies,'' as they call it. ''The fact that he is recognizing the value of public education and helping our teachers is a good thing,'' said Perry Thurston, the Democratic leader in the State House.
Over all, though, ''I am not impressed,'' Mr. Thurston said. For starters, he said, schools need more money.
For Mr. Scott, the bigger concern may be the disillusionment of conservatives.
''They have made a calculation that people like me have no place else to go,'' Mr. Kelley said, referring to the expectation that the Tea Party would vote Republican regardless.
But, Mr. Kelley said, they are wrong. Tea Party supporters can simply choose not to vote. He said, ''It's called an under-vote.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Rick Scott before speaking at the State Capitol on Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHIL SEARS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAID (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (88%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (88%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (87%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); POLITICS (76%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (75%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (74%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (73%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (73%); COST OF LIVING (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); JOB CREATION (71%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (70%); BUDGET CUTS (68%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (60%); SUPREME COURTS (60%); APPEALS (50%)

PERSON: RICK SCOTT (91%); BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (89%) FLORIDA, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2013



188 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: With Isolation Looming, Mets Look for Company On Florida's East Coast

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

 BODY:
PORT ST. LUCIE, Fla. -- When the Mets set up training camp here in 1988, Keith Hernandez and some of his teammates took to calling the city Port St. Lonesome because it was so sleepy.
The population has tripled since then, but the Mets could end up more isolated if the Washington Nationals and the Houston Astros, who are both nearing the ends of their leases in their current stadiums, move their camps to other parts of Florida or to Arizona, where more teams train.
The Gulf Coast of Florida hosts the Minnesota Twins and the Boston Red Sox in Fort Myers, and the Toronto Blue Jays, the Tampa Bay Rays, the Philadelphia Phillies and the Yankees, among others, farther north. Clubs are even more concentrated in Arizona, with all 15 teams training in and around Phoenix. Having more teams means having a greater variety of opponents, shorter commutes for players and potentially better ticket sales. Teams in the Phoenix area spend just 30 minutes on average traveling between facilities. On the east coast of Florida, the average is closer to 90 minutes. 
If either or both teams were to leave eastern Florida, the Mets could end up playing the same few teams even more frequently than they do now. More than three-fourths of their preseason games this year are against the Cardinals, the Astros and three of their National League East rivals: the Braves, the Marlins and the Nationals. The Mets were 12th in the 15-team Grapefruit League last year in average attendance per spring training game, according to sportsbusinessdaily.com. Only the Nationals, the Blue Jays and the Astros were below them.
The Mets, who are marking their 25th anniversary here, are seeking a second team to share their facility because it would generate more revenue and ensure that another team does not depart the region. St. Lucie County spent $2.5 million last year to update and expand Tradition Field, the Mets' spring training home, including space for a second clubhouse.
''In general, we would encourage and support efforts to bring another team or teams to our area,'' said Dave Howard, the Mets' executive vice president for business operations. ''We're open to sharing our facility. It would be beneficial to have more teams on the east coast to minimize travel.''
St. Lucie County commissioned a study to determine the economic impact of spring training baseball and the cost of hosting a second team. The report showed that after building extra accommodations, a clubhouse and playing fields, the county would generate about $30 million a year extra for the local economy.
''It's a good example of how to use a facility that is in great shape,'' said Mark Rosentraub, a professor in the University of Michigan's sports management program and the author of the report. ''The east coast is far more vulnerable than the west coast. If you don't change, it will change for you.''
The trouble is that the Mets and St. Lucie County have competition from cities in Florida and Arizona that also want to attract teams, and that gives the Nationals and the Astros leverage.
To keep teams from leaving, Gov. Rick Scott announced last week that he would ask the Florida Legislature for $5 million a year to improve major league team facilities in the state.
The Nationals may be on the move first. Their lease at Space Coast Stadium in Viera, 80 miles north of Port St. Lucie, expires in 2017. But the team could buy out the remainder of its lease by paying a penalty to Brevard County, which is spending about $300,000 for annual stadium upkeep.
''We have an obligation here,'' Mark Lerner, the Nationals' principal owner, told The Washington Times last month. ''We're honoring it, but there's nothing I can do and nothing they can do about fixing the geography problem, unfortunately.''
The Nationals spoke to Lee County about moving into City of Palms Park in Fort Myers, where the Red Sox played until recently. The Nationals wanted $36.6 million in renovations, a figure too high for the county, which recently spent about $120 million to keep the Red Sox and the Twins in town.
''We've been honest with them that we don't have any more bed taxes to put into Major League Baseball,'' said Jeffrey Mielke, the director of the Lee County Sports Authority, which proposed a lease of $500,000 a year and 10 percent of the team's revenues, or about $350,000 more. ''Our commissioners wanted to keep the door open, but at this point we can't get to the number the Nationals wanted.''
The Astros have not announced their intentions, but their lease in Osceola County Stadium in Kissimmee, about 110 miles to the northwest of Port St. Lucie, ends in 2016. Jim Crane, the team's owner, prefers to build a new stadium near Palm City, where he owns a golf course, according to news reports. Palm City is about 15 miles from Port St. Lucie.
George Postolos, the team's president, told The Houston Chronicle that the Astros were exploring every opportunity.
When the Mets moved across the state from St. Petersburg, where they trained from 1962 to 1987, they joined the Yankees, the Orioles, the Braves, the Expos and the Dodgers. Ron Darling, who pitched for the Mets at the time, liked facing American League teams in spring training so he could work on new pitches against batters he would not face in the regular season. If more teams leave eastern Florida, the Mets could end up facing the same teams even more.
''There comes a time when if I'm manager, I can't have Jon Niese face the Braves over and over,'' said Darling, who also trained with the Oakland Athletics in Arizona. ''He's going to face them five times during the season. Why have him face the Braves five more times in spring training?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Fans at a Mets spring training game. Teams on Florida's east coast had some of the lowest spring attendance figures last year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JULIO CORTEZ/ASSOCIATED PRESS) MAP: (Too) Common Opponents: More than three-fourths of the Mets' exhibition games this year are against the Braves, Cardinals, Marlins, Astros and Nationals. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); ATHLETES (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (76%); SPORTS (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION (75%); SPORTS BUSINESS (73%); SALES FORCE (68%); TICKET SALES (68%); ANNIVERSARIES (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); EXECUTIVES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (86%); HOUSTON ASTROS (84%); ST LOUIS CARDINALS (82%); ATLANTA BRAVES (82%); PHOENIX CARDINALS (82%); TORONTO BLUE JAYS (57%); MINNESOTA TWINS (57%); BOSTON RED SOX (57%); PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (91%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (77%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (76%); FORT MYERS, FL, USA (58%) FLORIDA, USA (96%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (78%); ONTARIO, CANADA (77%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (96%); CANADA (77%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2013



189 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STRATEGIES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 955 words

HEADLINE: Investors' Quandary: Get In Now?

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
So is it too late for investors to join the party?
The stock market has already more than doubled since the dark days of 2009. Records are being set, and most indexes have risen nearly every week this year.
Nearly all strategists point out that it is much better to buy at a market bottom than to invest after a record has been set. Nonetheless, for those willing to accept the risk, there are strong arguments, based on history and on market fundamentals, for believing that the bull market may still have room to run.
Chief among them is the expansive monetary policy of the Federal Reserve. ''The old song on Wall Street is 'Don't fight the Fed,' and that certainly has been the case in this market,'' said Byron Wien of the Blackstone Group, who is a veteran of many market rallies and slumps. ''The Fed and other central banks have been driving the market, and there's no sign that's going to stop.'' 
Another critical factor is the flow of funds into the stock market, said Laszlo Birinyi, who runs a stock research firm in Westport, Conn. ''There is still a lot of money sitting on the sidelines -- and there are a lot of people who are still jumping in, and that, in itself, is a good thing for the market,'' he said.
According to his calculations, the net inflow into stocks over the last 12 months has totaled $76.7 billion, which helps to explain why the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index has risen more than 13 percent in that period. Net inflows to stocks amount to $27.75 billion this calendar year, he said, and barring a big shock, they are likely to continue. ''We're in the fourth and last stage of a long-running bull market,'' he said. ''We think there's a lot more to come.''
No one really knows whether history is a reliable guide, but the pattern of past bull markets also suggests that this one could continue to flourish. At the moment, according to the Bespoke Investment Group, the nearly four-year run of the United States stock market is the eighth-longest in the last 100 years, and it is the sixth-strongest in terms of the return of the S.& P.'s 500 index. And since 1900, when the Dow Jones industrial average reached a nominal high, as it did on Tuesday, the Dow has averaged a 7.1 percent rise over the next 12 months.
''We believe stock valuations are still reasonable, and that the momentum of the market will keep moving it upward,'' said Paul Hickey, co-founder of Bespoke.
Because of the intervention of the Fed, even some longtime market bears are reluctant to bet against the current rally. ''This is impressive, no doubt about it,'' said David A. Rosenberg, the former chief North American economist at Merrill Lynch and now chief strategist of Gluskin Sheff in Toronto. ''There are many major risks out there, but at the moment the central banks are doing a spectacular job of buffering them.''
Mr. Rosenberg has a reputation for being a ''permabear,'' and he has recently emphasized investing in high-yield bonds and corporate credit instruments over stocks. As far as the immediate future of the stock market goes, he said, ''I think we're overdue for a correction.''
Major problems on the horizon, he said, include a weak economy that is being hobbled further by the recent payroll tax increase and the indiscriminate federal budget cuts that have just been put in place. And the troubles in the euro zone, which flared last month in Italy, are far from over, he said, ''There are problems everywhere you look.''
Yet he is reluctant to predict a sustained stock market decline. Precisely because the economy is weak, he said, the central banks will be forced to keep short-term interest rates low. ''People seeking income have been fleeing other asset classes,'' he said, ''and they have been moving their money into the stock market.''
For the short term, problems in Europe may actually be helping the United States, said Michael G. Thompson, managing director of S&P Capital IQ's Global Markets Intelligence. ''The gridlock produced by the Italian election has been a catalyst for the United States market,'' he said in a telephone interview from London. ''It seems to have reminded people that Europe is unstable -- and so it has given them another reason to move money into the United States.''
Mr. Thompson said that while earnings growth for the S.& P. 500 had slowed, a combination of low rates and ''canny management by C.E.O.'s of big companies'' made it likely that corporate profits would hit a record this year. ''As long as the Fed keeps its foot on the gas and as long as we stay out of a recession, I think there's a good chance this market will continue.''
Not everyone is sanguine, however. ''It's getting downright embarrassing to be bearish with all this exuberance around,'' said Rob Arnott, the chairman of Research Affiliates, an asset management firm in Newport Beach, Calif. ''With so many people eager to buy stocks, it's a wonderful time for us to take some risk off the table.''
Mr. Arnott, who manages the Pimco All Asset Fund, said the economy was weak enough that there was a reasonable chance the United States was already back in an undeclared recession. An economic or financial shock could induce a sharp market decline, he said.
''My view is simple,'' he said. ''Could this rally continue? Absolutely. But do I want to take a risk on a rally that will at some point certainly reverse and leave a lot of people helplessly trying to de-risk in an unliquid market decline? No. I don't want to be part of that crowd.''
In the logic of contrarian investing, this kind of pessimism encourages Mr. Birinyi. ''Market sentiment has not reached irrationally positive levels yet,'' he said. ''That implies to me that the market is still grounded, and that it can keep on rising.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); EQUITY RESEARCH (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); MONETARY POLICY (70%)

COMPANY: BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (56%)

TICKER: BX (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (56%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2013



190 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 460 words

HEADLINE: Financing For Colleges Declines As Costs Rise

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN

 BODY:
State and local financing for higher education declined 7 percent in fiscal 2012, to $81.2 billion, according to the annual report of the State Higher Education Executive Officers Association, and per-student support dropped 9 percent from the previous year, to $5,896, in constant dollars, the lowest level in at least 25 years. 
''Tuition revenues are up substantially due to higher prices and more enrollments, but not enough to offset losses of public funding,'' said Paul Lingenfelter, the president of the higher education group, based in Boulder, Colo. ''Students are paying more, while public institutions are receiving substantially less money to educate them. These one-year decreases in funding and increases in student costs are unprecedented over my 40-year career in higher education.''
Mr. Lingenfelter said he was particularly troubled by the long-term trend of shifting the cost of higher education from the public onto students and their families.
Over the last 25 years, the share of public university revenues coming from tuition and fees has climbed steadily to 47 percent past year, from 23 percent in 1987. And with ever-higher tuition, full-time college attendance is out of reach for an increasing number of students, which bodes ill for their chances of completing a degree.
''We've developed a culture that says part-time study is O.K.,'' Mr. Lingenfelter said. ''But the more you go to school part time, the less likely you are to finish. We should be providing enough assistance that students can pay attention to their education, and not making a living for a short period of time, so they'll be prepared to make a good living for a long time.''
In 2008, before the recession, state and local government provided a record high of $88 billion to colleges and universities. And while the recession cut sharply into state financing, the federal stimulus funds helped keep the level of support relatively stable in 2009-11. But by last year, most of that stimulus money had been spent, bringing a large decline in government support.
Enrollment at public universities, which had increased 28 percent since 2002, dropped by 0.7 percent in 2012.
The worst of the financial troubles may be past. Education appropriations for 2013 increased in three out of five states, although the national total for state higher education appropriations is still slightly down.
''This is not a hostile environment for higher education,'' said Patrick M. Callan, a higher education policy expert. ''But politicians are really feeling pressure on the affordability and debt issue. In a couple of states, when they put money back in, they also put a lid on tuition. Anyone who thinks we're going to get back to the status quo ante, that's simply not in the cards.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (94%); TUITION FEES (90%); EDUCATION FUNDING (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); ANNUAL REPORTS (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); STUDENT EXPENSES (78%); TRENDS (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2013



191 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1632 words

HEADLINE: Chávez Dies at 58 with Venezuela in Deep Turmoil

BYLINE: By WILLIAM NEUMAN; Reporting was contributed by María Eugenia Díaz, Girish Gupta and Meridith Kohut from Caracas; María Iguarán from Cumaná, Venezuela; and David E. Sanger and Thom Shanker from Washington.

 BODY:
CARACAS, Venezuela -- President Hugo Chávez of Venezuela died Tuesday afternoon after a struggle with cancer, the government announced, leaving behind a bitterly divided nation in the grip of a political crisis that grew more acute as he languished for weeks, silent and out of sight, in hospitals in Havana and Caracas.
Close to tears and his voice cracking, Vice President Nicolás Maduro said he and other officials had gone to the military hospital where Mr. Chávez was being treated, sequestered from the public, when ''we received the hardest and most tragic information that we could transmit to our people.''
In short order, police officers and soldiers were highly visible as people ran through the streets, calling loved ones on cellphones, rushing to get home. Caracas, the capital, which had just received news that the government was throwing out two American military attachés it accused of sowing disorder, quickly became an enormous traffic jam. Stores and shopping malls abruptly closed. 
As darkness fell, somber crowds congregated in the main square of Caracas and at the military hospital, with men and women crying openly in sadness and fear about what would come next.
In one neighborhood, Chávez supporters set fire to tents and mattresses used by university students who had chained themselves together in protest several days earlier to demand more information about Mr. Chávez's condition.
''Are you happy now?'' the Chávez supporters shouted as they ran through the streets with sticks. ''Chávez is dead! You got what you wanted!''
Mr. Chávez's departure from a country he dominated for 14 years casts into doubt the future of his socialist revolution. It alters the political balance not only in Venezuela, the fourth-largest supplier of foreign oil to the United States, but also in Latin America, where Mr. Chávez led a group of nations intent on reducing American influence in the region.
Mr. Chávez, 58, changed Venezuela in fundamental ways, empowering and energizing millions of poor people who had felt marginalized and excluded. But his rule also widened society's divisions, and his death is sure to bring vast uncertainty as the nation tries to find its way without its central figure.
''He's the best president in history,'' said Andrés Mejía, 65, a retiree in Cumaná, an eastern city, crying as he gathered with friends in a plaza. ''Look at how emotional I am -- I'm crying. I cannot accept the president's death. But the revolution will continue with Maduro.''
The Constitution says that, since Mr. Chávez was at the start of a term, the nation should ''proceed to a new election'' within 30 days, and Foreign Minister Elías Jaua said in a television interview that Mr. Maduro would take the helm in the meantime. The election is likely to pit Mr. Maduro, whom Mr. Chávez designated as his political successor, against Henrique Capriles Radonski, a young state governor who lost to Mr. Chávez in the presidential election in October.
But in light of Mr. Chávez's illness, there has been heated debate in recent months over clashing interpretations of the Constitution, and it is impossible to predict how the transition will proceed.
''We, your civilian and military companions, Commander Hugo Chávez, assume your legacy, your challenges, your project, accompanied by and with the support of the people,'' Mr. Maduro told the nation.
Only hours earlier, the government seemed to go into a state of heightened alert as Mr. Maduro convened a crisis meeting in Caracas of cabinet ministers, governors loyal to the president and top military commanders.
Taking a page out of Mr. Chávez's time-tested playbook, Mr. Maduro warned in a lengthy televised speech that the United States was seeking to destabilize the country, and the government expelled the two American military attachés, accusing one of seeking to recruit Venezuelan military personnel to carry out ''destabilizing projects.'' He called on Venezuelans to unite as he raised the specter of foreign intervention.
During the speech, Mr. Maduro said the government suspected that the president's enemies had found a way to cause his cancer, a possibility that Mr. Chávez had once raised. Mr. Maduro said scientists should investigate the source of his illness.
Mr. Chávez long accused the United States of trying to undermine or even assassinate him; indeed, the Bush administration gave tacit support for a coup that briefly removed him from power in 2002. He often used Washington as a foil to build support or distract attention from deeply rooted problems at home, like high inflation and soaring crime.
American officials had hoped to improve relations with Venezuela under Mr. Maduro, with informal talks taking place last year. But more recently, the government has appeared to shift into campaign mode, taking sweeping aim at the Venezuelan opposition and playing up the opposition's real or alleged ties to the United States.
''We completely reject the Venezuelan government's claim that the United States is involved in any type of conspiracy to destabilize the Venezuelan government,'' Patrick Ventrell, a State Department spokesman, said after the expulsion of the American attachés. He added, ''Notwithstanding the significant differences between our governments, we continue to believe it important to seek a functional and more productive relationship with Venezuela.''
Mr. Chávez's cancer was diagnosed in June 2011, but throughout his treatment he and his government kept many details about his illness secret. He had three operations in Cuba between June 2011 and February 2012, as well as chemotherapy and radiation treatment, but the cancer kept coming back.
Then on Dec. 8, just two months after winning re-election, Mr. Chávez stunned the nation by announcing in a televised address that he needed yet more surgery. That operation, his fourth, took place in Havana on Dec. 11.
In the aftermath, grim-faced aides described the procedure as complex and said Mr. Chávez's condition was delicate. They eventually notified the country of complications, first bleeding and then a severe lung infection and difficulty breathing.
After previous operations, Mr. Chávez often appeared on television while recuperating in Havana, posted messages on Twitter or was heard on telephone calls made to television programs on a government station. But after his December operation, he was not seen again in public, and his voice fell silent.
Mr. Chávez's aides eventually announced that a tube had been inserted in his trachea to help his breathing, and that he had difficulty speaking. It was the ultimate paradox for a man who seemed never at a loss for words, often improvising for hours at a time on television, haranguing, singing, lecturing, reciting poetry and orating.
As the weeks dragged on, tensions rose in Venezuela. Officials in Mr. Chávez's government strove to project an image of business as usual and deflected inevitable questions about a vacuum at the top. At the same time, the country struggled with an out-of-balance economy, troubled by soaring prices and escalating shortages of basic goods.
The opposition, weakened after defeats in the presidential election in October and elections for governor in December, in which its candidates lost in 20 of 23 states, sought to keep pressure on the government.
Then officials suddenly announced on Feb. 18 that Mr. Chávez had returned to Caracas. He arrived unseen on a predawn flight and was installed in a military hospital, where, aides said, he was continuing treatments.
Over nearly a decade and a half, Mr. Chávez made most major decisions and dominated all aspects of political life. He inspired a fierce, sometimes religious devotion among his supporters and an equally fervent animus among his opponents. As many of his followers say, ''With Chávez everything, without Chávez nothing.''
But that leaves his revolution in a precarious spot without its charismatic leader.
''In regimes that are so person-based, the moment that the person on which everything hangs is removed, the entire foundation becomes very weak because there was nothing else supporting this other than this figure,'' said Javier Corrales, a professor of political science at Amherst College.
Mr. Chávez's death could provide an opportunity for the political opposition, which was never able to defeat him in a head-to-head contest. Mr. Capriles lost to Mr. Chávez by 11 percentage points in October. But he has twice beaten top Chávez lieutenants in running for governor of his state, Miranda, which includes part of Caracas.
And Mr. Maduro is far from having Mr. Chávez's visceral connection to the masses of Venezuela's poor. Even so, most analysts believe that Mr. Maduro will have an advantage, and that he will receive a surge of support if the vote occurs soon.
But even if Mr. Maduro prevails, he may have a hard time holding together Mr. Chávez's movement while fending off resistance from what is likely to be a revived opposition.
Mr. Chávez's new six-year term began on Jan. 10, with the president incommunicado in Havana. In his absence, the government held a huge rally in the center of Caracas, where thousands of his followers raised their hands to pledge an oath of ''absolute loyalty'' to their commander and his revolution. Officials promised that Mr. Chávez would have his inauguration later, when he had recovered.
But the hoped-for recovery never came. Now, instead of an inauguration, Mr. Chávez's followers are left to plan a funeral.
The foreign minister, Mr. Jaua, announced that on Wednesday Mr. Chávez's body would be taken to the military academy in Caracas and lie in state there.
Mr. Jaua said that the government would hold a ceremony on Friday with visiting heads of state and that officials would announce later where Mr. Chávez would be laid to rest.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Venezuelans in Caracas after President Hugo Chávez's death was announced. He had been out of public view since December. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CARLOS GARCIA RAWLINS/REUTERS) (A1)
 Supporters held up photos of President Hugo Chávez and sang the national anthem in Plaza Bolívar in Caracas, Venezuela, after his death Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MERIDITH KOHUT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); MILITARY HOSPITALS (90%); CANCER (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ARMED FORCES (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (69%); RETAILERS (67%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (63%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (54%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (51%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (93%); ROBERT W BEST (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2013



192 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 588 words

HEADLINE: Two Enlistees in the Climate Wars

 BODY:
In 2009, President Obama pledged to reduce America's greenhouse gas emissions by 17 percent from 2005 levels by 2020. Thanks to several factors, the country is halfway there. On Monday, Mr. Obama announced the appointment of two seasoned officials who could fulfill that pledge -- but only if the president himself helps them navigate the formidable political obstacles ahead.
Mr. Obama nominated Gina McCarthy, an experienced clean air regulator, to run the Environmental Protection Agency, and Ernest Moniz, an M.I.T. physicist and strong advocate of natural gas and nuclear power, to run the Energy Department. Both believe global warming is one of humanity's most pressing challenges. Both have deep experience -- Ms. McCarthy as an assistant administrator at the E.P.A. and an adviser to Republican governors in Connecticut and Massachusetts, Mr. Moniz as an under secretary of energy in the Clinton administration. 
Both will be required to use their regulatory authority creatively and aggressively. There is zero chance that Congress will enact the ''bipartisan, market-based solution to climate change'' that Mr. Obama called for in his State of the Union address. This means that his second-term agenda on climate change will run through Ms. McCarthy's and Mr. Moniz's agencies, and will depend almost entirely on executive actions that do not require Congressional approval. Here are three strategies that could make a big dent in carbon emissions.
¶Invoke the E.P.A.'s authority under the Clean Air Act to limit pollution from stationary sources, chiefly fossil-fuel power plants that account for almost 40 percent of the country's carbon emissions. The agency has already proposed strict standards requiring new power plants to capture their emissions, an untested technology. The bigger problem is what to do with existing plants, which provide a big chunk of the nation's electricity and which cannot be shut down quickly or by fiat. Devising a gradual phaseout will require ingenuity and persistence in the face of what are sure to be strong legal and political challenges from industry.
¶Make natural gas safer. Thanks to hydraulic fracturing, the country is now awash in natural gas. One major reason for the unexpected decline in national carbon emissions is that many power plants have switched from coal to natural gas, which emits only half as much carbon dioxide. But there is a downside: drilling for and transporting natural gas can produce methane leaks, and methane is a potent greenhouse gas that can cancel out whatever carbon advantage gas has over coal. Much tougher restrictions must be imposed throughout the system, including on thousands of miles of pipelines.
¶Improve energy efficiency across the board. One of the success stories of the last 30 years has been the increase in energy efficiency in appliances, new commercial buildings, and cars and light trucks. But there is plenty of room for improvement. The task of designing ever-stricter standards will fall largely to Mr. Moniz.
There is obviously more: finding new refrigerants to replace climate-warming hydrofluorocarbons, investing not only in familiar renewable energy sources like wind and solar power but also in basic research, next-generation nuclear plants and experimental technologies that could smooth the path to a low-carbon economy.
Little of this will happen without a good deal of push-back from industry and its Congressional allies. From start to finish line, Ms. McCarthy and Mr. Moniz will need the president at their back.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POWER PLANTS (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); METHANE (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (78%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (78%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (78%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (75%); NATURAL GAS PIPELINES (75%); APPROVALS (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (70%); GOVERNORS (68%); MOTOR VEHICLES (66%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2013



193 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1206 words

HEADLINE: The Payoff In Delaying Retirement

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER. 
E-mail: eporter@nytimes.com; Twitter: @portereduardo

 BODY:
It's remarkably difficult to find an economist who thinks the spending cuts ripping through the budget since last Friday amount to a good idea.
''It's a disaster, but a slow rolling one,'' said Jared Bernstein, former chief economic adviser to Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.
N. Gregory Mankiw, the former chief economic adviser to President George W. Bush, wouldn't disagree. ''Other than being precisely the opposite of the kind of fiscal changes we need, what's not to like?'' he told me, with more than a touch of irony.
Yet despite the broad criticism, what the impasse between Democrats and Republicans just did to the federal budget is not at all atypical. It follows to the letter the most ironclad rule of American politics, which has held sway for the last three decades: spare the old. 
The impasse was portrayed as a doomsday machine that went off unexpectedly -- the consequence of an intractable divide in Washington over taxes and spending. It led to the so-called sequester, the product of a longstanding bipartisan reluctance to tinker with the social safety net erected to maintain the living standards of the elderly. Why? Because the old vote at much higher rates than the young.
It's true that Republicans have offered plans to limit spending on Medicare and Social Security by turning them into voucher-type programs, letting seniors buy their own health insurance with a set amount of money and manage their own pensions. But they never dared pay the political cost of turning these ideas into law even when they controlled Congress and the White House.
Democrats, meanwhile, have been reluctant to put up an all-out fight for the large tax increases needed to pay for the expanding entitlement programs demanded by an aging population, without any cuts. Usually champions of progressivity, they have nonetheless resisted proposals to direct benefits for the elderly more specifically to low and middle income Americans.
This fixation on defending entrenched positions is getting us nowhere. The problem -- a growing cohort of retirees, born during the baby boom, now claiming Social Security and Medicare -- is only getting bigger.
But what if there were a way for the government to ease the strain that the aging place on the budget while actually increasing their income in retirement, at little or no cost to their benefits? A well-designed reform would even improve the nation's rate of economic growth. The way to do it is simply to encourage older workers to spend a larger share of their increasing life spans in the work force.
Reform along this line might even garner bipartisan support. But it requires Democrats and Republicans to overcome their fear of disturbing the old.
Spending on Medicare, Social Security's old age pensions and retirement programs for civilians and military on the federal payroll will hit almost 9 percent of the nation's total economic output by 2023, according to baseline projections by the Congressional Budget Office. It will consume about 38 percent of the federal government's entire budget, up from 25 percent four decades ago, according to the Office of Management and Budget.
Meanwhile, the C.B.O. expects the discretionary part of the budget -- which includes every program requiring annual appropriations, from the budgets of the Pentagon and the National Science Foundation to worker training programs and early childhood education -- will shrink to its smallest share of the economy since the Eisenhower administration. Forty years ago discretionary programs, including much of the spending aimed at improving the economy for future generations, consumed more than half of the budget. In 10 years they will consume less than a quarter.
Senior citizens, to be sure, merit protection. Social insurance to keep retirees from dropping out of work and into poverty is as necessary today as when President Franklin Roosevelt signed the Social Security Act in 1935. But an income support system meant for a society where people retired in their late 60s and died in their late 70s is under strain as Americans take to retiring earlier and living well into their 80s and beyond.
Encouraging more senior workers of able body and sound mind to remain in the work force, many economists suggest, would not only improve their finances and those of the government. It could underpin higher economic growth over the long term.
For instance, a study published several years ago by C. Eugene Steuerle, Barbara A. Butrica and Karen E. Smith of the Urban Institute found that working just one more year would increase retirees' income in retirement by 9 percent. Working an additional five years would lift their incomes by 56 percent.
Retirees wouldn't receive fewer Social Security benefits, on average, because their annual benefit would increase with each year they delayed retirement. Nonetheless, government finances would improve through increased income tax revenue.
What's more, a growing cadre of older workers could counter to some extent the slowing growth of the labor supply, which in the next decade is expected to expand at less than half the pace of the 1960s, 1970s and 1980s, slowed by the retirement of the boomer generation and the tailing off of women's long march out of the home and into the workplace. The C.B.O. expects that slow growth in the labor supply will reduce our potential growth rate over the long term, to 2.25 percent a year, a full percentage point less than the average since 1950.
The magnitude of the effect is uncertain. Legislation passed during the Reagan administration in 1983, which started a gradual increase in the full retirement age to 67 from 65, encouraged more workers to stay in their jobs. But the effects weren't enormous. The Congressional Budget Office estimates that raising the early retirement age by two years would increase the labor force only by 1 percent.
The Reagan-era reform, however, left the official Social Security early retirement age -- when more than half of workers who are not disabled retire -- unchanged at 62. Mr. Steuerle argues that C.B.O. estimates of the muted increase in the labor supply fail to consider the growing demand for older workers in the future, as the pool of younger workers dries up. ''We are underestimating the labor supply of these older groups,'' he said.
Encouraging workers to work longer won't be politically easy. Not only must it overcome Democrats' and Republicans' fear of older voters. Many Democrats oppose it on the grounds that the poor die younger and could thus lose from the reforms. Change would disproportionately benefit the better off.
This is hardly the final word, though. Poorer workers stand to gain the most from the income produced by more years at work. And there are other ways to favor the less well off -- like introducing a minimum pension or granting survivor or spousal benefits to single women.
What's more, early retirements mostly benefit the rich, who live longer and draw bigger pensions. Defending this arrangement for the sake of the poor makes for a peculiar argument.
In any event, a real debate over how to ease the strain on the American economy caused by increasing longevity would undoubtedly be more fruitful than cutting the budget for park rangers.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Opposing cuts in Social Security, Medicare and other benefits for seniors last month in Ohio. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AL BEHRMAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); MEDICARE (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); AGING (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); LIVING STANDARDS (77%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); TAX LAW (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); TAX INCREASES (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); OLDER WORKERS (71%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (70%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (67%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (67%); AGING TRENDS (66%)

PERSON: JARED BERNSTEIN (58%); JOE BIDEN (56%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2013



194 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1226 words

HEADLINE: As Fears Recede, Dow Industrials Hit a Milestone

BYLINE: By PETER EAVIS; Susanne Craig, Nathaniel Popper and Michael J. de la Merced contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The economy may be struggling to recover, but by one closely watched measure the fear that not long ago paralyzed the markets has lifted.
The oldest and most popular gauge of the stock market on Tuesday surged past the nominal high it last reached more than five years ago, before the financial crisis hit with full force.
In the past, such a recovery would have led to celebrations on Wall Street and spread optimism about the economy. But the gain by the Dow Jones industrial average -- the stocks of 30 American corporate giants like Coca-Cola, ExxonMobil and Microsoft -- was a more downbeat event.
Wall Street executives were not dismissing the rally out of hand, but after several years of turbulence they were not cracking open the Champagne either. 
''The market reflects an improving economy in the U.S. and abroad,'' said James P. Gorman, the chief executive of the Wall Street firm Morgan Stanley. ''It helps individuals through their 401(k)'s and other investments. That being said, it has been a very fast move, and prudent investors would be well served to tread carefully and look for improving economic evidence to support any moves to higher levels.''
It has taken nearly five and half years for the Dow to get this far. Now there are concerns about whether the forces that have driven the market rally -- the huge stimulus actions by the Federal Reserve and banner corporate profits -- will be sufficient to push it higher.
Ordinary investors, who have largely sat on the sidelines of the market, will be asking themselves whether it is time to start investing in stocks again, given the gains that have taken place.
''What's amazing about this bull market is that people still don't think it's real,'' said Richard Bernstein, chief executive of Richard Bernstein Advisors, a money management firm. ''We think this could be the biggest bull market of our careers.''
The Dow broke through with a gain of 125.95 points, or 0.9 percent, closing at 14,253.77 on Tuesday. Since hitting a low in March 2009, with the panic of the financial crisis still fresh, the market measure has more than doubled.
The recovery is remarkable because the American housing market remains weak, Europe still has moments of severe instability, and fiscal battles drag on in Washington.
Using other yardsticks, however, the performance of the blue-chip Dow does not look quite as impressive.
The much broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, the benchmark favored by investment professionals, was slightly below its 2007 high even after it climbed 14.59 points on Tuesday, nearly 1 percent, to 1,539.79. And when adjusted for inflation, both the Dow and the S.& P. 500 were well below their levels at the start of the last decade.
The Nasdaq composite index also surged Tuesday, rising 42.10 points, or 1.3 percent, to 3,224.13, but it remains well below its 2000 high, when it topped 5,000.
Previous highs occurred when investors believed the economy could keep growing without any extraordinary assistance. By contrast, this rally has occurred on the back of enormous monetary stimulus by the Fed and the world's other central banks.
Since the end of 2007, five major central banks have injected some $6 trillion into the global economy, according to figures from the Bank for International Settlements. This was done to prevent bank runs and revive economies.
As the stimulus forced down interest rates, it eventually whetted investors' appetite for riskier assets like stocks.
''Central banks do matter. Central banks have always mattered,'' said David Rosenberg, chief economist at Gluskin Sheff & Associates, who started work as a Wall Street economist on the day the stock market crashed in 1987.
The looming question is what will happen when the Fed stops its stimulus. Mr. Rosenberg said that after the crisis the stock market declined sharply on two occasions when the Fed signaled that it might temper its monetary easing.
''In both cases, the Fed backtracked,'' he said.
Still, the Fed's easy money does not look like it is going to dry up soon. The stock market's sharp move up in recent days occurred after two senior officials from the Federal Reserve, including the chairman Ben S. Bernanke, emphasized their commitment to a slack monetary policy.
The Fed has said that it will keep up the stimulus until unemployment is well below current levels. And Fed policy makers will be all the more likely to take that stance if fiscal policy acts as a brake on the economy.
The strength of the stock market is not strongly reflected in the real economy. Consumer confidence is well below the level it hit during the last high in October 2007. The unemployment rate was then 4.7 percent, compared with 7.9 percent now.
Some analysts question how much further the stock market can rise if the Fed's actions do not lift the economy out of its sluggishness.
''I don't think the market is going to look past several quarters of weak growth,'' said Barry C. Knapp, a markets strategist with Barclays. He said the types of stocks that have done well this year are those that investors buy when economic growth is low, like health care and consumer staples.
Still, the recent rally has a strong corps of believers who have been bullish for a long time.
''I think 2013 is a year where those who've been really skeptical of this market have to rethink their arguments,'' said Thomas Lee, the chief U.S. Equity strategist at JPMorgan Chase.
While acknowledging that much of the market's gains have come from the Fed's monetary policies, Mr. Lee said that corporate profits have continued to rise, and that other signs of confidence in the markets, like mergers and stock buybacks, have also rebounded.
''I think we'll have a bull market for several more years,'' he said. ''It's been a pretty healthy rally.''
Stocks can become more vulnerable to declines when their valuations climb to historical highs. But right now stocks do not look particularly pricey.
Robert J. Shiller, a professor of economics at Yale, has built a model for gauging whether stocks are cheap or expensive. Right now, stock valuations are above historical averages, but well below the stratospheric highs they have reached in bubbles, he said. According to his model, stocks are signaling that they can return about 3 to 4 percent a year.
''That's not horrible,'' he said, though he was quick to add that the stock market had a mind of its own.
The stock market's volatility has scared retail investors for several years. A total of $556 billion has been taken out of mutual funds focused on American stocks since October 2007, according to the Investment Company Institute. That is an enormous pot of money that largely missed out on the market's recovery.
But recent figures show a sudden change of mind among retail investors. In January, some $32 billion in net investments flowed into mutual and exchange-traded funds that focus on American stocks, according to TrimTabs Investment Research, one of the highest one-month figures in the data company's records.
Mr. Gorman of Morgan Stanley said, ''I would hope retail investors don't pile into the market at this point, but step in cautiously.''
In the bond market, interest rates edged higher, although they remain historically low. The price of the Treasury's 10-year note slipped 5/32, to 100 30/32, while its yield rose to 1.90 percent from 1.88 percent late Monday.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Traders at the New York Exchange. The Dow has more than doubled since its low point in 2009. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B6) CHART: DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (75%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%); US 401K PLANS (67%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (67%)

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (58%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%); COCA-COLA CO (57%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (58%); XOM (NYSE) (57%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%); KO (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (57%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (57%)

PERSON: JAMES GORMAN (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2013



195 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2013

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 849 words

HEADLINE: Chávez's Death May Challenge China, a Friend

BYLINE: DIDI KIRSTEN TATLOW


HIGHLIGHT: Hugo Chavez, the former Venezuelan leader, was a friend of China and oversaw large oil deals. A day after his death official media and the blogosphere discussed him. 

 BODY:
BEIJING - Domestic politics trumps international politics, in China as everywhere. So even though China lost a friend in President Hugo Chávez of Venezuela, who died in Caracas on Tuesday, the homepage of the Xinhua News Agency online today is mostly filled with news of the National People's Congress meeting in Beijing, where important appointments will be made, such as naming a new president (certain to be Xi Jinping, barring an extraordinary and unforeseen event.)
Venezuela and China's relationship has been very close, especially economically. Yet reporting Mr. Chávez's death, Xinhua's homepage had only a small box with a photograph of him and five topics next to it; two chronologies (a "simple introduction" and "major events.") A third asked "did America poison him?" and the final items were "who next" and "analysis." Still, photographs of Mr. Chávez were displayed prominently, in rotation, with photographs from the congress. 
The reaction was more low key than one might have expected, raising the question: is China, despite its professions of friendship, perhaps distancing itself from the polarizing figure who has dominated politics in Venezuela for over a decade as people here and there wonder, what next?
(Later in the day, Foreign Ministry spokesman Hua Chunying said: ""President Chávez was an outstanding leader of Venezuela, and a good friend of the Chinese people.")
The question of the poison is curious, as is the prominence given to it by Xinhua.
Xinhua's story, datelined Caracas, cited Venezuela's vice president, Nicolás Maduro, as saying that Mr. Chávez had been the target of a "technical and scientific attack" by Americans to induce illness (in Xinhua's words. Other media, including The New York Times, also reported Mr. Maduro's comments. The accusation is not new.)
The Xinhua report did little to support Mr. Maduro's assertions, noting that since June 2011 Mr. Chávez has frequently sought treatment in Cuba for cancer. Xinhua said Mr. Chávez had "tumors in the pelvic cavity" (that might be singular, since Chinese doesn't necessarily distinguish between singular and plural.)
On China's busy microblogs, the issue was raised, but barely. While ordinary Chinese would have no way of knowing either way, the lack of interest may indicate they thought it not a topic worthy of discussion. By noon on Wednesday, there were around 200 comments for "Chávez technological scientific attack" and about 140 for "Chávez poison." By Chinese standards, that's a damp squib.
Still, the death of Mr. Chávez is a challenge for China. As Matt Ferchen of the Carnegie-Tsinghua Center for Global Policy wrote before Mr. Chávez's death but after his serious illness was known, China'sclose friendship has produced deep economic ties but could lead to problems.
Mr Chávez's re-election to a third term late last year "elicited almost universal praise from Chinese media and foreign policy analysts," noted Mr. Ferchen, who specializes in China's relationship with other developing nations. The two countries have a very strong economic relationship, he noted, based mostly on China's growing oil needs.
In fact, the China Development Bank, China's "Superbank," "has led China's financing efforts in Venezuela with more than U.S. $42 billion in loans-for-oil deals since 2007," Mr. Ferchen wrote.
Those deals represent "the bank's largest loan exposure anywhere outside of China and account for nearly 60 percent of the bank's loans to Latin America and the Caribbean," Mr. Ferchen noted.
Mr. Chávez's death could threaten all that, he writes, against a background of "a reinvigorated Venezuelan political opposition movement."
"Henrique Capriles, the youthful leader of the opposition, has stated that if he were president, while not seeking to overturn the loans-for-oil deals with China, he would review their legality," wrote Mr. Ferchen, pointing out that little is known publicly about the details of the deals.
The risk? "China may learn that partnerships of convenience with polarizing, strong-man leaders like Chávez can also quickly and unexpectedly become highly inconvenient," he wrote.
Meanwhile, in the microblogging sphere, there was support for Mr. Chávez.
One person on Sina Weibo, @guda baihua, wrote that after the death of Mr. Chávez, whom he described as an "anti-American fighter," the Huffington Post carried many comments from Americans supporting him, and he translated them into Chinese.
So in Chinese, monicaangela said: "Rest in Peace, President Chávez. ... Thank you for fighting the oil companies and nationalizing the oil of Venezuela so that those profits could be used to life the people of your nation up."
And, also in Chinese, Dean Adams wrote: "He was far from perfect but he certainly had the interest of ALL of his people at heart. More than can be said for many of the elected officials in this country."

        
Seen From China: Fiscal Cliff Shows Democracy's Weakness
        
Excluded From Xi's Big Moment
        
Congress Ends, but Mystery Surrounding Xi Remains
        
Q. and A.: China's Leadership Transition and Xi Jinping
        
Money, Power, Politics and Corruption: U.S. vs. China

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); NEWS REPORTING (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (86%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CHRONOLOGIES (76%); POISONINGS (75%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (74%); CANCER (68%); TRENDS (62%); ECONOMIC POLICY (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%) Capriles Radonski, Henrique; Chavez, Hugo; Maduro, Nicolas; Xi Jinping; Economic Conditions and Trends; Huffington Post; National People's Congress (China); New York Times; Sina Weibo; Xinhua; China; Venezuela; View From Asia

ORGANIZATION: Huffington Post; National People's Congress (China); New York Times; Sina Weibo; Xinhua

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (94%); XI JINPING (92%); ARIANNA HUFFINGTON (73%) Capriles Radonski, Henrique; Chavez, Hugo; Maduro, Nicolas; Xi Jinping

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%) CHINA (99%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); CUBA (79%); ASIA (79%) China; Venezuela

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2013



196 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2013

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 143 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Stock Market Is Up, and Dow Sets Record

BYLINE: MICHAEL GONCHAR


HIGHLIGHT: When did the Dow Jones industrial average reach a record high? 

 BODY:
 In "Record High Close for Dow, Spurred by Fed and Profits," Peter Eavis reports on Wall Street's good news.
 
 WHAT is the Dow Jones industrial average?
 WHAT happened in October 2007?
 WHEN did the Dow Jones industrial average reach a record high?
 HOW do American stocks compare to their counterparts in Europe and Asia?
 WHY did the stock market bounce back from its 2009 low so quickly, according to the article?
 WHY does the Dow Jones not represent the "economic health of average Americans"?
 WHO is Ben S. Bernanke?
 WHERE do you think the stock market is headed from here?
 Related: Our lesson "What Goes Up?" and our Crossword "The Stock Market."

        
Oct. 19, 1987 | Stock Market Crashes on 'Black Monday'
        
Mud Brothers and Sisters
        
These Days Are Numbered: Eight Summer Math Ideas
        
The Value of Facebook
        
Teaching and Learning About the U.S. Debt Crisis and Credit Downgrade

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (87%); DEBT CRISIS (69%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (64%) stock market; Wall Street; 6 Q's About the News

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (55%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (90%); EUROPE (87%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2013



197 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(India Ink)

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2013

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 1261 words

HEADLINE: A Conversation With: Ania Loomba, Professor at University of Pennsylvania

BYLINE: NIHARIKA MANDHANA


HIGHLIGHT: Ms. Loomba was one of the professors who opposed Narendra Modi&#8217;s participation in the upcoming Wharton India Economic Forum. 

 BODY:
 On March 23, when students and prominent Indians meet at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania for the India Economic Forum, one person will be conspicuous by his absence: Narendra Modi. 
 The chief minister of Gujarat was invited to join the conference via Skype to discuss Gujarat's development model, but student organizers of the annual conference withdrew their invitation on Sunday after a few University of Pennsylvania professors circulated a petition opposing Mr. Modi's invitation. 
 Their letter accused the right-wing politician of not doing enough to prevent riots in Gujarat in 2002 that led to the death of over 1,000 people, most of them Muslims. Mr. Modi has consistently denied these allegations, but the United States has refused to provide him with a visa over concerns about these accusations. 
 India Ink contacted one of the professors who helped mobilize opposition to Mr. Modi's speech, Ania Loomba, who teaches English at the University of Pennsylvania. In an e-mail interview, Professor Loomba explained why she objected to Mr. Modi's participation in the conference. 
 Q. 
What were your main objections to the Wharton India Economic Forum's invitation to Narendra Modi to speak at the conference?
 A. 
As is well known, Narendra Modi is a very controversial figure. We were concerned that this conference would help contribute to his efforts to sanitize his government's record. Specifically, his government's actions and inactions during the communal violence in Gujarat in 2002, which devastated the state's Muslim population, and whose worst excesses have still not been redressed.
Mr. Modi has increasingly attempted to recast himself as a "developmentalist" with a strong economic record in Gujarat. This has been his campaign agenda both in recent state elections, and in his current bid to be projected as a major prime ministerial candidate in India's next general election. We are firmly opposed to any attempt to de-link development from human rights: the kinds of atrocities minority communities suffered and continue to suffer in Gujarat are not neatly separable from economic development.
Moreover, there is mounting scholarly evidence that Gujarat's economic growth has not yielded improvements in human development. Specifically health and educational outcomes, such as child nutrition, where the state remains among the worst performers in India.
In this troubled context, providing Mr. Modi with a plenary position to speak on economic development is a deeply political act. We should also note that the Adani Group was a platinum sponsor of the event -they have since refused their sponsorship after the student-organizers of the Forum rescinded their invitation to Mr. Modi. Gautam Adani, chairman of Adani Group, is a well-known Modi supporter, and his pulling out is a reminder that his sponsorship was part of an attempt to re-launch Mr. Modi in the U.S.
Mr. Modi's proposed plenary address fit very much with his sanitizing campaign. He was due to speak on his state's economic record, and there was no forum for questioning his human rights record. While the Wharton conference organizers say they do not ascribe to any political ideology, we felt that providing an opportunity that so closely fits the campaign agenda of a controversial politician is inherently political, particularly since it repressed any attention to Mr. Modi's record on human rights and justice.
 Q. 
Would it have been better, as some have suggested, if Mr. Modi had been allowed to speak, followed by a question-and-answer session, where he could have been questioned about human rights and Gujarat's human development record?
 A. 
No. I doubt that any substantive debate could have been part of an event like this. If the organizers wanted a debate, they could have invited someone opposed to Modi and staged the dialogue. This was not set up to be a dialogue. Moreover, a man who has prosecuted whistle-blowers and activists who had tried to bring the guilty to justice in Gujarat is hardly someone who is open to a debate and dialogue. As we wrote in our letter, the Supreme Court has criticized the Modi government for using trumped-up charges to harass activists fighting for justice.
 Q. 
In 2007, Columbia University invited President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran, a highly controversial international figure, to address its students, amid protests by a host of groups. In a culture that embraces free speech, some have asked, should Mr. Modi's address have been boycotted?
 A. 
It is part of a vibrant democracy to dissent and indeed to boycott speakers. Our letter to the student organizers of the Forum simply expressed our objections to their invitation. There is a big difference between shutting down free speech and raising principled objections to inviting a man with a sordid human rights record.
Let us be clear: we are not opposing his right to free speech. He has those rights, and avails of them on a daily basis: he has full and immediate access to the news media in Gujarat and India. What we are opposed to is the Forum, which is an element in a larger institution of which we are a part, granting him a position of honor to increase his personal legitimacy, and thus further a political agenda which we find reprehensible.
Finally, the media has been presenting it as a few professors shutting the desires of students. But many students were signatories too. As well as doctors, lawyers and concerned citizens. We did not speak from a position of any authority because student groups at Penn have the right to invite anyone they want. And, of course, anyone has the right to raise objections to that. Why did the organizers change their mind? Was it only because of us? According to the organizers, there were several "stakeholders" whose opinions influenced their views, including members of the alumni.
The reason Modi supporters are turning this into an issue of free speech is that the whole event has coincided with the massive effort to project Modi as a viable prime ministerial candidate. And this shows why he is not.
 Q. 
Narendra Modi has earned a reputation as an incorruptible politician and a good administrator. To that extent, many say, his insight and inputs are very valuable in any discussion on India's economic promise. How would you respond to that?
 A. 
As I said earlier, this is precisely what needs to be contested; in the emergency imposed by Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, many extolled the efficiency of her regime. Many terrible regimes have come to power the world over in the name of economic development. How can Mr. Modi be considered a good administrator if he presided over a carnage and has refused to address or remedy its consequences for over a decade now?
But even if we set that aside, a recent Planning Commission report noted that Gujarat has slipped in its ranking in terms of the human development index among Indian states, and has made lower-than-average progress on crucial indicators such as infant mortality, child malnutrition, and maternal mortality. We are troubled with the exclusive focus on particular indicators of development, to the exclusion of others, particularly those most relevant to the "capabilities" - to quote the Nobel prize-winning economist Amartya Sen - of Gujarat's poorest citizens.
 (The interview has been lightly edited and condensed.) 

        
Modi Victory Speech Comes With Apology
        
In Gujarat, Sonia Gandhi Slams Narendra Modi
        
'Kai Po Che' and the Strange Case of the Vanishing Villain
        
Newswallah: Long Reads Edition
        
Scenes From Rajkot, Gujarat on Election Day

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (93%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); SPONSORSHIP (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (86%); WAR CRIMES (85%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); GENOCIDE (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY (75%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (75%); PETITIONS (71%); RIOTS (70%); RELIGION (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS (66%); NUTRITION (50%) Columbia University; Gujarat State (India); Modi, Narendra; Speeches and Statements; University of Pennsylvania; War Crimes, Genocide and Crimes Against Humanity; Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania

COMPANY: ADANI ENTERPRISES LTD (85%); INDIA INK (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (94%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (84%) Columbia University; University of Pennsylvania; Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania

TICKER: ADANIENT (NSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523130 COMMODITY CONTRACTS DEALING (85%); SIC5051 METALS SERVICE CENTERS & OFFICES (85%); SIC2269 FINISHERS OF TEXTILES, NEC (56%)

PERSON: GAUTAM ADANI (58%) Modi, Narendra

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); GUJARAT, INDIA (92%); WEST INDIA (92%) INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%) Gujarat State (India)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2013



198 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 925 words

HEADLINE: Health Reform, the Reward to Work and Massachusetts

BYLINE: CASEY B. MULLIGAN


HIGHLIGHT: Even if health care reform in Massachusetts has had a limited effect on employment, the impact of the Affordable Care Act on the national labor market is likely to be large, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Casey B. Mulligan is an economics professor at the University of Chicago. He is the author of "The Redistribution Recession: How Labor Market Distortions Contracted the Economy." 
The United States labor market is in for a shock when health reform is fully carried out, regardless of what employers decide about health insurance or how smoothly reform might have unfolded in Massachusetts.
Beginning next year, millions of Americans will be eligible for generous subsidies in the form of cash assistance to pay for their health insurance premiums and out-of-pocket health expenses pursuant to the Affordable Care Act. The subsidies will sharply reduce the financial reward to working because they will be phased out with household income. 
As the Princeton economists Alan B. Krueger, who has held positions in the Obama administration, and Uwe E. Reinhardt, my Economix colleague, explain, health insurance premium assistance "would present millions of low-income American families with total marginal tax rates in excess of 75 percent." They add, "Such high marginal tax rates may well make unemployment and welfare an attractive alternative to working."
It would appear that, together with per-employee penalties levied on employers, the new law's health insurance subsidies could significantly affect the labor market.
Most workers are offered affordable health insurance by their employers, and the new law will consider them ineligible for subsidies and will not ask their employers to pay any penalty. You might guess that the aggregate labor-market impact of the law could be small, because the penalties and subsidies would not apply to the majority of the work force "covered" by employer health insurance.
But it is wrong to assume that the law will have little effect on the reward to working among covered workers. Their employers could drop coverage, or the employee could switch to a job without coverage. More important, the subsidies are available to the unemployed and others who do not work, even if their previous jobs had provided coverage. If and when they go back to work in a covered job, federal law will welcome their return by taking their subsidy away.

Yet another reason that covered workers will experience high marginal tax rates like those noted by Professors Krueger and Reinhardt is that the subsidies will be available to family members on the basis of the employee's income, in combination with his or her spouse's income, if any.
The Department of Health and Human Services says there is no reason for alarm because the experience in Massachusetts since 2006 shows "that the health care law will improve the affordability and accessibility of health care without significantly affecting the labor market," as I noted last week, referring to a Washington Examiner report. 
For those worried about dire labor market consequences of the federal law, Jonathan Gruber of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology replies (at 27:32 in this video): "We've actually run this experiment, folks, we ran it in Massachusetts. O.K. In Massachusetts, we put in a system with more generous subsidies than the federal government is doing."
When it comes to quantifying the new federal law's penalty on employment, Professor Gruber and Health and Human Services are incorrect to take comfort in the Massachusetts experience since 2006. As I explained last week, the federal law's employer penalty is more than tenfold the Massachusetts penalty. In other words, if the Massachusetts penalties pushed down workers' wages by 16 cents an hour, the federal penalties would push them down $1.67.
Professor Gruber is also incorrect that the federal law is introducing less generous subsidies than the Massachusetts law did. Federal subsidies will be available for people laid off from their jobs, but the new Commonwealth Care subsidies in Massachusetts are not, because Commonwealth Care excludes people eligible for the Medical Security Program (a longstanding program providing health benefits to Massachusetts people receiving cash unemployment benefits).
Moreover, people leaving a job with health insurance have to wait six months before they can enter Commonwealth Care.
Commonwealth Care also excludes children: if a Massachusetts resident wants health insurance subsidies for his or her children, Medicaid is the primary option. The federal law has no such restriction: it allows Americans to receive subsidies while enrolling their entire families in the same health plan as, say, the United States senators representing their states.
Indeed, many consumers may perceive Commonwealth Care to be an extension of Medicaid. When it began, Commonwealth Care consisted of four plans offered by the state's Medicaid Managed Care Organizations (a fifth plan has recently been added). Perhaps that's why only 158,000 people were enrolled in Commonwealth Care as of 2011, which is less than 10 percent of the people in Massachusetts whose family income fell in the interval required by the program.
In contrast, recipients of federal subsidies will be receiving cash they can spend on a plan of their choice: that's a lot more generous than helping people join Medicaid. 
For all these reasons, economic reasoning points to a contraction of the United States labor market as the full Affordable Care Act is carried out, regardless of what may have happened in Massachusetts.

        
Older Workers Could Benefit if Companies Drop Insurance
        
In Massachusetts We Trust
        
Health Care Aside, Fewer Jobs Than in 2000
        
Further Reading on Mr. Mandate
        
Health Reform Comic Book

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (92%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (92%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); FAMILY (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); WRITERS (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (77%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (76%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (75%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (75%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (74%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (69%) Gruber, Jonathan; Health and Human Services Department; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Labor and Jobs; Massachusetts; Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (2010); Today's Economist

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (84%) Health and Human Services Department

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (53%) Gruber, Jonathan

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (99%); ILLINOIS, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (99%) Massachusetts

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2013



199 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 2041 words

HEADLINE: Crowdfunding Clean Energy

BYLINE: DAVID BORNSTEIN


HIGHLIGHT: There are plenty of recent signs that we may be witnessing the coming of age of solar power. 

 BODY:
If you wanted to get large numbers of people actively engaged in helping to solve global warming, how might you go about it? For years, the main approach in the environmental movement has been to sound the alarm bell and implore people to consume less, switch to green products, recycle, and speak up to companies and politicians. It hasn't always been an easy sell. However, if the approach of a promising Oakland-based start-up takes hold, there may be another line of action that could become available to ordinary people: directly financing renewable energy. 
In January, a company called Mosaic, made a splash in the renewable energy world when it introduced a crowd-funding platform that makes it possible for small, non-accredited investors to earn interest financing clean energy projects. When Mosaic posted its first four investments online - solar projects offering 4.5 percent returns to investors who could participate with loans as small as $25 - the company's co-founder, Billy Parish, thought it would take a month to raise the $313,000 required. Within 24 hours, 435 people had invested and the projects were sold out. The company had spent just $1,000 on marketing. All told, Mosaic has raised $1.1 million for a dozen solar projects to date. Now it is connecting with other solar developers to identify new projects for financing. More than 10,000 people have already signed on and are standing by to invest.
A generation and a half after the first Earth Day, we may be witnessing the coming of age of solar power. Last year, when Warren Buffett's MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company floated an $850 million bond offering for the Topaz Solar Farm, in California, it was the first time a public bond offering for a U.S. photovoltaic power project had been deemed "investment grade." The offering was oversubscribed by more than $400 million and the company is now planning a second round to raise potentially $1.265 billion more. And last month, it was reported that First Solar, a manufacturer of solar panels, had signed an agreement with the El Paso Electric Company to sell its power for less than half the cost of power from typical coal plants. In 2011, almost half of the 208 gigawatts of electric capacity added globally came from renewable power, primarily wind and solar (pdf), and almost half of the additional power capacity in the European Union came from solar alone.
A big reason is cost. Over the past five years, the price of photovoltaic panels has declined by about 80 percent. We're used to hearing about Moore's Law, which refers to the steady and predictable increases in power and decline in cost of integrated circuits. Swanson's Law holds that each time global manufacturing capacity of photovoltaic cells doubles, the costs fall by 20 percent.
From 1977 to 2013, the price per watt of crystalline silicon photovoltaic cells dropped from about $77 per watt to 74 cents per watt. Couple that with another innovation - the spread of companies that lease, rather than sell, solar power systems - add in some tax incentives - and decentralized solar has become a viable option for many homeowners and businesses. This is a far cry from the time when buying a solar system meant paying upfront for 25 or 30 years of power.
If it seems far-fetched to imagine millions of Americans becoming mini energy producers, just look at Germany, where 51 percent of the country's clean energy production is owned by individuals or farmers, while major utilities control just 6.5 percent of it.
One of the Mosaic financed systems now sits atop a 26,000-square-foot building in Oakland's San Antonio neighborhood owned by the nonprofit Youth Employment Partnership, which provides education and workforce skills training to a thousand teenagers each year. YEP's system, which cost about $265,000, was financed by a combination of its own funds, government and private grants, and a crowdfunded loan. Its utility bills have dropped by 85 percent. Because of the grants, YEP is leasing its system for 10 years and will have the ability to purchase it for a low price after that period. (Without subsidies, the lease would likely run for 20 or 25 years.) YEP's monthly utility and lease outlays are less than before. "By year 10 we can own the system outright and then most of our power will be free," explained its executive director, Michele Clark. "But what really matters is that it frees up money that we can use for our case management and mental health work."
If electricity costs continue to rise - they have tripled since 1980 - the economics will prove more favorable. "If you buy solar, you fix your energy costs for the next 25 years or longer," explains Marco Krapels, executive vice president of Rabobank, a major solar financier, who is a member of Mosaic's board of directors. "You can have power independence. And it happens to be clean."
There is another benefit, added Clark. The system aligns with YEP's educational mission. "We have this great little computer program that shows us the electricity we're producing," she said. "We look at it on sunny days and see it at the top of the chart and discuss it. Then we take our students on field trips to the roof."
Last June, Bloomberg New Energy Finance published a report (pdf) estimating that the expected continuing surge in demand for solar systems over the next nine years in the United States would require $62 billion in new financing. That's a big gap. Even though more than half of American adults say they are "alarmed" or "concerned" about global warming and about a quarter of the nation's rooftops are suitable for solar power installations (pdf), including two thirds of those in New York [1], only a small number of U.S. banks are involved in financing solar projects. Many lack the expertise to evaluate the risks; others have little interest in modest power projects. "Solar is still by and large an asset class that's not well understood," said Krapels, of Rabobank.
But peer-to-peer lenders like Prosper.com and Lending Club - once considered improbable businesses - have revealed new possibilities. Combined, they have brokered over $1.8 billion in loans, offering lower interest rates and higher returns than borrowers or lenders could get from banks. At the same time, crowdfunders like Kickstarter, RocketHub, Indiegogo, Seedmatch and the aptly named Crowdfunder, have helped groups raise hundreds of millions of dollars for a multitude of projects and business ventures. Kiva has built a bridge that has allowed individuals to lend over $400 million to microfinance institutions. Now, we're seeing the early application of this idea to clean energy, with Mosaic and others, including SunFunder and Milaap.
How many people will want to participate? How quickly could the pipeline of investments grow? How will the investments perform? All these are open questions. But other crowdfunders have solved them. Currently, one bottleneck is the time and expense of due diligence for each deal. Mosaic is a founding member of a working group called TruSolar which is developing standards to streamline this process and ensure project quality. Mosaic is also drawing on the experience of online business lenders like On Deck Capital and Kabbage, which leverage large data sets to evaluate lending risks cost effectively. "We're building a portal for solar developers to submit project information electronically in an efficient manner that automates initial credit screening and analysis," says Parish. "This will make the loan process much simpler, faster and more transparent for borrowers - and improve project quality for our investors."
Another concern is panel quality, explains Conrad Burke, global marketing director for DuPont Photovoltaic Solutions, which is also a TruSolar member. As costs have plummeted, solar module manufacturers have had to fight for survival. "In such an overcapacity situation, corners are being cut," he said. Some manufacturers have compromised on the quality of things like panel backsheets, which protect solar cells. "We've seen panels which are less than 10 years old deteriorating or failing," he added. "You have companies which are two or three years old warrantying products for 25 years. We have to raise awareness about this. The industry can ill afford a black eye."
All power systems fail at times, but if solar modules are not highly reliable over their warranty periods, the economic argument for their use is much weaker.
Crowdfunding holds particular promise for the developing world, where financing for renewable energy is even harder to come by - and where distributed solar power is an urgent need, observes Justin Guay, of the Sierra Club's international climate program. The irony is that very poor people in the developing world who lack electricity pay far more for kerosene and candles than they would for solar energy. Over a decade, a poor family may spend $1,800 on these energy sources, five or six times what it would take to install a home solar system that could power lights, cellphones, computers, television, and so forth.
Today, with NGO, businesses and microfinance networks reaching into villages and shantytowns around the world, an infrastructure exists to deploy solar systems using a sustainable leasing business model. Just replacing kerosene - a fire hazard and contributor to pulmonary disease - with solar would yield enormous health benefits, reduce greenhouse gases, improve quality of life and expand economic and educational opportunities.
But the money needs to be fronted. "Large international financial organizations like the World Bank are not structured to do it," says Guay. "Their bread and butter is to push out a huge coal plant or a hydro dam. If we're looking at a distributed renewals future, crowdfunding is an exciting approach, particularly if it is coupled with the ability to invest through mobile phones."
The biggest levers remain government policies. Domestically, if the U.S. government changed regulations around Real Estate Investment Trusts and Master Limited Partnerships (a bill recently introduced by Senator Chris Coons aims to do the latter), it could open up billions for renewable energy investments. Internationally, governments and multilaterals could reduce the perceived risk of solar investments through loan guarantees and other incentives.
But all that takes political will. Which gets back to the crowdsourcing ethos: let everyone participate in the solution and they will get more engaged. "Even if people invest $25, it helps them to think about energy in a completely new way," says Parish. "They can be an energy producer, not just an energy consumer, and it will help them understand how our energy system works."
"If we are going to solve this problem," he adds, "We need to build a propositional movement, not just an oppositional movement. We'll need to tap into people's enlightened self interest."
FOOTNOTES
[1] Solar power does best in the south, of course - a system in San Diego provides about 50 percent more energy over the course of a year than a similar one in Seattle (pdf) - but it is suitable for northern areas, too. New York City is home to 560 solar projects that generate 11.5 megawatts of power. But the city has the rooftop capacity to increase its solar output 500 fold. Theoretically, it could supply 40 percent of its peak electricity needs from solar. (For a look at the city's rooftop capacity in detail, check out this cool interactive map developed by Sustainable CUNY. According to the calculations, the Metropolitan Museum of Art's roof has enough space to generate the carbon saving equivalent of 6,600 trees - more than a quarter of the total in Central Park.) 
 Join Fixes on Facebook and follow updates on twitter.com/nytimesfixes. 
David Bornstein is the author of "How to Change the World," which has been published in 20 languages, and "The Price of a Dream: The Story of the Grameen Bank," and is co-author of "Social Entrepreneurship: What Everyone Needs to Know." He is a co-founder of the Solutions Journalism Network, which supports rigorous reporting about responses to social problems. 

        
Land of Plenty (of Government)
        
Dependents of the State
        
Downton and Downward
        
Justice(s) at Work
        
Misconceptions

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SOLAR ENERGY (94%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CROWDSOURCING (90%); NEW ISSUES (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); BOND ISSUES (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (78%); EARTH DAY (78%); GREEN MARKET (77%); WIND ENERGY (77%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (76%); HOLDING COMPANIES (76%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (75%); BONDS (75%); SOLAR POWER PLANTS (73%); PHOTOELECTRIC CELLS (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (66%); PLANT CAPACITY (65%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (64%); COAL INDUSTRY (64%); ACCREDITATION (54%); EUROPEAN UNION (50%) Alternative and Renewable Energy; Buffett, Warren E; Rabobank; solar energy; United States; Solar Energy; Fixes

COMPANY: MIDAMERICAN ENERGY HOLDINGS CO (66%); EL PASO ELECTRIC CO (63%)

ORGANIZATION: Rabobank

TICKER: EE (NYSE) (63%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (66%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (63%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (63%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (72%) Buffett, Warren E

GEOGRAPHIC: OAKLAND, CA, USA (72%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (51%) United States

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2013



200 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(ArtsBeat)

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2013

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 818 words

HEADLINE: London Theater Journal: Follow the Money

BYLINE: BEN BRANTLEY


HIGHLIGHT: Ben Brantley on &#8220;Money the Game Show&#8221; and a revival of &#8220;Privates on Parade,&#8221; starring Simon Russell Beale. 

 BODY:
LONDON - It felt like a good day to go to a funeral for the financial system that rules the Western world. My reading on the subway had been the Evening Standard (now a giveaway), which featured a lead story with blaring headlines about bankers' bonuses and money laundering. (The next day I would awaken to a grim front-page essay in the Guardian on the same subject with the no-win headline "Too big to fail - and too big to manage.")
Oh, well, at least it had been a sunny afternoon, for a change. And the comely couple who greeted the audience in the lobby of the Bush Theater were a sunny pair, with neon-bright clothes and aggressive smiles. Their names were Queenie and Casino, they told us, and they would be our hosts for a show with a title that promised lots of good fun to anyone of capitalist tendencies: "Money: The Game Show." 
An hour and 45 minutes later - after assorted jolly exercises involving balloons, party tricks, soap bubbles and a pile of (real) £10,000 coins - one of these two charming creatures would be dead, or brain-dead anyway. As for that big golden pile that we had been encouraged to eye so lustily, it had been shoveled into a big golden rubbish cart and wheeled out of sight. 
Written and directed by Clare Duffy, "Money: The Game Show" offers a brightly apocalyptic guide to the way of all lucre during the last couple of decades. It is presented in the guise of a quiz show, overseen by Queenie (Lucy Ellison) and Casino (Brian Ferguson), former hedge-fund managers who have been forced to become performance artists.
The audience is divided into teams and pitted against one other in a television-studio-like environment where the games include selling short, selling long and hedging your bets. We cheer and hoot as volunteers from each team transport coins from the pile to suitcases before a freshly inflated soap bubble bursts or participate in balloon-blowing races. In between, Queenie and Casino act out the story of their rise and rise and - darn, knew it couldn't last - precipitous fall as investment bankers.
The British stage has inhabited this kind of territory frequently in recent years, most notably in "Enron," Lucy Prebble's bloated cautionary spectacle about American greed. "Money: The Game Show" has the advantage of being short, clever and remarkably understandable, even for a financial illiterate like myself. It makes you, as a participant in its games, feel silly, sordid and finally scared. It also provides the most ingenious and sobering explanation I've come across for the current fascination with zombies in our culture.
A few days earlier, I had been to another frolicsome treatise on the collapse of an empire, this one with music-hall-style songs performed in drag by one of the leading classical actors of the British stage. The great Simon Russell Beale starred as the cross-dressing Acting Capt. Terri Dennis in "Privates on Parade," Peter Nichols's 1977 play about a British military revue troupe in Singapore in the late 1940's.
This production, which ended its limited run last weekend, was the opening offering of the starry first season of the Michael Grandage Company. (Up next: Judi Dench and Ben Whishaw in John Logan's "Peter and Alice.") The show united three of my favorite British theater talents: Mr. Beale, Mr. Grandage (who was until recently the artistic director of the Donmar Warehouse) and Mr. Nichols ("Passion Play," "A Day in the Death of Joe Egg").
Yet somehow, as both the story of a young soldier's sentimental education and a portrait of the decline of British imperialism, this "Privates" seemed blunter - and longer - than I remembered it. (I had last seen it at the Donmar in 2001, also directed by Mr. Grandage, with Roger Allam and the young James McAvoy, who has grown up to become a movie star and portray the title role of "Macbeth," which I'll be catching on Thursday.)
Mr. Beale seemed to be enjoying himself mightily and infectiously as a flaming, show-stopping officer. Yet for once I didn't sense the intricate layers of personal history that he usually brings to a performance. I knew what Terri was but not so much where he came from, as I felt I did with Mr. Allam.
Still, Mr. Beale did so beautifully by the pastiche songs, with music by Denis King and Noel Coward-style patter lyrics by Mr. Nichols, that I wonder if he doesn't have a real future in musicals.He was delightful as King Arthur in "Spamalot" when he replaced Tim Curry on Broadway, but here he brought a true soulfulness as well as the obligatory camp to numbers that had him dressing up as Marlene Dietrich and Carmen Miranda. In fishnet stockings, he was definitely a knockout, though perhaps not in the usual sense of the term.

        
London Theater Journal: Memory Plays
        
Ask Ben Brantley About London Theater
        
Theater Talkback: Old Works, Born Anew
        
Britain's National Theater To Open New York Office
        
London Theater Journal: He's Having a Baby

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (75%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (74%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (71%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (69%); MONEY LAUNDERING (57%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) Beale, Simon Russell; Bush Theater; London (England); Money the Game Show (Play); Nichols, Peter; Privates on Parade (Play); Theater; London Theater Journal

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Bush Theater

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (51%)

PERSON: Beale, Simon Russell; Nichols, Peter

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) ENGLAND (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) London (England)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2013

 
