

401 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 537 words

HEADLINE: Can't Save? Here's Why

BYLINE: By HELAINE OLEN. 
The author of ''Pound Foolish: Exposing the Dark Side of the Personal Finance Industry.''

 BODY:
THE odds are good that you haven't yet given up on your New Year's resolutions and that one of them is to swear off those expensive cappuccinos and save money for your old age. That's a typical suggestion from finance gurus, who say we can add thousands of dollars annually to our nest eggs by eliminating such wasteful spending.
But deciding to take your lunch to work or to cancel your cable television won't help nearly as much as you'd think. For all the attention we pay to overspending, we struggle with our personal finances not because we spend too much money on small luxuries but because salaries have stagnated at the same time as the costs of nonluxuries have gone up. 
Even as the average household net worth plunged by almost 40 percent between 2007 and 2010, the cost of everything from health care to housing has risen for decades at rates well beyond that of inflation. Almost half of us are living paycheck to paycheck, barely able to save a penny.
In fact, it's long been known that the majority of bankruptcies result from health issues, job losses and fractured families, something no amount of cutting back can protect against.
One of the main reasons we need to borrow money is college loans. Our collective student loan debt is more than $1 trillion, a sum greater than both our credit card debt and our auto loans.
The student loan debt problem is basic: college tuitions have increased at more than quadruple the rate of inflation since the 1980s. If you're a parent, good luck saving for that expense. It's a primary reason students who borrow money (some two-thirds of all undergraduates) now graduate with an average of $26,600 of debt. That, in turn, will make it harder for the next generation to save.
Those who do manage to save still cannot save as much as they need. According to the Center for Retirement Research at Boston College, the average baby boomer had $42,000 in his retirement account in 2010. That won't go far toward meeting an average couple's future health care costs: $240,000.
And while financial planners often advise older people to work longer, how can they when many leave their jobs because of health problems, or are laid off and, as a consequence of their advanced age, are unable to find new employment?
We seem to want to believe we can budget-cut our way to financial success, maybe because we view monetary setbacks as shameful, nobody's fault but our own. The personal finance establishment endorses our self-blaming tendencies. David Bach became famous promulgating the idea that by cutting out the daily Starbucks run, people could retire as millionaires. Dave Ramsey has lauded men and women who ''refused to participate in the recession,'' as if a bad economy is a problem of attitude. Suze Orman told investors who lost money in Bernie Madoff's infamous scheme that they had ''walked right into that financial concentration camp,'' suggesting they should have heeded complaints the Securities and Exchange Commission all but ignored.
So let me suggest another financial resolution, one that will do more for our future financial outlook than simply forgoing a few consumer goods: talk about money. It's not shameful. Pick a cause, and resolve to fight for change.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); STUDENT LOANS (89%); STUDENT EXPENSES (88%); INFLATION (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (86%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (86%); TUITION FEES (77%); SENIOR CITIZENS (77%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); BABY BOOMERS (76%); PERSONAL DEBT (75%); FAMILY (73%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); BUDGET CUTS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (74%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2013



402 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 474 words

HEADLINE: Fight for the Housing Trust Fund

 BODY:
Despite the Obama administration's best efforts, the lack of affordable housing remains one of America's most vexing problems.
A $1.5 billion transfusion in the 2009 stimulus bill managed to hold the overall homeless population about even over the last four years, and the number of people in two especially vulnerable groups -- the chronically homeless and homeless veterans -- has actually dropped. 
But with nearly 3.3 million families with children living in ''worst case'' situations -- spending more than half their incomes on housing or living in hazardous buildings -- more must be done to create affordable housing, through rehabilitation or new construction.
For starters, that means finally putting money into the National Housing Trust Fund, which was created by Congress in 2008 but was never financed because of the recession. This should be an early order of business for the new Congress. The fund, modeled on successful state programs, would provide subsidies and incentives to preserve, rehabilitate and build housing, primarily for extremely low-income families that earn about 30 percent of the average median incomes in their areas, typically spend more than half their incomes on rent and are disproportionately at risk of slipping into homelessness.
One of the problems with affordable housing projects generally is that they often segregate the poor. The trust fund would encourage healthy, mixed-income communities. For instance, a development of mainly market-rate apartments that set aside, say, 10 percent of the units for low-income families would receive a subsidy proportionate to that investment. In addition to creating housing for the poor within sound communities, the fund would stimulate construction of multifamily rental buildings at a time when they are greatly needed.
When Congress set up the trust fund, the initial financing was supposed to come from contributions by the federally backed mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. That plan was suspended when the companies crashed. But with the two back on their feet, housing advocates are rightly pressing the Obama administration to reinstate that arrangement.
Other ideas for underwriting the fund are circulating in Washington. A bill introduced by Representative Keith Ellison, Democrat of Minnesota, would turn the mortgage interest tax deduction into a tax credit aimed primarily at low- and middle-income homeowners. It would also lower the cap on mortgages that receive a tax break to $500,000 from $1.1 million. Some of the savings would be redirected to the trust fund.
The administration embraced the goal of funding the trust fund as part of its 2010 homelessness program. But it has yet to spend serious political capital extracting the money from Congress. It is should do so this time around, lest this creative idea never come to fruition.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (91%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); HOMELESSNESS (90%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); FAMILY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); TAX LAW (88%); TAXES & TAXATION (86%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CHILDREN (76%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (75%); MULTIFAMILY MORTGAGES (73%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (62%); VETERANS (56%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (81%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (64%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (81%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (81%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (81%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); KEITH ELLISON (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2013



403 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1079 words

HEADLINE: Their Specialty Was to Find Strong Returns

BYLINE: By TIM GRAY

 BODY:
MODERN economies often reward specialists -- surgeons who operate only on knees, scholars who study a single author or era, money managers who buy only South Korean or clean-technology stocks. But in the fourth quarter of 2012, old-school generalists led three of the better-performing stock mutual funds.
The managers of the Legg Mason Capital Management Opportunity Trust, the Delafield Fund and the Artisan International Small Cap fund will invest in any industry where they find undervalued shares. Another trait they share is long tenure. The lead managers of all three have overseen them since inception -- more than a decade in each case. 
Gains From Housing
William H. Miller, manager of the Legg Mason Capital Management Opportunity Trust, made his reputation by beating the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index for 15 consecutive calendar years, ending with 2005, while he was managing Legg Mason's Capital Management Value Trust. He handed off that fund to a colleague in 2011 -- but has continued to oversee the Opportunity Trust, which he started in 2000.
Since 2008, Samantha M. McLemore has been the fund's assistant manager. Mr. Miller declined to comment for this article.
The two managers are willing to bet big if they like a stock or sector. In recent years, they loaded up on companies that might benefit from a housing recovery. Their second-largest holding at the end of November was PulteGroup, the home construction company. In fact, homebuilders and financial companies accounted for 6 of their top 10 picks, or about a fifth of the portfolio.
In fall 2011, ''the homebuilders were trading below their financial-crisis prices,'' Ms. McLemore said. ''Yet there was clear evidence a recovery had started.'' Several studies showed that the United States was not building enough homes to keep up with population growth, she said. Pulte's recent returns suggest that other investors also expect a housing revival: the shares rose nearly 200 percent in 2012.
Another holding, Bank of America, had been bogged down by problem mortgages and concerns about regulatory action. It ''spent all of the past year or so trying to get capital levels up, and earnings power was depressed,'' she said, adding that it's now fat with capital and refocused on trying to plump profits.
Last Monday, the bank sold about 20 percent of its loan servicing business as part of its agreement to pay Fannie Mae more than $11 billion to settle a dispute about bad mortgages. The same day, it was among 10 major lenders in an $8.5 billion settlement with federal regulators to resolve claims of foreclosure abuses. ''The settlements are consistent with B. of A.'s efforts to put legacy issues behind it and decrease associated costs, which should help earnings growth,'' Ms. McLemore said.
The I shares of the Opportunity Trust, with an expense ratio of 1.67 percent, had a 12 percent return for the quarter, versus a loss of 0.4 percent for the S.& P. 500.
The fund's huge gain made it a double champion. Its performance led all United States general stock funds in the quarter -- but also for the year, with a return of just over 41 percent.
Turnarounds and Tenure
Like the managers of Opportunity Trust, J. Dennis Delafield and Vincent Sellecchia of the Delafield Fund aren't afraid to buy into companies that have had hard times. They often seek companies that have had problems but also have catalysts for a turnaround.
''We're looking for misunderstood companies,'' Mr. Sellecchia said. ''We want something that will allow the company to change for the positive, like new management, a divestiture of marginal operations, or a significant acquisition.''
When Delafield began buying what was then known as Stanley Works, the company had repeatedly missed quarterly earnings targets, Mr. Sellecchia said. The fund first bought the stock in 2003, expecting a management change. After that happened in 2004, earnings and cash flow improved, he said. ''That allowed them to acquire Black & Decker,'' Mr. Sellecchia said. The resulting company, Stanley Black & Decker, was the fund's sixth-largest holding at the end of November. Mr. Delafield and Mr. Sellecchia differ from some stock managers in that they like to husband cash, letting the reserve swell when they can't find investments they like. Cash was 20 percent of the portfolio at the end of September. ''That's about as high as we're comfortable,'' Mr. Delafield said.
They have also distinguished themselves with their endurance, having steered their fund since starting it 20 years ago and having worked together for more than 30 years. The average tenure of stock fund managers tracked by Morningstar is about five and a half years.
The Delafield fund, with an expense ratio of 1.25 percent, returned 8.3 percent in the quarter.
Seeking Strong Brands
Mark L. Yockey of Artisan International Small Cap fund specializes more than the managers at Opportunity Trust or Delafield. By charter, he can buy shares only in companies with market capitalizations of less than $4 billion when he invests. Beyond that, he said, he looks anywhere he can find strong brands and high market shares.
One of the fund's holdings, L'Occitane International, the cosmetics seller, exemplifies a theme in Mr. Yockey's portfolio: It is a developed-world company -- based in Luxembourg, with roots in France -- that is growing in the developing world. The company places its stores in higher-end shopping districts and promotes organic ingredients in its products. Its business is ''booming in China,'' Mr. Yockey said. In 2010, the company listed its stock in Hong Kong.
Less known among consumers but also strong in its market is Wirecard, a German online-payments processor, Mr. Yockey said. It was the fund's largest position at year-end, at 8.2 percent. It, too, is reaching into Asia, where the adoption of online transactions has lagged the United States and Europe, he said.
Wirecard's stock slumped in the second half of 2011, but surged in 2012 amid strong earnings, returning about 50 percent.
The Artisan fund, which Mr. Yockey has led since 2001, is closed to new investors. ''We have no present plans to open it up, but we review that quarterly,'' he said. Restricting its size -- it had $765 million in assets at year-end -- gives it more flexibility in buying small-cap shares. If a fund grows too large, it must buy far more shares of a given company to affect returns.
The fund, with an expense ratio of 1.5 percent, returned 9 percent in the quarter.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: At the Artisan International Small Cap fund, Mark Yockey stays on the lookout for companies with strong market shares. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Samantha McLemore of the Legg Mason Capital Management Opportunity Trust, which returned 41 percent for all of 2012. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARTY KATZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 J. Dennis Delafield, left, and Vincent Sellecchia of the Delafield Fund. Mr. Sellecchia says it seeks ''misunderstood companies.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHARTS: Ahead of the Market: How three of the stronger performers of the fourth quarter of 2012 fared against the market -- and against their peer groups of funds. (Sources: Morningstar, Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CONSTRUCTION (88%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (72%); POPULATION GROWTH (70%); FORECLOSURE (69%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (67%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (61%); LEGG MASON CAPITAL MANAGEMENT INC (57%); LEGG MASON INC (56%); PULTEGROUP INC (54%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (67%); BAC (LSE) (67%); 8648 (TSE) (67%); LM (NYSE) (56%); PHM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (67%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (67%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (67%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (61%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (61%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS236116 NEW MULTIFAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (54%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (54%); SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (54%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2013



404 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2013
National

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 27A

LENGTH: 1741 words

HEADLINE: Some State Legislators Blur Line Between Public and Private Interests

BYLINE: By EMILY RAMSHAW. 
eramshaw@texastribune.org

 BODY:
On the presidential campaign trail, Gov. Rick Perry waxed eloquent about the merits of Texas' part-time Legislature, saying that Congress would be more effective if its members had ''real jobs back at home.''
''We're the 13th-largest economy in the world in Texas,'' Mr. Perry said, ''and we come to Austin for 140 days every other year, and it works wonderfully.''
Wonderfully, it turns out, for some of those elected.
Lawmakers, who are paid $7,200 per year and a per diem by taxpayers for days they spend on official business, need to make a living elsewhere, and the prestige and influence of their office can help them do it. 
With a conflict disclosure system rife with holes, virtually toothless ethics laws often left to the interpretation of the lawmakers they are supposed to regulate, and a Legislature that has appeared unwilling to make itself more transparent, the reality is Texans know little about who or what influences the people who are elected to represent them. They have no way to differentiate between lawmakers motivated by the interests of their constituents and those who are in it for their own enrichment.
''Ostensibly, there is a defined level of disclosure and an agreed code of conduct,'' said Jack Gullahorn, a Texas ethics expert who represents the state's trade association for lobbyists. ''But in general, either the sanctions aren't there or the provisions aren't clear enough to give people that don't want to play by the rules any incentive to avoid the consequences for their actions.''
Business Ties
Lawmakers routinely propose or speak on behalf of bills that benefit their professions or employers, and they serve on committees that craft laws regulating their industries. Some of them are quite open about it.
Representative Gary Elkins, Republican of Jersey Village, who is in the payday lending business, took the floor during a 2011 legislative debate to push back against measures designed to help consumers stuck in a vicious cycle of high-interest loans.
''I'm just a little old business guy,'' Mr. Elkins said at the time, before asking his colleagues to vote no so ''guys like me can comply with these laws.'' Lawmakers passed the bills anyway, but included an amendment Mr. Elkins proposed to weaken one of them.
Also last session, the House Insurance Committee shepherded through major reform legislation for the embattled Texas Windstorm Insurance Association, or TWIA Representative Craig Eiland, Democrat of Galveston and a lawyer who was paid hundreds of thousands of dollars in legal fees for suing the agency on behalf of homeowners after Hurricane Ike, served as the committee's vice chairman. TWIA, a quasi-governmental agency, is partially financed by taxpayers.
Representative Todd Hunter, a Corpus Christi Republican who earned tens of thousands of dollars mediating the hurricane settlement with T.W.I.A. and was formerly the association's lobbyist, served on the agency's oversight committee. So did Senator Larry Taylor, a former House Republican from Friendswood and an insurance broker who has earned income selling TWIA policies.
In such cases, lawmakers rely on an interpretation of the Texas Constitution that says they must bow out only if they have a ''personal or private interest'' in a measure -- beyond simply being a member of an affected profession.
Mr. Elkins said he was so intimately tied to the payday lending industry that it would have been a disservice not to offer his expertise.
Mr. Eiland, who played a central role in the debate on the TWIA reform bill, has said that he has been transparent about his legal work and that it has no bearing on his ability to represent the needs of his storm-prone coastal constituents.
Both Mr. Hunter and Mr. Taylor have said that they see no conflict with their dual roles, and that they operate with the utmost legislative and professional integrity.
Undisclosed Clients
The line between lawmakers' financial interests and their legislative efforts is not always clear. Many legislators make their living as lawyers, consultants or even lobbyists, but are not required to report their clients, even when those same clients have business at the Capitol.
Senator Wendy Davis, Democrat of Fort Worth, came under fire in her closely contested re-election bid last fall for her law firm's legal work for the North Texas Tollway Authority and for bills she supported that might have affected the agency.
In March 2011, days after her law firm signed a contract with N.T.T.A., Ms. Davis withdrew support for her own bill to lower the fees that tolling authorities could charge scofflaws. She signed on to a Republican colleague's measure that lowered the amount tolling authorities could charge drivers for their first notice of nonpayment but increased the total amount the agency could charge them over time. The bill also allowed tolling authorities to charge scofflaws third-party collection service fees. Months later, in August 2011, Ms. Davis's firm was among six the N.T.T.A. hired to handle the agency's collections litigation.
A spokesman for N.T.T.A. said the bill did not affect the agency's third-party collections, and that Ms. Davis's support played no role in its decision to hire her firm. And Ms. Davis has vehemently denied that her legal clients ever guided her votes.
''I've been very open and transparent about what it is I and my law partner do,'' she told the Texas Tribune in October. ''I have nothing to hide.''
Yet Ms. Davis has refused to identify all of her own public-sector clients -- which include the Fort Worth Independent School District and Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport -- citing attorney-client privilege. Some of her clients have been identified through public documents, including bond records.
A Helping Hand
It is not just business clients who create perceived conflicts for lawmakers. Members of the Legislature sometimes use their position to aide their campaign contributors, their business associates, even their relatives.
In 2008, Representative Bill Zedler, Republican of Arlington, used his legislative authority to obtain confidential records related to the Texas Medical Board's investigations into five physicians, two of whom were not his constituents but had given a combined $25,000 to his campaign. Mr. Zedler said he believed rival physicians had wrongfully accused the doctors -- who faced allegations of performing overly invasive procedures and injecting jet fuel and natural gas into patients to diagnose chemical sensitivities.
He said he requested the records so he could review them, see who was filing them, and try to defend doctors he believed had been wrongfully accused. In one case, he asked for the ''immediate appeal'' of a doctor's sanction. The two doctors who contributed to his campaign were ultimately penalized for lesser violations.
Mr. Zedler testified in 2009 that he had requested confidential records in the past to get the board to drop at least one case. Last session, he filed an unsuccessful bill that would have required the board to turn over complaint records directly to legislators, including the name of the person who lodged it.
In 2008, Representative Yvonne Davis, Democrat of Dallas, asked the state's Racing Commission to expedite a racetrack license she was seeking with her business partner, David Alameel, a dental clinic mogul and self-made millionaire. At the time, Ms. Davis was on the House Ways and Means Committee, which oversees the revenue the Racing Commission relies on.
Ms. Davis said an ethics ruling cleared her to be involved in the deal, which eventually faltered.
Representative Larry Phillips, Republican of Sherman, relied on legislative continuances -- a special privilege granted to lawyer lawmakers -- to help his sister. Legislative continuances allow lawyers in the Legislature to postpone their clients' legal proceedings for the five months every other year that they are in session.
In 2011, Mr. Phillips, representing his sister, sought two continuances to delay a case against her when she was cited in Southlake for having expired license plates. Mr. Phillips's sister eventually pleaded no contest and paid a $170 fine. Asked about the continuances, Mr. Phillips said the case was a family matter.
Antiquated Laws
The problem with the state's ethics laws, watchdogs say, is that they are vague and hard to enforce: disclosure forms are thin or incomplete, and lawmakers' interpretation of the rules is often subjective.
On personal financial forms, many lawmakers provide few details of their employment and compensation, and they skirt documenting the business interests they have in common with lobbyists. They are generally not required to name their legal or consulting clients, nor to report their personal wealth. Stocks are identified in broad, outdated ranges -- or sometimes not at all if the lawmaker's spouse owns them.
While the state's ethics disclosure law is roughly 40 years old -- and its rules on lawmakers' dealings with lobbyists date back more than two decades -- legislators seem disinclined to modernize the code.
The Texas Ethics Commission is under ''sunset'' -- a review of an agency's effectiveness -- in this legislative session, a time most agencies seek to make meaningful reform. But during a summer review of staff recommendations, the Sunset Advisory Commission, a panel made up mostly of lawmakers, voted to keep legislators' personal financial disclosures offline, sticking with unwieldy, archaic paper filings only available to those who can come to Austin to search them.
The lawmakers suggested that putting the files on the Internet could threaten their privacy or lead their children to be kidnapped.
A Tribune request to all members of the Legislature to provide copies of their most recent tax returns was ignored except for Representative James White, Republican of Hillister. Representative Carol Alvarado, Democrat of Houston, released hers as well, but not at the Tribune's request; it was part of her special election run for a vacant State Senate seat.
''You get the feeling, on disclosure, on enforcement, that the members of the Lege don't really see transparency as a responsibility,'' said Craig McDonald, executive director of the liberal money-in-politics group Texans for Public Justice. ''They look at it as a great burden and, at times, a personal affront.''
Business as Usual: This is the first in a series of articles on ethics and transparency in the Texas Legislature.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Opening day of the 83rd legislative session in Austin. Lawmakers are paid $7,200 per year and a per diem by taxpayers for days they spend on official business. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD WISEMAN/THE TEXAS TRIBUNE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ETHICS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); LOBBYING (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (77%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); LAWYERS (70%); INSURANCE (63%); REAL ESTATE INSURANCE (63%); CHECK CASHING SERVICES (61%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (60%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (93%); CORPUS CHRISTI, TX, USA (79%); GALVESTON, TX, USA (73%) TEXAS, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2013



405 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 921 words

HEADLINE: As Texas Bakes in a Long Drought, Water Becomes a Focus for Legislators

BYLINE: By MANNY FERNANDEZ

 BODY:
AUSTIN, Tex. -- There is usually no shortage of controversial and politically divisive issues for lawmakers to address in the opening days of a state legislative session, from abortion to immigration to gun rights.
But throughout the opening of the 83rd Texas Legislature last week, one of the most frequently discussed topics had bipartisan support: improving the state's water infrastructure as the population booms and a devastating two-year drought drags on.
Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst and other Republicans proposed tapping an emergency fund that is fed by taxes on oil production to finance the building of new reservoirs and other projects identified in the state's 50-year water plan, an unusual move in a state where fiscal conservatives usually push to streamline government and limit spending. 
Gov. Rick Perry, a Republican, and the House speaker, Joe Straus III, a Republican from San Antonio, both mentioned the state's water needs in their opening-day speeches to legislators on Tuesday, despite the rainfall that soaked Austin as they spoke.
In 2011, the last time the Legislature convened for one of its biennial sessions, Representative Allan Ritter, a Republican and the chairman of the House Natural Resources Committee, was unsuccessful in getting lawmakers to approve legislation imposing an annual fee on water users like homeowners and businesses to help finance projects in the state water plan.
But on Thursday, Mr. Ritter proposed bills that would draw $2 billion from the state's emergency Rainy Day Fund to establish a water infrastructure bank that would lend money for the projects. This time, his proposals received support from Republican leaders and groups that are often on the opposite sides of issues, including the Sierra Club's Texas chapter, the Texas Association of Business and other industry groups. At least 20 percent of the money available in the fund would be used for conservation and reuse efforts.
''There were people who were trying to talk about water last time, and there wasn't any money, and there wasn't the critical mass,'' said James Henson, the director of the Texas Politics Project at the University of Texas, Austin. ''Elite opinion begins to coalesce after a little while, and it takes people a while to get the issue out there, and I think that's part of what's happened with water.''
Another reason for the shift, and why some are calling this Legislature the ''water session,'' has to do with the sense of urgency over the drought.
Texas is in the grip of a record-breaking drought that began in the fall of 2010 and continues to affect many parts of the state. So far, it is the third-worst drought in Texas since at least 1895, when statewide weather records begin, with the multiyear drought in the 1950s being the worst, said John Nielsen-Gammon, the state climatologist.
The drought has cost farmers billions of dollars and has forced hundreds of communities to limit water usage. Eighteen public water systems were projected to run out of water in 180 days or fewer as of Tuesday, according to the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality, which monitors and assists those systems.
Meanwhile, the levels of many lakes and reservoirs, a crucial part of the water supply, have steadily decreased with the lack of rainfall.
Without additional water supplies, Texas will be short 8.3 million acre-feet of water by 2060, according to the Texas Water Development Board. It is a nearly unimaginable amount: one million gallons of water equals just 3.07 acre-feet. The board also estimates that failure to meet water needs in times of drought in 2060 could cost Texas businesses and workers up to $116 billion.
But advocates for other causes worry that water may overshadow the state's other needs and divert attention from restoring the money to social services, parks, education and other programs that was cut during the last legislative session. Thousands of state employees were laid off. School districts have reported eliminating thousands of jobs, increasing class sizes and reducing library services and other programs.
In 2011, when education advocates and Democratic lawmakers called on Mr. Perry and other Republicans to tap the Rainy Day Fund to offset some of the cuts to education, the governor and others refused, saying that doing so would leave the state ill prepared for emergencies.
But last week, some of those same leaders, including Republicans who opposed tapping the fund two years ago for recurring expenses, said they would support using the fund to pay for water projects, through Mr. Ritter's bills or other proposals.
''I think it's all ideological,'' said Bob Sanborn, the president of Children at Risk, a nonprofit research and advocacy group in Houston.
''In the end, people don't really have strong principles about a rainy-day fund,'' he said. ''They want to fund the things that they want to fund. And if something is seemingly not part of your ideology, and public education doesn't seem to be of high concern to a lot of our Texas leaders, it falls by the wayside.''
Mr. Ritter said there were several priorities for lawmakers to focus on, but that water was a building block of society.
''I'm not saying this is a higher priority than education,'' Mr. Ritter said. ''We've got to have a great education system, but we've got to have water to nourish our people and our economy. What comes first, the chicken or the egg? Do we have educated people, and then water comes? Or do we have water and have a reason for people to be here to go to school?''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (90%); DROUGHT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); GUN CONTROL (77%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); WATER & SEWER SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (76%); WEATHER (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); INFRASTRUCTURE (72%); IMMIGRATION (72%); POPULATION GROWTH (71%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); APPROVALS (70%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (94%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2013



406 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 3773 words

HEADLINE: A Conversation with President Shimon Peres of Israel

BYLINE: By RONEN BERGMAN

 BODY:
''This part of the conversation is highly sensitive,'' said the spokeswoman for Israel's president. ''I want all cellphones taken out of the room.'' It was July 25, 2012, and I was interviewing Shimon Peres in a wood-paneled suite at the King David Hotel in Jerusalem. I handed my phone to one of the guards standing at the door, and Peres swiftly opened a scathing monologue against a potential Israeli attack on Iran's nuclear sites. ''Israel cannot solve the problem alone,'' he said. ''There is a limit to what we can do.''
Referring to the continuing tension between Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and President Barack Obama, Peres said: ''I cannot tell you what Bibi's considerations are on the subject of Iran. I am not his spokesman and also not [Defense Minister Ehud] Barak's. That's not my job. I am not looking for confrontations with them. I do think that I can explain the American pattern. America knows how to throw a punch when it has to, in order to keep the world balanced. But the punches follow a set procedure. They don't begin by shooting. They try all the other means first -- economic sanctions, political pressure, negotiations, everything possible. 
''But in the end,'' he added, ''if none of this works, then President Obama will use military power against Iran. I am sure of it.''
I was surprised by Peres's stridency. He had long been perceived as a moderating force on Netanyahu, a mediator between the prime minister and the international community that was losing patience with him. A month earlier, Obama awarded Peres the Presidential Medal of Freedom -- America's highest civilian honor. But the ceremony served only to deepen the rift between Peres and Netanyahu, and three weeks later, as reports became more frequent that Netanyahu was planning to send bombers to Iran, Peres took advantage of his 89th-birthday celebrations to speak out publicly against an attack. The prime minister's office responded with ferocity, proclaiming, ''Peres has forgotten what the president's job is,'' and recalling that in 1981, Peres opposed Prime Minister Menachem Begin's decision to bomb Iraq's nuclear reactor, an act that many Israelis consider a great achievement.
There are those who see Peres's confrontation with Netanyahu as one of the principal reasons that an attack on Iran has not yet materialized. ''I will not attribute any such thing to myself,'' Peres told me. ''Let others say it. I expressed my opinion, and that was my duty. How influential was it? 'Let another man praise thee, and not thine own mouth,' '' he said, quoting the Book of Proverbs.
Peres's clash with Netanyahu over Iran is only one of many disagreements between the two men. On the one hand, Netanyahu is a conservative prime minister who relies on a hard-line, hawkish coalition and who is likely to win next week's Israeli elections by a landslide. On the other, Peres is Israel's elder statesman, who, very late in his life, has attained a degree of popularity that eluded him throughout his earlier career. In a survey conducted by the Israel Democracy Institute, 84 percent of Jewish respondents said Peres was trustworthy, while 62 percent thought Netanyahu was.
It is a pleasure to spend time with this man, whom David Ben-Gurion took under his wing and who became a top official of the Israeli defense establishment at age 24. Peres is a man of the world, full of insights and curiosity that have not worn down over the years. Though he is about to enter his 90s, he recalls in vivid detail his encounters with central figures in the post-World War II era: a Soviet joke competition started by President Ronald Reagan, marathon drinking sessions with the German defense minister Franz Josef Strauss and what he learned from the founder of modern Singapore, Lee Kuan Yew. But it is Ben-Gurion, and the many years he spent in his proximity, that Peres returns to time and again.
Although he says, ''I take no interest in history, it bores me,'' he devotes much effort to clarifying how significant his own imprint on modern history has been. This may be in part because, despite his enormous contribution to the power of the Israel Defense Forces, Peres never served in the military. Moreover, he was not a native-born Israeli ''Sabra,'' having immigrated to Palestine with his family at age 11.
Peres has been Israel's president since July 2007. He is a firm believer in the power of social networks. There is no move that he makes, no remark or observation that is not immediately reported by his staff (which is, with the exception of a military aide and a foreign-ministry representative, entirely female) on Facebook, Twitter or Instagram. There was a time when Peres made frequent mention of his conception of ''a new Middle East.'' Today, a new Middle East is indeed taking shape, but it is not the one he envisioned. Over the past five months, we sat down half a dozen times to talk about the current state of Israel-Palestine relations, his relationship with and opinion of Netanyahu, and what he now sees as the future of the Middle East and Israel's (and his) role in it. The following answers have been condensed from those talks.
''People usually tend to believe grim words, rather than positive ones,'' he told me in December. ''When you say, as I do, that you are a confirmed optimist, you are seen as unbalanced. But if you look at history, you will see that it is an ongoing failure for pessimism, not for optimism. It has befallen me to live for many years, and throughout them I have seen that faith triumphs more often than cynicism or skepticism. I think'' -- and here he expressed harsh criticism of Netanyahu without explicitly mentioning his name -- ''that if the people of Israel heard from the leadership that there is a chance for peace, they would take up the gauntlet and believe it.''
You don't believe, then, that for now nothing should be done, as Prime Minister Netanyahu proposes?He may do nothing, but that doesn't mean that things won't be done. This idea, that history is a horse that can be held by the tail, is a foolish idea. After all, the fire can be lit in an instant: another word, another shot, and in the end everyone will lose control. If there is no diplomatic decision, the Palestinians will go back to terror. Knives, mines, suicide attacks. The silence that Israel has been enjoying over the last few years will not continue, because even if the local inhabitants do not want to resume the violence, they will be under the pressure of the Arab world. Money will be transferred to them, and weapons will be smuggled to them, and there will be no one who will stop this flow. Most of the world will support the Palestinians, justify their actions, level the sharpest criticism at us, falsely label us a racist state. Our economy will suffer gravely if a boycott is declared against us. The world's Jews want an Israel they can be proud of and not an Israel that has no borders and that is considered an occupying state.
What effect does the bad relationship between Obama and Netanyahu have on the immediate future of Israel and the Middle East? The problem is not between individuals, but between those individuals' policies. It's not whether they can have coffee together or not. Neither one is going to kick the other.
Although perhaps they would like to.It makes no difference. The problem is that Obama would like to reach peace in the Middle East and has to be convinced that Israel agrees with this.
And he isn't convinced?Of course, he's not convinced. He demanded an end to settlements and got a negative response, and they [members of the Likud-led government] are to blame for the ongoing activity in the settlements. President Obama thinks that peace should be made with the Muslim world. We, the State of Israel, do not appear to be thinking along those lines. We must not lose the support of the United States. What gives Israel bargaining power in the international arena is the support of the United States. Even if the Americans do not take part in the negotiations, they are present at them. If Israel were to stand alone, its enemies would swallow it up. Without U.S. support, it would be very difficult for us. We would be like a lone tree in the desert.
What happened during the long period that you tried to mediate between Netanyahu and Mahmoud Abbas [also known as Abu Mazen, the president of the Palestinian Authority]?Abu Mazen and I met for long talks, with Netanyahu's knowledge, and even reached more than a few agreements. To my regret, in the end there was always some rupture, and I do not want to go into the reasons for that now. This is not a simple negotiation -- but I thought the conditions exist to set out on the path. Like the Oslo process, it has to be secret.
And when you say this to Netanyahu?He doesn't argue with me on this. It's not an issue of absolute agreement or absolute disagreement. After all, he accepted my proposal for economic peace to improve the standard of living of the Palestinians in a number of areas. He also made the Bar-Ilan speech [in which Netanyahu accepted the idea of a Palestinian state]. We do not agree in our evaluations of Abu Mazen. I do not accept the assertion that Abu Mazen is not a good negotiating partner. To my mind, he is an excellent partner. Our military people describe to me the extent to which the Palestinian forces are cooperating with us to combat terror.
Today, there are 550,000 settlers in the West Bank and East Jerusalem. There are those who believe that the settlers have eliminated any chance of establishing a Palestinian state, because no one would be able to evacuate these politically motivated people from their homes, which is a necessary condition for any agreement with the Palestinians. The settlers have not eliminated the chance for the establishment of a Palestinian state. The settlements today cover 2 percent of the entire area. The Palestinians have already accepted the Clinton parameters, which include leaving three blocs of Jewish settlements and exchanging other territory for them. In my opinion, many of the rest will leave of their own free will. The difficulty with us is similar to that of the man with a hammer who thinks every problem is a nail. Problems are not nails. If there is good will, they can all be overcome. This applies, for example, to the issue of water. Soon there will be a surplus of water in Israel, thanks to seawater desalination, and we will be able to make up the Palestinians' shortage of potable water. Look, the whole world is in turmoil. The Palestinian problem isn't the main problem in the Middle East. But there are a billion and a half Muslims. The Palestinian problem affects our entire relationship with them. If the Palestinian problem were to be solved, the Islamist extremists would be robbed of their pretext for their actions against us. Of course, this requires concessions. The problem in this case is not only the prime minister but also his coalition. I am not claiming that peace with the Palestinians will solve all the problems. People who think in sweeping terms are being superficial. There are two things that cannot be made without closing your eyes -- love and peace. If you try to make them with open eyes, you won't get anywhere. Peace is not an exciting thing, and it entails accepting many compromises and tedious details. A woman, too, can sometimes be exciting and sometimes less so. There's no perfection. Making peace is complicated.
But what kind of peace are we talking about? Look how President Mohamed Morsi of Egypt sent you a personal letter in July and then denied writing it.Why does that matter? President Morsi has to answer a great many questions inside his own party. I was surprised not by his denial but rather by the fact that he sent me the letter. The whole matter shows me that Morsi, like any leader taking office, faces tough dilemmas. It is very easy to play the role of the abiding Muslim when you are not in power, but things get complicated when you are. Take, for example, the Egyptian economy, which relies heavily on tourism. If they don't allow tourists to come and spend their vacations the way they like, they won't come. No bikini, no tourism.
What attitude should Israel adopt toward the Arab Spring?You ask foolish questions. Israel is an island in an ocean. And when I ask myself, ''What has a greater impact, the ocean on the island, or the island on the ocean?'' I have to maintain a certain degree of humility. The important thing isn't how we relate to it, but what is happening, why there is an Arab Spring. It isn't a soccer match that we are refereeing. The young generation of the Arab world is suppressed and unemployed. That is what brought about the revolution and uprooted the dictatorships, not me and not you. The storm that has hit the Middle East obliges each state to choose whether to enter the scientific age or not. If it does not, it will have no growth. The great and intriguing debate in Egypt today is about the constitution, in effect about whether to give women freedom or not. It is here that the Arab Spring will be judged. President Obama asked me who I think is preventing democracy in the Middle East. I told him, ''The husbands.'' The husband does not want his wife to have equal rights. Without equal rights, it will be impossible to save Egypt, because if women are not educated, the children are not educated. People who cannot read and write can't make a living. They are finished.
In Syria, the end of the Assad regime inches closer. Are you concerned about their arsenal of chemical weapons?Assad knows that using chemical weapons will immediately invite an attack by outside elements. The whole world would mobilize against him. It would be a suicidal act. On the other hand, it's obvious that his days are numbered. A situation in which, let's say, his palace comes under fire, could put him in an irrational state and lead him to act out of despair. If the Syrians dare to touch their chemical weapons and aim them at us or at innocent civilians, I have no doubt that the world as well as Israel will take decisive and immediate action. No less important, Assad is liable to transfer the chemical weapons to Hezbollah, which from our point of view will constitute crossing a red line. It is incumbent upon Israel to prevent such a thing from happening, and it will take firm military action to do so.
During the several monthsover which Peres and I spoke, the conflict between Israel and Hamas intensified. In response to rocket fire from Hamas forces in the Gaza Strip, Israel assassinated Hamas's military commander and launched a bombing campaign that resulted in widespread international censure and ended in a cease-fire engineered by the United States and Morsi. In some cases in the past, Peres expressed opposition to Israel's use of assassination as a weapon to achieve its goals. He opposed the killing of Khalil al-Wazir, the deputy of the P.L.O. leader Yasir Arafat, in Tunis in 1988, and the targeted elimination of the spiritual founder of Hamas, Sheik Ahmed Yassin, in Gaza in 2004. He also protected Arafat from plots to kill or deport him. This time, Peres expressed strong support for the Israeli operation. ''This wasn't a war or a military operation, but rather an educational lesson for Hamas,'' he told me. ''We acted in order to explain to Hamas that it has to decide on one or the other. You want to build houses? No problem. You want to build missile bases inside those houses? Then we'll relate to those houses as targets for our aircraft.
But during the campaign, civilians were killed on both sides, many more in Gaza.We made a supreme effort not to harm civilians in Gaza, although it was very difficult to distinguish between Hamas militiamen and innocent civilians. We have no desire to spill blood, not ours and not that of others. The operation was short, and the moment the lesson was conveyed and deterrence was established, it was stopped.
What lesson do you think Hamas learned?Hamas will now start taking care. Even there, the understanding must penetrate that there's no such thing as a cocktail of gunfire and peace.
The political leader of Hamas, Khaled Meshal, came to Gaza in December to celebrate the organization's 25th anniversary. He delivered a blunt speech, indicating that it's not at all clear that deterrence was achieved. Perhaps the time has come to conduct a dialogue with Hamas?If Hamas accepts international demands, forsakes terror, stops firing missiles at us and recognizes the existence of the State of Israel, it will be possible to open negotiations. Where did this Khaled Meshal suddenly pop out of, with his words that come straight from the Middle Ages? Precisely now, when the whole world is tired of wars and violence, he arises out of the dark of night with these sadistic desires to strike and to murder? Does he really think that they will be able to destroy the State of Israel, with the I.D.F. and our intelligence services? That we are a bunch of turkeys that will march in formation to a Thanksgiving feast?
You didn't think that Arafat should be assassinated. No. I thought it was possible to do business with him. Without him, it was much more complicated. With who else could we have closed the Oslo deal? With who else could we have reached the Hebron agreement? On the other hand, I tried to explain to him, for hours on end, a complete educational course: how to be a true leader. We sat together, with me eating from his hand. It took courage. I told him he must be like Lincoln, like Ben-Gurion: one nation, one gun, not innumerable armed forces with each firing in a different direction. At first, Arafat refused, he said, ''La, la, la'' [Peres does a fairly convincing imitation of Arafat saying ''no'' in Arabic], but later he said, ''O.K.'' He lied right to my face, without any problem [regarding promises to fight Palestinian militias and insurgencies].
You were asked by many important people to run against Netanyahu and reunite the center-left. Do you regret not doing it?They pressed me hard, but I concluded that I should not run, for reasons I do not wish to elaborate on. I was elected president for a seven-year term, and I will carry out this commitment. My record is the only way to judge me honestly. I do not think there are many people in the world who can say they managed to bring down a 600 percent inflation rate, create a nuclear option in a small country, oversee the Entebbe operation, set up an aerospace industry and an arms-development authority, form deep diplomatic relations with France, launch a Sinai campaign to open the Straits of Tiran and put an end to terror from Gaza. I do not, perish the thought, claim to have done all this alone. I just think that perhaps without me it would not have happened. Yitzhak Shamir was prime minister for seven years. So what? I don't think my record is inferior to his.
You have never spoken much about your wife, Sonia, and for decades she was absent from your public life. Why?Sonia always told me that she married a kibbutz cowman, not a politician. She didn't like appearing in public, and she didn't like titles. In family life, you need two things. Both love and compromise.
You didn't seem to compromise so much, but she did.She compromised, and so did I. I never, ever insisted, never asked her, if it wasn't necessary, for her to come. I never said, ''Come for appearance' sake.'' If I'd said it was for appearance' sake, she would never have come.
Still, I imagine that over all those years, you had arguments about when she would go with you and when not.There were arguments, but there was very deep love, both from my side and from hers. It was the only love in my life. She gave me the greatest gift a wife can give a husband -- she brought up our children exemplarily. She knew that sometimes I couldn't come to a child's party, and she forgave me. And if it served the state, she came with me. If it served my career: ''No, sir. A family's life is at home,'' she would tell me. ''Don't mix things up.'' She came to the Nobel Prize ceremony because she thought the prize was being awarded to the state and not only to me.
Five years ago, when you became president, she wanted you to not take office. What happened?Sonia told me: ''It's enough. You've done your share. Come, let's live these years together.'' I told her: ''First of all, I don't know what to do with free time. Second, I think that I can fulfill a duty here, too, serve the country, unite it.'' She said to me: ''Go your way. I'm staying here.'' There was nothing to do about it. Women get edgy about things men will never understand. I packed a bag, and I left home.
Peres moved into the president's official residence in Jerusalem. Sonia stayed on in their modest apartment in north Tel Aviv. In January 2011, one of their grandchildren found her dead in her home, apparently from cardiac arrest. Peres rushed to the apartment and kissed her on the forehead before she was taken away.
You have surrounded yourself with female aides. You told me once that you had many fine male assistants who later went on to betray you. Looking back, are you sorry that from the beginning it wasn't only women?I have always had women around me. Women have a clear-cut advantage in their ability to read people, and I trust their eye a lot more. Each woman is born a mother, and every man dies a baby. There's no woman who thinks a man is fully grown up.
Here, his spokeswoman says, ''Good, now give a nonchauvinistic reply.''
''I've been chauvinistic?'' Peres asked.
''It's even irritating me,'' she said. ''You are having such a good time with this man-talk. Excuse me, you didn't pick women because they treat you like a baby.''
''Ask anyone,'' he said. ''I had the best bureaus in the country. I never boycotted men, but I found women with remarkable managerial talent.''
''You've corrected yourself a little bit,'' she said.
You are nearly 90 years old. Does the idea of death bother you?No. It is only logical. Without death, there wouldn't be life. I was given my life, those two and a half billion seconds: Young man, decide what you want to do with it. I did some reckoning, and I decided to do something with those seconds, to make a difference, to affect the lives of millions of people. I think I decided correctly. I got my life as a gift. I'll give it up without an overdraft.
Will you live to see peace in the Middle East?I think and believe so. If I have another 10 years to live, I am sure that I will have the privilege of seeing peace come even to this dismal and wonderful and amazing part of the world.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAL CHELBIN) (MM18-MM19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (78%); BOMBINGS (75%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (75%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (74%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (66%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (65%)

PERSON: SHIMON PERES (90%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (79%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); EHUD BARAK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (73%) ISRAEL (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2013



407 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 3808 words

HEADLINE: The Bucks Stopped Here

BYLINE: By ANNIE LOWREY

 BODY:
One damp morning this winter, Jim Abdo was looking through architectural renderings at his office in Logan Circle, one of the many leafy Washington neighborhoods anchored by a statue of a long-dead guy riding a horse. Abdo got his start as a property developer by buying decrepit buildings and modernizing them, and his headquarters shows off the trick. The adjoining storefronts had been stripped bare and rebuilt, all warm wood and cold glass with exposed brick and beams. It looked like a Brooklyn design studio or a Silicon Valley start-up, or at least how those offices might look in a Nancy Meyers movie. But Abdo has built his business in the unstylish land of think tanks and tepid salmon lunches and boxy women's suits.
Abdo, a lithe and neat man with salt-and-pepper hair, was wearing jeans and a trim pullover and excitedly explaining how he was going 
to raze the office we were sitting in and replace it with more of his signature ''luxury but affordable,'' as he put it, rental units. He showed me a photograph of our location, a corner with a busy coffee shop with outdoor seating, a high-end rug store and the Abdo Development office. In the next slide, the buildings had been replaced by a handsome new glass-and-brick stack of a building, custom-built for white-collar professionals paying $3,000 in rent, all made possible by their low-level but cushy private-sector jobs. ''We're looking for those kids just out of law school who've come to Washington and they're working 14 hours a day, but they want a place that isn't a group house,'' he said. ''It's for people who want to say, 'I've arrived.' ''
Eager to show what arriving in Washington looks like these days, Abdo escorted me into his hulking Range Rover with a two-digit license plate -- assigned to him by the former mayor Anthony Williams, who is godfather to his son -- and we barreled south across the Potomac. The first destination was Gaslight Square, a pair of condo buildings featuring units with double-height living rooms and Wolf ranges, just across the river from the high-end shopping district of Georgetown. (There's room for a third building, which Abdo plans to break ground on soon.) Abdo pushed open the door to a model unit, and we walked in on a sandy-haired 20-something in a fleece jacket signing papers. ''I didn't plan that,'' Abdo said, feigning a red-handed gesture. ''We get lots of first-time buyers from Northrop Grumman, CEB'' -- the massive defense contractor and the corporate advisory firm -- ''places like that.''
Washington wasn't always the place where young professionals plunked down $3,000 a month to announce their arrival. When Abdo founded his business, in 1996, the United States was enjoying around 4 percent economic growth, but in Washington, dysfunction and Mayor Marion Barry Jr. reigned. The city government was locked in a mismanagement-driven fiscal crisis: traffic lights were malfunctioning; garbage trucks stopped picking up trash; District residents were advised to boil their own water; President Clinton and Congress placed the city into federal receivership. During the 1990s, while employment in Washington declined, Northern Virginia added 300,000 jobs, and the Maryland suburbs added about half that. ''Washington was a national embarrassment,'' Abdo said back inside the Range Rover. ''There was all this aggressive panhandling, all these vacant burned-out buildings. But I knew the city could only go so low. It's one of the least cyclical economies in the country, and it has this tremendous urban fabric.''
Abdo figured that federal employment would remain relatively stable, even in recessions. The continued opening of Metro stations would also allow for transit-driven development. And of course, there was that tremendous urban fabric -- the brick row houses that make up the bulk of the housing in the city's center, from Georgetown in the west to Anacostia in the southeast, and give it some of its genteel European feel. Abdo's timing, it turned out, couldn't have been better. Billions in federal spending, largely a result of two foreign wars, were pouring into the local economy by the early 2000s. Then came the housing bubble. But after it burst, a remarkable inversion occurred: as the country withered, Washington bloomed. Since 2007, the regional economy has expanded about three times as much as the overall country's. By some measures, the Washington area has become the richest region in the country. It is now home to the three highest-income counties in the United States, and seven out of the Top 10.
The growth has arrived in something like concentric circles. Increased government spending has bumped up the region's human capital, drawing other businesses, from technology to medicine to hospitality. Restaurants and bars and yoga studios have cropped up to feed and clothe and stretch all those workers, and people like Jim Abdo have been there to provide the population -- which grew by 650,000 between 2000 and 2010 -- with two-bedrooms with Wolf ranges.
During our drive, Abdo narrated this revival with such intensity that he took a few wrong turns, despite the fact that downtown is just a grid dotted with traffic circles. Near the George Washington University campus, he pointed out a cheap hotel that he plans to turn into a pod hotel. Over by H Street, a neighborhood just a few years ago virtually untouched by gentrification, he pointed out a former convent that he converted into apartments. Abdo announced that he helped develop ''thousands'' of such tasteful, expensive though not outrageously priced units during the past decade and a half, for ''people of substance,'' he said, ''people who want to participate in this city.'' Mayor Williams had already bought a unit in H Street. Sheila Johnson, the philanthropist and co-founder of Black Entertainment Television, bought a chapel in the convent.
How Washington managed this transformation, however, is not a story that the rest of the country might want to hear, because we largely financed it. As the size of the federal budget has ballooned over the past decade, more and more of that money has remained in the District. ''We get about 15 cents of every procurement dollar spent by the federal government,'' says Stephen Fuller, a professor of public policy at George Mason University and an expert on the region. ''There's great dependence there.'' And with dependence comes fragility. About 40 percent of the regional economy, Fuller says, relies on federal spending.
Congress may have passed legislation to avert the middle-class tax increases of the so-called ''fiscal cliff,'' but it has only postponed what is known as the ''sequester'' -- $1.2 trillion in budget cuts. And that's on top of several hundred billion dollars in cuts that the Pentagon has already agreed to. The capital's boom days, in other words, might be over. ''Rather than leading the nation, we're going to be lagging it going forward,'' Fuller says.
Peak Washington of the early 2010s, many economists believe, got its start during the Reagan Revolution of the 1980s. Reagan's messianic push to get government out of the way of private-sector growth famously led to lower taxes and reduced regulation. It also led to a subtle change in the way government did business. Hiring became secondary to contracting, and more and more public projects were outsourced to private firms.
Washington's economy did well under Reagan (added military spending gave it a boost), but the move to contract out more and more government work proved to be a crucial long-term change. In 1993, Bill Clinton announced a ''reinventing government'' initiative, which ultimately included cutting the federal work force by about 250,000 positions. The agencies winnowed their rolls, but over the course of the Clinton years, their budgets expanded, and in many cases, the work just went to contractors. Those contractors often came at a bloated cost, too. In a study released in 2011, the Project on Government Oversight found that using contractors can cost the federal government about twice as much as federal employees for comparable work. According to the study, the salary for a federally employed computer engineer would be about $135,000; a contractor might bill the government around $270,000 for similar work.
It was not until the Bush years, though, that this increasingly wealthy not-federal-but-still-government work force truly metastasized. The amorphous war on terror and the creation of the Department of Homeland Security -- plus the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq -- bloated the country's spending by about $1 trillion. The contracting dollars that were pumped into the local economy, Fuller says, more than doubled between 2000 and 2010, when it reached $80 billion a year. This, in turn, created hundreds of thousand of desk jobs and fostered a sprawl of nameless, faceless office parks lining the roads out to Dulles Airport.
In the process, tens of thousands of new workers, often well-paid young white-collar professionals in areas like technology, bioscience and engineering, also entered the local economy. And many of these young professionals, as Abdo hoped, worked 14-hour days and wanted to live near work, friends, coffee shops and yoga studios. This infusion of human capital, combined with proximity to the Federal tap, proved attractive to a huge number of other businesses looking to hire. Google has opened an outpost in Washington. LivingSocial owns a huge, hiply decorated space downtown. Audi, Intelsat, Hilton Worldwide and dozens of other firms have opened up offices or moved their headquarters to the region. The health care sector, with its proximity to the National Institutes of Health, has greatly expanded, too. ''Maryland got the life sciences, and Virginia got the death sciences,'' Jim Moran, the Democratic congressman who represents much of the military corridor in Northern Virginia, said. ''Of course, NoVa, given the two wars, it's done even better than suburban Maryland.''
But the contours of Washington's wealth are far different from those in other boom towns. In New York or San Francisco, inequality has become fractured: the upper middle class has pulled away from the middle class, and the rich from the upper middle class, and the really rich from the rich and so on. Washington, though, has become an increasingly two-class town. About a third of households make less than $60,000 a year, while around 45 percent make more than $100,000 a year. Relatively few are what might be traditionally considered middle class.
Perhaps that, more than anything, explains the appearance of the new gilded-age Washington, which is less about wealth than it is about the growth of one of the most ascendant petite bourgeoisies that the United States has known. In the five years since I moved to the city, the transformation has been visible, palpable and sometimes astonishing. Washington has become a place that sports a decent turnover in multimillion-dollar homes, a Tesla dealership and a dozen fabulous new restaurants a year. You can even purchase a $69 tasting menu of craft cocktails at a speakeasy, if that's your thing.
More prosaically, though, new residents have flocked to the city for its profusion of jobs and stayed on account of its bars and restaurants and its cheap rents, at least compared with New York. In 2007, David Alpert, a former Google employee, and his wife, a lawyer, decided to move to the District rather than staying in the New York area. ''When I first moved here,'' Alpert, the proprietor of the yuppie urbanist blog Greater Greater Washington, told me, ''complaining about how terrible D.C. was was something everybody did. You'd move here for some government job and then talk about how it's a terrible place. I think that has changed. Maybe it's that I'm six years older, and my friends are six years older, and people have been here longer. But I don't think it's so common to come in and say, 'Everything sucks.' ''
Perhaps that's because Washington is changing in their image. Oramenta F. Newsome, who has worked in community development in Washington since the '90s, told me that while longtime residents benefited from new jobs and businesses, many eventually left. ''If the market moves, it moves,'' explained Newsome, now the executive director of the Washington office of the Local Initiatives Support Corporation. And these days, many lower-income families have moved from the District altogether, often to the suburbs of Maryland, like Prince George's County, or even farther out. Newsome stressed that the change has been economically driven, but there are some racial overtones too.
''People will tell you it's not about race, but it is,'' said George Pelecanos, a Washington native, novelist and screenwriter who worked on ''The Wire.'' ''It's no longer a black city, and a lot is going to be lost because of that. But the flip side of that is, I try not to get too nostalgic about what Washington was.''
The transition can be jarring. A few blocks from Abdo's office are cheap Chinese joints, a large homeless shelter and empty buildings. But cranes and luxury condos have sprouted up in between, along with a four-story furniture emporium, Room & Board, which sells $2,500 sleek wood dining tables just a block or two away from a pawnshop. There is Estadio, a high-end tapas bar that makes its own tonic water. On a cross street sits Whole Foods. It's no surprise that penthouses in the area often go for well more than $1 million.
According to the Federal Reserve, 2013 is supposed to be the year that the U.S. economy approaches normal growth, around 3 percent. Housing prices are rising, unemployment is at the lowest level in four years. And yet there is a sense that the capital is headed for a slowdown. Among the Pentagon's plans to cut nearly $500 billion over the next decade could be reductions not only in matriel but also to all manner of support staff. The homeland-security budgets look certain to see significant reductions, too. One recent estimate noted that more than two million jobs would be at stake if the sequester comes into effect.
The big contractors and their lobbyists are already fighting back, and there is little doubt that years of rampant military, defense and security spending will be hard to curtail. ''This whole nontransparent military-security buildup has created a lot of pressure on -- or opportunities for -- a variety of politicians and policy makers to misbehave,'' says Daron Acemoglu, a development economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. ''Nobody's blinking an eye at having the same thing done by seven different agencies. And there's no way to know whether the spending is necessary or not.'' Still, fighting the majority of the cuts seems futile. The wars are winding down, and the whole country is being asked to sacrifice through entitlement cuts and increases on income and capital-gains taxes. ''My reading is that the defense industry is not going to get what they want,'' says William D. Hartung, a defense analyst at the Center for International Policy. ''There are going to be more cuts. I think they're starting to realize that.''
As it turns out, though, those cuts might only be following a much more subtle and already extant trend. Despite Jim Abdo's optimism, despite the Tesla dealership, the homemade tonic water and the $2,500 wood tables, Washington has actually been slowing down since the Bush years. The dollars devoted to federal contracting have declined in the past two years of the Obama administration. Job growth has been lagging in recent quarters, and offices are renting less space than they used to. ''I think that the growth rate,'' Fuller says, referring specifically to federal spending, ''is going to be something like 1 percent a year over the next five years. But for the past 10, it's been something like 8 percent a year. Going from 8 to 1, that feels like more than a cutback.''
It is not hard to imagine how this marked decrease in federal spending might ripple through the regional economy. Scant job growth will mean lower wages, meaning slower consumer spending, meaning less demand for new bars and clubs and stores and luxury apartments. But just how deeply this will affect the economy is unclear. It's possible that federal budgets might never get cut outright, with Congress instead slowing the path of spending growth. That might mean slower growth for Washington, but hardly a contraction or a regional recession of the kind that plagued Detroit after the auto industry shrank. And even if the sequester cuts are more drastic, it might take years before the local economy feels them. ''People are saying, 'We're going to lose a million jobs here,' '' says Gordon Adams, a professor of international relations at American University. ''That's not going to happen, and it's not going to happen because contractors are working on existing contracts financed with prior-year dollars. We're going to be working through this for some time, and there's going to be a very slow roll to actual projects. The implications aren't for current work, but the next round of work.''
For some economists, though, this course correction -- while miserable in the short term -- could provide a long-term benefit. There's something unsavory about having a capital city doing outrageously well while the rest of the country is limping along -- especially when its economy is premised in part on capturing wealth rather than creating it. The enormous profusion of military spending drew money from other priorities, and those dollars might find better uses elsewhere, says Robert Pollin, an economist at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst. ''If you look at military spending, it creates about 11 jobs per $1 million of expenditure,'' says Pollin, who grew up in the region. ''Infrastructure investment, in things like the green economy, it's 17 jobs per $1 million in spending -- that's 50 percent more. And education? Education is 27 [jobs] per $1 million.''
David Boaz, executive vice president of the Cato Institute, told me: ''Washington's economy is based on the confiscation and transfer of wealth produced elsewhere. Out in the country they're growing food, building cars and designing software -- all these things that raise our standard of living. Here in Washington, everyone is writing memos to each other about how to take some of that money and which special interest should get it.'' I asked him if he liked living in the city, which has become undeniably nicer. Boaz sputtered a bit. ''I can't walk to lunch from my office without having to avoid the construction projects!'' he said. ''For Washington, it does mean better restaurants and better entertainment, and the potholes get filled faster. But for the country as a whole? I don't think it's a good thing for America.''
If there is a broad sense that peak Washington is already past, it's hardly perceptible in the city itself. Dozens of cranes dot the skyline, and construction projects snarl major intersections downtown. This past summer, if you had swung by Capitol Hill on a particular Saturday evening, you might have found yourself among scores of 20-somethings in black tie and flapper gear for a ball given by the city's craft bartenders' guild that costs $100 for a two-hour open bar. Or you could have recently wandered through the Ritz-Carlton, which is currently setting up for Obama's second inauguration. For $100,000 you can stay, shop and eat the salted caramels that the president himself apparently adores while watching the inaugural festivities.
Abdo admitted that he, too, expected that the city's extraordinary growth would slow down, but he suggested that the change would be a soft landing rather than a crash. The city had been so revitalized that the new workers and consumers would keep drawing in businesses that would keep drawing in new workers, he theorized, in a virtuous development cycle that might allow the region to stop leaning so heavily on federal money. That happens to more or less jell with Fuller's prediction. During the boom years, the metro area had diversified enough into technology, bioscience and other industries to withstand the shock. It has started to resemble vibrant, heterogeneous capitals like London and Tokyo more than dry, homogeneous capitals like Braslia and Ottawa. ''We're shifting from a top-down economy to one based on spending by residents,'' Fuller says.
Moran, the Democratic congressman from Northern Virginia, is cautiously optimistic, too. ''As we've grown, we've been the beneficiary of what Richard Florida calls the 'rise of the creative class,' '' Moran told me. ''The lifestyle built around Metro stations, the ability to work and play without the automobile, the tremendous collaboration taking place among young technology professionals. That may have a life of its own. It remains to be seen how self-sufficient we can be without the continuing growth of the federal government.''
On the final spot on our tour, Abdo took me to his newest, biggest project. We drove north on North Capitol Street, as if we were driving out of the District, to a shabby and decidedly unhip neighborhood called Brookland. It is a mostly older, mostly lower-middle-class neighborhood, underserved by grocery stores and restaurants and overlooked by many of the young professionals farther south in Bloomingdale or Shaw or Capitol Hill. Abdo was undeterred. He said that Catholic University and the young families nearby needed new places to go, and that hip youngsters were being priced out of neighborhoods downtown. He had already purchased and leased nearly nine acres for a number of apartment buildings with sidewalk cafes and art studios. ''This is going to be an arts walk,'' Abdo said, pulling his car up to point out the hollow building shells. One building faced a set of train tracks, and he styled the back of the apartment building to look like a factory that had always been there, even though it had only just arrived.
Whatever happens to Washington, it seems hard to believe that there won't be enough people willing to pony up $3,000 a month to inhabit Abdo's latest vision, to drink lattes on his sidewalk cafe and walk on his arts walk. Perhaps more valuable than the hundreds of billions in government money, the boom years introduced the capital to tens of thousands of young and educated workers who arrived for the promise of some job -- any job -- and, in the process, married, had a kid and needed to upgrade to a bigger place. In order to survive the cuts, sure, Washington's economy will need to diversify and attract new businesses. But perhaps the best thing that has come of the past decade is that the city has proved, unequivocally, that it's not just the province of think tanks and tepid salmon and boxy suits anymore.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The corner of N Street and 15th Street, NW Washington. (MM30-MM31)
11th Street between F Street and G Street, NW Washington. (MM33)
11th Street between E Street and F Street, NW Washington.
11th Street between E and F Street, NW Washington. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL HORSLEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MM34) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); STARTUPS (72%); CONDOMINIUMS (72%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (72%); HORSES (72%); RETAILERS (71%); LAWYERS (70%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (69%); FLOOR COVERING STORES (66%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (60%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (60%)

COMPANY: NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (50%)

TICKER: NOC (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (50%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (50%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (50%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (50%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (50%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2013



408 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 7185 words

HEADLINE: The Mistfits

BYLINE: By STEPHEN RODRICK

 BODY:
Lindsay Lohan moves through the Chateau Marmont as if she owns the place, but in a debtor-prison kind of way. She'll soon owe the hotel $46,000. Heads turn subtly as she slinks toward a table to meet a young producer and an old director. The actress's mother, Dina Lohan, sits at the next table. Mom sweeps blond hair behind her ear and tries to eavesdrop. A few tables away, a distinguished-looking middle-aged man patiently waits for the actress. He has a stack of presents for her.
Lohan sits down, smiles and skips the small talk.
''Hi, how are you? I won't play Cynthia. I want to play Tara, the lead.'' Braxton Pope and Paul Schrader nod happily. They'd been tipped off by her agent that this was how it was going to go. They tell her that sounds like a great idea. 
Schrader thinks she's perfect for the role. Not everyone agrees. Schrader wrote ''Raging Bull'' and ''Taxi Driver'' and has directed 17 films. Still, some fear Lohan will end him. There have been house arrests, car crashes and ingested white powders. His own daughter begs him not to use her. A casting-director friend stops their conversation whenever he mentions her name. And then there's the film's explicit subject matter. Full nudity and lots of sex. Definitely NC-17. His wife, the actress Mary Beth Hurt, didn't even finish the script, dismissing it as pornography after 50 pages. She couldn't understand why he wanted it so badly.
But Schrader was running out of chances. His last major opportunity was about a decade ago, when he was picked to direct a reboot of ''The Exorcist.'' He told an interviewer, ''If I don't completely screw that up, it might be possible for me to end my career standing on my own feet rather than groveling for coins.'' A few months later, he was replaced by the blockbuster director Renny Harlin, who reshot the film. Renny Harlin! Schrader is now 65 and still begging for coins.
Pope, dressed in a checked shirt and skinny tie, looks like a producer. His fingers are constantly, frantically, scanning his iPhone. In the fall of 2011, he connected Schrader with Bret Easton Ellis, whose grisly satires brought him early notoriety and who had lately turned to screenwriting. The three were set to make ''Bait,'' a shark thriller, based on a screenplay Ellis wrote, but the Spanish financing vaporized. Schrader suggested they do something on the cheap that didn't look cheap. Pope worked his connections with Lohan's agent, and that's why she is sitting here on this spring day.
Ellis is noticeably absent, holed up less than a mile away waging one of his frequent Twitter wars. (He has mounted social-media jihads against David Foster Wallace, J. D. Salinger and Kathryn Bigelow.) He thinks Lohan is wrong for the part, especially if she's cast opposite the porn star he courted online. But he spent all his capital getting his man cast. Also, his condo is under water. Ellis will give in.
Schrader, Pope and Lohan talk details. The film, ''The Canyons,'' has a microbudget, maybe $250,000. Ellis, Pope and Schrader are putting up $30,000 apiece. The rest will be raised on Kickstarter with promises of cameos, script reviews and -- for the low, low price of $10,000 -- the money clip that Robert DeNiro gave Schrader on the set of ''Taxi Driver.'' There will be no studio looking over their shoulders offering idiot notes. The actress will get $100 a day and an equal share of the profits, but no vote in decision-making. This last clause is nonnegotiable.
Schrader goes over some ground rules; no trailers on set and one contractually obligated, four-way sex scene. Oh, another thing, Schrader adds: he will not try to sleep with her. This was probably a more relevant point in 1982, but no matter. Lohan stands up and says goodbye, telling everyone how excited she is to be working with them. She leaves the restaurant, followed by her mother and the mysterious man with the presents.
Back at the table, Pope straightens his tie and exhales. He turns to Schrader and asks a simple question.
''What do you think?''
Schrader knows he should be terrified, but he's as giddy as the son of dour Calvinists can be.
''I think this is going to work.''
If Schrader wasn't worried about Lohan's reputation, it might be because he is familiar with dysfunction. As a boy, his mother showed him what hell felt like by shoving a needle into his thumb. His father lobbied to prevent ''The Last Temptation of Christ,'' a film his son wrote, from playing in their hometown, Grand Rapids, Mich. After his father died, Schrader found that he owned VHS tapes of all of his films, but none of them had been opened. In his 20s, Schrader slept with a gun under his pillow because he could fall asleep only if he knew there was a way out. Now he never travels without thousands of dollars in the currency of half a dozen countries.
Schrader is convinced he can manage Lohan. He thinks he has seen it all. Thirty years ago, he directed an alcoholic George C. Scott in ''Hardcore.'' One day, Scott wouldn't come out of his trailer. He called Schrader into his booze-soaked sanctuary.
''You're a great screenwriter but the world's worst goddamned director,'' Scott said. ''Promise me you'll never direct another movie, and I'll come out.'' Schrader dropped to his knees and promised. A few weeks later, Scott read in the trades that Schrader was going to direct ''American Gigolo.'' Next time he saw Schrader, he bellowed, ''You're a liar.''
It was true, Schrader had broken his promise, but this was Hollywood. Manipulating someone like Scott -- or Lohan -- was his vocation. Still, it wouldn't be easy. At their second meeting, Lohan complained to Schrader about a biopic she was shooting for Lifetime, in which she played Elizabeth Taylor, one of her role models. She proclaimed the director a jerk, her co-star a nightmare and the crew unfriendly. On it went. Schrader listened for a while. He looked stricken. He softly tapped his balding head on the table. Lohan asked him what was the matter.
''That's going to be me in two months. You're going to turn on me.''
The actress touched his arm softly. ''C'mon, Paul. That won't happen.''
He chose to believe her. That summer, he developed a pet line to steel the less brave.
''We don't have to save her,'' Schrader said. ''We just have to get her through three weeks in July.''
A month later, Schrader would be standing naked in a Malibu bedroom, missing his dogs and trying to coax Lohan out of her robe.
Turns out three weeks can be a very long time.
I first met Schrader in 2009 while he was trying to get a combined Bollywood-Hollywood thriller starring Leonardo DiCaprio made. ''This is the future of filmmaking,'' Schrader told me over lunch in Manhattan. ''Global financing. The American market is tapped out.''
But the Indian money dried up, and DiCaprio lost interest. The film slipped away. By 2011, Schrader, who built his career on making movies about dark loners, was convinced that traditional financing for the films he liked to make was gone forever, along with the audience willing to drive five miles and pay $12 to watch them in a drafty art house. Well, the audience was still there, but they were at home. He thought his future lay in pictures that would not only play indie theaters but also be available on video-on-demand the same day. Recent movies like ''Bachelorette,'' with Kirsten Dunst, and ''Arbitrage,'' a Richard Gere thriller, made a comfortable profit that way. Schrader hoped to follow that model, but on a skimpier budget. He wrote his two partners a manifesto of sorts last January:
''The script has to be multicharactered, relationship-based, full of sharp dialogue, set in contemporary locations and have a certain outr value. . . . Cinema for the posttheatrical era. . . . We could attract interesting actors and create a profile for the film via social media. It would be something that we own.''
Like Schrader, Ellis was at a crossroads. After his early successes, ''Less Than Zero'' and ''American Psycho,'' Ellis's books hadn't sold as well, and tired of the novel as an art form, he moved to L.A., looking to break into movies. But nothing had gone into production recently, and he was itching to get something made. He went to work on the script while Pope strategized.
Schrader could talk a good game, but it was Pope who would have to implement the plan. Pope suggested making ''The Canyons'' the most open film ever. There would be daily Facebook updates, and the cast would be made up entirely of actors selected from audition tapes sent to the movie's Web site. Pope argued that this populist approach could be applied to financing as well. He explained Kickstarter to Schrader: all they had to do was come up with some good prizes, and kids of all ages would pledge money online to be associated with artist outlaws like Schrader and Ellis. Soon, the film was offering donors a Schrader script-critique for $5,001 and a week working out with Ellis and his trainer for $3,000. In a month, they raised more than $150,000.
Ellis cranked out a first draft in six weeks. He had recently become fascinated with James Deen, a 26-year-old known as the Porn Star Next Door. Deen, whose real name is Bryan Matthew Sevilla, is the Jewish son of Pasadena rocket scientists -- really. His 4,000 films have gained him a cult of female fans because he is well endowed and sensitive. But Ellis didn't see Deen as harmless. He wrote the script with Deen in his head for the role of Christian, a classic Ellis sociopathic trust-funder, convinced there ''was a devil behind the Jewish boy-next-door cute guy.''
Ellis's Christian liked to bring men and women to his Malibu mansion for sex with Tara, his emotionally and economically dependent girlfriend. Christian and Tara would be caught in a sordid triangle with Ryan, a not-bright but cunning pretty-boy actor. There would be sex and a murder and more sex.
Ellis and Deen exchanged flirty tweets as he wrote and the two met for dinner at Soho House in Los Angeles. Afterward, Ellis was even more convinced that Deen was perfect for Christian. Schrader had his doubts, concerned about trying to break bad habits learned over thousands of porn movies. Ellis countered that the other actors read the part with a certain campiness; only Deen read it with the correct malevolence. Eventually, Schrader showed tapes of the three finalists to his wife at their upstate New York home. Hurt told her husband that Deen was the one.
Around the same time, Pope reached out to Lohan. Ellis was skeptical, afraid of the melodrama Lohan would bring to the project. But Pope and Schrader reminded Ellis of what he said in an essay for The Daily Beast the previous year: ''Do [Americans] really want manners? Civility? Empire courtesy? No. They want reality, no matter how crazy the celeb who brings it on has become.''
Ellis was riffing on Charlie Sheen, but it could have been Lohan. The first child of a drug-abusing, felonious stock trader and a failed dancer, Lohan survived her Long Island childhood, moved to Hollywood and became America's newest sweetheart with winning turns in ''The Parent Trap'' and ''Mean Girls.'' She cut an album that went platinum. In 2006, she was the best thing in Robert Altman's ''Prairie Home Companion.'' The future was hers to write.
Then -- as the voice-over in an ''E! True Hollywood Story'' would put it -- it all fell apart. Big-budget films need insurance in case an actress dies or becomes incapacitated and can't go on with a role. Lohan's misadventures made her uninsurable, her work dried up and she settled in as a generation's snarky punch line.
But Pope thought the talent was still there. (She would make it through ''Liz and Dick,'' a Lifetime movie, with the paramedics having to be called only once during the shoot. This was progress.) Besides, ''The Canyons'' was so low-budget that they didn't need insurance. If she disappeared, Pope, Ellis and Schrader would simply lose their stake.
Lohan helped her cause by agreeing to a screen test. You could see playing Tara wouldn't be a stretch for her. The large green eyes that read cute a decade ago now conveyed cornered desperation. Of course, casting two known quantities blew up the anyone-can-win, D.I.Y. ethos of the project, but nobody asked for his money back.
A few months after the Chateau Marmont meeting, the cast gathered at Prettybird studios in Culver City for the first read-through of the script. At the head of the table was Schrader, with Ellis to his left. Pope sat at the far end. The actors filtered in and took their seats. There was just one missing: Lohan.
Schrader welcomed everyone and then opened with: ''Lindsay said she couldn't make it today, and I told her that was fine, but I have an actress in Paris waiting by the phone.'' He paused, and the room tittered. ''She's on her way.''
Killing time, Deen kept looking at his phone. Meanwhile, Nolan Funk -- a pompadoured Canadian cast to play the weak link in the film's love triangle -- scrunched his brow and read the script quietly to himself. About 20 minutes later, Lohan arrived with a tiny assistant in tow. She smiled nervously and took her seat, adjusting her floral peasant shirt, rattling her bangles.
''Hi, everybody.''
Schrader gave her an impatient paternal look and then started talking about the film. But Ellis and Funk were distracted. Across the table, Funk could see that his name had been crossed out in Lohan's script and underneath were the names of three or four actors as possible replacements. Ellis saw that Deen's name also had a line through it.
Lohan's private doubts did not diminish her public enthusiasm. She had a thousand thoughts on Tara. Schrader mentioned the character was a failed actress.
''Rejection for an actress is formative.''
Lohan snorted a laugh.
''Well, it's nothing like going to jail, I can tell you that.''
The usually poker-faced Ellis cracked a wry smile.
''Well, that's also formative.''
Schrader mentioned that he was still trying to cast a psychiatrist, a small but pivotal role.
''I called Jeff Goldblum and Willem Dafoe. They're not available. So, any ideas?''
Lohan squealed and said, ''How about Jared?''
Schrader nodded approvingly.
''Jared Harris?''
''No, Jared Leto.''
Pope grimaced. (Schrader eventually cast Gus Van Sant.)
Around 3, Schrader said that was enough for the day. Lohan bolted out of her chair and headed outside for a smoke. She was quite pale, her skin not on speaking terms with daylight. But she was excited to be working.
''I've missed this so much,'' she said between puffs. Her voice was a nicotine-soaked rasp. ''I'm in a good place now. I mean it's Bret Easton Ellis and Paul Schrader! It's a dream. When it's done, I want to go somewhere far away, maybe Africa. Uganda? But right now all I want to do is work, work.''
Lohan oozed adrenaline and chattered on with a self-lacerating sense of humor. (She owns coasters that say, ''I used to worry, but now I have a pill for that.'') She talked of a recent photo shoot where she was asked to wear stripes. She shifted into her best Joan Rivers imitation.
''I said, 'Hello, stripes after jail, so not a good idea!' ''
A few minutes later, she said goodbye and hobbled in heels toward her rented Porsche.
Then she disappeared for a few days.
Filming was scheduled to start in less than a week, so Schrader arranged for Deen and Lohan to meet him at Prettybird to map out the movie's sex scenes. Lohan canceled the first day but promised she'd be there the next morning, a Sunday. She never showed. Schrader and Pope texted and left messages on her phone. There was no answer. Schrader thought about what he should do. Right now, he had the upper hand; there really was an actress waiting in Paris. But once they started shooting, he'd lose the power. Lohan could hold the entire production hostage. So he fired her.
He went back to his room at the Orlando Hotel in Beverly Hills and left it to Pope to deliver the bad news. Pope finally reached Lohan, telling her she was done. Lohan began to cry and begged for another chance. Pope told her that Schrader had made up his mind.
Lohan headed for the Orlando. She pounded on doors until she found Schrader's room. As she banged on his door, she texted him manically. Schrader could hear her crying but wouldn't let her in. He texted her instead.
''Lindsay, go home.''
The hotel manager rang up to ask if he should call the cops. Schrader told him no and sat down on his bed. Lohan stayed out in the hall sobbing for another 90 minutes before she finally left.
Eventually, the director called Pope and asked him to gather everyone at Prettybird to watch Lohan's and the French actress's screen tests again. Everyone agreed that Lohan was exponentially better. Schrader decided he'd give her one more chance.
Some in the production thought this was Schrader's endgame all along: a strategy to get her back in line. That night, Pope, Lohan and Schrader met at the Churchill, a bar at the Orlando. A waiter brought them drinks -- coffee for Lohan, a Manhattan for Schrader, a vodka soda for Pope. A pall settled over the table. Finally, Schrader picked up his glass.
''I need a drink!''
Lohan laughed and wiped tears from her eyes. She explained that she missed the meeting at Prettybird because she had been discussing the script with Nolan Funk until 3 a.m. and then took a sleeping pill. Schrader laid down the law: one more meltdown, and she was gone. If she thought she was unhirable now, wait until he threw her off a microbudget.
Schrader thought Lohan's weakness wasn't drugs -- although he counseled her on the math of when to take sleep aids -- but fear of being alone. She needed people and chaos around her 24/7. The idea of being by herself scared the hell out of her.
The next day, Lohan arrived relatively on time for a makeup test. She sat behind a table with a can of Sprite, looked into the camera and flashed a wholesome smile that would not have been out of place in the world's best soda commercial. Schrader grabbed my arm and pointed at Lohan's image.
''See? That's why we put up with all the crap. You can shoot bad movies with actresses who are always on time. But look! The rest is just noise.''
But there was always noise. A few days later, filming started at 3 a.m. at the plush bar attached to the Chateau Marmont, which Pope had scored free. It wasn't an easy first day. The scene was the opening six minutes of the movie, and there was too much exposition and not enough action. But Pope had another concern.
''Her makeup looks like it's from a different movie.''
It was true; Lohan's visage had a Kabuki quality to it. She had chosen to wear layers of mascara and catlike eye makeup with black lines pointing out toward her ears. Before the shoot, Pope showed Lohan Polaroids of her looking beautiful with minimal makeup.
''Look, our interest is in making you look great,'' Pope told her. ''You look beautiful with just a little makeup.''
But Lohan was trying to put her pixieish Disney days behind her and thought the Courtney Love approach made her look hip.
Pope let it go. There were only so many battles you could fight.
The trick of ''The Canyons'' was to make a $250,000 movie look like a $10 million movie. Fortunately, Schrader's reputation inspired the kinds of donations someone straight out of film school was unlikely to get. One Kickstarter donor gave $10,000 to the production and another $10,000 to a designer so that Schrader could use his beautiful house in the Malibu hills for filming. It was a significant break; the house was a stately pleasure dome with giant picture windows, a stairway leading to a pool and a sweeping view to the sea.
It quickly became the most dependable player in the film after James Deen. On the first day of shooting in Malibu, Deen aw-shucked his way around the predominantly male crew. He wasn't a big man; maybe 5-8 and 150 pounds, but they regarded him with wonder. At lunch, a crew member asked the question on everyone's mind.
''Man, how many women have you had sex with?''
Deen just laughed and sheepishly scratched his head.
''Dude, I have no idea. Seriously.''
Deen has worked in all aspects of porn: producing, directing and acting. As a teenager, he learned to be comfortable performing for a crowd by ''getting freaky'' with a girl in front of his friends before moving into another room, as a way of getting comfortable with having sex in public. Once he began working, he took pride in being professional: he was never late, and his behavior was always fastidious. (He could be seen on set making sure the garbage bags were correctly hugging the trash-can lids.) But there was a certain loneliness about him. He told me that his lawyer, a bearded Gandalfian figure, was one of his best friends. On the ''Canyons'' set, he was the sole cast member who never had pals stop by.
Only Lohan had a visitor on that first Malibu day. It was Steve Honig, her publicist, a stubby, bald man in a denim shirt. He told Schrader having a reporter on set was unacceptable. Schrader told Honig that he understood and that if he wanted to pull Lohan from the movie, he should do so. Honig backed down. Honig and I talked for a few minutes while the crew waited for the marine layer to lift.
''I don't want this to be all about Lindsay being late,'' Honig said. ''Actresses are always late. Julia Roberts is late.''
A few hours later, the production broke for lunch. Lohan announced she wanted to grab a bite somewhere on the Pacific Coast Highway. This concerned Pope and Schrader -- they could monitor her only as long as they could see her -- so they dispatched the co-producer, Ricky Horne Jr., to chauffeur Honig, Lohan and her assistants to wherever they wanted to go.
Horne drove them down the hill, pausing at a security gate. That's when his passengers did a jailbreak, jumping out of his car. Honig frantically pushed buttons until the gate opened and the four of them dashed for Lohan's assistant's car. Horne sat, baffled for a moment, before heading back up the hill and briefing Schrader. The director was furious.
''O.K., she's lost the privilege of leaving for lunch. She stays here.''
Lohan returned, only 15 minutes late, emerging from makeup to an angry Schrader. They spent much of the afternoon arguing about continuity.
''Lindsay, you held the cigarette up in the last take, now you have it down. Let's do it again.''
Lohan sighed. Now that shooting had begun, she had the power.
''Sorry, Paul, I guess you'll have to fire me again.''
By midweek, Schrader and Lohan were locked in battle. One afternoon, he shot some of the lead-up to the movie's pivotal sex scene. Lohan wasn't happy.
''I hope you got my triple chin on that one,'' Lohan said to no one directly. ''That shot was hideous.''
Later that afternoon, it was time to rehearse a fight scene in which Christian physically confronts Tara over infidelity. Schrader tried to describe to Deen how he wanted him to throw Lohan to the ground. Deen nodded and went through the scene at half-speed. (It was a constant friction point between the two actors, Deen conserving his energy and Lohan demanding full effort in rehearsals.) After a while, Schrader cut in to show Deen what he wanted, lightly moving Lohan and turning her toward the floor.
''James, you see that?''
Deen nodded, but Schrader wasn't convinced. So he grabbed Lohan, tripped her over his left leg and body-slammed her to the floor. Lohan screamed, and the crew gasped. But she bounced up with a smile.
''That was great! Want to do it again?''
Schrader said it wouldn't be necessary. The next morning they filmed the scene for real. Deen came to life; throwing the neglige-wearing Lohan hard to the ground and pounding his fist into a wall with such fury I wondered if he had broken his hand. Lohan lay slumped on the floor, her hands guarding her face, shoulders shaking, tears pouring down her cheeks. Between takes, she listened to Ryan Adams's cover of ''Wonderwall.'' After three shots, Schrader said he was satisfied, and Lohan fumbled for a cigarette. She headed downstairs, and someone complimented her work.
''Well, I've got a lot of experience with that from my dad.''
She didn't elaborate, and no one asked.
The next night, the ''Canyons'' crew was cut to a minimum. It was time to film the four-way. The scene comes at a crucial moment in the movie, when the usually passive Tara turns the tables on Christian and forces him out of his sexual comfort zone. Filmed incorrectly, the scene might win a Razzie. Get it right, and the rest of the film would click into place.
Pope found two porn actors to play the other participants. The woman walked through rehearsal completely naked, bragging that she refused to conform to porn's norms and shave her pubic hair. Lohan freaked out.
''God, I so don't need to hear about that.''
She retreated to a walk-in closet a few feet from the bed where the scene would be shot. Lohan had just fired her assistant and was now holed up with an old friend named Gavin. Schrader waited a half-hour and then went to see if Lohan was ready to shoot. Gavin explained that Lohan was uneasy working with porn stars and actually, truth be told, was uneasy working with Deen.
Schrader lost it.
''The thing that's going to explode from this film is James Deen!''
Lohan screamed from the back of the closet.
''That's what I'm afraid of!''
Schrader stalked away. He waited another hour. He went back to talk to Lohan again, this time as bad cop. Gavin wouldn't let him all the way in, so he yelled through the door.
''You signed the contract. You knew this was coming!''
Another hour passed, and Lohan eventually moved to the bed but wouldn't remove her robe. Schrader worried that the early-morning sunlight would begin streaming through the house. He thought of sending everyone home. But then he realized that there was one thing he hadn't yet tried. He stripped off all of his clothes. Naked, he walked toward Lohan.
''Lins, I want you to be comfortable. C'mon, let's do this.''
Lohan shrieked.
''Paul!''
Pope heard the scream and ran up from downstairs. He turned a corner, and there was a naked Schrader. Pope let out a ''whoa'' and slowly backed out of the room.
But then a funny thing happened. Lohan dropped her robe. Schrader shouted action, and they filmed the scene in one 14-minute take. About halfway through, Lohan looked directly into the camera and flashed a dirty, demented smile at Schrader. He smiled back.
A few minutes later, Schrader yelled cut. The crew packed up. Pope went to check on Lohan. He noticed that she and Gavin had been drinking, which was understandable for a young woman shooting a sex scene with three porn stars. Quietly, Pope told Lohan that he could get her a driver to take her home. But she refused, jumped into her Porsche and headed down the dark, narrow road toward the P.C.H. They all hoped they would still have a lead actress in the morning.
The next evening, around 6 p.m., Lohan barreled back up the hill. It was the last day the production had the Malibu house, and there were still two essential scenes left. The first one was the movie's emotional payoff: Tara leaving Christian and Christian letting her go in exchange for a lethal favor.
The scene was to be shot at ''magic hour,'' the hour before sunset, and as usual, Lohan was running late. It had been an endless week of switching day for night, and everyone was on edge, including Deen. He had reached his limit with Lohan. During rehearsal, Deen and Schrader argued loudly over how Deen was playing the scene. After Deen remarked for the fourth time that he disagreed with how the scene unfolded, Schrader screamed at him. ''James [expletive ]Deen, play the scene as I goddamn tell you.''
The two stepped outside and talked for a minute and came back in with sheepish grins. (Later Deen told me, ''We yelled at each other because we couldn't yell at the person we both wanted to yell at.'') Lohan shook her head disapprovingly at Deen.
''That's unprofessional to treat your director like that. Just very disrespectful.''
The light faded while Lohan gave a running commentary on how the scene should be played, which happened to be the exact opposite of what Schrader wanted. She finally stopped talking and turned to the director.
''Paul, how do you want to play this?''
Schrader sighed.
''I was hoping to direct the scene, but it's apparent that you're not going to let me. Let's skip it. It's too late, the light is lost.''
Pope rushed in and put his arm on Schrader's shoulder.
''Let's give it a shot.''
Miraculously, the cameras rolled, and all the tension, all the ego, all the incoherence exploded into the film's most riveting scene: Deen, cold and evil; Lohan, vulnerable and afraid.
All that remained was to get a close-up of Deen touching Lohan's face with a blood-streaked finger. Only half of Lohan's face would be in the shot. Most actresses would pop in some Visine to well their eyes with tears and be done with it. Instead, Lohan went back to her room, and everyone waited.
I was standing by her door, and soon I could hear her crying. It began quietly, almost a whimper, but rose to a guttural howl. It was the sobbing of a child lost in the woods.
She came out of her room, and I watched the shot on a monitor. Now, without the garish makeup, Lohan looked sadly beautiful, and it was easy to see why men like Schrader were willing to put their lives in her hands. The camera rolled, and Deen moved in slowly to touch her face. Then Schrader cursed.
''That blood looks completely fake. It's supposed to look hours old, and it looks fresh. We'll have to fix it in post. We're done.''
After dinner, Lohan emerged changed -- wobbly and happy, a playful smile on her face. Schrader tried to talk her through the next scene -- a confrontation with Christian over his possibly criminal behavior -- but she kept stumbling and giggling, missing her mark by a wide margin. Schrader told everyone to take 15 minutes. He turned to me and shrugged. ''If she wants to treat this like 'The Real Housewives' of Beverly Hills, I'll shoot it like 'The Real Housewives.' ''
Schrader told the crew they'd shoot the rest of the scene with hand-held cameras. That way, wherever Lohan was standing would be her mark. As equipment was reset, Lohan retreated to the patio for a smoke. She still had her mike on, so anyone wearing headphones could hear her.
''I've got one assistant passed out at my house and the other one in the Palisades saying he wants to hang himself. Life's great.''
She exhaled, stubbed out her cigarette and came back inside. Schrader shot the scene for another hour, cursing under his breath as Lohan eye-rolled him from the staircase.
Lohan asked for a quick makeup break and retreated to her room. Schrader popped in for a word and then came out with a mischievous look on his face.
''Do you know that iPhone app that makes explosions?''
He held up the phone and showed me some footage he'd just shot of Lohan having her makeup redone. Then he pushed a button, and a Bruckheimer-quality explosion blew his star into a million tiny pieces.
Schrader smiled for the first time all night. He started talking about ''The Misfits,'' a 1961 film written by Arthur Miller and directed by John Huston. The film featured the final performances of both Clark Gable and Marilyn Monroe. The shoot was torturous, 50 days morphing into 90, with Monroe spending a week in the hospital during filming.
''We're making 'The Misfits' on a microbudget,'' Schrader joked. He scratched his head and arched his eyebrows. ''But here's the thing: 'The Misfits' is actually a great film.''
Schrader was getting cocky. For all his disputes with Lohan, filming was on schedule; Lohan hadn't missed any days.
''We're getting close to the point where if she disappeared, we still have a movie,'' Schrader told me one weekend midshoot. ''Just one more full day, and we're good.''
That's when things started to get really weird. Lady Gaga was now staying at the Chateau, and that wasn't great news for ''The Canyons.'' Lohan missed her morning call, and then she left the shoot for lunch with friends, running up a $600 tab on sushi, sake and vodka.
''I don't think she gets it,'' Pope said. ''Six hundred dollars is huge on this movie. That's six guys' pay for the day.''
The next morning, Lohan was scheduled to shoot at Caf Med, a West Hollywood restaurant. But when I arrived, Pope was on the verge of panic.
''Lindsay was out with Lady Gaga till 5:30 a.m. Her call was 6 a.m.''
By 9 a.m., Lohan was lying down in a Caf Med booth with her hands over her eyes shading them from imaginary sunlight. The production had the restaurant only until 11. Schrader paced, breathing heavily.
A doctor arrived and took Lohan's blood pressure. He walked over to Pope and Schrader. His diagnosis: An inner-ear infection. She was done for the day. Schrader didn't buy it.
''That's her doctor, he'll say whatever she wants. I shot one day from a stretcher. She could do it, but she doesn't want to.''
Pope and Schrader huddled with the production crew and thought of scenes they could shoot that day as a substitute. ''What do we have left for James?'' Schrader asked
There was awkward silence before a producer chimed in.
''Uh, I was driving by Burbank airport yesterday and I saw James pulling into the airport.''
A call was placed. Deen admitted he was not in Los Angeles.
''Goddamn it,'' Schrader said. ''He agreed not to shoot porn during the shoot. Now he's out of town making porn. I told him things could change; he had to stay in town. Now a whole day is wasted.''
The crew moved on to other scenes while Lohan recuperated from the Lady Gaga flu. The stress of the shoot was wearing on everyone; the crew hadn't been paid in a week. Pope, hoping to buck up morale, suggested raffling off two Samsung tablets used in the film. Schrader -- whom the crew nicknamed the dyspeptic Lorax -- wasn't onboard.
''I don't have a tablet. I'd like one of them.''
The next morning, everyone reconvened at Caf Med. Lohan was almost on time. A TMZ tour bus drove by, the passengers waving and snapping pictures. During a camera change, I talked to Lohan as she smoked a cigarette in the parking lot. It was just dawning on her that the film was almost over. She seemed genuinely heartbroken.
''I needed time to figure out all the crap in my life that I'd created for myself, essentially, and I kind of realized, What am I doing? I like doing this. I like being here. This makes me happy. There was a line in the 'Elizabeth' movie where she says, 'I'm so bored, I've never been taught what to do when I'm not working,' and I'm kind of figuring that out now.''
Lohan wore a floppy hat to protect her skin from the sun and halfheartedly waved to two photographers snapping from a hill 20 yards away. I reminded her that she said she wanted to go to Africa after the shoot was over. Was she still going? She shook her head; she'd changed her mind.
''I don't want to take a while off, I want to keep working. There's some other scripts, and I eventually want to direct, so maybe when I'm not filming, I can be directing something because I learned so much from the people that I worked with.''
I mentioned the scene at the house where she dissolved into tears. I may have said that she still had a gift and that it shouldn't be squandered. Lohan's eyes filled.
''I know. I'm trying. I'm really trying.''
But then she shook her head.
''I can't cry. I've got makeup on.''
There was just one last shot. The film's producers negotiated a deal with the Loews Hotel in Santa Monica for the use of a suite where they could get ready for the scene. It was going to be a tricky one; the script called for Lohan to be followed by a stalker as she shopped at the Santa Monica Promenade. The only problem was that the mall wanted $10,000 for permission to shoot, and ''The Canyons'' didn't have it. So they went with a risky move: filming one of America's most recognizable faces walking through a crowded mall with hand-held cameras.
Schrader was already scouting the location by the time Lohan arrived at the suite with her entourage. She smiled and waved to everyone and then noticed a magazine with Oliver Stone on the cover. She picked it up and ripped it into pieces, cursing. (Lohan had been considered for a role in Stone's ''Savages,'' but the director eventually passed.) She then went into the bedroom, calling out, ''Does anyone want a beer?'' Then she popped back out.
''The minibar is empty. Now that's interesting!''
Over at the mall, Schrader paced nervously. ''We need to get three shots, and we're not going to get a second chance.'' He was worried about attracting the attention of mall security. An hour later, Lohan arrived in her black Porsche trailed by four or five paparazzi. Schrader threw up his hands and said, ''That's it.''
Lohan told him, politely, to shut up.
''Paul, we can do this.''
She climbed out of her car and turned to the photographers.
''I'll make a deal with you. I'll give you a good shot, but then you have to go.'' Lohan turned to her good side and hiked her floor-length skirt up to show a little leg.
''O.K., five, four, three, two, one. Now you have to go.''
The photographers backed away. Lohan walked into the mall, and Schrader started shooting. But they were quickly apprehended by the matronly head of mall security.
''You have to stop.''
Lohan flashed an innocent smile.
''He's just taking stills. I promise.''
The matron snorted.
''You were wearing the same outfit when you were filming upstairs at Sonoma Wine Garden last week. You have to stop.''
It was over. Defeated, Schrader headed back to the hotel. Lohan walked to her Porsche. Gavin was behind the wheel. She told me to get in the back. Just before we hit the security gate, a photographer jumped out of the dark. Lohan screamed at him.
''You're a liar!''
The photographer shrugged.
''My camera jammed before.''
Lohan gave him the finger, and we pulled onto the freeway.
''I lost a bunch in traffic on the way over to Loews. Then when I got to the Loews, there were more, and it was completely different cars, it was X17 and Splash,'' Lohan said, speaking rapidly. The paparazzi chase had animated her in a way I hadn't seen before. ''They were already waiting at the hotel, they were already there.''
I asked why she didn't try a less conspicuous vehicle.
''I've tried everything, I would wear wigs . . . we've had Wranglers, old Cadillacs -- I've tried everything.''
Lohan yelled at Gavin to make a turn, but he missed it. She sighed dramatically but didn't seem really bothered.
''It's just creepy. I've gotten people ask to pay me 25 to 30 for a shot or sometimes 50 thousand for a bathing-suit shot. I'm afraid they'd put trackers on my car, which God only knows. . . . ''
Back at the Loews, Schrader and Pope were debating what to do next. Lohan suggested shooting the scene at the Grove, a tony West Hollywood shopping center.
''Look, we can shoot at the Grove, and we can get it for free.''
Pope looked at her with confusion.
''We'll have 'Access Hollywood' pay for it. They'll film it, I'll answer three questions about the movie and then they'll pay for it. It's really easy.''
Pope and Schrader were unconvinced. But Lohan was insistent as she left the room. ''They'll do it. You just have to know how to work it.''
A few days later, Schrader and Pope, having decided on a more conventional approach, filmed Lohan at the Century City Mall, paying $3,000 for the privilege.
And just like that, the film was done. Schrader told me it would take six weeks to edit, but after three weeks I got an e-mail saying it was nearly finished. I met him in a small editing room on the top floor of the Brill Building in New York, where a half-dozen of Schrader's friends from the indie film industry had gathered. He popped in a DVD.
The opening scene dragged endlessly. Some tricky camerawork that Schrader threw in to break up the monotony only emphasized the deadness of the scene. As Pope feared, Lohan's makeup made her look as if she'd walked onto the set from an entirely different film.
But about 15 minutes in, something clicked. Deen had a quiet malevolence. Ellis was right: he was born to play a Bret Easton Ellis character. Lohan was equal parts vulnerable and dissolute.
Afterward, Schrader's friends were noncommittal, but Schrader was ecstatic. We adjourned to a nearby bar. He was certain the film would get into the Sundance Film Festival. Maybe they'd recoup their investment tenfold.
''We thought this was going to be 'My Dinner With Andre,' but it's a real film. We [expletive] did it.''
But this was ''The Canyons,'' so the ending couldn't be that smooth. I flew back to Los Angeles and watched the film a few days later with Ellis and Pope. Ellis was the least impressed.
''The film is so languorous. It's an hour 30, and it seems like it's three hours long. I saw this as a pranky noirish thriller, but Schrader turned it into, well, a Schrader film.''
Pope and Ellis agreed that the opening scene wasn't working. Pope called Schrader about reshooting it, and he was angrily dismissed.
''We could shoot it again for $15,000 in a day,'' Pope said. Then he corrected himself. ''Well, with Lindsay, we'd have to budget two days, but it's doable. But he won't do it.''
He was right. Schrader wouldn't hear of it. And for good reason. It took two months and the quasi intervention of Lohan's father to get Lohan to finish two hours of looping for the outdoor scenes. In the interim, Lohan punched a psychic, was accused of hitting a pedestrian in New York, was under investigation by the I.R.S. and watched her parents melt down on a very special episode of ''Dr. Phil.''
Meanwhile, Ellis, Pope and Schrader battled over the film's final cut. Pope screened a rough cut of ''The Canyons'' for Steven Soderbergh. Intrigued, Soderbergh offered to do an edit of the movie if he was given the footage for 72 hours.
Schrader said no.
I met him one last time in Toronto, where he was working on the film's soundtrack with the Canadian musician Brendan Canning. He had just learned that the film had not been accepted by Sundance -- the film is scheduled to be put up for sale by William Morris Endeavor later this month -- and was in a fouler-than-usual mood.
''The idea of 72 hours is a joke,'' Schrader said. ''It would take him 72 hours to look at all the footage. And you know what Soderbergh would do if another director offered to cut his film?''
I said I didn't. Schrader leaned back in his chair and gave me two middle fingers.
''That's what Soderbergh would do.''
Inevitably, our conversation turned back to Lohan. He showed the film to Lindsay and her mother, Dina, in October at his New York City apartment. They were both so furious about how the camera lingered on Deen that Schrader had to move Dina to another room to get through the screening.
I asked Schrader if he regretted casting Lohan. He shook his head.
''No, she's great in the film.''
Schrader then told me a secret. Until the screening disaster, Schrader had been in talks with Lohan to star in a remake of John Cassavetes's ''Gloria,'' about a woman on the run from the mob. The director lighted up, childlike; hope triumphing over memories of being stripped naked.
''It doesn't involve a co-star. She would be perfect for it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Scene: On the set of ''The Canyons'' in Los Angeles last summer: Amanda Brooks, Lohan and Schrader. (MM22-MM23)
Bret Easton Ellis: The screenwriter. (MM24)
Gus Van Sant: The cameo. (MM24-MM25)
James Deen: The leading man.
Braxton Pope: The producer. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JEFF MINTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MM25)
 Talkin' to Me? Schrader with Robert DeNiro in Italy in 1975, the year before ''Taxi Driver.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN PTAK) (MM29) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE (89%); FILM DIRECTORS (89%); HOUSE ARREST (73%); MOVIE RATINGS (71%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (67%); PORNOGRAPHY (64%)

PERSON: LINDSAY LOHAN (91%); ROBERT DE NIRO (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2013



409 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 7576 words

HEADLINE: Where To Go In 2013

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
1. Rio de Janeiro
Because the whole world will be there in 2014.
Fifty-three years after Brazil's federal government decamped to Braslia, and decades after So Paulo took over as the country's business capital, Rio is staging a comeback. With the 2014 World Cup and 2016 Summer Olympics (plus an oil boom) providing the impetus, the tropical city perhaps most famous for its Carnival hedonism is on its way to becoming a more sophisticated cultural hub. In January, the Cidade das Artes, or City of the Arts, was inaugurated as the new home of the Brazilian Symphony Orchestra. On March 23, Casa Daros -- an outpost of the Zurich-based Daros Latinamerica Collection -- will open in a renovated 19th-century building with an exhibition of Colombian artists. March will also mark the opening of the Rio Museum of Art in Praa Mau, a once decrepit port area now being revived. 
(The Santiago Calatrava-designed Museum of Tomorrow, also in the port area, is scheduled to follow in 2014.) Shopping, a Rio obsession, got a boost in December when the luxe VillageMall opened; it will soon house the city's first Gucci outlet and South America's first Apple Store. Special events also dot the coming year's calendar, including the Catholic Church's World Youth Day in July, the biennial Rio Book Fair starting in late August, and September's Rock in Rio. And, of course, there's soccer: the finals of the Confederations Cup, considered a dress rehearsal for the World Cup, will be held in a completely overhauled Maracan Stadium on June 30. SETH KUGEL
2. Marseille
On the Mediterranean, art, and plenty of it.
The European Capital of Culture designation (two cities get the title annually) often spotlights a destination that has become an up-and-comer on its own merits in the last few years, which is certainly the case with this ancient port town on the Mediterranean. A vibrant ethnic melting pot, Marseille is also home to an increasing number of contemporary art and avant-garde performances. Exhibition spaces include the 2,000-seat Le Silo, a landmark granary that's been transformed into a theater; the Panorama, an ex-tobacco factory now home to modern installations; and J1, a hangar on the old port that will host a number of events. While in town, book into a stylish hotel like the four-bedroom Casa Honor or the new cheap chic Mama Shelter Marseille. ONDINE COHANE
3. Nicaragua
It's eco! And the food is good! Enough said.
If the name Oliver North means anything to you, there's a good chance that Nicaragua doesn't jump to your mind when you think of a relaxing, high-end, spa-filled vacation. For the past 30 years, the country has been fighting its image as a land of guerrilla warfare and covert arms deals. At first, only travel writers took note; over the past several years, various publications have declared the country the next great destination. However, if the booming eco-lodge business is any indication, Nicaragua's moment might finally have arrived. In and around the coastal towns of San Juan del Sur and Maderas, new lodges like the Aqua Wellness Resort, the high-end (and soon-to-open) Mukul Resort and Jicaro Island Eco-Lodge are cropping up near old-time eco-lodges, like Morgan's Rock Hacienda and Eco-Lodge. The food scene is getting a high-end makeover as well, with top chefs opening restaurants. The most exciting ones -- El Segundo, La Casserole, Ciudad Lounge and La Finca y El Mar -- are proof that Nicaragua is becoming an impressive food destination in its own right. DANIELLE PERGAMENT
4. Accra, Ghana
A buzzing metropolis ready for business, and pleasure.
Accra, the capital of Ghana, has welcomed business travelers for years. Now tourists are streaming in, a byproduct of the fact that the country has Africa's fastest-growing economy and is also one of its safest destinations. The Mvenpick Ambassador Hotel (with poolside bar and waiters on roller skates) opened in 2011, and the Marriott Accra -- the chain's first sub-Saharan offering -- will feature a casino and upscale shopping when it opens in the spring. On Accra's packed beaches, you'll see everything from snake handlers to plantain peddlers. Head to the upscale neighborhood of Osu and hit the treehouse-inspired terrace at Buka for fine West African food. The best Ghanaian adventures start with a giant plate of tomato-smothered tilapia and banku -- a fermented yeast paste that's tastier than it sounds -- washed down with local Star beer. KAREN LEIGH
5. Bhutan
A pristine Buddhist enclave opens, with care.
This tiny country in the Himalayas has become a model for sustainable travel with the number of visitors (and daily traveler fees they pay) calibrated to preserve the delicate balance between preservation and revenue. Tourism is far from discouraged, however; new projects are making the country more accessible. Drukair, the only airline that goes to the country, is now flying daily from Bangkok, New Delhi and Singapore; there are also plans to start domestic routes inside the country. Hotels, too, are helping to open up new territory. The Como group, which already has a luxury outpost in Paro, has just unveiled the Uma Punakha in Punakha. And the Gangtey Gompa Lodge, which opens in May, will be a new base from which to explore the lush national park of Phobjikha Valley, an eco-tourism hub and home to endangered black-necked cranes. Of course the main draws remain a network of exquisite monasteries and temples and untouched countryside -- all in a country that puts happiness ahead of G.D.P. Just remember that you have to travel with a United States- or Bhutan-based outfitter; Bridge to Bhutan for example, is run by two brothers who studied in the United States and are now organizing trips back to their home country. ONDINE COHANE
6. Amsterdam
A decade later, museums reopen, fancier than ever.
Imagine that the Museum of Modern Art and the Metropolitan Museum in New York were partly closed for renovations for almost a decade -- at the same time. That's basically what happened in Amsterdam, with the closings of the Stedelijk, the city's design and contemporary art museum, in 2004 and the Rijksmuseum in 2003. The Stedelijk finally reopened at the end of September with a new, sleek bathtub-like extension, and the Rijksmuseum will reopen in April with much fanfare after a complete redo by the Spanish architects Antonio Cruz and Antonio Ortiz. The Van Gogh Museum too, will reopen in May, after a much shorter renovation. The city will also be celebrating 400 years since the building of its iconic canal ring and the 125th birthday of the Concertgebouw, the city's concert hall, which will feature performances by Eva-Maria Westbroek and Bernard Haitink among others. To prepare for the wave of visitors, there are several new hotels, from the five-star Conservatorium, to an Andaz designed by the Amsterdam-based design star Marcel Wanders. If you're lucky, you might score the single suite at a hotel/restaurant/shopping/exhibition space named Droog, for the collective that designed it. GISELA WILLIAMS
7. Houston
What's big in Texas? Culture and food.
Houston is probably best known as the Texan center for energy and industry, but it's making a bid to be the state's cultural and culinary capital as well. The Houston Museum District is a formidable coterie of institutions that includes the Rothko Chapel, the Museum of African American Culture, which made its debut last February; and the Asia Society Texas Center, which opened in a stunning Yoshio Taniguchi-designed building in April. And last summer, the Houston Museum of Natural Science opened a 30,000-square-foot hall of paleontology in a new $85 million wing. Meanwhile, the city's dining scene is also heating up, with three of the city's newest restaurants -- Oxheart, Underbelly and Uchi -- placing on national best-new-restaurant lists. INGRID K. WILLIAMS
8. Rossland, British Columbia
Fasten your skis. A quiet peak joins the big leagues.
The largest terrain expansion in North American skiing is under way just north of the border at Red Mountain Resort in Rossland, British Columbia. Long known for its steeps, tree-skiing and out-of-the-way location (it's a two-and-a-half-hour drive from Spokane) that leaves its lift mazes empty and led Skiing magazine last year to call it the ''most underrated'' resort, Red has embarked on a two-year project that will add nearly 1,000 acres on neighboring Grey Mountain. This winter a 10-dollar ride in a snowcat will haul skiers from Red to Grey to enjoy a few runs that have been cut as well as glade skiing. Next winter a new quad chair will access 22 new slopes around the conical peak. Suddenly Red's trail map will stretch as wide as Jackson Hole's inbounds terrain. With a new lodge and the first on-hill accommodations added in the last few years, this local legend is ready to step out into the spotlight. CHRISTOPHER SOLOMON
9. New Delhi
Come for the new metro, stay for where it takes you.
Having surpassed its sibling Mumbai in the number of millionaire residents who call it home, New Delhi is celebrating its economic rise with gusto. It's even added speed to its notoriously creaky infrastructure. Delhi's new metro system, currently in its latest stage of expansion to the Outer Ring Road, provides a smooth yet surreal ride from the dense cacophony of the ancient Mughal bazaars to the hypermodern mega-malls of the grassy suburbs. Immaculate, cheap and air-conditioned, the metro might be the most ambitious construction since India won its independence. And there are lots of new places to visit: cutting-edge galleries like Latitude 28 and Gallery Threshold in the emerging Lado Sarai arts district, and new restaurants like Varq and Indian Accent, which are expanding the horizons of nouvelle Indian cuisine. Setting new standards for dramatic design, hotels like the Aman, Oberoi and Leela have all recently opened strikingly original and competing visions of living in style in a city that suddenly exudes a lot of it. FINN-OLAF JONES
10. Istanbul
Next Eurail stop: culture central.
Turkey is now included in the Eurail system, and Istanbul's busy cultural calendar this year is excuse enough to use your pass to stop there. In addition to the biennial this fall, there are new galleries and cultural centers to explore. Salt, which is directed by the curator Vasif Kortun and has impressive spaces in Beyoglu and Galata, and the Nobel laureate Orhan Pamuk's Museum of Innocence opened last year, joining a buzzing art scene that includes newish arrivals like Rodeo Gallery and Arter. Lined with lively cafes and funky little design and fashion shops like Lunapark, Bahar Korcan and Atelier 55, Galata, one of the oldest districts in Istanbul, is going through a renaissance at warp speed. This year also marks the 90th anniversary of the founding of the Turkish Republic, which will bring yet more cultural celebrations, including the reopening of the Ataturk Cultural Center, home of Istanbul's state ballet, opera and orchestra. GISELA WILLIAMS
11. Singapore
Spot green shoots in a financial capital.
As one of the world's richest nations and a capital of global finance, Singapore has been awash in green for decades. But lately the densely populated city-state is burnishing its credentials as another type of green center -- the ecological kind. A study released in 2011 by The Economist magazine's Intelligence Unit and Siemens ranked Singapore as the greenest city in Asia, and this year the metropolis of glass and steel inaugurates two vast nature projects guaranteed to boost the green quotient further and to enhance the city's image as a destination for environmental tourism. Gardens by the Bay, an ambitious 250-acre nature reserve, won the building-of-the-year prize at the World Architecture Festival for its glassy, hill-like main building, which houses attractions like the Flower Dome and Cloud Forest. Not to be outdone, the new Marine Life Park is already touting itself as ''the world's largest oceanarium.'' It features a huge water park with rides and an aquarium showcasing some 800 species of underwater life. SETH SHERWOOD
12. Montenegro
A Balkan gem that's small, spectacular -- and cheap.
It's been almost seven years since Montenegro peacefully parted ways with Serbia, long enough that Russian oligarchs and former Yugoslavs aren't the only ones in on this booming Balkan jewel. For better or worse, an iconic Communist-era hotel with bold red carpets is becoming a contemporary Hilton in Podgorica, the country's pint-size capital. On the Adriatic near Budva, a six-year renovation of Sveti Stefan resort, which includes a three-acre island with rooms set in repurposed 15th-century cottages, draws to a close in May with Aman Resorts opening 10 suites, a spa and restaurant on the island. About 16 miles and countless twinkling coves north in Tivat, the blingy Porto Montenegro will become more glamorous when Regent adds hotel rooms, suites and penthouses to its fashionable marina in 2014. Some 1.2 million international tourists came to Montenegro in 2011. That's double the population and an 11 percent leap over 2010, a rate that beat nearly every country in Europe. Still, the country remains affordable. Comfortable hotels go for $75 a night or less. Heaping plates of cevapi sausages, tangy cheese and oily red peppers might set you back $12 with wine and dessert. Imagine Dubrovnik before the cruise ships or Switzerland before the cable cars. Go before it becomes either. TIM NEVILLE
13. White Salmon River, Wash.
A river runs free, for the first time in a century.
It's a white-water paddler's dream come true. A major dam removal in October to allow for fish passage means that the White Salmon River now runs all the way to the Columbia River, flowing freely from its glacial headwaters at Mount Adams for the first time in 100 years. Local outfitters like Wet Planet are expected to begin rafting and kayaking tours on the newly opened section of challenging Class IV rapids early this year. Conservationists are happy, too, as spawning chinook salmon and steelhead trout have already been spotted swimming upstream in the new habitat. BONNIE TSUI
14. Hvar, Croatia
Explore the quieter side of a jet-setters' haven.
Once a 16th-century Venetian fortress island, Hvar (pronounced hwahr) has been drawing yachts, island-hoppers and celebrities to its growing landscape of luxury hotels, hillside villas and nightclubs. The island's V.I.P. surge began in 1999 with Carpe Diem, a decadent open-air club replete with flaming cocktails and table dancers in designer bikinis. In high season, the creamy marble main square of Hvar Town fills with blissed-out vacationers recharging on coffee and cocktails, a contrast to the quieter, older village Stari Grad, which received Unesco status in 2008 because of its ancient agricultural plain built by the Greeks who settled it in the fourth century B.C. In fact, Hvar's real allure lies in its low-key features: unspoiled coves and beaches, rolling vineyards, olive groves and silvery-purple lavender fields that have long been the country's main source for the flower. Travelers can take a moonlight hike through an abandoned medieval village to a traditional tavern (or konoba, in Croatian), Stori Komin, and dine on wild boar caught that morning. Or take a cheap rental motorboat to Robinson, a konoba set within a secluded cove devoid of electricity or running water, and sunbathe on a white stone beach while waiting for the fish to cook. CHARLY WILDER
15. Mongolia
The welcome mat is out for a million tourists.
Mongolia's vast grasslands have long attracted adventure travelers, particularly those willing to go on horseback, but a limited tourism infrastructure has kept numbers low. Now, the government, hopeful that the country's mining boom will survive a recent slowdown, is working to change that, setting a goal of one million annual overseas tourists by 2015 -- roughly double the number who visited in 2011. In anticipation of the increase, foreign hotel chains are opening in Ulan Bator, the capital, including a Ramada that opened last year, a 273-room Shangri-La scheduled to make its debut in December and a new Radisson Blu and Hyatt Regency, both under development. A new domestic airline, Mongolian Airlines, started flights last January and has since added an international route to Hong Kong, with plans for additional Asian destinations. Tour operators like Nomadic Journeys are offering new bespoke camping trips to more remote parts of the country, like the grasslands in the Eastern Steppes, so visitors can get away from the tourist crowds -- easy to do in a country this size. Though for many people the untouched countryside remains the main reason to go to Mongolia, there are new attractions in the capital, too: Last year, the Government Palace was opened to visitors for the first time, giving tourists a glimpse of young Mongolian democracy in action. JUSTIN BERGMAN
16. The Big Island, Hawaii
Feasting on Hawaii's less-visited isle.
Oahu has its North Shore. Kauai has its waterfalls. But until recently, the Big Island's biggest claim was its land mass. This is the year that's changing. A slew of high-end golf courses and new beach clubs, like the Lava Lava Beach Club, are drawing tourists to this corner of the archipelago like never before. And now that the farm-to-table movement has made its way to Hawaii, the Big Island is finally living up to its name. The grandfather of farm-to-table fare is Merriman's, which has been at it for 20 years. The 'Ulu Ocean Grill at the Four Seasons is a fancier version with its ocean-to-table dishes. And the Fish & the Hog, which has its own farm and commercial fishing boat, uses only ingredients sourced within five miles. DANIELLE PERGAMENT
17. Philippines
A surfing and beach destination goes luxe.
Idyllic white sand beaches, secluded, little-known surf towns, and pristine reefs are among the natural draws of this country made up of over 7,000 tropical islands. Now in addition to the more upscale choices cropping up in former backpacking enclaves like Boracay, there is a new generation of luxury hotels opening even further afield. The new Dedon Island resort on Siargao, for example, is close to one of the world's best surf breaks, Cloud 9 (Kelly Slater is a fan), and has an outdoor cinema along with spa and paddle board classes. And the private island resort of El Nido Pangulasian opens this month in the Unesco biosphere of Palawan, right by some of the world's most pristine diving spots. Although the Philippines has been subject to travel advisories in the past, they mostly focus on Mindanao in the south. For extra security, outfitters like Asian expert Remote Lands organize private transfers and local guides. ONDINE COHANE
18. Vernazza, Italy
After destruction, a Cinque Terre village blooms again.
In October 2011, mudslides ravaged the lovely Cinque Terre village of Vernazza. Floodwaters reached second-story windows, wiped out road and rail connections and buried the town in mud and rocks. Now residents are rallying to restore Vernazza to its former glory. To ensure that restoration work continues in an environmentally viable manner, the Pritzker Prize-winning architect Richard Rogers has committed to design and oversee the project for reconstruction. And with major renewal projects expected to commence this winter, soon the only visible reminders of the catastrophe may be new vineyards taking root in the hills, freshly laid stone in the seaside piazza and the resurgent pride of the local community. INGRID K. WILLIAMS
19. The Kimberley, Australia
Soft adventure in the outer reaches of the Outback.
Even by Australian standards, the Kimberley region is remote, with roughly 50,000 people living in an area larger than Germany. The area has long been largely off-limits to anyone without a yacht or the nerve to pilot a four-wheel drive through rocky riverbeds. Now luxury lodges have opened up the region to travelers willing to trade big bucks for land-based access to some spectacular spots. The Berkeley River Lodge, a 20-villa, fly-in complex, opened last spring on a sprawling Timor Sea beach. Kuri Bay, one of Australia's oldest pearl farms and accessible by seaplane, added a new resort with just three rooms on Camden Sound, a new marine park. Inland, the classic El Questro Homestead added bungalows overlooking the Chamberlain Gorge on a million acre preserve. From any of these spots you can go fishing for barramundi, hike to sacred rock art sites, and take tours to towering waterfalls or up croc-infested estuaries to spy on wallabies and jabirus. The catch? The region is loaded with iron, and mining companies will continue to go after it. TIM NEVILLE
20. Ningxia, China
Chinese wine? Take a sip.
Growing wine grapes in a desert isn't normally a formula for oenological excellence, but in the arid mountainous region of Ningxia, some 550 miles west of Beijing, the local government has reclaimed desert-like expanses, irrigated them profusely, planted them with cabernet sauvignon and merlot and started a campaign to transform this rugged backwater into China's answer to Bordeaux. The plan is already working. The French beverage giant Pernod Ricard has invested in the Helan Mountain brand, and LVMH -- the luxury group that owns some of the top Champagne houses in France -- is teaming with the region's oldest winery, Xi Xia King, to make sparkling wine. Numerous other wineries -- some with cut-and-paste French chateau architecture -- now operate in Ningxia, including Silver Heights and Helan Qingxue, which picked up top honors this year at the inaugural Ningxia Wine Awards. Red China is taking on a whole new meaning. SETH SHERWOOD
21. The Adirondacks, N.Y.
Backwoods New York is about to get more glam.
This pocket of upstate New York wilderness is increasingly drawing a downstate crowd. Take Camp Orenda, a luxury ''glamping'' site -- the first of its kind on the East Coast -- that opened last year. Guests lodge in canvas tents equipped with comfy queen-size beds, wood-burning stoves and an outdoor cedar shower. Meals cooked over an open flame include sophisticated fare like rosemary-infused pork chops with apple chutney. To get there, hop on one of the vintage trains that recently began running between Saratoga Springs and North Creek, which include fresh-to-order dining in domed rail cars. (A project to install another upscale rail line, linking New York City and Lake Placid, was recently proposed.) Finally, to find your way around the region, the state will roll out a handy new app, Path Through History, this spring. LIONEL BEEHNER
22. Oslo, Norway
A waterfront is stealing the Scandinavian spotlight.
With all the attention recently showered on its fellow Nordic capitals, it's been easy to overlook Oslo. But no longer. In an effort to embrace the city's proximity to the sea, the Fjord City development project is rejuvenating the city's waterfront, most recently (and impressively) on Tjuvholmen, or Thief Island. This is where the Astrup Fearnley Museum of Modern Art reopened in September in a spectacular new Renzo Piano-designed structure featuring sloping, sail-shaped glass roofs that nearly dip into the water. Next door, the cutting-edge facade and art-strewn interiors of the Thief, a new Design Hotel set to open this month, should fit right in with the arty neighborhood. Tjuvholmen is now also home to a pack of top-notch galleries and a new sculpture park with works from Anish Kapoor and Ellsworth Kelly. Elsewhere in the city, the restaurant Maaemo caught the food world's attention when, barely a year after opening, it earned two Michelin stars. More proof that Oslo is ready to shine. INGRID K. WILLIAMS
23. Constantia, South Africa
A vineyard-heavy suburb gets a makeover.
Some 20 minutes from the heart of Cape Town and set against the slopes of Table Mountain, Constantia's 10 winemaking farms dating back to 1685 lure visitors for tastings, dining, vineyard tours and spa treatments. Constantia's crown jewel -- the Steenberg Luxury Hotel, with the region's only golf course, oldest farm and buildings that are national monuments -- has had a makeover. Its lavish heritage suites have been renovated, and Bistro Sixteen82, with a Provenal menu and raw bar, has opened, as has Gorgeous, a bar serving canaps paired with Graham Beck sparkling wines. Other new routes to R & R in this serene suburb, where food-and-wine festivals and art shows dot the calendar, include the glamorous Alphen Boutique Hotel, a new spa in the Constantia Uitsig hotel and a tasting dinner at the Greenhouse overseen by the chef Peter Tempelhoff. BAZ DREISINGER
24. Lithuania
An overlooked beer destination in the Baltics.
The Old World is webbed with well-traveled beer trails in places like Belgium, Germany and the Czech Republic. But in the past few years, rumors have swirled about an overlooked historic beer trail in Lithuania. Centered around the town of Birzai, a town in the country's north, some 50 to 70 farmhouse breweries are producing earthy, unusual ales, often employing techniques not seen elsewhere, and fermented with types of brewing yeast that -- as the Canadian beer writer Martin Thibault has discovered -- appear to have different DNA from all other known strains. To get a taste of what the Lithuanian beer trail offers, sample the wares at specialty beer bars like Bambalyne, Alaus Namai and Snekutis in the capital, Vilnius. After that, the truly intrepid can seek out countryside breweries. EVAN RAIL
25. Burgos, Spain
An ancient city with a fresh face and culinary buzz.
Burgos, in Castile-Len, is home to a spired Gothic cathedral that is a Unesco World Heritage site. That striking building used to be the town's only compelling attraction, but in recent years Burgos has become a well-rounded destination with contemporary cultural centers (the Museum of Human Evolution) and boutique hotels (Via Gtica). At the same time a new group of talented chefs has given it a dynamic dining scene that is finally allowing the city, recently chosen as Spain's gastronomic capital for 2013, a chance to showcase its homegrown delicacies. Some of them, blood sausages with roasted peppers and grilled lechazo, or baby lamb, are on offer at Casa Ojeda, a 100-year-old restaurant now run by the young Pablo Cfreces. Recent openings like Fbula and La Galeria focus on innovative versions of these classics, which pair wonderfully with the powerful reds of nearby Ribera del Duero. PAOLA SINGER
26. Lens, France
Is the next Bilbao in northern France?
Lens, an industrial town in the Pas-de-Calais region of northern France, is aiming to become the next Bilbao. The first step in such a transformation happened last month, when a branch of the Louvre opened on what had been a former hilltop mine yard. The 50-acre site, which was abandoned in the 1960s, now has gardens and hangar-like exhibition spaces designed by the Japanese architectural firm Sanaa. The Lens Louvre will not have a permanent collection; it will instead host a rotating selection of 200 works from Paris spanning millenniums. Biannual exhibitions will complement shows at the Louvre in Paris. It is conceivable to take in both Louvres as part of a weekend: Lens is about an hour and 10 minutes from Paris on the TGV rail line. KATIE PARLA
27. Changbaishan, China
An Asian skiing spot gets supersized.
China's ski industry has come a long way since the mid-1990s, when the country had fewer than 10,000 skiers and only nine small resorts. That number has now risen to more than 200, one of the most ambitious of which is Changbaishan, which opened this winter in a pine-studded nature reserve in Jilin province near the North Korean border. The $3.2 billion resort is one of the largest in Asia, with 43 trails totaling nearly 20 miles, and has a partner in Starwood, which opened a Westin and Sheraton resort with more than 500 combined rooms there in July. There's even talk of starting up a Davos-style global entrepreneurs forum. JUSTIN BERGMAN
28. Porto, Portugal
Finally, places worthy of Porto's vintages -- at table wine prices.
Portugal's economic pain is your gain in Porto, one of Western Europe's great bargains. New boutique hotels and restaurants, like the Yeatman, dramatically perched above the Douro River featuring Porto's first Michelin-starred restaurant, have brought a fresh burnish to this Unesco-protected city where labyrinthine narrow streets, ancient buildings and black-cloaked students inspired a young English tutor who lived here in the early 1990s named J. K. Rowling. The financial downturn doesn't detract from the town's most prominent industry -- port wine -- which can be sampled in the cellars of Sandeman, Graham's or Taylor-Fladgate with a terraced restaurant, on the Douro's south bank. FINN-OLAF JONES
29. Puerto Rico
A spate of new hotels and restaurants animates the island.
The ease of traveling to Puerto Rico from the mainland United States (no passport or foreign currency) has made the island more a mainstream getaway than an exclusive haven. But a string of new resorts, some with a nod to the island's storied past in tourism, have opened in and around San Juan. The Condado Vanderbilt, a stately 1919-vintage hotel on the oceanfront in San Juan that had been closed since 1993, opened an upscale restaurant called 1919 in October. Its 323 rooms, spread between the historic building and two new towers, are expected to open by this summer. About 20 miles west of town, the Ritz-Carlton's new Dorado Beach opened last month with 115 rooms all facing the ocean, 11 miles of walking and biking trails, a spa with treehouse massage pavilions and a restaurant from the chef Jos Andrs. The hotel occupies the footprint of a hotel of the same name that was owned by a Rockefeller. Another resort that evokes the spirit of an earlier era is the 426-acre golf club Royal Isabela, which just opened 20 one-bedroom casitas, each with a private pool, offering nonmembers access to its restaurant and cliff-top golf. ELAINE GLUSAC
30. Koh Phangan, Thailand
A party island goes upscale and family-friendly.
For years, the island of Koh Phangan, in the Gulf of Thailand off Koh Samui, has been the site of Thailand's most notorious party, when thousands of hedonists let loose under a full moon. But with its first airport and direct flights from Bangkok slated for 2013, along with an increasing number of luxury- and family-friendly accommodations popping up, Koh Phangan's extended hangover is finally relenting. New hotels like the simple, stylish beachfront Buri Rasa; the all-villa tropical-chic hideaway Kupu Kupu; and the mod-Asian Anantara Rasananda are introducing more subdued travelers to Phangan's emerald-green rolling hills and aquamarine waters, which are teeming with marine life. There are Buddhist temples and hidden waterfalls to check out, along with feel-good options like the Canadian-run Yoga Studio and its vegan cafe. Try a seafood curry with your toes in the sand at the family-run Beachlounge, and have some homemade coconut ice cream. NAOMI LINDT
31. Kalpitiya, Sri Lanka
An Indian Ocean hideaway to visit before development descends.
Kalpitiya, a spit of land two hours north of Colombo that boasts one of Sri Lanka's least developed stretches of coastline, is flanked by the Indian Ocean on the west and the emerald green Puttalam Lagoon on the east. Now, before large resort developments at the peninsula's tip come to fruition, is the time to visit. Base yourself at Alankuda Beach, which from November through April is the launching point for dolphin and sperm whale watching expeditions; May brings wind and kite surfing. Dry land diversions include a 17th-century Dutch fort and the Shrine of St. Anne, Sri Lanka's oldest, as well as leopard, sloth bear and elephant spotting at nearby Wilpattu National Park. ROBYN ECKHARDT
32. Jackson Hole, Wyo.
Faster flights and lifts where the buffalo roam.
You no longer have to endure a stopover in Salt Lake City or Denver to get to the resort of Jackson Hole. United has introduced direct winter flights from Newark, San Francisco and Houston, and Delta is offering flights from Minneapolis. While the famed powder skiing beneath the Grand Tetons is now even more reachable after the completion of a five-year overhaul of its lift system, Jackson Hole has become an all-season destination, both for its pioneer Western setting and for its emergence as an international center for music and cultural festivals. There's also the new three-quarter-mile nature trail at the National Museum of Wildlife Art to compete with the real wildlife grazing in the surrounding plains of both Grand Teton and Yellowstone National Parks. FINN-OLAF JONES
33. Bangkok
Still the party city of Asia but for a more sophisticated crowd.
Forget red light district bars and half-a-star hostels. This Southeast Asian capital is experiencing a renaissance with a sophisticated vibe embodied in spots like the Siam Hotel, a fashionable 39-room property on the river opened by the pop star Krissada Sukosol Clapp, which offers kickboxing and cooking classes. New restaurants include Smith from one of the country's most celebrated chefs, Ian Kittichai, the latest to take on nose-to-tail dining. Drinking spots like Sky bar, 63 floors high, has a spectacular view of the city while the Bed Supperclub has international D.J.'s and a sexy crowd. Two Sofitel properties just opened; a W is planned for February. ONDINE COHANE
34. The Jeseniky, Czech Republic
Old World spa culture meets a budding ski scene.
This mountain range along the border with Poland has long been renowned for its crisp, clear air. At the spa town Karlova Studanka, founded in the late 18th century by Maximilian Franz, the youngest child of the Holy Roman empress Maria Theresa, all of the Swiss-chalet style buildings in the spa village hail from the 1850s to 1890s, and the mineral waters that run through it are said to cure all (people bring big water jugs to fill and take home). Vaclav Havel reportedly rented out an entire hotel on the premises to recover from surgery. But the area is not only for the infirm: New pools and saunas, treatments, and modern facilities draw Czechs from across the country. Add to that a smattering of newly popular ski mountains, and suddenly the Jeseniky Mountains are attracting Europeans who had never noticed this Eastern corner of the Czech Republic. SARAH WILDMAN
35. Waiheke, New Zealand
A homegrown art scene beckons from down under.
Long home to fine vineyards and numerous lodges and cottages, Waiheke, which is a short ferry ride from downtown Auckland, is embracing its bohemian side. The 35-square-mile island is now dotted with new shops and galleries that sell sculptures and paintings from the dozens of local artists. From Jan. 25 to Feb. 17, the island will host the Headland Sculpture on the Gulf biennial arts festival, which will include 30 new large-scale outdoor sculptures installed along a stunningly scenic coastal path. INGRID K. WILLIAMS
36. Yucatn, Mexico
Whew! More time for culture and comfort.
Inscriptions in the ancient Mayan calendar pointed to Dec. 21, 2012, as an ending. While a few alarmists read this as a sign of the apocalypse, many scholars interpreted it as symbolizing a new era. In strongholds of Mayan culture like the Yucatn Peninsula, home to Chichen Itza, Uxmal and other archaeological sites, the second view is the one with traction: officials there have planned a series of celebrations through March that include concerts, dance rituals, literary festivals and talks by renowned astronomers. The cultural immersion is spilling over onto the area's resorts. One of them, Hotel Esencia, a seaside lodging with 29 thatched palapas and an organic spa, is offering a three-day cleansing ritual called Kukulkan, where trained healers concoct personalized herbal baths. A quieter look at Mayan heritage is on hand at the new Museo Maya in Cancn, which has more than 300 relics and 10,000-year-old human remains from its permanent collection on display. PAOLA SINGER
37. Charlevoix, Quebec
A Cirque du Soleil fortune finances a train to the slopes.
Lovers of the outdoors have long embraced the Charlevoix region of rural Quebec, along the north shore of the St. Lawrence River, home to the ski resort Le Massif. Now they have a new way to get there and a new place to stay. Backed by Daniel Gauthier, a founder of Cirque du Soleil, Le Massif de Charlevoix train, whose 87-mile route goes between Quebec City and the town of La Malbaie, stops midway at the base of the ski mountain. Skiers can rack up their gear nearby in the artsy town of Baie-Saint-Paul at the new Htel La Ferme. The minimalist 145-room inn features a spa and farm-to-table restaurant on a public plaza near the new rail station. ELAINE GLUSAC
38. Pecs, Hungary
Cultures mesh in Hungary's ''borderless city.''
This Austro-Hungarian city, 125 miles south of Budapest and a stone's throw from the Croatian border, has always been at the intersection of Catholic, Muslim and Hungarian-Croatian cultures. Its narrow lanes are lined with buildings in myriad styles, from the Baroque designs of the 19th-century Habsburgs -- in pinks and yellows, dappled with carved ornamentation or covered in Hungarian tile -- to an Ottoman bathhouse and other remnants of the Turkish occupation. After being chosen as a 2010 European Culture Capital, the city underwent a growth spurt, with the opening of the modernist 1,000-seat Kodaly Concert Center and the sprawling Zsolnay Cultural Quarter, a venue for art, music and children's events in an overhauled porcelain factory. Everywhere, visitors will find buffed and burnished public squares awaiting them. SARAH WILDMAN
39. Republic of Congo
The other Congo, Africa's newest safari destination.
There are two Congos: the Democratic Republic of the Congo, formerly the Belgian Congo; and the much smaller Republic of the Congo, a former French colony that has managed to avoid some of the violent conflict of its neighbor. Still, the Republic of the Congo hasn't been on the top of anyone's travel list until recently, when the much respected Wilderness Safaris opened up the country's first two luxury safari camps in the Odzala-Kokoua National Park. African safari aficionados are thrilled at the prospect of comfortable designer digs in the heart of the Congo Basin, the world's second-largest tropical rain forest, home to forest elephants and Africa's densest population of western lowland gorillas. Another reason adventure travelers are heading to the country, according to a travel operator pioneer in the area, Leslie Nevison of Congo Wildlife Adventures, is to meet members of the indigenous B'Aka Pygmy tribes who often serve as gorilla trackers. ''It's not an easy trip but it's an incredible privilege to experience the Republic of the Congo's unique wildlife and cultural opportunities,'' she wrote in an e-mail. GISELA WILLIAMS
40. Ireland
The emerald isle reaches out with an ancestral celebration.
The former Celtic Tiger, pulling out all the stops this year to attract much-needed tourism dollars, is holding a family reunion on the grandest scale. A yearlong program called The Gathering hopes to draw many of the 70 million people worldwide who claim Irish ancestry. The program, which kicked off with a three-day New Year's party in Dublin replete with a procession, fireworks and a concert featuring the native headliners Imelda May and Bell X1, will go on to include clan gatherings, cultural festivals, sporting events and performances throughout the year and across the country. Meanwhile, Aer Lingus, United and American are all ramping up service between Ireland and the United States, home to over half of those global Irish descendants. CHARLY WILDER
41. Getaria, Spain
Fishing for design from a famed native son.
From San Sebastin, it's just a 25-minute drive, mostly along a gorgeously winding waterfront highway, to Getaria. For centuries, this fishing village was all about a quiet maritime life, with boats bobbing in the small port, and seaside restaurants grilling excellent fish (and becoming renowned among gastronomically picky Basques). For centuries, Getaria's most famous local son was the navigator Juan Sebastin Elcano, who sailed with Magellan and was the first to circumnavigate the globe in the early 16th century. But more recently, a local boy went out and became a fashion icon. After decades of squabbling over funding, the Cristbal Balenciaga Museum finally opened in summer 2011, drawing a sophisticated design set to Getaria's twisting medieval central streets, and filling its restaurants and hotels with travelers from Paris, Madrid and beyond. SARAH WILDMAN
42. Mergui Islands, Myanmar
Live-aboard diving in a remote archipelago.
With white sands, coconut trees and 800 mostly uninhabited islands, the Mergui Archipelago on the southern coast of Myanmar has been tantalizing travelers for decades -- sitting right there on the map but seemingly just out of reach. That's changing as the country takes baby steps toward democracy and the region becomes more accessible to tourists with a budget for live-aboard boat trips. Only a handful of companies are running trips to the Mergui islands right now, so expect all the clichs: lazing on deserted islands inhabited by a seminomadic population. John Williams, of Siam Dive N Sail is an old hand in the region and books a small number of trips to the archipelago each season on boats of various sizes. Another option is Sailing Yacht Asia, a private charter that can accommodate 10 people in a luxurious yacht with five staterooms. RUSS JUSKALIAN
43. The Falkland Islands
Despite tensions, development at Britain's most remote outpost.
Eight thousand miles from London, the Falkland Islands are a cold, rugged Galpagos-like spot swarming with penguins, seals, whales and other wildlife. Over the last few decades, though, politics has trumped nature: more than 30 years since the Falklands War, tensions remain high between Argentina and Britain, especially with vast oil reserves now being explored offshore.
The practical Falklanders, though, are moving on, breaking ground this year on a Falkland Islands Museum as part of an overhaul and expansion of the waterfront in the capital, Stanley, along with considering new air routes. The Malvina House Hotel, Stanley's largest, which doubled in size in 2010, has just expanded its harbor-view restaurant and will expand further to 70 rooms by early 2014. Come soon, though, as oil money rapidly transforms Stanley's ethnic, economic and social character, driving development in this tiny, eccentric village of about 2,000 year-round residents. MICHAEL T. LUONGO
44. Washington, D.C.
A new food scene to welcome a renewed administration.
In recent years, the capital has seen the arrival of a vibrant, independent food scene -- one that's blossoming just in time to welcome a renewed Obama administration. Last November, in a gritty northeast corner of town, Union Market opened, a gleaming food hall featuring local farmers, artisanal vendors and stalls like Rappahannock Oyster Co., which offers quick, luxurious bites of Chesapeake shellfish. Meanwhile a handful of talented young chefs is bucking the city's traditional steakhouse culture: Mike Isabella, a former Top Chef contestant, at his Italian restaurant Graffiato; Erik Bruner-Yang at the Taiwanese-style ramen bar Toki Underground; and Johnny Monis at Little Serow, a Thai-inspired spot that Bon Apptit named one of 2012's best new restaurants. Providing some background for it all is a new permanent exhibit at the Smithsonian, ''Food: Transforming America's Table 1950-2000,'' which traces major changes in the nation's food culture. ANN MAH
45. Casablanca, Morocco
A city of cinematic fame has emerged as an art destination.
Sorry Bogie and Bergman: for years travelers to Morocco have skipped the city you put on the map in their hurry to get to places like Marrakesh and Tangier, which offer guaranteed doses of exoticism. Now, though, young art- and architecture-loving Europeans are giving Casa, in local parlance, a second look. The city has become a superb open-air museum of 20th-century architecture -- don't miss the gorgeous Rialto movie theater, or the Twin Center, North Africa's tallest towers, designed by Ricardo Bofill; the group Casa Mmoire offers great guided architectural tours of the city. With edgy spots like Galerie FJ, the city is also developing one of the most interesting modern art scenes in the Arab world. And it's all more accessible following the opening of the first line of the city's new tramway system last month. ALEXANDER LOBRANO
46. Paris
Seine-side strolling, minus the traffic.
Paris is hardly an emerging destination, but it has a new allure: a green and walkable Right Bank. Where once there was just a busy road, there are now alder trees, native Seine grasses and wide walking and cycle paths, all due to a 35-million-euro beautification project led by Mayor Bertrand Delano. Wooden furniture to stretch out in has been installed along the banks, where visitors can relax while taking in the view of Notre Dame Cathedral, and five adjoining islands in the river are being turned into ''floating gardens.'' Across the river, ambitious steps are being taken to transform a nearly 1.5-mile stretch of the Left Bank free of cars by this spring, with 11 acres of new green space between the Muse d'Orsay and Pont de l'Alma. RACHEL B. DOYLE

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: TOP: Rio de Janeiro is adding cultural luster. ABOVE: Accra, Ghana. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRISTOPHE SIMON/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE--GETTY IMAGES
JANE HAHN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (TR3)
Uchi, a popular sushi restaurant, is part of a booming dining scene in Houston. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT DALTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (TR4)
TOP: The Dedon Island resort on Siargao, Philippines. ABOVE: Silver Heights winery in the mountainous Ningxia region of China. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JES AZNAR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
QILAL SHEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
''Autumn Harvest'' garden at the 25-acre Gardens by the Bay nature reserve in Singapore. (PHOTOGRAPH BY THEN CHIH WEY/XINHUA, VIA NEWSCOM) (TR8)
TOP: Interest in Burgos, Spain, has gone beyond its cathedral. ABOVE: A branch of the Louvre has opened in Lens, France. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GUILLERMO CERVERA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
YOAN VALAT/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)
Porto, Portugal, is known for port wine, but all the charms, including the port itself is a bargain these days. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GRAHAM LAWRENCE/ROBERT HARDING, VIA NEWSCOM) (TR9)
ABOVE: Mergui Archipelago, Myanmar. RIGHT: Union Market, in Washington. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ETHAN DANIELS/OCEANSTOCKIMAGES.COM
DOUGLAS GRAHAM/CQ ROLL CALL--GETTY IMAGES)
 A guest room at the Ngaga Camp in Odzala Kokoua-National Park in the Republic of Congo. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW HOWARD/WILDERNESS SAFARIS) (TR10) GRAPHICS: Escape from New York City: The year has just begun, but many are already making travel plans. Below, an analysis of all searches for airfare from New York City made in the first three days of 2013 on the Web site KAYAK.com. (Source: KAYAK.com) (TR4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (89%); EXHIBITIONS (88%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (77%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); THEATER (77%); SOCCER (77%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (76%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (75%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (75%); FASHION DESIGNERS (74%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (72%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (65%); OLYMPICS (57%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (54%); TOBACCO MFG (50%); RELIGION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); CASTILE AND LEON, SPAIN (79%); NINGXIA, CHINA (58%) BRAZIL (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); GHANA (92%); MEDITERRANEAN (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); FRANCE (79%); COLOMBIA (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); CHINA (79%); EUROPE (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); SPAIN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2013



410 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; A SYSTEM DIVIDED; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3682 words

HEADLINE: Gifted, Talented and Separated

BYLINE: By AL BAKER

 BODY:
IT is just a metal door with three windows, the kind meant to keep the clamor of an elementary school hallway from piercing a classroom's quiet. Other than paint the color of bubble gum, it is unremarkable.
But the pink door on Room 311 at Public School 163 on the Upper West Side represents a barrier belied by its friendly hue. On one side are 21 fourth graders labeled gifted and talented by New York City's school system. They are coursing through public school careers stamped accelerated.
And they are mostly white.
On the other side, sometimes sitting for reading lessons on the floor of the hallway, are those in the school's vast majority: They are enrolled in general or special education programs. 
They are mostly children of color.
''I know what we look like,'' Carolyn M. Weinberg, a 28-year veteran of P.S. 163, said of the racial disparities as she stood one day in the third-floor hallway between Room 318, where she and a colleague teach a fourth-grade general education class, and the one where Angelo Monserrate teaches the gifted class, Room 311.
''I know what you see,'' said Ms. Weinberg.
There are 652 students enrolled at P.S. 163 this year, from prekindergarten through fifth grade. Roughly 63 percent of them are black and Hispanic; whites make up 27 percent; and Asians account for 6 percent.
This reflects the flavor of the neighborhood, and roughly matches the New York City school system's overall demographics.
Yet in P.S. 163's gifted classes, the racial dynamics of the neighborhood, the school itself and the school system are turned upside down.
Of the 205 children enrolled in the nine gifted classes, 97, or 47 percent, are white; another 31 of the students, or 15 percent, are Asian. And a combined 65 students, or 32 percent, are black and Hispanic.
In the 21 other classes that enroll the school's remaining 447 students, only 80, or 18 percent, are white.
The disparities are most apparent in the lower grades.
Of the 24 students in Karen Engler's kindergarten gifted class, one is black and three are Hispanic. Ayelet Cutler's first-grade gifted class has 21 students, one of them black and two Hispanic. There are two blacks and two Hispanics among the 26 students in Athena Shapiro's second-grade gifted class.
On a recent morning, a line of Ms. Cutler's students moved from the classroom to the corridor, ahead of the general education class of Linda Crews. A string of mostly white faces and then a line of mostly black and Hispanic ones walked down the hall of a school named for a New York politician who sought to end inequities in education: Alfred E. Smith.
It was 11:25 a.m., and the classes wound their way to the cafeteria, a cavernous room at the school's western edge. Once there, the children sat with those in their own class, each one at a separate long white table that, for a moment, froze the divisions.
For critics of New York City's gifted and talented programs, that image crystallizes what they say is a flawed system that reinforces racial separation in the city's schools and contributes to disparities in achievement.
They contend that gifted admissions standards favor middle-class children, many of them white or Asian, over black and Hispanic children who might have equal promise, and that the programs create castes within schools, one offered an education that is enriched and accelerated, the other getting a bare-bones version of the material. Because they are often embedded within larger schools, the programs bolster a false vision of diversity, these critics say, while reinforcing the negative stereotypes of class and race.
Despite months of repeated requests, the city's Education Department would not provide racial breakdowns of gifted and talented programs and the schools that house them. But the programs tend to be in wealthier districts whose populations have fewer black and Hispanic children, and far more children qualify for them in affluent districts than in poorer ones.
In District 3, which stretches for 63 blocks along Manhattan's Upper West Side and includes P.S. 163, there are five gifted programs for elementary school children, including the Anderson School, one of five citywide programs.
Farther north, for all of Districts 5 and 6, which are poorer and more heavily black and Hispanic, there are just two programs.
And though programs are clustered in affluent neighborhoods around Prospect Park, Brooklyn, and in northeastern Queens, the accelerated classes are absent from broad swaths of central Brooklyn and southeast Queens, where more families are poor and black or Hispanic.
In District 7, in the South Bronx, there is not a single gifted program. The area, dominated by Hispanic and black residents, is among the poorest in the nation, with many people living below the official federal poverty mark.
James H. Borland, a professor of education at Teachers College, said that looking at the gifted landscape in New York City suggests that one of two things must be true: either black and Hispanic children are less likely to be gifted, or there is something wrong with the way the city selects children for those programs.
''It is well known in the education community that standardized tests advantage children from wealthier families and disadvantage children from poorer families,'' Dr. Borland said.
And the city's efforts to fix the system seem to have only made it worse.
Until recently, each of the city's 32 school districts could establish the classes as it saw fit and determine its own criteria for admission. They varied, but educators often took a holistic approach; they looked at evaluations from teachers and classroom observations, relying on tests only in part, by comparing the results of students from within a district.
That changed in September 2008, when the Bloomberg administration ushered in admission based only on a cutoff score on two high-stakes tests given in one sitting -- the Otis-Lennon School Ability Test, or Olsat, and the Bracken School Readiness Assessment.
The overhaul was meant to standardize the admissions process and make it fairer. But the new tests decreased diversity, with children from the poorest districts offered a smaller share of kindergarten gifted slots after those were introduced, while pupils in the wealthiest districts got more.
For the 2012-13 school year, 4,912 children qualified for gifted programs. The more affluent districts -- 2 and 3 in Manhattan, 20 and 22 in Brooklyn, and 25 and 28 in Queens -- had the most students qualify: 949 in District 2, which takes in Lower Manhattan and the Upper East Side, and 505 in District 3.
Some districts in poor and predominately black and Hispanic districts had too few qualifiers to fill a single class: in District 7, only six children qualified for gifted placements, and none for the most exclusive schools, like the Anderson School, which requires a score at or above the 97 percentile.
The number of classes over all fell sharply.
This year, the department changed the process again, substituting a new test known as the Naglieri Nonverbal Ability Test -- Second Edition, or NNAT2, for the Bracken exam. This is what children competing for placements next year started facing this month, in tests that began on Jan. 7.
Shael Polakow-Suransky, the city's chief academic officer, said data showed that a ''more diverse range of kids'' excelled on the new test because it was less rooted in test preparation and would allow educators to more accurately identify gifted pupils.
But focusing on the gifted classrooms is missing the point, Mr. Polakow-Suransky said. Though it is worthy to debate whether the ''world of G.&T.'' is diverse enough, he said, the administration's ''equity agenda'' is much broader: It seeks to improve the quality of education and close achievement gaps across the entire school system.
''We are not a system that is purely focused on running a good G.&T. program,'' Mr. Polakow-Suransky said. ''We are a system that is focused on dramatically shifting educational opportunities for, particularly, kids of color and kids from high-poverty neighborhoods who have historically in this city been deeply neglected.''
But the accelerated classrooms serve as pipelines to the city's highest-achievement middle schools and high schools, creating a cycle in which students who start out ahead get even further advantages from the city's schools.
And the numbers of black and Hispanic students who make it into the city's specialized high schools, long seen as its flagship institutions, have declined significantly over recent decades. Though about 70 percent of city students are black or Hispanic, from 2006 to 2012 the two groups, combined, were offered only about 15 percent of the seats at the specialized high schools, according to the Education Department.
''I don't think the fact that G.&T. programs are clearly and disproportionately white, and are so lacking, given the size of the population, in black and Latino students is the result of anyone's bad intentions,'' said Ellis Cose, a parent of a child who attends a gifted and talented program at P.S. 163. Mr. Cose is the author of ''The End of Anger'' (2011), which explores the issues of race and generational change.
''I think it is really the result of people committed to a system that can never work if the objective is diversity,'' he said.
''The only way it even conceivably can work is to give young poor kids the same sort of boost up that young affluent kids get, which is to make sure these kids get an excellent preschool education, make sure these kids get tutoring, make sure these parents know at what time in the circuit they are supposed to prepare their kids for what. And that is taking on a much larger task than tinkering with a test.''
THE idea of gifted education has drifted in and out of vogue in American schools. It was elevated in the 1950s, when educators and lawmakers pushed gifted programs in math and science amid fears about communism's rise. It waned in the 1960s but re-emerged with a White House task force on giftedness and the signing of several federal bills in the 1970s that recognized gifted children's needs.
Urban districts were seen as using the programs to help prevent white flight from the schools, in essence offering a system within the system that was white-majority and focused on achievement. ''There have been claims that gifted education resegregates the public schools,'' Dr. Borland said.
''Certainly there was concern with keeping middle-class families involved in public schools, and to the extent that we use tests to select kids for gifted programs, that tends to skew the programs toward children from wealthier, white families,'' he added.
At P.S. 163, gifted classrooms date to at least the late 1980s.
Children take different pathways to the school's classrooms. For general education students, the school is open to those who live in the neighborhood zone, a U-shape area that stretches roughly from West 96th to West 102nd Streets, between Central Park West and just west of Broadway. It captures brownstones and co-ops with park views as well part of the massive Frederick Douglass Houses, a public housing complex whose 20-story towers rise between West 100th and West 104th Streets east of Amsterdam Avenue.
Students from within District 3 whose combined scores on the gifted tests were in the 90th percentile or above can list P.S. 163's gifted program as one they would prefer to attend. The central office then assigns them to one of their chosen schools. Another choice is the school's dual-language program, which fosters bilingual learning among students who are split roughly 50-50, according to Spanish or English dominance. Students enter by choice, though priority is given to those in the neighborhood.
In the spring of 2004, P.S. 163's principal at the time, Virginia M. Pepe, helped create her own assessment of a subgroup of prekindergarten students for placement in the next year's kindergarten gifted program.
With one eye on the need for diversity and another on the need for objectivity, Dr. Pepe developed some cognitive tasks, like sorting objects, and mixed in an early childhood preliteracy assessment and an assessment of language. Kindergarten gifted teachers also observed the children.
It was a ''balancing act'' that year, to find the right mix of students for the new kindergarten gifted programs, she said. An aid in diversifying that program, which lasted just one year, was a policy from the central office that allowed families from districts north of the school -- Districts 5 and 6, for instance -- to send their children to P.S. 163's gifted program if they chose to and if seats were available.
''Those districts did not have gifted and talented programs at the time,'' Dr. Pepe said.
''Families that were Caucasian liked us because we offered more diversity, and multiracial families liked us because they thought their children would have opportunities to be in a more diverse setting, and African-American families from up in District 5 appreciated us because they were closer to home.''
In 2007, though, the Education Department stopped allowing out-of-district children to attend (a policy it has now reversed for the 2013-14 school year); the following year, it went to the testing-only admission policy. And that ''slowed things down'' in diversifying the gifted-and-talented program, said Nia Mason, an art teacher who began teaching at the school in 1988.
''The diversity changed overnight when they put that test in,'' Ms. Mason said.
IF P.S. 163 has little control over admission to the gifted programs or who ultimately gets seated, it does control what happens in its classrooms. According to the current principal, Donny R. Lopez, the school's leadership does its best to foster mingling between students in the gifted classes and others.
One day, half the students from Keira A. Dillon's fifth-grade gifted class mixed with half the students from Robyn Lindner's fifth-grade general education class and headed to the auditorium for a program run by the National Dance Institute.
There, onstage, the pupils from the two classes giggled and moved self-consciously as they followed the directions of Bianca Johnson, a teaching artist and choreographer.
At one point, when Ms. Johnson held up a photo of a man's face and asked for his name, it was Jamal Brown, a boy from the general education class, who identified him as Jacques d'Amboise, the founder of the National Dance Institute.
Some teachers at P. S. 163 use the word ''enriched,'' rather than ''accelerated,'' to describe the academics of the gifted programs.
Ms. Dillon said that even within gifted classes there was a spectrum of ability, and that she commonly arranged pupils into small groups, according to their abilities, for reading, writing, math and the like.
This fall, in studying the branches of the federal government, about a third of her students understood that some concepts of power also extended to the states and that there was an interplay between state and federal powers.
''The general education students might not have all covered this topic,'' said Ms. Dillon, whose class is more diverse than most of the gifted and talented rooms, with five black and eight Hispanic children among the 26 students.
Sara K. Bloch's triplets are all in different programs at the school. Leon is in Ms. Dillon's gifted class; Jason is in general education; and Felix is in what is known as an integrated co-teaching class, which mixes special education students with general education children like Felix. ''To be completely honest, we feel that this class is probably similar to a regular fifth-grade class,'' she said on the day she visited Leon in Ms. Dillon's class. ''Math is the same; all three -- they have the same book.''
But Leon does seem to be pushed harder, Ms. Bloch said. He is asked to think of things in complex ways, not just to memorize dates of the American Revolution or names like John Adams, for instance, but also to understand relationships between events and people, or to explain possible motives or forces behind certain events, like the Boston Tea Party. She also said that the relationship between the parents and the teachers was more intense at the gifted level, with an expectation of parent involvement and connectedness.
''There is none of that in the other classes,'' Ms. Bloch said.
In her experience in teaching those who teach gifted children in New York City's public schools, Christy T. Folsom, a professor at Lehman College and a former board member of Advocacy for Gifted and Talented Education in New York State, said gifted children got a ''much deeper experience and, in some cases, more advanced curriculum.''
''In the gifted classrooms that I've been in, the majority of kids are reading at grade level or beyond, and they can write well, and then so much time is not spent on basic skills so they can spend more time on content and on comparing historical eras,'' Professor Folsom said. ''They are then able to do the more deep thinking work because less time has to be spent on the fundamental skills.''
WHY parents embrace or reject public schools is a complicated equation.
At P.S. 163, several parents and teachers wondered whether white parents would stay if not for the gifted classes.
''You don't see any white kids in the general education classes,'' said one parent of a student in a dual-language class, who requested anonymity for fear of reprisals. ''You might see one or two, but I don't see any white families coming to register their children for general education. They come straight to gifted and talented.''
''I guess it is a question of, 'How much diversity do you feel comfortable with?' '' said the parent of one child in the gifted program, who did not want to be identified for fear of animosity from other parents. ''Do I want him to be the only white kid in an all-black school? No. Would I like it if the racial mix was more proportionate? Yes, whatever the percentage of the makeup. That's an honest answer, from my soul. Is it hypocritical for parents to say, 'We're sending our kids to public school,' but they're sending them to an all-white gifted and talented program? But it's not our fault. We want the best for our children.''
Carrie C. Reynolds, a co-president of the PTA, said parents seemed to be basing choices not on race but on the academic environment and on socioeconomic factors.
''If you were upper income, well educated, you want your kid to have a more enriched education,'' she said. ''I think it is more economics than race. They tend to go hand-in-hand in New York City, but I certainly know families that have made a different choice, that are here at this school, that are white and are not in gifted and talented.''
But one afternoon at the school, Ms. Lindner, the fifth-grade teacher, said she was ''always surprised'' when she saw more than two or three white children in her general education classes.
As a parent herself, and a resident of Manhattan's Upper East Side, she said, ''there's no way I'd put my kid in a general-education class here, no way, because it's right next to the project and all the kids in general education come from the projects.''
She said her experience was that many of the children in her general education classes were at grade level or below and did not get the same support from their parents that the children in the gifted classes got. ''They're tougher kids,'' she said of the general education students in the school. ''They're very street-savvy. They don't have the background; their parents are hard on them but don't know what to do with them.''
Andi Velasquez, who as the school's parent coordinator has helped lead tours of the school for prospective parents over the last two years, said she had occasionally heard very ''vocal'' parents expressing surprise in seeing even a few black and Hispanic children in a gifted class.
''They say, 'It has too many minorities to be a G&T class; that can't be a G&T class,' '' said Ms. Velasquez, 48, who is white and is married to a Hispanic man from Colombia, and whose two children attended the dual-language program at P.S. 87.
''And I say, 'We're proud of that,' '' she said. ''And those are the parents that haven't come in the past.''
SANDRA M. ECHOLS, 46, a single mother who is black, has sent all three of her children to the gifted classes at P.S. 163, beginning with her oldest son who, in 1998, when he was entering fourth grade, gained admission to the program.
''It is an elitist program,'' Ms. Echols said. ''They don't advertise it the way it should be advertised, but I'm glad I was savvy enough to navigate the system and give my children what they need.''
She remembers taking her oldest son to his middle-school gifted program and being mistaken for ''the nanny.''
Her daughter got into the P.S. 163 program for kindergarten and was one of only two black girls in the class until second grade, when the other girl moved away, leaving her as the sole black child.
Now, Ms. Echols's youngest son, Kenyan, 10, is in the fifth-grade gifted and talented class taught by Ms. Dillon.
Ms. Echols recounted her story while standing in Kenyan's class one morning in the fall, when Ms. Dillon had invited parents to a ''publishing party'' to celebrate essays the children had written and edited.
''This class is the most diverse gifted and talented class I've seen,'' said Ms. Echols, as other parents and children swirled around her.
She said that now her son was ''best buds'' with Lucas Pulsifer, who is white, and Nicholas Urena, who is Hispanic, and that they often arranged weekend play dates. ''They represent what New York City is all about: a truly diverse melting pot.''
Minutes later, the party over, the parents began trickling out. Ms. Echols walked out with Lucas's mother, Anna.
''We're going to get coffee now,'' she said, her arm hooked around the white woman's elbow.
A System Divided: This is the fourth and final article in a series examining the racial distribution of students in New York City's public schools and its impact on their opportunities and achievements.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: DISPARITY: Above, Angelo Monserrate's fourth-grade gifted class at Public School 163. Carolyn Weinberg's fourth-grade general-education class, at left, is across the hall. (MB1)
BARRIERS: A general education class lined up outside a gifted class. Black and Hispanic students are 63 percent of the school but only a third of gifted classes.
CHOICES: Carrie C. Reynolds, right, co-president of P.S. 163's parents' group.
The city would not release citywide racial breakdowns of individual gifted classes. But at P.S. 163 on the Upper West Side, gifted classes tend to separate whites and Asians from blacks and Hispanics. (MB4)
DIVERSITY: The fifth-graders Nia Mason is instructing in art, above, are general education students and a gifted class. Sara K. Bloch's triplets, including Leon, far left, and Felix, are in three different fifthgrade classes.
TOGETHER: A dance class with students from gifted and general programs. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVE SANDERS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB5) GRAPHICS: A Racial Gap: The city started using tests as the main determinant of entry to gifted programs in 2008. Since 2009, the number of schools offering such classes has fallen, especially in minority areas of the city like central Brooklyn, southeast Queens and the Bronx.
 Students by racial-ethnic group, Oct. 5, 2012, P.S. 163, gifted classes highlighted (Source: New York City Department of Education) (GRAPHICS BY FORD FESSENDEN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); GIFTED EDUCATION (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (86%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (76%); SPECIAL EDUCATION (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK CITY DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2013



411 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1460 words

HEADLINE: The Man Who's Been Everywhere, Except These Places

BYLINE: By PAUL THEROUX. 
PAUL THEROUX is the author most recently of ''The Lower River.'' His new book of African travels, ''The Last Train to Zona Verde,'' will be published in April by Houghton Mifflin Harcourt.

 BODY:
WE travel for pleasure, for a door-slamming sense of ''I'm outta here,'' for a change of air, for edification, for the big vulgar boast of being distant, for the possibility of being transformed, for the voyeuristic romance of gawping at the exotic; and sometimes we travel because we have been banished. I was banished once, and it fortified me.
In the stifling, non-air-conditioned lecture halls of 1960s Singapore, where I was an underpaid university lecturer, one of the texts I taught was Shakespeare's ''Coriolanus.'' This play kept me upbeat and provided a bracing antidote to the sneering presumptions (''Get a haircut,'' ''Stop smoking ganja,'' ''You're a hippie'') that prevailed in the tiny xenophobic (as it was then) island.
The Roman general, Coriolanus, is bold but unappreciated, an elitist you might say, a patrician who speaks his mind so robustly he is banished from Rome. Far from being fazed, he denounces the mob saying, ''... thus I turn my back:/There is a world elsewhere.'' 
That became my watchword in the tiny city-state that disapproved of me. Had I a coat of arms and an escutcheon, one of my heraldic elements would be that motto. After my three-year contract wasn't renewed I left, and kept going.
''You've been everywhere,'' people say to me, but that's a laugh. My wish list of places is not only long but, in many cases, blindingly obvious. Yes, I have been to Patagonia and Congo and Sikkim, but I haven't been to the most scenic American states, never to Alaska, Montana, Idaho or the Dakotas, and I've had only the merest glimpse of Kansas and Iowa. I want to see them, not flying in but traveling slowly on the ground, keeping to back roads, and defying the general rule of ''Never eat at a place called Mom's, never play cards with a man called Doc ...''
Nothing to me has more excitement in it than the experience of rising early in the morning in my own house and getting into my car and driving away on a long, meandering trip through North America. Not much on earth can beat it in travel for a sense of freedom -- no pat-down, no passport, no airport muddle, just revving an engine and then ''Eat my dust.'' The long, improvisational road trip by car is quintessentially American. Scott and Zelda Fitzgerald took just such a trip in a 1918 Marmon roadster, from Connecticut to Alabama in 1920, three months after their marriage. Scott wrote a jaunty account of it, ''The Cruise of the Rolling Junk,'' recently republished as a short book.
Many other roadies followed: Henry Miller in ''The Air-Conditioned Nightmare''; John Steinbeck, who interestingly fudged and fictionalized some of ''Travels with Charley'' (see the online book ''Dogging Steinbeck'' by Bill Steigerwald); Jack Kerouac (a bit more fictional fudge); William Least Heat-Moon in ''Blue Highways''; and many others. The road trips Nabokov took all over America with his wife at the wheel, seeking butterflies, resulted in ''Lolita,'' a novel that is also incidentally a road trip. We have the best roads in the world, and it is not news to anyone that such roads are a liberation.
Last fall, with time on my hands, I set off from home and made a great 4,300-mile sweep in my own car on the back roads of the Deep South: all of it new to me. This was a road trip of discovery so enlightening and so pleasurable, so full of happy and dramatic encounters, that I intend to repeat it as soon as I can, but widening my itinerary, delving deeper. (By the way, my gas and oil bill for those miles was around $1,000.)
My Deep South road trip is just part of my wish list. Places I have not been, that I would love to go to in my car include a trip north, starting in Cape Cod and taking in Quebec, and continuing until I run out of road, then turning west, seeing the rest of Canada, land of my fathers. I have seen only a small bit of it, but the rest of it beckons, the very names: Great Slave Lake, Yellowknife, Moose Jaw, down through Alaska -- months of it, maybe a year, and why not?
I think of that as the Cold World, the elsewhere I have generally avoided. But I am a cross-country skier and kayaker, and am eager one day to paddle or ski in Greenland and Iceland. I have never seen either place, nor have I touched down in any part of Scandinavia. I imagine skiing in Lapland (with the possibility of seeing the northern lights), listening to the preposterous and euphonious language that is Finnish, journeying through Sweden, and poaching myself in a sauna. Scandinavia has always seemed so easy to get to that I have saved it in my mind, while concentrating on the less accessible -- and rather trying places -- like Turkmenistan and Assam and Angola.
There is also in my mind the joyful notion of studying something useful in a far-off place; a transformational residence somewhere distant, and pleasant, to learn a skill, or feed my mind, is a travel idea that animates me. I would love to take a cooking course in Italy, or a six-week Spanish-language-improvement holiday in Mexico or the Dominican Republic, or go on a yoga retreat in an ashram in India: a trip to learn to do one thing well.
I have never been to Bhutan, and would love to go, for its architecture and its ancient pieties, and to verify its Gross National Happiness Index. I have friends in the Seychelles I've never visited, and would like to see. Apart from the writings of Paul Bowles and Tahir Shah, and the tagine I've had in restaurants, I don't know much about Morocco. I would be an absolute beginner in Yemen, Madagascar and Tasmania, which are on my list. In one travel fantasy I am riding a bike for weeks through a big, flattish country -- Australia, perhaps, or South China. In another dream I am on a Ski-Doo in Antarctica, a place I have read about since childhood and never visited.
The ultimate travel fantasies are, of course, unattainable. William S. Burroughs said in the 1950s, ''What I want for dinner is a bass fished in Lake Huron in 1920.'' In that spirit, I'd like to spend a Sunday in the West Medford of 1951, play bocce with my grandfather and eat some of my grandmother Angelina's tortellini; I want to revisit the jolly bazaars of the Peshawar of 1973, the hopeful Nyasaland of 1964, the bike-riding China of 1980 (no private cars on the empty roads), and while I'm at it, I would like to return to the Borneo of the 1960s and again climb Mount Kinabalu.
I have not seen much of the Caribbean, but would love to, not for the beaches but to look for the sites and sources of pre-Columbian Taino culture. I have never been to the Baltic states, which seem to me independent, and sturdy, and proud, and hospitable. I have been to Bali a number of times, the first in 1969 when it was a fairly innocent island; but not to its nearest neighbor Lombok, or to schismatic Timor. On that trip I would include a visit to the vast green underpopulated province of Irian Jaya in West Papua, which is still thinly visited.
More than 20 years ago I traveled through the western Pacific, a folding kayak in my luggage, for the trip I recounted in ''The Happy Isles of Oceania.'' But a map of the Pacific is like a night sky of islands. There are close to 1,000 islands in the Solomons; I paddled around six. I would like to see others, and especially to know how the Internet has affected them. On that long Pacific jaunt of the future (I'd bring a kayak again) I would include New Caledonia, which is still a French territory, the atolls of Kiribati and the outlying islands of Vanuatu I hadn't seen on my first trip. I'd also want to see the tree fern carvers of Ambrym, the canoe makers of Malekula and the kava drinkers of Espiritu Santo. Onward I'd go to the dive and snorkeling destinations of Palau and Pohnpei and Yap before rounding off this nesomanic trip on the island of Sakhalin, chronicled by Chekhov at a time when it was a penal colony. More recently it has flourished in an economy driven by an oil boom.
Ibn Battuta traveled for 29 years and followed a maxim: ''Never take the same road twice.'' But it is not great advice. A return journey is often a thrill, as it was for me in the now-peaceful Vietnam and a blossoming Costa Rica and the joyful noise of my 50th high school reunion. There are many places I've seen that I would gladly revisit, in the spirit of ''How Are Things in Glocca Morra?''
This wish list is not exhaustive. I have not mentioned the parts of Italy I've only heard about, the remote parts of Turkey that beckon, the Galpagos, which I've never been closer to than pages in Darwin's ''Voyage of the Beagle.'' I am a native New Englander and have never been to Aroostook County, Maine's largest county, or climbed Katahdin or seen Niagara Falls. And more, many more places. I glance over this list and think: Man, I haven't been anywhere.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%); SIKKIM, INDIA (74%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); INDIA (74%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2013



412 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 960 words

HEADLINE: Female Directors Gain Ground, Slowly

BYLINE: By CARRIE RICKEY

 BODY:
FOR those rooting for women to make strides in Hollywood the news that Brenda Chapman, a screenwriter and director of ''Brave,'' had been replaced at the helm midway through production of that animated film about the flame-haired archer came as a blow last year. The happy ending is that the movie on which Ms. Chapman shares directing credit (with Mark Andrews) ranks eighth at the box office in 2012.
Even happier: 9 percent of the top 250 movies at the domestic box office last year were made by female directors. That's substantially higher than the 2011 figure of 5 percent. Martha Lauzen -- the San Diego State University professor whose annual Celluloid Ceiling report tracks the employment of women in the movie industry -- said the 2012 figure was the highest since 2000, when 11 percent were made by female directors. (The percentages were based on the year's top 250 films according to boxofficemojo.com. In cases involving more than one director, as with ''Brave,'' ''Ruby Sparks'' and other films, a third or half proportion was assigned.) 
The storyteller's gender matters. When more than nine-tenths of movies are made from the male perspective, said B. Ruby Rich, the film critic and professor at University of California, Santa Cruz, ''it unconsciously reinforces the invisibility of women.'' A 2011 University of Southern California study examining the top 100 box office releases between 2007 and 2009 found that in films directed by men, 29 percent of the characters were female; in those by women 48 percent of the characters were.
A scan of the 2012 films by women shows a broad spectrum of genres and styles. There are fact-based thrillers by veteran directors like Kathryn Bigelow (''Zero Dark Thirty'') and Agnieszka Holland (''In Darkness''). There are off-center comedies by rookies like Jennifer Westfeldt (''Friends With Kids'') and Lorene Scafaria (''Seeking a Friend for the End of the World''). There is the faith-based ''Woman Thou Art Loosed: On the Seventh Day,'' Neema Barnette's redemption story of a family in crisis.
Not only are the subjects diverse, so too are the directors. The majority hail from North America, including Mexico-born Patricia Riggen, maker of ''Girl in Progress,'' a coming-of-age-comedy, and the Canadian Sarah Polley, whose ''Take This Waltz'' explored romance both inside and outside marriage. Two are from France: Julie Delpy, director of the raucous family comedy ''2 Days in New York,'' and Lorraine Levy, director of ''The Other Son,'' a sober parable of tolerance about a Palestinian and an Israeli youth switched at birth. The Lebanese filmmaker Nadine Labaki made a comic parable of tolerance, ''Where Do We Go Now?,'' mediating conflicts between Christian and Muslim characters.
That two of the films directed by women -- Reema Kagti's thriller ''Talaash,'' and Gauri Shinde's marital comedy ''English Vinglish'' -- reached the United States from India indicates the growing South Asian population here and its appetite for Hindi-language cinema. ''The market for Indian films in the U.S. has doubled in the past five years,'' said Len Klady, box office analyst for moviecitynews.com. And not just for Hindi-language films, he added. ''More Telugu, Tamil and Punjabi films are being shown.''
Another two movies from female directors are historical vignettes from Britain. Madonna's ''W.E.'' dramatizes the story of King Edward VIII and Wallis Simpson, for whom the royal abdicated the throne. Tanya Wexler's ''Hysteria'' is present at the creation of Mortimer Granville's invention of the vibrator.
Of the 26 movies on which women have directorial credit, 4 are documentaries, historically a point of entry for women in film. Women represented 39 percent of the directors of documentaries compared with 5 percent on narrative features, Ms. Lauzen noted. The 2012 documentaries include ''Ai Weiwei: Never Sorry,'' Alison Klayman's engaging portrait of the Chinese dissident artist; ''The Queen of Versailles,'' Lauren Greenfield's riches-to-rags account of the billionaires whose palace is a casualty of the economic crisis; and ''Diana Vreeland: The Eye Has to Travel,'' Lisa Immordino Vreeland's profile of her husband's grandmother, the influential fashionista and magazine editor.
Eight of the films are relationship comedies and dramas, a genre where female filmmakers traditionally have enjoyed success. Among them are ''The Guilt Trip,'' Anne Fletcher's comedy about mother-son bonding on a cross-country odyssey, and ''Ruby Sparks,'' directed by Valerie Faris and Jonathan Dayton, about a writer besotted with his female protagonist. Also in this category is ''Your Sister's Sister,'' Lynn Shelton's anxious comedy about siblings differently entangled with a weekend guest.
This month Ms. Shelton will travel with her latest film, ''Touchy-Feely,'' to the Sundance Film Festival. Of the 16 films in the dramatic competition there, 8 are by women, another optimistic statistic for the new year.
While Ms. Lauzen credits Sundance ''for making an effort in approaching the selection process with an eye to diversity,'' she is not entirely upbeat. Having analyzed the statistics for 20 years, ''the numbers for women filmmakers have been remarkably stable and reflect that this is an entrenched industry,'' Ms. Lauzen said.
Anne Thompson, editor in chief of Thompson on Hollywood on Indiewire.com, noted, ''The positive things for women directors are happening at the indie level, for the Lynn Sheltons of the world, where the barriers of entry are low.''
At the studio level, Ms. Thompson added, ''the death of Nora Ephron was a huge blow.'' Mourning the loss of that high-profile writer-director, she noted how few female filmmakers there are at the majors, and added, ''Thank God for Nancy Meyers.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Among directors making strides in 2012 were, from left, Jennifer Westfeldt (''Friends With Kids''), Neema Barnette (''Woman Thou Art Loosed: On the Seventh Day'') and Alison Klayman (''Ai Weiwei: Never Sorry''). The number of women making films in the top 250 at the box office was the highest since 2000. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CARLO ALLEGRI/ASSOCIATED PRESS
COOK ALLENDER
FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Adam Scott and Ms. Westfeldt in ''Friends With Kids,'' the directorial debut of Ms. Westfeldt, who wrote the screenplay. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOJO WHILDEN/ROADSIDE ATTRACTIONS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); WOMEN (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); MOVIE REVIEWS (78%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); WRITERS (78%); MOVIE REVENUES (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (76%); TICKET SALES (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); FAMILY (74%); WOMEN WORKERS (73%); ANIMATED FILMS (73%); MARRIAGE (60%); RELIGION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (76%); FRANCE (50%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2013



413 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; IT'S THE ECONOMY; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1229 words

HEADLINE: A Tax on Annoying Behavior?

BYLINE: By ADAM DAVIDSON. 
Adam Davidson is co-founder of NPR's ''Planet Money,'' a podcast and blog.

 BODY:
Driving home during the holidays, I found myself trapped in the permanent traffic jam on I-95 near Bridgeport, Conn. In the back seat, my son was screaming. All around, drivers had the menaced, lifeless expressions that people get when they see cars lined up to the horizon. It was enough to make me wish for congestion pricing -- a tax paid by drivers to enter crowded areas at peak times. After all, it costs drivers about $16 to enter central London during working hours. A few years ago, it nearly caught on in New York. And on that drive home, I would have happily paid whatever it cost to persuade some other drivers that it wasn't worth it for them to be on the road. 
Instead, we all suffered. Each car added an uncharged burden to every other person. In fact, everyone on the road was doing all sorts of harm to society without paying the cost. I drove about 150 miles that day and emitted, according to E.P.A. data, about 140 pounds of carbon dioxide. My very presence also increased (albeit infinitesimally) the likelihood of a traffic accident, further dependence on foreign oil and the proliferation of urban sprawl. According to an influential study by the I.M.F. economist Ian Parry, my hours on the road cost society around $10. Add up all the cars in all the traffic jams across the country, and it's clear that drivers are costing hundreds of billions of dollars a year that we don't pay for.
This is how economists think, anyway. And that's why a majority of them support some form of Pigovian tax, named after Arthur Pigou, the early-20th-century British economist. Pigou developed the idea of externalities: the things we do that affect others and that the market is unable to price. A negative externality is like the national equivalent of what happens when you go to dinner with three friends and, knowing that you'll pay only a fourth of the bill, decide to order an expensive entree. Pigou argued that there are so many damaging things that we do -- play music too loudly, drive aggressively -- and that we'd probably do less if we had to pay for them.
The $10 I cost the economy was based on Parry's algorithm, which calculates that drivers should pay a tax of at least $1.25 a gallon. Forty percent of that price, he says, is the cost that each vehicle adds to congestion. Another 40 cents or so offsets the price of accidents if we divided the full cost -- more than $400 billion annually -- by each gallon of gas consumed. (Only about 32 cents would be needed to offset the impact on the environment.) According to Parry's logic, if we paid a tax of $1.25 per gallon instead of the current average of 50 cents, the price of gas would increase by about 25 percent to around $4 a gallon, which is still well below what much of Europe pays. But it would still encourage us to drive less, pollute less, crash less, lower the country's dependence on foreign oil and make cities more livable. Not surprisingly, several studies have found that people -- especially in Europe, where the gas tax is around $3 a gallon -- drive a lot less when they have to pay a lot more for gas.
The idea of raising taxes to help society might sound like the ravings of a left-wing radical, or an idea that would destroy American industry. Yet the nation's leading proponent of a Pigovian gas tax is N. Gregory Mankiw, chairman of President George W. Bush's Council of Economic Advisers and a consultant to Mitt Romney's 2012 campaign. Mankiw keeps track of others who support Pigovian taxes, and his unofficial Pigou Club is surely the only group that counts Ralph Nader and Al Gore along with leading conservatives like Charles Krauthammer, Alan Greenspan and Gary Becker as members.
Republican economists, like Mankiw, normally oppose tax increases, but many support Pigovian taxes because, in some sense, we are already paying them. We pay the tax in the form of the overcrowded roads, higher insurance premiums, smog and global warming. Adding an extra fee at the pump simply makes the cost explicit. Pigou's approach, Mankiw argues, also converts a burden into a benefit. Imposing taxes on income and capital gains, he notes, punishes the work and investment that improve society; taxing negative externalities allows the government to make money while discouraging activity that hurts the overall economy.
There are some obvious problems with their approach. Nobody actually knows the precise cost of any negative externality. (Estimates for the collective impact of a ton of carbon range from $1 to $1,500, for instance, which could lead to all kinds of price disagreements on a Pigovian gas tax.) So Mankiw prefers to focus on simpler factors to deduce externalities. It's not terribly difficult to figure out how many people drive on a certain road per hour and how much time they lose by being stuck in traffic, he told me. Still, he said, ''you've got to take your best guess.''
Another major drawback is that it's hard to know where to stop. All of us are constantly affecting those around us in positive and negative ways, which in turn affect the economy, however indirectly. In my Brooklyn neighborhood, I notice that some neighbors have well-tended gardens that make my walk to the subway more enjoyable. Others, less so. (Taken as a whole, they also play a subtle but significant role in determining property values.) Can't we tax the sloppy and subsidize the beautifiers? Every time someone drops out of high school, he increases the likelihood of crime and reliance on public assistance and decreases the overall rise in G.D.P. Should we tax them? Or their teachers? What about taxing obese people who increase the costs of our health care system? Or should we tax fast-food companies instead? (This fall, voters in California defeated ballot measures to impose a tax on sugary drinks.)
Economics offers no objective criteria for deciding what to tax or by how much. That's one reason many libertarians, like Russ Roberts, a George Mason University economist, will never join the Pigou Club. Sure, he says, externalities exist, but that doesn't mean the government needs to tax them. Yet in the past few weeks, there has been intense discussion among some economists about one particular externality: the social cost of gun ownership. A National Bureau of Economic Research study by Philip Cook and Jens Ludwig determined that guns cost society, on average, a minimum of $100 each and as much as $1,800. Some economists say that a Pigovian tax on weapons, rather than strict regulation, could break the political impasse on gun control.
But the economic argument is not persuasive enough to sway the politics. Pigovian taxes are most likely to be adopted in cases like congestion pricing, when everybody paying the cost can instantly see the benefit. Driving always involves negative externalities. It is impossible for even the most careful driver in the most environment-friendly car to avoid negatively impacting others. Guns are different. Some gun owners cause enormous damage, but most cause none at all. What is the societal cost of a gun that has never been used? So far, economists have struggled to come up with a compelling answer.
Deep thoughts this week:
1. There are a lot of living costs that we don't pay for.
2. A higher gas tax could make the economy more efficient.
3. And so could taxes for all kinds of things.
4. But where do you draw the line?

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JASPER RIETMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VEHICLE TRAFFIC (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (73%); LONDON, ENGLAND (57%) CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2013



414 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE ONE-PAGE MAGAZINE; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 733 words

HEADLINE: Vulcan Love Grips

BYLINE: By DAVE ITZKOFF, SAMANTHA HENIG, MAUD NEWTON, PETER ANDREY SMITH, ELIOT GLAZER, TOM VANDERBILT, MARNIE HANEL, MARIO BATALI, LIZZIE SKURNICK, ERIC SPITZNAGEL, HOPE REEVES, JOHN HODGMAN, TYLER COWEN and AARON NEVILLE

 BODY:
The Big Profile
By Dave Itzkoff
Having saved the universe in the sci-fi camp classic ''Flash Gordon'' (and poked fun at himself in ''Ted''), Sam J. Jones now provides security for people in high-risk environments. ''Both jobs are very similar in the processes and preparation,'' Jones says. ''In the movies, we call it development or preproduction. In security we call it advance work.'' He adds, ''People do recognize me, but thank God they recognize me after I've already proved myself as a security professional.''
Not Hot, Not Not, Just Meh: The Meh List 
Bangs
''Good times''*
The H.O.V. lane
Pointillism
Restaurant Week
Hefner's prenup
Tim Tebow
Additional reporting and user experience by Libby Gery
* submitted by @THE_REAL_GLEN via #mehlist
Don't Drink The Water
By Maud Newton
In 1944, the B Reactor, the world's first large-scale plutonium-production reactor, transformed Hanford, Wash., into, in the words of the U.S. Department of Energy, an ''atomic boomtown.'' Now radioactive leaks from the plant threaten the Columbia River, the lifeblood of the Pacific Northwest. Though the clean up has stalled, efforts are under way to turn the site into a national park.
Pick Me Up, Scotty
By Hope Reeves
How many lonely Trekkies are there? Trekpassions.com, a dating Web site since 2004, now has a competitor, trekkiedating.com. Membership is free at trekpassions.com. The newer site has a ''premium account'' option -- which lets you see full-size photos of fellow Klingon-speakers -- for $24.99 a month. Trekkies ''can take their passion for the shows and movies pretty seriously,'' says Frank Farkas, who works for trekkiedating.com's parent company. ''They may want to find a partner who does as well.''
Economic Slow Dance
By Tom Vanderbilt
G.D.P., COLA, S.S.S.G. -- there are any number of initials and acronyms that go into divining a nation's economic health. Now we might consider adding B.P.M. Analyzing Billboard's No. 1 hits from 1955 to 2008, a new study in Current Psychology found that ''pop songs with more beats per minute and songs in standard keys were most popular during social and economic good times.''
What I'm Drinking Now
By Mario Batali
Deep winter evenings bring braised short ribs to the family table. I love cooking with the same wine I'm drinking, and I sub California zinfandel for more pricey Barolo. My pal Michael Chiarello makes a perfect zin-example in Napa. I love the 2010 ''Giana'' for cooking and quaffing.
Grading On A Curve
By Peter Andrey Smith
Researchers at the University of Bristol recently observed students drinking a beer and watching a BBC nature documentary. Those drinking from straight-sided glasses downed their lagers 60 percent slower than those with curvaceous ones. Shapely glasses, they concluded, made it harder to gauge how fast they drank. Angela S. Attwood, the study's lead author, says the question originated at a pub. ''Someone pointed out, 'You've got a bigger glass!' It wasn't. It just looked bigger.''
That Should Be A Word
(FLAB-SO-LOO-TION), N.
1. The forgiveness for a weight gain. ''Helpless before the tin of toffee crunch sitting on her assistant's desk since Thanksgiving, Claire granted her herself flabsolution.'' See also: Thinsufferable (to be able to eat anything).
Judge John Hodgman Rules
By John Hodgman
RICHARD WRITES: My wife gave me an e-reader and insists that if I want a best seller or a classic that might be, say, $9 and up, then I should buy the actual book. She feels that this will help prevent the closure of bookstores. Should I follow her instructions?
If she has both the will and the power to insist that you buy old-timey books, why did she give you an e-reader? Why does she not keep you prisoner in a cabin full of books and Betamax players and fax machines and convince you that it is 1982? I guess the answer is that you have free will. You should consume culture in whatever format you like. Bookstores will adjust or fail, just like wax-cylinder- music shoppes.
Listen to the podcast and submit questions for adjudication at www.maximumfun.org/jjho
A One-Sentence Book Review
Tyler Cowen
''Edge of Empires: A History of Georgia'' by Donald Rayfield: Why the country is not yet ''the Caucasian Singapore.''
How To Have Swagger
By Aaron Neville
Walk and strut your stuff, and be proud of who you are. Don't look at the past or the future. Live in the now. When you're on the street, never look down. As told to Spencer Bailey

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ALEX J. BERLINER/ASSOCIATED PRESS
GETTY IMAGES
NICK UT/ASSOCIATED PRESS
BRANTLEY GUTIERREZ
JEFF CHRISTENSEN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY PAUL WINDLE
LA TIGRE)
CHARTS (CHART BY KYLE HILTON)
 GRAPHIC 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); NATIONAL PARKS (73%); ONLINE DATING SERVICES (70%); RESTAURANTS (68%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (66%); POP & ROCK (64%); PARENT COMPANIES (63%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (76%) WEST USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (76%); NORTHWEST USA (70%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2013



415 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 182 words

HEADLINE: The Chatter

 BODY:
''Banks make money by keeping customers confused.''Josh Reich, co-founder of Simple, an online banking start-up that offers free checking accounts and data-related analysis of transactions and spending habits. He became fed up after his bank charged him overdraft fees and he endured painful customer service calls to fight them. 
''There is no doubt within the U.S.government that Iran is behind these attacks.'' James A. Lewis, a computer security expert at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, on a recent wave of online attacks against American banks.
''We're at the limits of our understanding of how monetary policy affects the economy.'' Jeffrey M. Lacker, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, who has warned that the central bank's extraordinary efforts to stimulate growth are ineffective and inappropriate.
''What's happening on the ground is a disgrace. ''Masafumi Shiga, chief executive of Shiga Toso, a Japanese environmental remediation company, on the state of the cleanup after the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant disaster a year and a half ago.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (90%); INTERNET BANKING (90%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN NUCLEAR DISASTER (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); MONETARY POLICY (68%); EXECUTIVES (67%); ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERING & CONSULTING (65%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (65%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (64%); INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENTS (64%); NUCLEAR ACCIDENTS (50%); POWER PLANTS (50%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (50%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF RICHMOND (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (70%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOHOKU, JAPAN (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2013



416 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 438 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Won't Mint Coin to Defy Debt Ceiling

BYLINE: By ANNIE LOWREY

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Treasury Department said Saturday that it will not mint a trillion-dollar platinum coin to head off an imminent battle with Congress over raising the government's borrowing limit. 
''Neither the Treasury Department nor the Federal Reserve believes that the law can or should be used to facilitate the production of platinum coins for the purpose of avoiding an increase in the debt limit,'' Anthony Coley, a Treasury spokesman, said in a written statement.
The Obama administration has indicated that the only way for the country to avoid a cash-management crisis as soon as next month is for Congress to raise the ''debt ceiling,'' which is the statutory limit on government borrowing. The cap is $16.4 trillion.
''There are only two options to deal with the debt limit: Congress can pay its bills, or it can fail to act and put the nation into default,'' Jay Carney, the White House press secretary, said in a statement. ''Congress needs to do its job.''
In recent weeks, some Republicans have indicated that they would not agree to raise the debt limit unless Democrats agreed to make cuts to entitlement programs like Social Security.
The White House has said it would not negotiate spending cuts in exchange for Congressional authority to borrow more, and it has insisted that Congress raise the ceiling as a matter of course, to cover expenses already authorized by Congress. In broader fiscal negotiations, it has said it would not agree to spending cuts without commensurate tax increases.
The idea of minting a trillion-dollar coin drew wide if puzzling attention recently after some bloggers and economic commentators had suggested it as an alternative to involving Congress.
By virtue of an obscure law meant to apply to commemorative coins, the Treasury secretary could order the production of a high-denomination platinum coin and deposit it at the Federal Reserve, where it would count as a government asset and give the country more breathing room under its debt ceiling. Once Congress raised the debt ceiling, the Treasury secretary could then order the coin destroyed.
Mr. Carney, the press secretary, fielded questions about the theoretical tactic at a news conference last week. But the idea is now formally off the table.
The White House has also rejected the idea that it could mount a challenge to the debt ceiling itself, on the strength of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution, which holds that the ''validity of the public debt'' of the United States ''shall not be questioned.''
The Washington Post earlier published a report that the Obama administration had rejected the platinum-coin idea.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (93%); DEBT CEILING (93%); COINS & COINAGE (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (75%); TAX LAW (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (63%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (50%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (50%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (50%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (50%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2013



417 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 577 words

HEADLINE: Rivals in Czech Presidential Runoff Support Warmer Ties With Europe

BYLINE: By DAN BILEFSKY; Hana de Goeij contributed reporting from Prague.

 BODY:
PARIS -- An outspoken former prime minister and the current foreign minister will face each other in the Czech Republic's presidential runoff in two weeks, according to the results of the first round of voting released Saturday.
The charismatic former prime minister, Milos Zeman, won 24.21 percent of the vote, giving him a narrow lead over Foreign Minister Karel Schwarzenberg, an ardent supporter of the European Union and the United States, who got 23.4 percent. 
This is the first direct popular vote for a head of state in the Czech Republic. Czechoslovakia split in 1993 to create the Czech Republic and Slovakia.
The winner will succeed President Vaclav Klaus, a vociferous critic of the European Union who once compared the European bloc to a Communist state. He has dominated Czech politics for decades.
Both Mr. Zeman and Mr. Schwarzenberg are proponents of European integration, so the next president is expected to offer a decisive break with the outspoken anti-European statements of the Klaus era.
Direct elections were introduced, analysts said, because the previous system, in which the president was elected by Parliament, was deemed not transparent enough.
While the Czech presidency is largely a ceremonial post, it holds deep moral authority, and the president has the power to influence foreign policy as well as make appointments to the central bank. The president also approves the appointment of judges and can grant amnesty.
Many Czech voters have grown weary of politics after a spate of corruption scandals and have been struggling with a creeping sense of disillusionment that the revolution that overthrew Communism in 1989 has not delivered on its promises.
Mr. Zeman, 68, who led a minority government from 1998 to 2002, is a witty man of the people and an economist who analysts said would be a center-left president; the instincts of the pipe-smoking Mr. Schwarzenberg are considered more conservative.
If Mr. Zeman is elected, analysts said, it would be seen as a return to the past, since he has had a long career on the Czech political scene.
As foreign minister Mr. Schwarzenberg, 75, has been widely admired on the international stage. A member of the center-right coalition government, he is also chairman of the conservative TOP 09 party. He was a close friend of former President Vaclav Havel and served in his presidential office. Mr. Havel died in late 2011.
The departure of Mr. Klaus, 71, a fiery former economist who has served two five-year terms, will probably be met with relief in some quarters of Europe and the United States, where he has stirred controversy.
Beyond his trenchant criticism of the European Union, Mr. Klaus has described efforts to try to curb global warming as a folly and called former Vice President Al Gore an ''apostle of arrogance'' for championing those efforts.
Tomas Sedlacek, a leading economist and a former adviser to Mr. Havel, said that Mr. Klaus's departure would help restore the country's prestige. ''The ending of the Klaus era is significant because he kept us on the fringes of Europe and in America by trying to shift us to the periphery of European integration,'' Mr. Sedlacek said.
But others said they would miss Mr. Klaus's steadfast resolve. ''His strength is that his opinions have remained consistent for decades, and he is not afraid to challenge conventional wisdom,'' said Tomas Jirsa, a former vice chairman of a national conservative youth group.
The runoff is Jan. 25 and 26.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RUNOFF ELECTIONS (91%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (73%); JUDGES (67%); CORRUPTION (66%); SCANDALS (66%); GLOBAL WARMING (60%); SMOKING (50%); AMNESTY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (83%)

PERSON: MILOS ZEMAN (92%); VACLAV KLAUS (79%); AL GORE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CZECH REPUBLIC (98%); EUROPE (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); SLOVAKIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2013



418 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1077 words

HEADLINE: French Airstrikes in Mali Deter Islamist Rebels

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER and SCOTT SAYARE; Adam Nossiter contributed reporting from Bamako, Mali, Mark Mazzetti from Washington, and Eric Schmitt from Niamey, Niger.

 BODY:
PARIS -- French airstrikes in Mali appeared to halt an Islamist rebel advance, France said Saturday, as West African nations authorized what they said would be a fast deployment of troops in support of the weak Malian government.
Britain also announced late on Saturday that it would help to transport foreign troops and equipment to Mali, though would not send its own soldiers to fight.
France first intervened Friday, dropping bombs and firing rockets from helicopter gunships and jet fighters after the Islamists, who already control the north of Mali, pressed southward and overran the village of Konna, which had been the de facto line of government control. French officials said the attacks had pushed the rebels back from Konna and destroyed a rebel command center, though it was unclear if Malian forces controlled the village. 
The French, who had earlier said they would not intervene militarily but only help African troops, responded to an appeal by the Malian president amid fears that the rebels would try to press on to the capital. French officials said military operations were continuing, but a spokesman for the Malian Army said Konna was ''very calm'' on Saturday.
The spokesman, Lt. Col. Diarran Kone, said some civilians and Malian soldiers had died in the fighting in recent days. ''Zero deaths is not possible,'' he said. He said the rebels, whom he called ''terrorists,'' suffered heavy casualties, and French officials said one French pilot had died from small-arms fire.
France, the United States and other Western nations have been increasingly anxious about the Islamists' tightening grip on the north of the country, which they said had become a haven for militants, including those with links to Al Qaeda, who threaten not only their neighbors, but also the West. On Saturday, Adm. douard Guillaud, the chief of staff of the French armed forces, said that France had no plans to extend operations to those northern areas, but would expect to help African troops do the job when they arrive.
''The quicker the African mission is on the ground, the less we will need to help the Malian Army,'' Admiral Guillaud said. He said that more military planes had been sent to Africa for possible use in Mali, and that Rafale fighter jets could strike from France. The French defense minister, Jean-Yves Le Drian, also said that special forces had been sent before the airstrikes to Mopti, a city near Konna that the Mali government says it cannot lose.
The French president, Franois Hollande, said that the current mission -- named Serval, after an African wildcat -- would last ''as long as necessary,'' but stressed that it was limited to ''preparing for the deployment of an African intervention force.''
The statements appeared to indicate that once Malian and other African troops were in position to carry the fight to the north, France would like to return to its pledge not to use direct military force in the country. It remained unclear when such an offensive would begin.
France and the United States aim to assist African and Malian troops to restore government authority in the north by providing surveillance and intelligence, including the use of spy planes and drones, as well as by helping with logistics and the transport of troops and equipment.
French officials said they had asked Washington to speed up its contribution by sending drones to improve surveillance over the vast area held by the rebels. The French have only two such drones. The Pentagon is reported to be studying the French request.
On Saturday, Tommy Vietor, a spokesman for the National Security Council, said the United States was ''monitoring the situation closely.'' The United Nations Security Council had earlier agreed that troops from the 15-nation regional bloc known as Ecowas, the Economic Community of West African States, and European Union trainers for the Malian Army would help the fragile government in the capital, Bamako, win back the north of the country, where the Islamists have set up harsh rule under Shariah law in the nine months since the army fled the area. But both groups had been slow to deploy.
With the sudden movement of the Islamist fighters south, the Ecowas commission president, Kadr Dsir Oudraogo, said Saturday that the group had authorized an immediate deployment of troops ''in light of the urgency of the situation,'' according to news reports. He did not specify how many troops would be sent to Mali. Most of the Ecowas troops are expected to come from Nigeria, Niger, Senegal and Togo.
''By Monday by the latest, the troops will be there or will have started to arrive,'' said Ali Coulibaly, Ivory Coast's African integration minister.
On Saturday, Gen. Carter F. Ham, the head of the Pentagon's Africa Command, who has been visiting neighboring Niger, said, ''My sense is that both A.Q.I.M. and the Malian armed forces are evaluating next steps right now.'' He was using the acronym for Al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb, the terrorist organization's North African arm.An official in Gao, one of the principal cities held by the Islamists, appeared to support the Malian Army's statements about rebel casualties. ''The hospital at Gao is overflowing,'' said the official, who does not support the rebels. ''Both morgues in the city are filled with bodies.''
Reuters quoted a resident of Gao saying scores of rebel fighters were retreating north in pickup trucks on Saturday.
A spokesman for Ansar Dine, an Islamist group, told The Associated Press that he could not confirm if the group's fighters were still in Konna because he had been unable to phone them. The spokesman, Sanda Ould Boumama, told Reuters that French intervention in Mali would have ''consequences, not only for French hostages, but also for all French citizens wherever they find themselves in the Muslim world.''
Fear of those consequences, at least for several French hostages held in North Africa, may have been a motivation for a failed French rescue mission early on Saturday in Somalia in which Mr. Hollande said the hostage died. He also said that he had asked for increased security at government buildings and public spaces in France to thwart terrorists.
Mr. Le Drian said that France needed to act in Mali to forestall the collapse of the government. ''The threat is the establishment of a terrorist state within range of Europe and of France,'' he said. Hundreds of French troops have been moved to Bamako to protect French citizens there.

GRAPHIC: MAPS: France said its airstrikes had driven rebels out of Konna. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (93%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (92%); ARMED FORCES (91%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); ARMIES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); AL-QAEDA (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); TERRORISM (76%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (76%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (72%); HELICOPTERS (71%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (71%); WILD CATS (60%)

PERSON: FRANCOIS HOLLANDE (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%) MALI (99%); FRANCE (97%); AFRICA (93%); WESTERN AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2013



419 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2013

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 856 words

HEADLINE: Breathing in Beijing: Coping With China's Smog

BYLINE: DIDI KIRSTEN TATLOW


HIGHLIGHT: As the air quality in China's capital, and elsewhere in the country, worsened to perhaps new records over the weekend, anger grew among ordinary Chinese - and one family coped with the mess. 

 BODY:
BEIJING - With Beijing's air pollution soaring to seemingly new, awful records this weekend, the classic parenting dilemma of "What shall we do with the kids?" had a grimly obvious answer: Slap on the antipollution face masks and go shopping for another air purifier. 
That's what we did on Saturday, as the Air Quality Index run by the United States Embassy in Beijing, which uses standards set by the United States Environmental Protection Agency, hit a "jaw-dropping" 755 at 8 p.m., as my colleague Edward Wong wrote. "All of Beijing looked like an airport smokers' lounge," Ed wrote. 
According to the index, anything above 300 is "Hazardous" and above 500 is "Beyond Index." This weekend, the readings were Beyond Index for 16 straight hours.
Even the Chinese government's monitors, which recently have grown more accurate but still tend to measure the pollution as lower than the embassy's, were recording scary levels of around 500. 
Furious, Chinese netizens wrote on their microblog accounts that the pollution had "exploded the index," or "baobiao." 
They reached for strong adjectives: "postapocalyptic," "terrifying" and "beyond belief," Ed wrote.
So it was ironic that on Sunday there was a sense of relief as the index dropped to 319 (still "Hazardous") then down to 286: a measly "Very Unhealthy." By Sunday afternoon, it was "Hazardous" again though, at 373. 
Ordinary Chinese are appalled. And increasingly, they can say so in public, as the state appears to be relaxing its censorship of reporting on the pollution that everyone can see and smell. 
Xinhua, the state-run news agency, reported on Jan. 1 that the environmental authorities were now releasing real-time air quality data from 74 cities in China, at www.cnemc.cn.
On its Weibo, or microblog, feed, CCTV, the state broadcaster, warned early Sunday that "the main air quality monitoring stations in eight city districts will be around 500, which is grade six, heavy pollution, with PM 2.5 and PM 10 the main pollutants," referring to fine particulates and bigger particulates.
Of course, the problem wasn't limited to Beijing. As this photograph from NASA appeared to show, pollution was severe across much of eastern China (Beijing is within the blue circle).
And on state media's lists of the most polluted cities in China on Saturday, Beijing wasn't even in the top 10. That honor went to Shijiazhuang and other places. 
The People's Daily online was frank, asking in a full-page spread, "What is Going on with our Air?" (Handily cached here by Sinocism, the Beijing-based newsletter.) 
The scale of the problem is, quite frankly, overwhelming. A very revealing chart by Edgar, the Emissions Database for Global Atmospheric Research, from the European Commission, estimates that in 2011 China produced 9.7 million kilotons of carbon dioxide, nearly double United States' 5.42 million kilotons. 
Indeed, were the Chinese cement industry a country, it would be the sixth biggest emitter of carbon dioxide in the world, producing 820,000 kilotons in 2011, slightly ahead of Germany's total carbon dioxide emissions that year of 810,000 kilotons, according to Edgar. Germany was the sixth most polluting nation in the world, with the United States the second and China the first, according to the chart.
But something else stands out here: China's population of more than 1.3 billion is about 4.5 times that of the United States' approximately 300 million. So though it leads the world in carbon dioxide emissions, it is still, per capita, far less polluting than the United States. 
Unfortunately, that may change. China's economy may overtake the U.S. economy sometime within the next decade or two, meaning that we may be facing a truly astonishing problem. As Ma Jun, the director of the Chinese Institute of Public and Environmental Affairs told the Hong Kong-based South China Morning Post: "It is no secret that our way of development is not sustainable and the total pollution emissions in the region have far exceeded the maximum ecological capacity." 
How does a family justify living in this? For most people in China's cities there is no practical alternative to life in the smog, though the appalling environment is a reason cited by most who emigrate (in a recent post I noted how emigration numbers were rising all the time). 
To control the risk, we have family rules: above 100, and the air purifiers - all four of them - go on. Above 200, we wear face masks outdoors. Above 300 and no one exercises or plays outside, even with a face mask on. Above 500 and we try not to go out at all. That's hard, especially for the children. 
So this weekend, we breathed at home. Watched a movie. Read. And talked. Told the kids how their generation is going to have to clean up the environmental mess caused by all the previous generations. And watched the incredulity grow on their faces as they contemplated the stupidity of adults.

        
Beijing's Censors Could Test the Mettle of Iron Man
        
Carbon Taxes Provoke Debate on Economic Impact
        
Amid Global Trade Fight, a Bright Year for Solar Use in the U.S.
        
Candidates Spar Sharply Over China
        
China Becomes an Issue in the U.S. Campaign

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: AIR QUALITY (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); AIR POLLUTION (90%); SMOG (90%); PARTICULATE MATTER (89%); AIR QUALITY MONITORING (89%); AIR QUALITY INSTRUMENTS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); PARENTING (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); POLLUTION MONITORING (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); INDOOR AIR QUALITY (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (71%); RANKINGS (71%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (69%); NEWS REPORTING (68%); CENSORSHIP (63%) Air Pollution; Carbon Dioxide; Greenhouse Gas Emissions; Beijing (China); China; United States; Featured; View From Asia

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (94%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (99%); EAST CHINA (79%); HEBEI, CHINA (57%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (79%) Beijing (China); China; United States

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2013



420 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2013

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 454 words

HEADLINE: Mercedes-Benz CLA Plays Peek-a-Boo

BYLINE: JERRY GARRETT


HIGHLIGHT: The Mercedes-Benz 2014 CLA250 is a harbinger of an all-new range of small cars designed to compete with the BMW 1 Series and similarly sized small luxury models. 

 BODY:
DETROIT -- Mercedes-Benz offered a sneak preview here on Sunday night of its 2014 CLA250, a harbinger of an all-new range of small cars designed to compete with the BMW 1 Series and similarly sized small luxury models. 
Based on what was shown briefly at a press event held on the eve of the North American International Auto Show, it's unlikely the CLA will be mistaken as anything but a Mercedes. The CLA's styling is very similar to that of the Concept Style Coupe that Mercedes unveiled at the Beijing auto show last April.
"The response to the Concept Style Coupe was overwhelming," said Dieter Zetsche, head of Mercedes-Benz cars, in prepared remarks. "The most frequent comment by far was 'Please put this car into series production.' That's precisely what we are doing now." 
It is already being called the "baby CLS" based on its very similar design to that larger model. The CLA is based on the same platform as the Mercedes A-Class, though, so it comes across as more of a compact sedan than a spacious luxury car. 
The CLA was not planned to be on display at the auto show here in Detroit. After the Sunday evening event it was to make its premiere at Fashion Week in Berlin.
Think of the 2014 CLA as something of a 190E for the 21st Century, though one can expect much better performance from the new car. While the gas engine in the United States version of the 190E barely crept past 100 horsepower when that car was first introduced 30 years ago, the CLA's turbocharged 2-liter 4-cylinder produces 208 horsepower.
The CLA, due in American dealerships by this fall, is nominally a front-wheel-drive vehicle, but all-wheel-drive will become available as an option about six months after launch.
The highlights include a drag coefficient, or Cd, of 0.23, which Mercedes claims is a "world record in aerodynamics for series production automobiles." A Toyota Prius, for comparison, has a 0.25 Cd. Mercedes said the CLA's aerodynamic optimization has "a major impact on fuel consumption under everyday driving conditions." Specific fuel economy numbers will not be available, however, until closer to the car's on-sale date.
One of the car's most attractive features should be its price, which Mercedes is suggesting will start at $30,000.
Other version of this model are expected to be revealed in the coming months, including a high-performance AMG version. 
The CLA250's official auto show debut is instead planned for the Geneva auto show in early March. 

        
In the Cobo Center's Basement, Driving the Amp Electric Grand Cherokee
        
The Maybach, Conspicuous by Its Presence
        
Mercedes E300 BlueTec Hybrid: A Star German Midfielder, On Loan to Detroit
        
Mercedes-Benz Introduces Gas and Diesel E-Class Hybrids
        
Wheelies: The Blame-Game Edition

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (93%); NEW CAR MODELS (90%); SEDANS (78%); FASHION DESIGNERS (72%); FASHION SHOWS (72%) Detroit Auto Show; Mercedes-Benz; North American International Auto Show; 2013 Detroit Auto Show; Auto Shows; Automobiles

ORGANIZATION: Mercedes-Benz

PERSON: DIETER ZETSCHE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (90%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2013



421 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; MEMO FROM CUBA; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1097 words

HEADLINE: After Decades, Easing Travel Rules to Maintain Ties

BYLINE: By VICTORIA BURNETT

 BODY:
HAVANA -- The door slammed shut behind Gloria 11 months after she left Cuba for Miami in mid-2011. Close to her dream of obtaining American residency, she ignored her government's deadline to return home and gave up her rights as a Cuban.
''It was a terrible moment,'' said Gloria, 40, a former shop assistant, by telephone from Miami, who asked that her full name not be used because she feared publicity might jeopardize her immigration status. ''I didn't know whether things here would work out or not, but there was no going back.''
Until now, that is. New Cuban migration rules that take effect on Monday will allow islanders to spend more time overseas before they forfeit their Cuban residency, a concession that reflects the government's desire for closer ties with millions of Cubans who live abroad.
The rules, part of a package that loosens despised restrictions on the freedom to travel, could allow thousands of Cubans to shuttle between the United States and home in much the way that Mexican migrants do and could create a class of economic migrs worlds apart from the exiles who oppose closer ties. 
Since the 1960s, the Cuban government has strictly controlled travel, and most Cubans who moved overseas without special permission have lost their rights and property. The many who do return for visits -- some 400,000 traveled from the United States last year -- may stay on the island for only a month (or three, under the new regulations) and are not allowed to buy property or invest in private businesses there, though many do under the table.
The new rules -- among the most anticipated changes introduced by President Ral Castro -- eliminate expensive, time-consuming paperwork for most Cubans, who will need only a passport to travel. And in a surprising development, the government will also allow some medical professionals to go abroad, though it will continue to limit travel by people who work for strategic sectors, and, most likely, dissidents.
It will also be easier to return to the island: Cubans who leave will no longer automatically lose their property, and those who wish to return for good can reapply for residency. The government has extended the period Cubans may spend overseas without losing their right to return to two years from 11 months, giving them more time to find jobs overseas and creating a window for those in the United States to apply for residency there -- a process they can begin after a year.
''Over all, this speaks to a desire to move towards a more normal immigration policy and a more normal country where people go back and forth, work, send money,'' said Philip Peters, vice president of the Virginia-based Lexington Institute, which follows the United States' relationship with Cuba.
But Mr. Peters said the new Cuban rules raised new questions about United States immigration rules that were devised to give Cubans refuge from persecution and offered privileges that other immigrants could only dream of.
The United States offers a minimum of 20,000 visas each year to Cubans. In addition, 8,000 or so who present themselves at a border crossing or make it to American shores each year are also allowed to enter and can apply for residency under the 1966 Cuban Adjustment Act. An increasingly popular route among the tens of thousands of Cubans granted Spanish citizenship in the past few years is to enter the United States on a Spanish passport, lie low for a year and then claim United States residency under the Adjustment Act.
''The whole policy is anachronistic,'' said Mr. Peters, who called for a review of the regulations in a report published in December. ''The laws and procedures we have for victims of persecution are perfectly adequate -- we don't need a special policy for Cubans.''
The Adjustment Act has opponents of all stripes: the Cuban government objects to it, saying that it encourages people to make risky sea crossings. Cuban-American lawmakers argue that it should not apply to Cubans who go back to visit the island.
''One cannot claim that one would be persecuted in Cuba while at the same time going back for a visit,'' Representative Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, Republican of Florida, said in a recent interview published by the blog Caf Fuerte.
Even some moderate Cuban-Americans say the policy seems unsustainable, and several Cubans on the island and in Miami said there were fears the United States would eventually tighten its policies.
''I want to see my people coming here and getting residency and having a good life, but I do see that it's not fair,'' said Romy Aranguiz, 34, a physician from Cuba who settled in the United States in 2002 but returns often to the island.
A United States government official said in an e-mail last week that there were ''no suggestions of policy changes on the Cuban Adjustment Act or immigration policy.'' In a statement issued on Friday, a State Department spokeswoman, Victoria Nuland, said the government ''was working to ensure that mechanisms are in place to address any increase in visa applications or undocumented migration'' as a result of the changes in the Cuban migration policies.
Dr. Aranguiz said the Cuban government should reach out more to the diaspora, allowing migrs to inherit property and invest or work in Cuba.
''They have treated us like we are not part of the nation,'' she said. ''That is changing. But they should encourage us more. It's our land.''
Mara Isabel Alfonso, a college professor who left Cuba with her family in 1995, predicted that United States migration policies would evolve only after the question of the economic embargo was settled.
''Everything is so abnormal in Cuba's relationship with the United States,'' Ms. Alfonso said. ''It all needs to get sorted out together.''
In the meantime, she said, the Cubans who go back and forth across the Florida Straits would continue to knit the two communities together.
''They are a generation that has moved beyond the ideological war,'' she said. ''They just want to live their lives.''
She added, ''They're the people Cuba needs to push the country forward.''
For Gloria, the former shop assistant who left, Cuba's new migration laws may have come in the nick of time. She has obtained American residency, worked several jobs, taken a course in alternative medicine and is starting a family -- not bad for 18 months on American soil.
Now, she hopes that if she visits the island within two years of leaving she may retain her rights as a Cuban, too.
''To be able to go home, come back here, maybe have a business there one day,'' she said from Miami. ''That would be perfect.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In Havana on Friday, Cubans lined up for passports, the only items most will need for traveling under the new rules. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ENRIQUE DE LA OSA/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); ISLANDS & REEFS (64%)

PERSON: RAUL CASTRO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); CUBA (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2013



422 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1186 words

HEADLINE: Hollande, Long Seen as Soft, Shifts Image With Firm Stance

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER; Arthur Touchot contributed reporting.

 BODY:
PARIS -- President Franois Hollande of France has regularly been criticized as indecisive, even complacent. But the events of the last few days will go some way toward changing his image, as Mr. Hollande has moved swiftly to use the French military in Mali and Somalia after pulling off an important compromise with domestic unions over job creation.
The sudden French military intervention in Mali, which took only half a day to set in motion, together with a bold, if failed, hostage rescue mission in Somalia, have displayed Mr. Hollande in a more somber, decisive light that could represent a turning point for his presidency. The French, like the Americans, judge presidents on their ability to make tough decisions, and there are few tougher ones than to send young soldiers into battle.
While the future of the Mali intervention is unclear, it has begun well, with French forces hitting two columns of Islamist rebels with jet fighters and attack helicopters and appearing to halt a rebel march south toward the capital, Bamako. Mr. Hollande's actions have garnered widespread political support in France and abroad, from African countries, the United States and Britain, all of which have promised to move more quickly to help Mali recover a vast piece of land lost months ago to the rebels. 
Even the failure of the raid in Somalia, in which two French commandos died and the hostage is believed to have been killed by his captors, does not seem to have hurt Mr. Hollande. Many of his countrymen do not expect warfare to be risk-free, and France is seized by both worries about the rise of radical Islam and the plight of several French hostages in North Africa believed to be held by religious extremists. ''This is the first occasion Hollande had or seized upon to act decisively, without the sort of waffling that had appeared to be his trademark,'' said Franois Heisbourg, a defense expert at the Foundation for Strategic Research in Paris. ''So in that sense, it changes his image instantaneously.''
Throughout his career in the Socialist Party, Mr. Hollande has been criticized and even ridiculed for being soft and compromising, likened in the early days to a wobbly custard dessert called ''Flanby.'' But he has always said that his critics underestimate him, and his victory last May over the energetic incumbent, Nicolas Sarkozy, surprised many.
Now Mr. Hollande has ''demonstrated that he can decide on matters of war and peace, which in the French system, as in the U.S., is very important,'' Mr. Heisbourg said.
''Until you prove that, you haven't proved much,'' he said, comparing the impact of Mr. Hollande's actions with that of President Obama's decision to approve the raid on Osama bin Laden.
A cartoon on Saturday in the centrist newspaper Le Parisien showed Mr. Hollande as commander in chief, with a bystander saying, ''Must admit that sometimes he surprises.''
On Sunday, Bruno Jeudy, an editor at the newspaper Le Journal du Dimanche, wrote: ''Finally president! Finished, the hesitant and nonchalant Franois Hollande of the first months of his mandate.'' Like many, Mr. Jeudy noted that once begun, the operation in Mali -- to help dismantle a safe haven for radicals linked to terrorist groups -- will be long and difficult. (In the same newspaper, Dominique de Villepin, a former foreign minister, warned that the operation in Mali was likely to fail because it had too many ambitious goals.)
''Wars are rarely popular,'' Mr. Jeudy said. ''But by putting on the uniform of a war leader, he rose to the rank of his predecessors.'' He also lowered the domestic pressure on him to back off his proposal to legalize same-sex marriage, turning the national conversation more toward foreign policy.
A week ago, all the talk in France was of the large demonstration called for Sunday against same-sex marriage. The proposed law has created significant opposition because it would allow married gay couples to adopt children. Religious leaders and many ordinary citizens are troubled by the proposal, and opposition parties have tried to make political capital out of opposition to the bill.
Up to 340,000 demonstrators came out in Paris on Sunday to protest the bill, according to the police, while organizers gave a turnout of 800,000.
Emmanuel Bogeat, 35, a lawyer, and his wife, Laetitia, 32, a teacher, came from Nice, upset about a move they believe would add instability to the troubled institution of the family. ''This is once again hurting the family's core,'' Ms. Bogeat said.
Mr. Bogeat said he knew the law would pass, ''but it's my duty, since I'm against it, to be here.''
Like many, Alexis Ludeau, 24, who works at a university, is less opposed to same-sex marriage than to giving gay couples adoption rights, which he called dangerously experimental -- ''taking a bet.'' The country's real problem is debt and jobs, he said. ''We see that our government isn't in touch with what's going on in France today.''
Still, many of those on the right who oppose Mr. Hollande on same-sex marriage, including the main opposition party, the Union for a Popular Movement, support him on Mali and Somalia.
Mr. Hollande, whose Socialist Party and its allies control the legislature, has vowed to push through the bill, saying that policy will not be made in the streets. But he has refused to allow some of his own legislators to attach a provision to allow state financing for procreation assistance to lesbian married couples. In both instances, Mr. Hollande has again shown his ability to make a decision and keep it, as well as working to manage his own party.
Similarly, after months of negotiations, Mr. Hollande and his government were able to announce late Friday an agreement between entrepreneurs and trade unions over how to liberalize the labor market, to make it easier to hire young people, who are facing unemployment levels nearing 25 percent.
While the details are vague, and the impact on unemployment may not be big, Mr. Hollande has managed to get some concessions from France's famously strong unions without a strike. That was especially important for Mr. Hollande, given the ridicule produced by the actor Grard Depardieu's feud with the government over high taxes favored by the Socialists and a ruling that a 75 percent tax rate on the rich was unconstitutional.
For Mr. Hollande to have succeeded with the unions and corporate leaders was vital. Failure would have been seen as disastrous for his ability to carry the country, however incrementally, toward improved competitiveness and lower budget deficits.
There was even praise from a sharp critic, the business leader Laurence Parisot. The deal ''will change life for businesses in France,'' she said.
''This marks the advent of a culture of compromise after decades of a philosophy of social antagonism,'' she said.
The complications of war are many, but for now, joked Mr. Heisbourg, the defense expert, it seems like ''springtime in Holland,'' a play on the president's name. The French ''don't know yet if he's really competent,'' he said.
''But he shows little sign of stress or unease, and he certainly looks relaxed.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Protesters in Paris on Sunday denounced the government's plans to legalize same-sex marriage. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED DUFOUR/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); HOSTAGE TAKING (90%); POLITICS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); RESCUE OPERATIONS (76%); AL-QAEDA (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); ARMED FORCES (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (72%); APPROVALS (71%); RELIGION (63%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (59%); JOB CREATION (56%); HELICOPTERS (53%)

PERSON: FRANCOIS HOLLANDE (92%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (58%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%) FRANCE (98%); MALI (95%); SOMALIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); AFRICA (92%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2013



423 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; BRIEFLY: EDUCATION; Pg. 

LENGTH: 496 words

HEADLINE: American Jazz Greats Become U.C.L.A. Professors

BYLINE: By JOYCE LAU

 BODY:
U.S. jazz greats become U.C.L.A. professors
Two American jazz greats, Herbie Hancock and Wayne Shorter, have become professors at the University of California, Los Angles, its music school said in a statement. The two musicians, both Grammy Award winners who are in their 70s, will be part of the Thelonious Monk Institute of Jazz. 
The institute, which offers a two-year graduate program, chooses only one ensemble of musicians per year to be Thelonious Monk fellows, all of whom are accepted on full scholarship. The newest class, which has only seven students, will receive monthly instruction with Mr. Hancock and Mr. Shorter.
The two new music professors will also hold master classes that will be open to all students at the university. -- JOYCE LAU
Scholarship created in Nobel laureate's name
KU Leuven, a university in Belgium, will dedicate a scholarship fund to Leymah R. Gbowee, one of three women awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 2011, the university said in a statement.
The inauguration of the Leymah Gbowee Scholarship Fund for Leadership for African Women will take place at a symposium on female leadership and sustainable development at the university on Feb. 21.
''In some regions in Liberia, not a single young woman receives a secondary school diploma in a given school year,'' Ms. Gbowee said in the statement.
The Gbowee Peace Foundation Africa will choose candidates from West African countries torn by conflict, like Liberia, Ghana, Sierra Leone and Nigeria. Funding will be provided for young African women to finish an undergraduate degree in West Africa, followed by a master's at KU Leuven. KU Leuven said that it hoped the project could be expanded to other universities in the future.
-- JOYCE LAU
Delegation of 90 academics from Japan visits Britain
The University of Bristol, in southwest England, hosted a delegation of 90 academics from Kyoto University in Japan last week. The two-day event was the culmination of a four-year research partnership.
The academics built on existing joint projects, like those on interactive robots and the use of technology to enhance medical treatment, according to a statement from the University of Bristol. One collaboration focused on how to share knowledge and resources in order to better address earthquakes and other disasters. Professor Paul Bates, director of the Cabot Institute at the University of Bristol, said in the statement that the goal was to lower risks to both populations and economies by building structures that were more resilient to these threats. -- CALVIN YANG
Hong Kong business school holds course with I.B.M.
The Chinese University of Hong Kong Business School is working with International Business Machines to offer a course in business consulting, which will be taught by senior executives from the technology giant's global business services department. The four-month course, which will introduce professional insights through real-life case studies, will start Wednesday. -- CALVIN YANG

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (92%); JAZZ & BLUES (91%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (91%); NOBEL PRIZES (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); WOMEN (90%); MUSIC (90%); AWARDS & PRIZES (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (66%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (66%); CONSULTING SERVICES (63%); CASE STUDIES (61%)

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (93%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (84%)

TICKER: IBMC (BRU) (50%); IBM (NYSE) (50%); IBM (LSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA (93%); WESTERN AFRICA (92%); LIBERIA (92%); JAPAN (92%); BELGIUM (90%); GHANA (79%); SIERRA LEONE (79%); NIGERIA (79%); ENGLAND (53%)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2013



424 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1079 words

HEADLINE: China Again Is Growing, More Slowly

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER; Hilda Wang contributed reporting.

 BODY:
GUANGZHOU, China -- After a sharp economic slowdown through much of last year, China's economy is growing again -- but not at its previous double-digit pace, and with signs that inflation might become a problem again.
Shops were crowded this past weekend, construction sites show renewed activity and factories are hiring as exports and domestic demand recover -- trends all underlined by government data released over the last several days. 
Further data to be released Friday and Saturday -- including monthly, quarterly and annual figures for industrial production, fixed-asset investment, retail sales and overall economic output -- are also expected to show that the Chinese economy, the world's second largest after that of the United States, is expanding once again.
Many shopkeepers are noticing a rebound in retail sales. Among them was Liu Licai, a merchant in southern China who sells curtains and other household goods. Although some industries, like auto manufacturing, still suffer from bloated inventories, retailers like Ms. Liu are finding their shelves too empty and are starting to place more orders with suppliers, keeping factories busy.
''Business has gone up by more than 10 percent in the last several months,'' Ms. Liu said during a brief lull on an otherwise busy day.
Yet the pace of China's expansion may not be fast enough to do much for the rest of the world. China's imports are growing less than half as fast as its exports, making it hard for China to become the locomotive to pull the global economy out of its half-decade funk. And overall growth is not rebounding to previous levels.
Until last year, the Chinese government set 8 percent annual growth as a goal, and the economy frequently delivered several percentage points more than that.
Then last March, the government pared the goal to 7.5 percent, and actual growth seems likely to be little higher.
''The potential growth rate of the economy has come down,'' Stephen Green, a China economist in the Hong Kong offices of Standard Chartered, said Sunday. ''You don't have to be in the double digits to get inflation.''
Prices rose faster in December, according to government data released Friday. Consumer prices rose 2.5 percent from the level of a year earlier, their fastest pace since May.
Economists inside and outside China say the true rate of inflation is as much as double the official rate because of methodological problems in the way China calculates inflation.
Mr. Green and other Western economists warned Friday and over the weekend that officially measured inflation at the consumer level could reach 5 percent by the fourth quarter and lead to an increase in interest rates by China's central bank.
Producer prices are still declining, but at a slower pace. They were down 1.9 percent in December from a year earlier, the smallest drop since last May.
Early in an economic recovery, rising prices tend to be a sign that an economy may not have much unused capacity that can be brought into production quickly. Yet Wen Senrong, the sales manager of the Flying Gift Bag store in Guangzhou, said that she was already seeing costs rise, with increases for rent, materials and labor.
''Our lease was renewed recently and our rent went up by a double-digit percentage -- I feel like I am working for the landlord,'' she said.
Tang Chun, the owner of a factory that makes picture frames in Guangzhou, complained of rising costs for the full range of supplies that she buys, including aluminum, acrylic and glass. But store buyers lack the confidence to accept higher prices, fearing that they will not be able to pass them on to retail customers, she said.
''Every possible cost is going up, including raw material costs and my rent, but I can't raise prices. It's all coming out of my profit margins,'' Ms. Tang said.
Part of the increase in inflation reflects rising prices for fruits and vegetables, as extremely cold weather in China over the past couple of weeks has damaged winter crops. At the fruit stand where Zeng Xiandan, 25, was stacking tangerines Saturday, prices had just jumped 10 percent to 20 percent for a wide range of produce, including tangerines, which were up 15 percent. Mr. Zeng said the increases had drawn surprisingly little criticism.
''They understand it's because of the cold weather. Customers have not complained,'' he said.
But economists say the overall rising prices reflect broad shifts in the Chinese economy.
China is awash in cash, since the government has expanded the broadly measured money supply over the past five years much more rapidly than the United States, even though the Federal Reserve's moves have attracted considerably more international attention. China's money supply is now larger than that of the United States, even though China's economy is half as large.
Strong overall growth in credit is powering a recovery in China's construction sector this winter, as businesses and households are starting to find it easier to borrow.
Total credit jumped 28 percent in December from a year ago, led by more corporate bonds and more loans from semi-regulated trusts set up by banks.
Until the last several years, China seemed to be expanding its factories so fast and workers were moving into cities so quickly that China could sustain rapid growth just by fully using those factories and workers.
But an emerging labor shortage, particularly of young workers, has changed that picture. The country's ''one child'' policy and more years spent in school have meant fewer young people entering the labor force. The Chinese economy remains dominated by manufacturing, and factory overcapacity still exists in some sectors.
At the same time, the labor-intensive service sector is growing rapidly and has far less overcapacity that can be used without causing inflation.
As the Chinese eat out more frequently and as its fast-growing population of elderly increasingly enters nursing homes, expansion is taking place in the catering and health care sectors. These sectors, along with education, have had trouble filling numerous but often low-paying positions.
Rebounding exports and construction have also increased demand for low-wage workers.
Exports leapt 14.1 percent in December from a year earlier, nearly three times as fast as expected, and were led by surging shipments to the United States, data released Thursday showed. Imports rose 6 percent in December, partly because of an 11 percent jump in iron ore imports as steel production rebounded.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A market in the southern Chinese city of Zhuhai, in Guangdong Province, top and above left, and a subway car in Guangzhou, above right. Government data released on Friday showed consumer prices rose 2.5 percent in December from a year before. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FORBES CONRAD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B3) CHART: More Modest Growth for China? Consumer-price inflation is rising in China and producer-price declines have eased. Those trends are a sign that the economy's maximum sustainable growth rate may not rebound to its previous double-digit levels. (Source: National Bureau of Statistics via CEIC data) (B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (91%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); INFLATION (89%); PRICE INCREASES (87%); PRICE CHANGES (87%); TRENDS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); STATISTICS (76%); EXPORT PRICES (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); BANKING IN CHINA (71%); GLOBALIZATION (71%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (71%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (71%); INTEREST RATES (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GUANGZHOU, CHINA (89%) SOUTH CHINA (93%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (90%) CHINA (99%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2013



425 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: Japan Steps Out

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
For three years economic policy throughout the advanced world has been paralyzed, despite high unemployment, by a dismal orthodoxy. Every suggestion of action to create jobs has been shot down with warnings of dire consequences. If we spend more, the Very Serious People say, the bond markets will punish us. If we print more money, inflation will soar. Nothing should be done because nothing can be done, except ever harsher austerity, which will someday, somehow, be rewarded.
But now it seems that one major nation is breaking ranks -- and that nation is, of all places, Japan. 
This isn't the maverick we were looking for. In Japan governments come and governments go, but nothing ever seems to change -- indeed, Shinzo Abe, the new prime minister, has had the job before, and his party's victory was widely seen as the return of the ''dinosaurs'' who misruled the country for decades. Furthermore, Japan, with its huge government debt and aging population, was supposed to have even less room for maneuver than other advanced countries.
But Mr. Abe returned to office pledging to end Japan's long economic stagnation, and he has already taken steps orthodoxy says we mustn't take. And the early indications are that it's going pretty well.
Some background: Long before the 2008 financial crisis plunged America and Europe into a deep and prolonged economic slump, Japan held a dress rehearsal in the economics of stagnation. When a burst stock and real estate bubble pushed Japan into recession, the policy response was too little, too late and too inconsistent.
To be sure, there was a lot of spending on public works, but the government, worried about debt, always pulled back before a solid recovery could get established, and by the late 1990s persistent deflation was already entrenched. In the early 2000s the Bank of Japan, the counterpart of the Federal Reserve, tried to fight deflation by printing a lot of money. But it, too, pulled back at the first hint of improvement, and the deflation never went away.
That said, Japan never had the kind of employment and human disaster we've experienced since 2008. Indeed, our policy response has been so inadequate that I've suggested that American economists who used to be very harsh in their condemnations of Japanese policy, a group that includes Ben Bernanke and, well, me, visit Tokyo to apologize to the emperor. We have, after all, done even worse.
And there's another lesson in Japan's experience: While getting out of a prolonged slump turns out to be very difficult, that's mainly because it's hard getting policy makers to accept the need for bold action. That is, the problem is mainly political and intellectual, rather than strictly economic. For the risks of action are much smaller than the Very Serious People want you to believe.
Consider, in particular, the alleged dangers of debt and deficits. Here in America, we are constantly warned that we must slash spending now now now or we'll turn into Greece, Greece I tell you. But Greece, a country without a currency, doesn't look much like the United States; surely Japan offers a more relevant model. And while doomsayers keep predicting a fiscal crisis in Japan, hyping each uptick in interest rates as a sign of the imminent apocalypse, it keeps not happening: Japan's government can still borrow long term at a rate of less than 1 percent.
Enter Mr. Abe, who has been pressuring the Bank of Japan into seeking higher inflation -- in effect, helping to inflate away part of the government's debt -- and has also just announced a large new program of fiscal stimulus. How have the market gods responded?
The answer is, it's all good. Market measures of expected inflation, which were negative not long ago -- the market was expecting deflation to continue -- have now moved well into positive territory. But government borrowing costs have hardly changed at all; given the prospect of moderate inflation, this means that Japan's fiscal outlook has actually improved sharply. True, the foreign-exchange value of the yen has fallen considerably -- but that's actually very good news, and Japanese exporters are cheering.
In short, Mr. Abe has thumbed his nose at orthodoxy, with excellent results.
Now, people who know something about Japanese politics warn me not to think of Mr. Abe as a good guy. His foreign policy, they tell me, is very bad, and his support for stimulus may have more to do with old-fashioned pork-barrel (tofu barrel?) politics than with a sophisticated rejection of conventional wisdom.
But none of that may matter. Whatever his motives, Mr. Abe is breaking with a bad orthodoxy. And if he succeeds, something remarkable may be about to happen: Japan, which pioneered the economics of stagnation, may also end up showing the rest of us the way out.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); DEFLATION (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); RECESSION (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); EURO CRISIS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (73%); BONDS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); AGING (52%); INFRASTRUCTURE (51%)

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (53%)

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (53%)

PERSON: SHINZO ABE (79%); BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (57%) JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2013



426 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 523 words

HEADLINE: An Incomplete Fix

 BODY:
Thanks to the fiscal cliff deal, the alternative minimum tax will not ensnare tens of millions of middle-class Americans for whom it was never intended. The deal raised the income thresholds before the A.M.T. kicks in and indexes them for inflation going forward. As a practical matter, this means that 28 million filers who would have had to pay the tax on their 2012 returns have been spared and are much less likely to have to pay the tax in the future.
Yet the fixes are incomplete. The purpose of the A.M.T. is to ensure that wealthy taxpayers cannot make excessive use of deductions, shelters and other tax breaks. It was supposed to hit multimillionaires and billionaires whose tax shelters reduce their tax bills to a pittance relative to their incomes. In the absence of comprehensive reform, the A.M.T. will continue, for the most part, to allow the highest-end taxpayers to escape, while still afflicting many taxpayers below those lofty levels. 
In 2011, for instance, more than half of taxpayers in the $200,000 to $500,000 income range paid the A.M.T, compared with only one-third of taxpayers who made more than $1 million, according to the Tax Policy Center. The situation will be much the same for 2012 and beyond unless Congress acts to rectify it.
The main problem lies in what counts as an excessive tax break. Common write-offs for dependents and for state and local taxes are counted as shelters subject to taxation under the A.M.T. Most A.M.T. payers are couples with children in the high-tax states of New York, New Jersey, Connecticut and California.
Tax breaks for dividends and capital gains, however, are not counted as shelters subject to the A.M.T. As a result, the wealthiest Americans -- who reap the lion's share of such investment income while enjoying the low tax rates that go with them -- are less likely than not-so-wealthy filers to fall into the A.M.T. Income-tax rates on capital gains and dividends top out at 20 percent, compared with a top rate of 39.6 percent on salary and wages. The saving to investors is roughly $90 billion a year. The upshot is that a professional couple with three children in New York City earning $250,000 is more likely to pay the A.M.T. than someone with no dependents in Florida who makes millions a year from a tax-favored stock portfolio.
It wasn't always that way. For many years after the inception of the A.M.T. in 1969, tax breaks for capital gains were included in the A.M.T. and, accordingly, most A.M.T. payers were filers who had large capital gains. But starting in the 1990s, Congress no longer required investors to report such tax breaks under the A.M.T. The omission was not an oversight. It was a deliberate policy to cut taxes for the rich that has endured to this day.
The inflation adjustments in the fiscal cliff deal were a fairly easy fix because they shielded a broad swath of taxpayers. A truer test of Congress's resolve will be its willingness to reduce the impact of everyday deductions, while adding capital gains and dividends to the system -- further helping taxpayers for whom the A.M.T. was not intended while capturing those for whom it was.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (53%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (73%); CONNECTICUT, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2013



427 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 418 words

HEADLINE: Japan's Latest Economic Transfusion

 BODY:
The $116 billion stimulus package unveiled Friday by Japan's new prime minister, Shinzo Abe, is a step in the right direction for the world's third-largest economy and America's fourth-largest trading partner. Mr. Abe's predecessors in the center-left Democratic Party unwisely followed a course of fiscal austerity, and paid the price for it last month at the polls. 
Mr. Abe's package of public-works spending (much of it to rebuild the earthquake-shattered Fukushima region), investment tax credits and more spending on education and health care could help jump start the moribund Japanese economy. Stimulus alone, however, will not be enough for long-term revival. Structural reforms will be needed -- though it won't be easy for Mr. Abe's conservative Liberal Democratic Party to challenge established interests like rural voters and government-dependent banks. But Japan has no other choice after two decades of anemic growth, sapping the buying power of consumers and the competitiveness of its leading companies.
Japan's population is aging and shrinking. Debt-laden ''zombie'' companies are kept alive by infusions of government credit. Too many workers are stuck in obsolete manufacturing industries and too few are available for potential growth areas like energy and health technologies. And with public debt equal to 220 percent of national output, Japan is already the world's most indebted major economy. The new stimulus package will provide no more than a short-term economic boost at the cost of still more government debt. Mr. Abe may well hope that a temporary boost from these measures will create enough new jobs fast enough to give his coalition the majority in the Parliament's upper house in elections this July. But if he wants to achieve sustainable growth as well, he needs to follow up with a package of structural reforms.
These should include provisions for letting zombie companies go bankrupt, phasing out costly agricultural subsidies and raising Japan's low rates of legal immigration to expand the working-age population. Some forward-looking steps, like expanded health care spending, are already in the stimulus package. But not enough. In 2009, reform-minded voters hoped that the center-left Democrats would carry out overdue changes. But squabbling and incompetence in that party brought only more political disappointment and economic decline. The renewed popularity of Mr. Abe's party could be equally short-lived unless it follows the stimulus package with lasting reforms.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (76%); JOB CREATION (75%); LIBERALISM (74%); EDUCATION FUNDING (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); NATIONAL DEBT (71%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (70%); TAX LAW (70%); CONSERVATISM (68%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (67%); AGING TRENDS (66%); INFRASTRUCTURE (57%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (50%); AGRICULTURE (50%); IMMIGRATION (50%)

PERSON: SHINZO ABE (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOHOKU, JAPAN (79%) JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2013



428 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1369 words

HEADLINE: In California, It's U.S. vs. State Over Marijuana

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

 BODY:
STOCKTON, Calif. -- Matthew R. Davies graduated from college with a master's degree in business and a taste for enterprise, working in real estate, restaurants and mobile home parks before seizing on what he saw as uncharted territory with a vast potential for profits -- medical marijuana.
He brought graduate-level business skills to a world decidedly operating in the shadows. He hired accountants, compliance lawyers, managers, a staff of 75 and a payroll firm. He paid California sales tax and filed for state and local business permits.
But in a case that highlights the growing clash between the federal government and those states that have legalized marijuana for medical or recreational use, the United States Justice Department indicted Mr. Davies six months ago on charges of cultivating marijuana, after raiding two dispensaries and a warehouse filled with nearly 2,000 marijuana plants. 
The United States attorney for the Eastern District of California, Benjamin B. Wagner, a 2009 Obama appointee, wants Mr. Davies to agree to a plea that includes a mandatory minimum of five years in prison, calling the case a straightforward prosecution of ''one of the most significant commercial marijuana traffickers to be prosecuted in this district.''
At the center of this federal-state collision is a round-faced 34-year-old father of two young girls. Displaying a sheaf of legal documents, Mr. Davies, who has no criminal record, insisted in an interview that he had meticulously followed California law in setting up a business in 2009 that generated $8 million in annual revenues. By all appearances, Mr. Davies' dispensaries operated as openly as the local Krispy Kreme, albeit on decidedly more tremulous legal ground.
''To be looking at 15 years of our life, you couldn't pay me enough to give that up,'' Mr. Davies said at the dining room table in his two-story home along the San Joaquin River Delta, referring to the amount of time he could potentially serve in prison. ''If I had believed for a minute this would happen, I would never have gotten into this.
''We thought, this is an industry in its infancy, it's a heavy cash business, it's basically being used by people who use it to cloak illegal activity. Nobody was doing it the right way. We thought we could make a model of how this should be done.''
His lawyers appealed this month to Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. to halt what they suggested was a prosecution at odds with Justice Department policies to avoid prosecutions of medical marijuana users and with President Obama's statement that the government has ''bigger fish to fry'' than recreational marijuana users.
''Does this mean that the federal government will be prosecuting individuals throughout California, Washington, Colorado and elsewhere who comply with state law permitting marijuana use, or is the Davies case merely a rogue prosecutor out of step with administration and department policy?'' asked Elliot R. Peters, one of his lawyers.
''This is not a case of an illicit drug ring under the guise of medical marijuana,'' Mr. Peters wrote. ''Here, marijuana was provided to qualified adult patients with a medical recommendation from a licensed physician. Records were kept, proceeds were tracked, payroll and sales taxes were duly paid.''
Mr. Holder's aides declined to comment, referring a reporter to a letter from Mr. Wagner to Mr. Davies's lawyers in which he disputed the depiction of the defendant as anything other than a major-league drug trafficker.
''Mr. Davies was not a seriously ill user of marijuana nor was he a medical caregiver -- he was the major player in a very significant commercial operation that sought to make large profits from the cultivation and sale of marijuana,'' the letter said. Mr. Wagner said that prosecuting such people ''remains a core priority of the department.''
The case illustrates the struggle states and the federal government are now facing as they seek to deal with the changing contours of marijuana laws and public attitudes toward the drug. Colorado and Washington legalized marijuana for recreational use last year, and are among the 18 states, and the District of Columbia, that currently allow its medical use.
Two of Mr. Davies's co-defendants are pleading guilty, agreeing to five-year minimum terms, to avoid stiffer sentences. Mr. Davies, while saying he did not ''want to be a martyr,'' decided to challenge the indictment with a combination of legal and public-relations measures, setting up a Web site devoted to his case and hiring Chris Lehane, a hard-hitting political consultant and former senior aide in Bill Clinton's White House.
Among Mr. Davies's advocates here in California are Paul I. Bonell, who was the president of the Premier Credit Union for 21 years before Mr. Davies hired him in early 2011 to oversee his businesses' fiscal controls. After the businesses were raided in October that year, Mr. Bonell took a position as the head of the Lodi Boys and Girls Club.
''I had some reservations going in,'' he said of Mr. Davies's enterprise. ''But the industry was exploding. Matt wanted to have internal controls in place. And we thought: This was a legitimate business. If the State of California deems it legitimate, we want to be the best at it.''
Mr. Davies's accountant, David M. Silva, said he set up spreadsheets to keep track of inventories, revenues and expenses. ''I've been a C.P.A. for 30 years,'' Mr. Silva said. ''What I saw was a guy who was trying to run an operation in an up-and-up way.''
The federal authorities said they stumbled across the operation after two men were spotted apparently breaking into Mr. Davies's 30,000-square-foot Stockton warehouse. The police said they smelled marijuana plants. Federal agents conducted a raid and confiscated 1,962 plants and 200 pounds of marijuana.
Mr. Davies, who is free on $100,000 bail, greeted visitors to his gated home by asking them to speak softly while walking through the entryway so as not to awaken his sleeping infant. He called out to his wife when asked when he was indicted: ''Hey, Molly -- we were indicted on your birthday, right? July 18.''
Mr. Davies referred to marijuana as ''medicine,'' and himself as a turnaround expert.
''We were basically pharmacists for medical marijuana -- everything was in full compliance with state law,'' he said. ''We paid our employees. We paid overtime. We had people going for unemployment if we fired them.''
''Why are they coming after me?'' he asked. ''If they have such a problem with California, why can't they sue California?''
Stephanie Horton, 25, who went to work for Mr. Davies after going to one of his dispensaries to obtain medical marijuana to help her deal with ovarian and cervical cancer, said she was devastated by the arrest of employers she described as among the best she had ever had -- not to mention the loss of her job.
''I'd go back and work there in a heartbeat,'' Ms. Horton said. ''I totally trusted them. We're not criminals. I've never been arrested my whole life. I need that medication, and so do a whole lot of people.''
But federal prosecutors offered a much less sympathetic view of Mr. Davies. The authorities shut down the warehouse and two dispensaries but said that Mr. Davies had ties to a total of seven dispensaries in the region, which they said yielded $500,000 in annual profits. Mr. Davies's lawyers disputed those assertions.
''Mr. Davies is being prosecuted for serious felony offenses,'' Mr. Wagner wrote to Mr. Davies's lawyers. ''I understand he is facing unpleasant alternatives. Neither a meeting with me nor seeking a review in Washington will change that reality.''
This is as much a legal clash as a cultural clash. Recreational marijuana use is common across this state, and without the legal stigma attached to it in much of the country. The federal government is viewed as a distant force.
''It's mind-boggling that there were hundreds of attorneys advising their clients that it was O.K. to do this, only to be bushwhacked by a federal system that most people in California are not even paying attention to,'' said William J. Portanova, a former federal drug prosecutor and a lawyer for one of Mr. Davies's co-defendants. ''It's tragic.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Matthew R. Davies, who faces charges over his medical marijuana business, at a shuttered dispensary in Stockton, Calif.
 Federal agents raided two of Mr. Davies's dispensaries and this warehouse, where 2,000 marijuana plants were grown, in 2011. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CANNABIS (94%); REAL ESTATE (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); LAWYERS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); DECRIMINALIZATION (89%); MEDICAL MARIJUANA (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (88%); HERBAL MEDICINE (77%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (77%); RESTAURANTS (77%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (74%); INDICTMENTS (74%); TRAILER PARKS (72%); DRUG LIBERALIZATION (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); JAIL SENTENCING (72%); SALES TAX (70%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); INTERVIEWS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (56%)

PERSON: ERIC HOLDER (53%); BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (97%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2013



429 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 921 words

HEADLINE: Russians Rally Against Adoption Ban in a Revival of Anti-Kremlin Protests

BYLINE: By ELLEN BARRY and ANDREW ROTH

 BODY:
MOSCOW -- Thousands of Russians marched Sunday to condemn the Parliament's move to ban the adoption of Russian children by American families, an event called a ''March Against Scoundrels.'' The protesters chanted, ''Take your hands off children,'' and carried posters showing the faces of lawmakers stamped with the word ''shame.''
Marchers flooded blocks of tree-lined boulevards on a bitterly cold day. The police estimated the turnout for the march, which was approved by the city's authorities, at 9,500, but a group of activists told the Interfax news agency that about 24,000 people had shown up. 
The sight gags and clever slogans of last year's antigovernment rallies were absent on Sunday, and many of the marchers became emotional in talking about why they took part. Some questioned the morality of a ban on adoptions by Americans in a country where so many children are in foster care or orphanages.
''Even I can't afford to adopt, and I'm supposedly middle class,'' said Yekaterina Komissarova, 31, adding that perhaps the issue angered her so deeply because she is the mother of two children.
Another marcher, Tamara Nikolayeva, 62, nearly shouted as she accused Russian leaders of using orphans as pawns.
''They have decided to settle a score by using children, and it's shameful,'' Ms. Nikolayeva said as friends gathered around, nodding their encouragement. ''O.K., maybe at some point it will be better not to give our children away; we should take care of them ourselves. But first you have to make life better for them here. Give them a chance to study. Give them a chance to get medical treatment.''
The adoption ban has underlined a growing division in Russian society, as the government has embraced conservative language tailored to voters in the heartland and has turned away from more prosperous city dwellers who have mobilized over the Internet. State-controlled television has regaled Russians with reports of American parents who abuse or neglect Russian children, and a top official derided the marchers as ''child sellers.''
''I am especially surprised to see people gather at such a large action in support of American business -- because for them, our children, Russian children, are factually, let's put it this way, an object of trade,'' Yekaterina Lakhova, the United Russia lawmaker who sponsored the ban, said in an interview with Kommersant FM radio shortly after the march began.
''Economically developed countries -- and we do not consider ourselves a third world country, we are in the top 20 -- do not give up their children to foreign adoption as much as we do,'' she said. ''Excuse me, but in the past years, we have given the United States a small city with a population of up to 100,000. That is how many children we have given up to foreign adoptions.''
President Vladimir V. Putin approved the adoption ban in late December as part of a broader law retaliating against the United States for the so-called Magnitsky Act, an effort to punish Russian officials accused of human rights violations.
Russian leaders have complained bitterly for years about what they consider light sentences in cases where American parents abused or neglected children adopted from Russia, and named the ban after Dmitri Yakovlev, a toddler who died of heatstroke in Virginia in 2008 after his adoptive father left him in a parked car for nine hours.
But the decision has proved to be controversial in Russia, even within government circles. More than 650,000 children live in foster care or orphanages in Russia, of whom about 120,000 are eligible for adoption. Many children in orphanages are sick or disabled, and most have little hope of finding permanent homes.
''We hope that these people, who came out to express their opinion, are aware of the plans of our nation's leaders to bring order to the adoption process, and the implementation of a range of measures aimed to improve the lives of orphans,'' said Dmitri S. Peskov, the Kremlin press secretary.
The protesters on Sunday, however, were not likely to be convinced. One woman carried a sign that said, ''Stop the repressions, you're making revolutionaries out of us.'' Many said they supported the Magnitsky Act, which American lawmakers passed late last year, as a way to hold Russian officials accountable for crimes that would otherwise never be punished.
''I truly think they have lost touch with society, and they use these laws to divert society's anger toward 'our enemies,' the Americans,'' said Boris Komberg, a physicist who was distributing a poem he had written about the adoption issue.
Yelena Rostova, 61, said anger over the ban had caught the authorities by surprise.
''They expected that, as usual, we would swallow it, keep quiet,'' Ms. Rostova said. ''We have had two weeks to think about this law, and not everyone understood right away, but as time passed, people realized what it means to leave invalids, sick children, in Russia, where there is no help. Everyone knows what kind of medicine we have here.''
Because of the long winter holidays, there is little fresh data about the public's opinion, but in a survey released in December by the Public Opinion Foundation, 56 percent of Russians said they approved of banning adoptions by Americans.
Leonid Perlov, 58, a geography professor, cast an appraising eye at the long line of marchers. He then turned back and said it would be foolish to expect political change anytime soon.
''This is not the country,'' he said. ''This is Moscow. Believe me, there is a very big difference.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In the protest, the word ''shame'' was written across photographs of members of the Russian Parliament. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES HILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ORPHANS (90%); ADOPTION (90%); CHILDREN (90%); FAMILY (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CITY LIFE (76%); APPROVALS (70%); CITIES (70%); RANKINGS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2013



430 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 923 words

HEADLINE: After Years of Discord, California and Nevada Agree on Tahoe Development

BYLINE: By MALIA WOLLAN

 BODY:
SOUTH LAKE TAHOE, Calif. -- Deep in the Sierra Nevada, 39 trillion gallons of crystalline water straddles the border between California and Nevada.
That water, Lake Tahoe, can be as smooth as glass, but the politics of land-use planning along the lake's 72-mile shoreline are some of the most contentious and muddled in the country.
Lawmakers from the two states tend to have very different ideas about how to manage development around the lake, to say nothing of the more than 50 federal, state and local agencies with jurisdiction in the basin. 
But last month, after nearly a decade of wrangling, the Tahoe Regional Planning Agency, the bistate agency that regulates development, approved a new plan that will guide building there.
''The infrastructure around the lake was built in the 1950s and '60s, and it's failing the communities and it's failing the lake,'' said Todd Ferrara, deputy secretary of the California Natural Resources Agency. ''California and Nevada have this shared treasure, and the stakes are too high not to work together to protect it.''
The new regional plan encourages ripping down and rebuilding the area's aging infrastructure, removing buildings from environmentally delicate areas near marshes, streams and rivers, and constructing denser urban centers. It also streamlines the permit process for construction projects in the basin, which gets three million visitors a year.
For many of basin's 55,000 full-time residents, the fact that the agency's governing board -- made up of seven Nevadans and seven Californians -- reached consensus came as a great relief.
''We're very happy that a plan has finally been passed, because without concrete regulations, nobody wins and the lake suffers,'' said Darcie Goodman Collins, executive director of the League to Save Lake Tahoe, an environmental advocacy group.
While the plan has broad support on both sides of the state line, some environmental groups say it will result in taller buildings and denser development, which could ultimately harm the ecosystem of the lake.
''This new plan is a plan for improving the tourist economy, not a plan for improving the environment,'' said Laurel Ames, conservation co-chairwoman for the Tahoe Area Sierra Club, which is considering a lawsuit to halt it before it is carried out on Feb. 11.
But policy makers counter that replacing aging infrastructure would be a major step toward restoring the lake's ecosystem and quintessential clarity.
''The idea is to get rid of this strip development that causes sediment to run off into the lake and rebuild,'' said Lew Feldman, a lawyer who represents developers in the area.
Beginning in the 1950s, developers hurriedly built in preparation for the 1960 Winter Olympics in Squaw Valley, Calif., and to support the burgeoning gambling industry on the Nevada side.
In just a few decades, whole sections of shoreline were rapidly transformed from stands of Ponderosa pine trees and willow-filled marshes into a kind of continuous strip of low-slung motels, casinos and budget restaurants.
By the late 1960s, sewage was leaking into the lake, resulting in the growth of microscopic algae that clouded the lucent waters.
''Every little pebble was distinct, every speckled trout, every hand's-breadth of sand,'' Mark Twain wrote of his unimpeded glimpse into Lake Tahoe's depths in ''Roughing It.''
When scientists first began testing the lake's clarity, in 1968, they could see down more than 102 feet into the water. By 2011, the most recent year with complete data, visibility was 69 feet and the summer clarity was the second worst on record.
To control the runaway development in the Lake Tahoe basin, Congress approved a bistate compact between Nevada and California in 1969, creating the Tahoe Regional Planning Agency.
''The focus is on water quality restoration,'' said Joanne Marchetta, the agency's executive director. ''The lake is the canary in the coal mine: if the lake is healthy, the surrounding environment and economies can be healthy.''
The agency's last regional plan, carried out in 1987, capped development and established standards for environmental quality in the basin.
''The bistate compact was created in an effort to strangle the uncontrolled growth that was undeniably polluting the lake, and it succeeded,'' said Ross Miller, Nevada's secretary of state.
In fact, the compact restricted growth so rapidly it had the effect of freezing the lakeside communities in time. Much of the infrastructure still looks like it did when Elvis Presley spent summers there playing at the Nevada casinos in the early 1970s.
Other economic forces also hampered development. Beginning in the 1990s, the growth of Native American gambling in California sent Nevada's casinos into a tailspin of lost revenue and empty hotel rooms.
By 2011, Nevada lawmakers became so frustrated with the agency's strict development regulations that they passed legislation to withdraw from the compact in 2015 if a new regional plan was not approved.
''It is time for Nevada to stand alone in serving Nevadans and the valuable natural resource Lake Tahoe,'' State Senator John Jay Lee, who sponsored the bill, said at the time.
Since the agency approved the new plan on Dec. 12, some Nevada lawmakers, including Mr. Miller, say that as long as the plan does not stall in the courts, they will rescind the bill and recommit to bistate management.
''The different states and stakeholders all come with different perspectives,'' Ms. Marchetta said. ''But they share a passion for the lake and a desire to preserve it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In the Sierra Nevada, Lake Tahoe sits on the California-Nevada border. A bistate compact made in 1969, and updated in 1987, clamped down on runaway development, with the result that much of the infrastructure looks like it did in the early '70s, when Elvis Presley was a regular. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAKES (91%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (89%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); APPROVALS (75%); JURISDICTION (75%); CONSTRUCTION (74%); EXECUTIVES (71%); GAMING (67%); OLYMPICS (60%); LITIGATION (60%); RIVERS (51%); WINTER OLYMPICS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (97%); NEVADA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2013



431 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 189 words

HEADLINE: Rise in Health Premiums

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Health Insurers Raise Some Rates by Double Digits'' (front page, Jan. 6): Health plans share the goal of affordable health care coverage for all Americans. Arbitrarily capping premiums without addressing underlying cost drivers will not move the country closer to that goal. 
Data show that premiums are increasing because of the unsustainable rise in medical costs, new benefit mandates that make coverage more expensive, and the effect of younger and healthier people forgoing insurance because of a slow economy.
Moreover, the health care reform law imposed new rate review requirements and a federal cap on health plan administrative costs and profits, further suggesting that rising premiums are being driven by increased spending on medical care.
Focusing on affordability is critical as the reform law is fully carried out in 2014. That is why policy makers should address provisions that will further increase premiums, like the health insurance tax, and take steps to ensure broad participation in the system.
KAREN IGNAGNI President and Chief Executive America's Health Insurance Plans Washington, Jan. 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (95%); INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (88%); HEALTH CARE LAW (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (88%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (88%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (88%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (88%); EXECUTIVES (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICA'S HEALTH INSURANCE PLANS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2013



432 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1380 words

HEADLINE: After Rocky Year for Start-Ups, Investors Are Pickier

BYLINE: By NICOLE PERLROTH

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO -- Call it the Facebook effect. Until recently, investors had been all too eager to pour millions into any Web start-up with rapid growth, regardless of whether it made money or even had plans to do so down the road. But after Facebook's rocky initial public offering and flameouts at Zynga and Groupon, venture capitalists are entering a picky phase.
''Earlier, entrepreneurs didn't need a real monetization strategy,'' said Brian O'Malley, an early investor at Battery Ventures. ''They could punt on revenue indefinitely because their investment dollars were their revenue. They could fund their start-ups with funding versus customers.''
No longer favored are e-commerce start-ups, which face logistical hurdles and require a lot of money. The celebrated shift to smartphones, once welcomed with an outpouring of investments, is now making some investors nervous as monetization proves harder for mobile devices than it did for the Web. 
Investors have also grown weary of start-ups and applications that rely entirely on Facebook, Twitter and LinkedIn for customers, now that those companies are focused on their own bottom lines. And Silicon Valley is discovering that while it may be easier than ever to start a company, it is harder than ever to build an enduring business.
Younger start-ups are beginning to feel the pinch. CB Insights, a research firm, analyzed 4,056 initial, or seed, investments made in tech start-ups in the United States since 2009. It found that more than 1,000 start-ups that attracted seed financing from angel investors -- wealthy investors who put in money from their own pockets -- will find themselves orphaned this year when venture capitalists reject their requests for more money. As a result, $1 billion in angel investments will evaporate.
That carnage hardly compares to the bursting of the dot-com bubble in 2000, when $3 trillion was lost on the Nasdaq, but it is enough to give Internet investors and entrepreneurs pause.
CB Insights predicts that Internet start-ups will be the hardest hit, because they have attracted more seed money than enterprise and hardware companies but will most likely have a harder time securing follow-up investments.
Part of the problem is simple math. Angel investors seed businesses with small sums, often less than $1.5 million. But to grow a business, entrepreneurs eventually have to solicit financing from the venture capitalists who invest on behalf of endowments, pension funds, foundations and the like. And while the number of angels eager to write checks has increased, the number of active venture capitalists has decreased.
But investors say it is not just the bottleneck that is to blame. The realities of building an enduring business are starting to sink in. ''It has never been easier to start a company, and never harder to build one,'' said David Lee, a venture capitalist at SV Angel, an early-stage investment firm.
David O. Sacks, a Silicon Valley executive who sold Yammer to Microsoft for $1.2 billion last year, summed up the challenges in a bearish note on Facebook last August.
''I think Silicon Valley as we know it may be coming to an end,'' Mr. Sacks wrote. ''To create a successful new company,'' he said, entrepreneurs have to find an idea that ''has escaped the attention of the major Internet companies, which are better run than before.'' To attract follow-up money, new companies now have to prove themselves for less than $5 million.
On top of that, they must be ''protectable from the onslaught of those big companies once they figure out what you're on to,'' Mr. Sacks said. ''How many ideas like that are left?''
Mr. Sacks's comments were widely debated within Silicon Valley. One of his most vocal critics was Marc Andreessen, the co-founder of Netscape and of Andreessen-Horowitz, a venture capital firm, who said on Facebook that the opportunities for start-ups were ''unending.''
But start-ups are finding that their supply of capital is not. ''The valuations got ahead of themselves,'' said Rich Wong, a venture investor at Accel Partners. ''Where people only paid attention to multiple quarters, now they are looking more than a year ahead for projected results.''
Mr. Wong said e-commerce companies in particular were drawing closer scrutiny. Investors who took note of Amazon's $1.2 billion acquisition of Zappos and its $540 million purchase of Quidsi, the owner of Diapers.com, poured millions into e-commerce sites, only to discover that they are difficult to run.
Gilt Groupe, a flash deal site for fashion, raised some $220 million in capital but is still not profitable. Last year, the company was forced to cut staff. It is scaling back on smaller brands like Gilt Taste and Park & Bond, and it has put Jetsetter, its popular online travel site, up for sale. Fab.com, a daily deal site for design, raised money at a lower valuation than it had planned because of Facebook's troubled I.P.O. Investors also predict that Zulily, a flash deal site for mothers, will have a hard time justifying its recent $1 billion valuation.
ShoeDazzle, Kim Kardashian's shoe site, raised $66 million and Lot18, a flash deal site for wine, raised $45 million from investors impressed with their user growth. Both companies were forced to make staff cuts last year.
''I am skeptical of 'Commerce 2.0,' which has come to mean daily deals and discounts,'' said Peter Fenton, a venture partner at Benchmark Capital. Mr. Fenton said flash sites like Zulily and Gilt ''are capital-intensive, face structural challenges to their margins, and if they do go public, they trade at low multiples. Plus, I seriously question their ability to compete with a juggernaut like Amazon.''
Likewise, investors are becoming skeptical of social games and applications that build on social networks like Facebook, Twitter and LinkedIn. These social networks are a shaky foundation for a business because they themselves are feeling pressure to monetize.
For example, Facebook made tweaks to its newsfeed algorithm last fall that reduced the number of users who can view Facebook status updates. The company said it made the tweaks to serve its users more relevant content, but advertisers complained that the changes cut the audience for their posts in half.
The real impetus for the change, advertisers say, was to force companies to use Facebook's new promotion feature, which gives users the option to pay to ensure their updates reach a wider audience.
BranchOut, a professional network that culled data from LinkedIn and Facebook, raised $49 million from venture investors but had to change its business model in 2011 after LinkedIn cut off access to its data. More recently, Tweetro, a Twitter application for Windows 8, was removed from the market in November after it outgrew Twitter's new third-party user limits.
''Investors are getting smarter about the sources of traffic,'' said Mr. O'Malley of Battery Ventures. ''Companies that rely heavily on Twitter and Facebook, or mobile, are having a tougher time.''
Venture capital investments in mobile companies were up 75 percent in the first nine months of 2012 compared with the same period in 2011, according to CB Insights, but developers face different challenges on smartphones than they did on the Web.
''There was so much hype around the transition to mobile, but people are realizing that mobile is challenging,'' Mr. O'Malley said. Among the obstacles is the fact that developers are subject to Apple's whims. Also, they must persuade people to download their apps, and advertising is more complicated on a smaller screen.
So which consumer start-ups are likely to survive the chopping block?
''People are looking more seriously at engagement metrics,'' Mr. O'Malley said. ''What percent of your users are coming back? How engaged are they? Are they a 'sticky' user?''
That dose of reality may be healthy. Mr. Lee of SV Angel said that 18 months ago, every other business pitch he heard was social, local or mobile. Today, he sees more diverse company ideas and more durable, predictable business models.
''Now companies that have a predictable business model, or a way of getting engaged users, and global, addressable markets are the companies getting the lofty valuations,'' Mr. Lee said. But, he added, ''that's making me more cheap.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: David O. Sacks, who sold Yammer to Microsoft, said financing is harder to find. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
 In Manhattan, workers at Omgpop, which offers an app that allows users to draw on a cellphone or iPad. It is owned by Zynga. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JENNIFER S. ALTMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); STARTUPS (89%); VENTURE CAPITAL (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); SOCIAL MEDIA (78%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (78%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); FACEBOOK INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERING (73%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (69%); SMARTPHONES (68%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (90%); GROUPON INC (57%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (90%); GRPN (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (90%); NAICS541860 DIRECT MAIL ADVERTISING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (74%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2013



433 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 302 words

HEADLINE: Economic Reports for the Week Ahead

 BODY:
ECONOMIC REPORTS Data scheduled to be released includes retail sales for December, the Producer Price Index for December, and business inventories for November (Tuesday); the Consumer Price Index for December, industrial production for December and the Federal Reserve beige book (Wednesday); weekly jobless claims, housing starts for December and the Philadelphia Fed index for January (Thursday); and the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan consumer sentiment index for January (Friday). 
CORPORATE EARNINGS Companies scheduled to release quarterly reports include Lennar (Tuesday); Bank of New York Mellon, Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan Chase, Charles Schwab, US Bancorp and eBay (Wednesday); Bank of America, BlackRock, Citigroup, UnitedHealth, American Express and Intel (Thursday); and General Electric, Morgan Stanley, Schlumberger and State Street (Friday).
IN THE UNITED STATES On Monday, the North American International Auto Show in Detroit will open for media previews before opening to the public on Saturday and running through Jan. 27; and Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, will speak at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor about monetary policy.
On Tuesday, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation will meet to consider a multiagency rule that would bolster standards for higher-risk mortgages.
On Thursday, Christine Lagarde, managing director of the International Monetary Fund, holds a news conference in Washington, and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau conducts a hearing in Atlanta about its plans for oversight of the mortgage servicing industry.
OVERSEAS On Tuesday, Abu Dhabi plays host to the World Future Energy Summit conference on renewable energy technologies and companies, which runs through Thursday.
On Friday, China reports fourth-quarter gross domestic product.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CALENDARS (91%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); PRODUCER PRICES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INVENTORIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (87%); ECONOMIC POLICY (79%); REAL ESTATE (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (79%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (79%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); CONSUMER LENDING (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (74%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (74%); RETAIL SALES (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); HOUSING STARTS (73%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (72%); MONETARY POLICY (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (70%); TRADE SHOWS (68%); MORTGAGE SERVICING (66%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (64%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (83%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (71%); U S BANCORP (71%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (68%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (57%); CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (57%); INTEL CORP (56%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION (54%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (83%); JPM (NYSE) (71%); JPM (LSE) (71%); 8634 (TSE) (71%); USB (NYSE) (71%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); GS (NYSE) (57%); GNE (PAR) (57%); GEC (LSE) (57%); GE (SWX) (57%); GE (NYSE) (57%); SCHW (NYSE) (57%); INTC (NASDAQ) (56%); AXP (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (71%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (71%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (68%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (68%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (58%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (56%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (59%); CHRISTINE LAGARDE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2013



434 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2013

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 778 words

HEADLINE: North Korea: Tweeting Its Way to the Future?

BYLINE: DIDI KIRSTEN TATLOW


HIGHLIGHT: North Korea, one of the most cut-off nations on earth, appears to have an official Twitter account. It contains some surprises. 

 BODY:
BEIJING - Twitter in North Korea? It sounds about as likely as snow in the tropics.
Yet the fiercely isolationist state, headed by Kim Jong-un, the 30-ish, third-generation scion of its founding family, does appear to have a Twitter account: @uriminzok. It's even following three other users, as the British newspaper The Guardian spotted.
(By contrast, @XHNews, the account of Xinhua News Agency, China's state news agency, doesn't follow anyone, or wasn't at the time of writing: take a look.) 
Yet here is where things start to resemble the surrealism of an "Inspector O" novel by James Church, the pseudonymous author of spooky yarns about a hapless North Korean policeman: As The Guardian discovered, the first two accounts followed by @uriminzok (which has both an English and a Korean feed) are, perhaps, predictable. One is a North Korean propaganda site, @Pyongyang_DPRK. The other is described by the Guardian as "Vietnam's" account, the official-looking @qwertyvn, which has a Vietnamese flag as its image. But you won't guess the third account: Jimmy Dushku's. 
Who?
The Guardian dug around and identified Mr. Dushku, 25, as having been "a web developer (in his teens), a property and construction tycoon (he has investments everywhere from his home state of Texas to Brazil and Peru) and a golfing buddy of Dennis Quaid." Mr. Dushku is "one of those whizzkids who do so much to make anyone over 30 feel they should take themselves off to the nearest ice floe and die," the newspaper wrote in its Pass Notes section.
Lacking a convincing explanation of why North Korea is following Mr. Dushku, we can turn to a more serious underlying point. The Internet and North Korea have been together in the news recently, following an unusual trip there last week by one of the biggest names in the online world: Eric Schmidt, Google's executive chairman.
Mr. Schmidt was part of a private delegation led by Bill Richardson, the former governor of New Mexico, as my colleague Choe Sang-Hun reported. 
Of course, in a New Year's address, North Korea's young leader called for a "radical turnabout" in the economy, saying 2013 would be a year of "creation and changes" that would transform the impoverished state into an "economic giant" and raise living standards. He made the remarks in a rare messageon TV, the first televised New Year's broadcast by a North Korean leader in 19 years, the BBC reported. 
So perhaps growing North Korean interest in the Internet isn't that surprising.
Yet as Sang-Hun wrote, "Except for a tiny portion of its elite, North Korea's population is blocked from the Internet. Under its new leader, Kim Jong-un, the country has emphasized science and technology but has also vowed to intensify its war against the infiltration of outside information in the isolated country, which it sees as a potential threat to its totalitarian grip on power." 
In short, North Korea is still one of the least connected countries on the planet.
Sang-hun quoted Mr. Richardson as saying that Mr. Schmidt was "interested in some of the economic issues there, the social media aspect."
And The Guardian had more: Speaking in Beijing last Thursday at the end of the four-day visit, "Schmidt said the regime would fall even further behind the rest of the world unless it widened access to the internet and mobile phones among its 24 million people," it wrote.
"As the world becomes increasingly connected, their decision to be virtually isolated is very much going to affect their physical world, their economic growth and so forth, and it will make it harder for them to catch up economically," it quoted Mr. Schmidt as saying.
"We made that alternative very clear," Mr. Schmidt said at the end of the trip, which the U.S. State Department had criticized as "unhelpful" in light of its efforts to pressure the regime into abandoning its ballistic missile and nuclear weapons programs.
Mr. Dushku "has no idea" why he is being followed by North Korea, The Guardian wrote. "Anyway, Jimmy followed North Korea back, out of courtesy, adding, 'Have a nice day, my friend' in Korean," the paper wrote.
Meanwhile, Pyongyang's enigmatic social media project continues. On Monday morning, the English-language Twitter feed posted five tweets, including these: 
Aeguk Stone Work Factory http://t.co/S76nBGHl
- Uriminzokkiri (en) (@uriminzok_en)14 Jan 12
and this 
DPRK's Acrobatic Stunt "Flying Girls" Wins Prize for First Place http://t.co/i2jcTTcK
- Uriminzokkiri (en) (@uriminzok_en)14 Jan 12

        
North Korean Missile Could Be in Japanese Cross Hairs
        
North Korea: Have We Seen This Movie Before?
        
Excitable Boy, They All Said
        
A New Start for the Koreas (or Not)
        
Disney to Asian Pirates: Knock It Off

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (93%); INTERNET & WWW (88%); ADOLESCENTS (77%); WRITERS (76%); GOVERNORS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (69%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (67%); TRENDS (65%); LIVING STANDARDS (64%); GOLF (64%); EXECUTIVES (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%) Church, James; Kim Jong-un; Schmidt, Eric E; Economic Conditions and Trends; Social Networking (Internet); Google Inc; Twitter; Xinhua; North Korea; Google Inc|GOOG|NASDAQ; View From Asia

COMPANY: TWITTER INC (91%); GOOGLE INC (81%)

ORGANIZATION: Google Inc; Twitter; Xinhua

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (81%) Google Inc; GOOG; NASDAQ

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (91%)

PERSON: KIM JONG UN (90%); ERIC E SCHMIDT (86%); BILL RICHARDSON (57%) Church, James; Kim Jong-un; Schmidt, Eric E

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (74%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (58%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (89%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (97%); CHINA (92%); VIET NAM (79%); PERU (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); BRAZIL (79%); ASIA (79%) North Korea

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2013



435 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 666 words

HEADLINE: China Hints at Far Wider Welcome to Overseas Investors

BYLINE: NEIL GOUGH


HIGHLIGHT: Foreign participation in mainland stock markets could increase tenfold, said Guo Shuqing, the country's top securities regulator. 

 BODY:
HONG KONG -- In what would be a drastic liberalization of China's huge but still cloistered capital markets, the country's top securities regulator said Monday that foreign investment could be allowed to rise as much as tenfold. 
Citing the still-nascent levels of overseas participation in domestic stock markets - despite recent actions more than doubling the amount of money that foreign funds can invest there - Guo Shuqing, the regulator, hinted that 2013 could bring sweeping new measures to open financial markets in China, which has the world's second-biggest economy, after that of the United States. 
''For our capital markets to mature, they must open more in the future,'' Mr. Guo, the chairman of the China Securities Regulatory Commission, said Monday at a financial forum in Hong Kong. ''Our goal is to make it easier for nonresidents to issue and trade securities in the domestic markets.'' 
Shares in Shanghai leaped 3.1 percent Monday after Mr. Guo's comments, as investors speculated that a wave of foreign cash could be set to hit the mainland stock markets. That added to a monthlong rally in which the benchmark Shanghai share index has rebounded 18 percent from early December, when it hit its lowest levels in more than three years. 
With a total capitalization of about 20 trillion renminbi, or $3.2 trillion, China's domestic stock market ranks as one of the biggest in the world, but it is also one of the most restricted among major economies. 
Mr. Guo has been pushing hard to remove some of these investment barriers. In his comments Monday, Mr. Guo said that foreign investors hold only about 1.5 percent of the domestic share market by value. ''I think at least we can increase that 10 times,'' he said. 
Some observers expressed deep skepticism at the remarks. ''This is great headline stuff, but I don't think it is particularly constructive, because you are not going to simply take the lid off and increase everything by 10 times,'' said Fraser Howie, the co-author of ''Red Capitalism: The Fragile Financial Foundation of China's Extraordinary Rise.'' 
''I would like to see proper, sensible moves to break down some of the barriers to entry and the actual movement of money,'' Mr. Howie said. 
A former chief foreign exchange regulator and former chairman of China Construction Bank who took the helm at the securities regulator in October 2011, Mr. Guo spearheaded a move last April that more than doubled the amount of Chinese shares that foreign investors could own, increasing the quota for so-called qualified foreign institutional investors to $80 billion from $30 billion. 
However, by the end of December, only $37.4 billion of that quota had been actually allocated to investors, spread among 169 banks, brokerage firms and other financial institutions, according to a statement released Friday by the State Administration of Foreign Exchange. 
Mr. Guo did not give specific details Monday of how China might raise foreign investment by such a large factor. But he hinted at one potential new program that is under discussion: letting in ordinary retail investors, most likely those from Hong Kong. 
At present, China's markets are open only to funds managed by brokerage firms, banks and other institutions. But Mr. Guo said he had been in talks during the weekend with several unidentified financial industry groups in Hong Kong about introducing a quota for so-called qualified foreign individual investors. 
Details were sparse. But analysts said the general tone of the remarks was consistent with similar indications made recently by the central bank that support was growing for financial changes. 
''Clearly this demonstrates the resolve to accelerate financial sector reform, and part of the puzzle is to further liberalize the capital account,'' said Steven Sun, the head of China equity strategy at HSBC in Hong Kong. 

        
An American-Made Business Model Has Less Success Overseas
        
Wall Street Is Bracing for the Dodd-Frank Rules to Kick In

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENT (93%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (92%); SECURITIES LAW (92%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BANKING IN CHINA (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (77%); BONDS (77%) Banking and Financial Institutions; China; Foreign Investments; Guo Shuqing; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Stocks and Bonds; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: CHINA CONSTRUCTION BANK CORP (59%)

TICKER: 0939 (HKSE) (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (59%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (59%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (59%)

PERSON: Guo Shuqing

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (88%) EAST CHINA (90%) CHINA (96%); HONG KONG (92%); UNITED STATES (79%) China

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2013



436 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 1541 words

HEADLINE: This Week in Small Business: Nothing Magical?

BYLINE: GENE MARKS


HIGHLIGHT: A trillion-dollar coin, the Soup Nazi, tips for manufacturers, hiring without an H.R. department. And do you think small businesses are overly romanticized? 

 BODY:
What's affecting me, my clients and other small-business owners this week.
 The Debt Ceiling: Spare Change Anyone? 
As the debt ceiling deadline approaches, a new solution to the problem is floated: letting the Treasury Department mint a trillion-dollar coin. A Republican congressman tries to thwart the idea, but the White House didn't rule it out. Felix Salmon explains why it won't happen: "What we're talking about here has a kind of cold war mutually-assured-destruction mentality." Neil Irwin says the coin idea is "idiotic," but says, "The fact that it is idiotic is kind of the point." Edward D. Kleinbard thinks that issuing scrip could be another workaround.
 Outlook: Nothing Magical
 
A popular small-business sentiment index continues to register low readings, and a Staples study finds that many small-business owners are feeling overworked. But according to another study, most small-business owners are excited about the year's prospects. A new survey from Visa finds that the top areas of concern include the cost of health insurance, attracting new customers and rising taxes. Adam Ozimek believes there is nothing magical about small businesses: "We would be better off if people would stop romanticizing small businesses and instead focused on the outcomes that really matter, like economic growth and unemployment." Sam Barry and Kathi Kamen Goldmark say that the Soup Nazi is one of the six types of business owners.
 The Economy: Shoddy Data 
The global economy is starting 2013 surprisingly strong and American oil imports have fallen to their lowest in 25 years. Corporate profits are going up (in part because wages are going down). Office vacancy rates declined slightly. Matthew Yglesias complains that economists are using shoddy data. One member of the Federal Reserve Board disagrees strongly with the board's policies. Companies are flooding the market with new debt.
 Management: Get More Done 
Regus offers five tips to expand your business in 2013. Eddie Yoon believes that to spur growth, you must focus on "prosumers." In an effort to build her business, Bridget Ingebrigtsen is starting her year by building up her sources of energy. Geoffrey James offers 10 easy ways to get more done, including: "Never pick up on an unknown caller." David Sumka predicts that monetizing data will be the holy grail of 21st-century businesses. Alyson Stanfield suggests five ways to simplify your art business in 2013. Pedro Hernandez shares three tips for small manufacturers, and Al Bredenberg explains how manufacturing leaders are beating economic volatility. Here are 10 restaurant trends for 2013, and a prankster pulls a prank on a few drive-through windows. This is the kind of message restaurant employees should be leaving on receipts. And here's how companies win lifelong customers.
 Your People: Where Are the Good Applicants? 
Sharlyn Lauby explains how to hire great employees without a human resources department. If you work for a company run by a male chief executive whose wife is about to give birth - particularly a firstborn - you should hope they have a daughter. This may be the year your employees decide to quit. Catherine Rampell wonders if there really are no good job applicants out there. The National Hockey League settles its lockout. The White House decides not to deport Piers Morgan. A photographer has a very close encounter with a polar bear.
 Social Media: Six Small-Business Myths 
Mack Collier points out the biggest mistake companies make when engaging fans through social media. David Sims debunks six small-business myths, including: "Social media is your ticket to success." LinkedIn creates an interesting infographic to celebrate hitting 200 million members. Here's how to get 10,000 "shares" on Facebook in 24 hours. Here are three small businesses that are successful on Facebook. This infographic analyzes whether business blogging is better than Facebook. A Canadian Internet service provider says Facebook advertising does work. But more teenagers use Tumblr than Facebook.
 Marketing: Snappy Sales Presentations 
Small businesses expect to increase ad spending in 2013. Jill Konrath suggests the best books for snappy sales presentations. In this video, Cilian Jansen Verplanke shares practical marketing tips. G.B. Oliver has a few examples of product copy that sells. Drew Hendricks shares five things small-business owners should keep in mind when developing a Web site, including: "Be sure to build relevant links." Cliff Pollan believes there are seven ways to help Sales use marketing content to win buyer trust, including: "Ensure that any content you provide to Sales is easy for buyers to share, follow, or subscribe to." Ryan Derousseau says there are content-development lessons you can learn from Doctor Who. Michael Rae believes visual content marketing will be the next big thing.
 Finance: No 1099-K? You Still Must Pay 
A seed-stage venture capital firm sets up shop on Harvard's campus to catch young, entrepreneurial talent early (maybe some guys who can chug like this). Venture firm financing is at the highest since 2008. If you're thinking of not paying taxes because you didn't receive a 1099-K, Jennifer Escalona Dunn suggests you think again. Dawn Fotopulos explains how to manage a small-business credit line. And those crazy accountants at WithumSmith & Brown are at it again.
 Around the Country: Selling Out in California 
Sales of small businesses hit a four-year high in California. Susan Johnston wants you to think about whether your business can be sold. Southern Maine Community College will hold a "Launch or Grow Small Business Success Conference" on Jan. 25. Starbucks rolls out a $1 reusable cup to reduce waste. Goldman Sachs extends its small-business program into Philadelphia, its 11th location. A Jersey City escalator rolls the wrong way.
 Around the World: Doing Business in India 
Euro zone unemployment hits another record high. Industrial output in Germany is below expectations. Greece's deficit improves but its jobless rate soars. These charts show that China doesn't have its old capacity to grow. Asia leads the world in the latest index of economic freedom. Gautam Chikermane says there are seven reasons you should be doing business in India. People in Sweden are screaming. What did President Vladimir Putin say to terrify this little boy?
 C.E.S.: So Uncool, It's Cool?
Here are seven standout technologies from last week's Consumer Electronics Show, and this was the biggest news from the show's press day. Mobility took the stage, Intel's ultrabook triumphed quietly and Lenovo showed off a table PC. Alexia Tsotsis says C.E.S. is so uncool it may finally be cool. This was the nerdiest start-up at the show. Tech stock shares barely moved. Drew McLellan explains how to tell if your company is ready for C.E.S.: "You need to be ready for either end of the 'oh my God' spectrum." Snooki unveiled her headphones and phones, and 50 Cent talked tech. Chinese electronics giants competed for American eyes.
 Technology: Breaking the Internet
Chris Pirillo answers the question of whether to get a Windows Surface Pro. Tablet shipments are expected to pass notebook shipments. Here's everything you need to know about Intel's new chips. Mobile apps drive a rapid change in searches, and a British report says 20 percent of online sales are expected to go to mobile. Verizon announces new small-business plans for mobile users. This is what it's like to experience technology after 25 years in jail. Aaron Pitman says that now is the best time to buy domains. Here are 13 solar start-ups to watch in 2013. And gadgets are slowly breaking the Internet. Ramon Ray sells his Small-Business Summit event. Linda Forshaw explains why customer relationship management is so important: "A C.R.M. solution enables knowledge about existing and potential customers to be shared throughout the business." C.R.M. vendor Zoho offers new features for location and productivity. Sage's ACT counters with social updates to help small businesses capitalize on customer insights and interests. Another C.R.M. and marketing tech company, Infusionsoft, raises $54 million.
 Tweet of the Week 
@colinwilson133 (National Hockey League player): Pumped I am no longer an unemployed 23 yr old living with his parents
 The Week's Best 
Chris Long, who works at a Chicago-area Home Depot, lists a few things that every small-business owner should know about generators, including: "Before making a purchase, discuss your energy needs with a company representative or salesperson. A typical generator cannot harness enough wattage to power an entire commercial building. Therefore, focus on what your main priorities will be in the event of a power outage and ensure that the model you select can satisfy your needs."
 This Week's Question: Do you think small businesses are overly romanticized?
 Gene Marks owns the Marks Group , a Bala Cynwyd, Pa., consulting firm that helps clients with customer relationship management. You can follow him on Twitter. 

        
This Week in Small Business: Twenty-Five Signs
        
This Week in Small Business: Meet Your Start-Up Mate
        
This Year in Small Business: Not Impressed!
        
This Week in Small Business: Free iPads
        
This Week in Small Business: Cliffhanger!

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); DEBT CEILING (90%); NEW ISSUES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); TRENDS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); IMPORT TRADE (74%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); CUSTOMER ACQUISITION STRATEGY (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (66%); RESTAURANTS (66%); HEALTH INSURANCE (51%) economy; Small Business; Customer Relations; United States Economy; Dashboard

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2013



437 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Dot Earth)

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: Charting a Post-Pollution Path for Cities - From London, 1952, through Beijing, 2013

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN


HIGHLIGHT: Facing epic smog, China charts a shift from coal to gas for Beijing, and beyond. 

 BODY:
 2:57 p.m. | Updated | 
On Sunday I posted a 140-character Twitter item containing four links that sketch humanity's urban pollution challenges and opportunities over the last 60 years. (Link shortening is one of many reasons 140 characters can matter). Here it is:
1952 London smog: http://t.co/QKgKNPhN 2013 Beijing: http://t.co/tFlPBJon Gas shift: http://t.co/bfWyjwQu Climate win? http://t.co/gsAeXlB1 
- Andy Revkin (@Revkin)13 Jan 13
It's worth expanding on this haiku a bit to be sure the meaning is clear:
 London, 1952. The Guardian package linked above marked the 60th anniversary of London's terrible killer smog. It's a reminder that much of what we in the West see as shockingly aberrant in today's industrializing countries and fast-growing cities was our norm a short two generations ago. The same is true for rivers. As I wrote last year, while Nairobi has foaming floods of pollution now, the Hudson, which is now swimmable, had shores sticky with adhesive and shimmering with automotive paint a few decades ago. Prosperity leads to rising public environmental concern and the wherewithal for governments to change rules and practices.
 Beijing, 2013. The extreme pulse of smog this month was wonderfully encapsulated in Ed Wong's weekend story, titled "On Scale of 0 to 500, Beijing's Air Quality Tops 'Crazy Bad' at 755." The conditions in the last few days were "beyond index" in the same way that Australia's heat required new colors to be added to government forecast temperature charts.
 Gas shift. Last year, I asked this question: "Can China Follow U.S. Shift from Coal to Gas?" The country has vast reserves of shale gas but lacks expertise and experience in hydraulic fracturing, also called fracking, the innovative mix of technologies that is poised to transform America's energy prospects (if drilling is done with communities and the environment in mind). A prompt shift from coal to natural gas in China -- which would have to involve substantial collaboration with the United States -- could potentially be a big near-term step toward stopping growth in greenhouse-gas emissions, and of course clearing the air in crowded, coal-dependent cities. [2:52 p.m. | Insert | Kevin Bullis has a recent piece in Technology Review exploring technical and geological hurdles to large-scale gas development in China.]
The third link in my Twitter item is to a fascinating Financial Times report by Leslie Hook that spells out how, at least in Beijing, such a transition is already under way. Here's an excerpt: 
Every night an old coal train chugs in to central Beijing to deliver its load to the Guohua power plant, one of the city's oldest power stations now surrounded by glitzy malls and towering apartment blocks. Soon, the trains will no longer be running. In a multibillion dollar effort to reduce air pollution, Beijing is shutting down its coal-fired plants and replacing them with natural gas-fuelled power stations by the end of next year....
Over the past year, Beijing has unveiled ambitious plans to replace its coal-fired power plants, run more cars and buses on natural gas, clamp down on construction site dust and raise standards for vehicle emissions. If all goes to plan, the capital's central urban areas will be completely coal-free by 2015. "Beijing has consistently been ahead of the country and it is pretty clear that . . . some of the things they do get taken as a national model," says Deborah Seligsohn, a senior adviser at the World Resources Institute in Beijing. "Within the next five years things are going to be visibly better."
The article notes that the shift to gas, so far, is restricted to the city, and some of the pollution from coal combustion will simply be generated elsewhere as plants outside the city pollute to supply electricity to the center of power. But I'll almost guarantee this can spread well beyond the capital.
 Climate win? It's clear to me that much can be gained, environmentally and economically (in part through reducing the huge health cost of urban pollution), through collaboration between the United States and China, as well as other countries in Asia with similar issues and opportunities. If China can build its capacity to extract natural gas without substantial emissions to the air (and with careful standards for drilling and water pollution -- which is hardly a given!), the resulting shift away from coal (and, through natural gas vehicles, oil) has to be seen as a boon all around.
Wearing my academic hat, I'm currently helping* the new Center for Energy Governance and Security at Korea's Hanyang University develop partnerships here to examine how to foster responsible development of shale gas in China as a near-term path away from coal. (Korea, like most industrial powerhouses, is eager for access to gas; the center held a Seoul conference with Chinese participants last year.)
Over the weekend, Trevor Houser, an analyst of global disruptive trendsand former senior State Department adviser on energy and climate, noted several initiatives that are already under way. These include the U.S.-China Oil and Gas Industry Forum and a U.S.-China initiative on shale gas that he negotiated while at the State Department, which has broadened into the Unconventional Gas Technical Engagement Program.
He added: "These two cover a fair amount of ground but there is always more work to be done."
Indeed there is. Much has been learned here as the shale-gas boom has unfolded -- troubles and all. And there's a great opportunity now to see that those lessons don't have to be re-learned elsewhere. Transferring knowledge efficiently to where it's needed is all part of what I call "Knowosphere."
[* I'm doing this pro bono.]

        
Ideas to Watch in 2013: Traceable Gas-Drilling Fluids
        
Energy Agency Sees Global Coal Boom Unabated, Europe's Binge Temporary
        
A Coal Sales Ticker Next to a 'Clean Energy' Claim?
        
The Gas Age
        
Behind China's Shift on Energy and Growth

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SMOG (90%); HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (89%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); AIR QUALITY (77%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); EMISSIONS (77%); GREENHOUSE GASES (77%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (76%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (76%); POETRY (74%); ANNIVERSARIES (69%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (61%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (56%) Air Pollution; Beijing (China); China; Coal; Energy and Power; Natural Gas; Shale; cities; energy; environmental policy; pollution

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (93%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (95%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); AUSTRALIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2013



438 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2013

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 571 words

HEADLINE: Stock Investing Isn't the Only Risk in Your Life

BYLINE: CARL RICHARDS


HIGHLIGHT: Everyone knows that stock investing is risky, but avoiding equities creates other risks, including ones that come from long-term inflation. 

 BODY:
 Carl Richards is a financial planner in Park City, Utah, and is the director of investor education at the BAM Alliance. His book, "The Behavior Gap," was published last year. His sketches are archived on the Bucks blog.
Often when we think of risk, we're only focused on the risk of investing in the stock market. We think, "Oh, the stock market is risky, and it's a little scary to buy risky things." 
I can't tell you how many conversations I've had with friends - particularly when they get a little older - that are only focused on this one risk. "I don't want to own stocks because, boy, that's risky."
I remember a conversation I had with a friend of mine who lives in a small town. She was telling me how worried she was about the stock market going up and down. Now, keep in mind, she had very little of her money in the stock market. But she had some money in stocks, as is appropriate for somebody who could expect to live for another 15 or more years.
Here's the interesting part. When she finished telling me about her stock market worries, she told me she was also very worried about how the price of everything seemed to be getting more and more expensive each year.
This gets us to the big point. When you make a decision to avoid one type of risk, you might be exposing yourself to another one.
In this case, my friend was very concerned about the risk of holding stocks. But she overlooked the risk that comes with holding too little in stocks - which can help her keep up with inflation.
It's going to cost you more to buy the same loaf of bread in 20 years. Just look at prices 30 years ago, whena loaf of bread cost $0.53, and a gallon of gas was $1.36.
I remember when I was a kid, 30 years or so ago, riding my bike down to the gas station and putting a quarter in the soda machine to get a bottle of Fanta Red Cream Soda. Today, if my kids wanted to ride down to the gas station to get a soda, it would cost them at least a dollar. (Bikes are also a lot more expensive than they used to be.)
The point is that we shouldn't be thinking in terms of avoiding risk. It can't be done. Instead, we should be considering which risks we're willing to take on.
The reality of investing is about making these tradeoffs. It's about raising your hand and saying, "I'm O.K. with taking on this risk over here, in order to get rid of that one over there." That's essentially what the market is -- a place to trade risk and reward.
Back to my friend in the small town. (She isn't unique. I seem to have this same conversation about risk with lots of people.) When I heard her concerns, I told her a story that always seems to help. If you have a well-designed investment portfolio that's tied to your goals, you've already made decisions and tradeoffs about the risks you're willing to take. We're better off in the long run sticking with those plans, because once you start looking for a no-risk investing solution, you'll likely to veer off into some shady, perhaps fraudulent, investment schemes.
So next time you're nervous about the risk you're taking with your investments, remind yourself which risks you've actually gotten rid of because of those decisions.

        
A Warning About That Guy Who Is Beating the Market
        
Fewer Wealthy Americans Say They're Conservative Investors
        
The Two Keys to Investing: Pickiness and Persistence
        
The Most Important Question to Ask About Specific Investments
        
The Search for a Low-Risk, High-Return Portfolio

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BONDS (90%); GAS STATIONS (86%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (78%); SOFT DRINKS (65%) Asset Allocation; Stocks & Bonds; Inflation (Economics); Stocks and Bonds

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2013



439 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Ross Douthat)

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 862 words

HEADLINE: How To Lose At American Politics

BYLINE: ROSS DOUTHAT


HIGHLIGHT: The platinum coin, the debt ceiling, and how technical victories are swamped by political defeats. 

 BODY:
No doubt thanks to my timely intervention in the great $1 trillion coin debate, the Treasury Department explicitly rejected the possibility that the White House would mint a platinum "solution" to the debt ceiling debate this weekend. I put the word "solution" in quotation marks because I'm confident that the coin gambit would have solved exactly none of the problems that its supporters claimed it was designed to address. No matter how many clever arguments exist to justify the maneuver, the politics of coin minting would have been just terrible for the White House - and because public opinion would have shaped how both the markets and the other branches of government would have responded to the move, those terrible politics would have ultimately produced exactly the kind of long-run outcomes (from swifter spending cuts to a stronger and more radicalized G.O.P.) that most of the coin-minters wanted to avoid. 
In general, this is a good rule of thumb for political parties working in a representative democracy: If you can't tell a persuasive story about how your proposed gambit or maneuver will leverage public opinion against your opponents, then you should strongly consider the possibility that it will actually leave you worse off on policy than before. Which brings us, alas, to Congressional Republicans, whose continuing flirtation with debt ceiling brinksmanship is the subject of a Politico story this morning:
House Republicans are seriously entertaining dramatic steps, including default or shutting down the government, to force President Barack Obama to finally cut spending by the end of March.
... To the vast majority of House Republicans, it is far riskier long term to pile up new debt than it is to test the market and economic reaction of default or closing down the government.
GOP officials said more than half of their members are prepared to allow default unless Obama agrees to dramatic cuts he has repeatedly said he opposes.
 Between the idea and the reality falls the shadow. Read each of these sentences and notice what is missing: An explanation of how, exactly, a default or a shutdown would actually prevent the long term accumulation of new debt and "force President Obama to finally to cut spending." It's missing because it doesn't really exist, and it doesn't exist because of, well, democratic politics. Yes, refusing to raise the debt ceiling or shutting down the government would technically prevent the national debt from rising the next day. But as with the $1 trillion coin, that technical solution would be a political disaster, because being perceived as the agents of an avoidable crisis would weaken the Republican Party's standing with the American people in ways that would raise the likelihood of precisely the long-term outcome that Congressional Republicans are trying to avoid: A stronger Democratic Party, a more powerful liberalism, and a more expansive state.
Basically, every Republican in Congress should read Pete Wehner's Commentary piece from a week ago, and meditate on these points:
The Republican Party tends to do quite poorly when it engages in high-profile negotiations/confrontations with Democratic presidents. It happened to Newt Gingrich in 1995 over Medicare and the government shutdown. It happened to the GOP Congress in 1998 over impeachment. And it happened to John Boehner and the GOP in the summer of 2011 and December 2012 over the debt ceiling and the fiscal cliff.
The reason for this has been, in part, because it's impossible to govern when a party controls just one legislative chamber. The president, especially one with a sympathetic press, has enormous things working in his favor in any showdown with Congress.
On the flip side, the two greatest electoral gains for Republicans in Congress happened in 1994 and 2010. Those elections were not preceded by dramatic, high-stakes, last-second negotiations that took place in a crisis atmosphere. Rather, they came in the aftermath of Democratic presidents and Democratically-controlled Congress' overreaching. Republicans forcefully criticized the policies of Clinton (in 1993 and 1994) and Obama (in 2009 and 2010)-but they did not threaten to shut down the government, cause America to go into default, and encourage America to go over any fiscal cliffs.
Note that it's perfectly sensible for Republicans to negotiate over how the debt ceiling is to be raised - to haggle over the extension period and the combination of Democratic and Republican votes, for instance, and to look for a small-ball deal on spending to give cover to the legislators who cast those votes. But there simply isn't a way for the G.O.P. to win anything big here, given the correlation of political forces in Washington D.C. and the country as a whole. And the fantasy of leveraging the debt ceiling to "force" the White House to dramatically cut entitlements, if actually pursued rather than just entertained, would quickly put the Republican Party on the path to losing the more modest leverage that it currently enjoys.

        
The Politics of the Platinum Coin
        
Deficits Forever?
        
Structure, Not Numbers
        
A World Without Grand Bargains
        
Simplifying the Fiscal Cliff Debate

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: DEBT CEILING (93%); COINS & COINAGE (91%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); JEWELRY & SILVERWARE MFG (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); CONSERVATISM (75%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (70%) Barack Obama; conservatism; democracy in America; entitlements; liberalism; Republicans; the debt ceiling; the deficit; the economy; the platinum coin

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2013



440 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2013

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 451 words

HEADLINE: A New Sting for Corvette

BYLINE: LAWRENCE ULRICH


HIGHLIGHT: The all-new Corvette arrives in Detroit, armed with the Stingray name. 

 BODY:
 Introduced on Monday, Jan. 14 2014 Corvette Stingray
 What is it? A new Corvette with an old-school name, a half-century after the '63 Sting Ray began forging a legend among American sports cars. Before the Monday morning introduction in Cobo Center, General Motors first revealed the Stingray on Sunday at a renovated event space in a forbidding industrial complex on Detroit's near east side. 
 Is it real? Yes, and it's about time. This all-new seventh-generation Corvette survived G.M.'s bankruptcy, ready to resume its role as the affordable American foil to the Porsche 911 and other higher-price rivals. The model also replaces a car that performed admirably, but whose basic styling and chassis dates to 1997.
 What they said: Mark Reuss, president of G.M. North America, said that since 1953, through good times and bad at G.M., the Corvette had been a constant. "This car is the reason I work at General Motors," he said.
 What they didn't say: The Corvette has been in an unprecedented sales funk. With rivals, including the redesigned Porsche 911, finally gaining post-recession sales momentum, Chevrolet is counting on the 'Vette to rebound in a big way.
 What makes it tick? A 6.2-liter small-block LT1 V-8 cranks out roughly 450 horsepower and 450 pound-feet of torque, with direct injection and fuel-saving cylinder deactivation. A stiffened aluminum chassis, carbon fiber hood and roof and nano-scale carbon composite underbody hold weight to roughly 3,300 pounds. A 7-speed rev-matching manual transmission is optional. Below 4,000 r.p.m., the Stingray virtually matches the torque curve of the mighty, 505-horse Corvette Z06. It also runs to 60 m.p.h. in less than four seconds.
 How much, how soon? The Corvette reaches showrooms late this summer, with the company hinting at a base price of around $56,000 - about $5,000 more than a current base-model coupe, but still a relative bargain for a near-exotic performer with a top speed above 190 m.p.h.
 How's it look? Aggressive from the front, stealth-fighter sexy in profile, perhaps a bit overworked at the rear. After months of Chevy hype, the interior, dressed up but oh-so-familiar, seems a letdown. But the exterior's jet-age Stingray logo is a neat touch. Over all, this modern Stingray is a bold, necessary departure for a car that often suffers from design complacency - and that needs to expand beyond its graying, flyover-state fan base to ensure its continued relevance.

        
G.M. Releases Ad Filmed in the Volt's Hometown
        
Wheelies: The Eastern Promises Edition
        
Big Three Increase Their Financial Footprint on Woodward Dream Cruise
        
Ex-Youngstown Mayor Tackles the Work of Revitalizing Automotive Communities
        
Wheelies: The 'We're Hiring' Edition

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SPORTS CARS (92%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); CAR ENTHUSIASTS (89%); COMPOSITE MATERIALS (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (77%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); RECESSION (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%) Automobiles; General Motors; Detroit (Mich); General Motors|GM|NYSE; 2013 Detroit Auto Show; Auto Shows; New Cars; sports cars

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: General Motors

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%) General Motors; GM; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (96%) MICHIGAN, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) Detroit (Mich)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2013



441 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2013

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 487 words

HEADLINE: An Exclusive Event for Expensive Cars and Their Admirers

BYLINE: TAMARA WARREN


HIGHLIGHT: The $500-a-ticket Gallery catered to an exclusive clientele - the target buyers for luxury makers. 

 BODY:
DETROIT - Exotic vehicles are not a standard sight on metro Detroit freeways. The allure of the obscure is what made the Gallery at the MGM Casino a hot $500 ticket on Saturday evening. For a sixth consecutive year, about 500 attendees strolled among the 30 exotic vehicles on display in a private room at the casino as a precursor to the North American International Auto Show. 
The Gallery catered to an exclusive clientele - the target buyers for luxury makers. Some luxury automakers, like Aston Martin and Lamborghini, bypass Cobo Center in favor of the gallery, where the cars were for sale and the space was more affordable.
Men in expensive suits ogled an even more expensive Aston Martin Vanquish. Several women in clingy, formal gowns clustered around a Falcon Mach 7, posing for cellphone photos. The celebrity chef Wolfgang Puck, who prepared the food for the event, shook hands with guests.
"Detroit really gets cars," said Bob Cava, executive director of 9 Communications, the company that produced the event. "We sold double digits worth of cars. This year we had more cars, more brands and more sales. We had a lot of unique cars. These brands normally don't get along. They are competing for a small segment of buyers."
In addition to guests of automakers, the Gallery partnered with American Express and the Young Presidents Association to create a buzz among potential customers. "People say the ultra luxury market is recession proof, but everybody was feeling the pinch," Mr. Cava said. "Even if you could afford it, you didn't want to flaunt it. I think the upturn in the economy helped this event."
About half of the attendees were local residents, while others flew in for the event, Mr. Cava said. Several eager buyers were in attendance, including one man who paid big bucks for a black 911 Turbo S Cabriolet that he bought off the floor and drove out of the MGM garage on Sunday afternoon.
Among the crowd favorites was a hometown hero, a stunning white Dodge Viper SRT, and a David Yurman-designed Shelby Cobra Mustang. A bright triplet display of Lamborghinis stopped crowds. "There are cars you do not see at auto shows, and you have to go to so many dealerships to see them all," said Jerry Thurswell, a trial lawyer who said he has attended in past years. "This is the only place you can see them all in one place. I like it better than the auto show. The event is incredible."
The action ended Sunday afternoon after a media showing and a visit by several members of the Detroit Pistons. In a town dominated by the three companies, testy winters and a limited amount of high-end luxury dealers, the exotic car takes on a whole new level of exclusivity.

        
Away From Cobo Center, Automobiles for the Other Half
        
Nissan and Mitsubishi Among Detroit Auto Show's Notable Absentees
        
The Motor City Though the Camera Lens
        
At Frankfurt Motor Show, the Future Toys of the Very Rich
        
Wheelies: The Double-Overtime Edition

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SPORTS CARS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); LUXURY GOODS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); TRADE SHOWS (90%); CELEBRITIES (73%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); LAWYERS (68%); EXECUTIVES (67%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (63%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (54%) Aston Martin Vanquish; David Yurman; Dodge Viper SRT; Falcon Mach 7; North American International Auto Show; Wolfgang Puck; Puck, Wolfgang; Yurman, David; Automobiles; Luxury Goods; A C Cars Group Ltd; Aston Martin; Automobili Lamborghini SpA; Detroit (Mich); 2013 Detroit Auto Show; Auto Shows

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: A C Cars Group Ltd; Aston Martin; Automobili Lamborghini SpA

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (54%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (54%)

PERSON: WOLFGANG PUCK (90%) Puck, Wolfgang; Yurman, David

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (96%) MICHIGAN, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (93%) Detroit (Mich)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2013



442 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The 6th Floor)

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2013

SECTION: MAGAZINE

LENGTH: 475 words

HEADLINE: How to Read Like a History-Buff Middle East Reporter

BYLINE: ROBERT F. WORTH


HIGHLIGHT: Hint: it includes picking up books on Iran, Cairo and Lebanon. 

 BODY:
 Robert F. Worth, a contributing writer, last wrote for the magazine about the security challenges facing American diplomats abroad. 
 Book I'm reading now: 
"Kaputt," by Curzio Malaparte. This is a fascinating and gruesome first-hand account of the Eastern front in World War II. What makes it unusual is Malaparte's perspective: as an Italian diplomat and journalist he was given full access to the Axis war effort. He witnesses a savage pogrom in Romania where thousands of Jews are murdered, and recounts cozy state dinners with the Nazi elite, where the guests laugh about mass murder and gorge themselves on roast boar and venison. Malaparte is not a scrupulous witness; the dialogue has clearly been massaged in places to match his literary ambitions. But it's a powerful book, even if partly fictional. 
 Last book I loved: 
Probably "Naples '44," by Norman Lewis. This is a short, spectacularly vivid account of the Anglo-American invasion of southern Italy in 1943. Lewis was a British intelligence officer, and he conjures up the suffering and humor of the Italians and the churlish incompetence of the invaders, with such poignancy and wit that I wanted to read every page twice (in fact I often did). His descriptions of the dirt-poor Neapolitan aristocrats who fed him information, and their outlandish schemes for political reform, had me laughing for days on end.
 Unread book on my bedside table that gnaws at my conscience: 
I have a bad habit of reading several books of history simultaneously. Here are three good books I've been working on for the better part of a year:
"Beirut," by Samir Kassir

"Legacy of Ashes: The History of the C.I.A.," by Tim Weiner
"An Army at Dawn: The War in North Africa, 1942-1943," by Rick Atkinson
 Three books in my field that I highly recommend: 
"The Mantle of the Prophet: Religion and Politics in Iran," by Roy Mottahedeh. An authoritative intellectual history of Iran, framed around the Islamic revolution of 1979.
"Beware of Small States: Lebanon, Battleground of the Middle East," by David Hirst. An excellent account of Lebanon's crises and their effects on the broader Middle East.
"Cairo: The City Victorious," by Max Rodenbeck. A chatty, elegantly written history of Cairo (and of Egypt) by the Economist's Cairo bureau chief, who is one of the greatest Middle East correspondents ever.
 One book I would recommend to anyone: 
"1861: The Civil War Awakening," by Adam Goodheart. A lyrically written account of the start of the American Civil War, published last year. (Full disclosure: the author is a friend. The magazine also published an excerpt of the book in 2011.)

        
Behind the Cover Story: Joel Lovell on the Short-Story Genius George Saunders
        
Where the Melvillean Things Are
        
How to Read Like a Staff Writer Who Writes About Everything
        
How to Read Like a Master of 'Meh'
        
How to Read Like a Reading Machine

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LITERATURE (90%); WRITERS (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); CIVIL WAR (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); HISTORY (77%); WORLD WAR II (77%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (77%); RELIGION (75%); JEWS & JUDAISM (70%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (66%); POLITICS (65%) Books and Literature

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (94%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); EGYPT (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); LEBANON (93%); ITALY (79%); ROMANIA (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); AFRICA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2013



443 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Taking Note)

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 113 words

HEADLINE: Opinion Report: The A.M.T.

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSENTHAL


HIGHLIGHT: A summary of what's on today's editorial page. 

 BODY:
 From the editorial page 
In the absence of comprehensive reform, the A.M.T. will continue to allow the highest-end taxpayers to escape, while still afflicting many taxpayers below those lofty levels.
Japan's $116 billion stimulus package is a step in the right direction for the world's third-largest economy.
The defendant in Boyer v. Louisiana spent more than seven years in the Calcasieu Parish jail, waiting to be tried for armed robbery and murder.
Lisa Murkowski is the first Senate Republican to support a law requiring fuller disclosure of campaign contributions.

        
Bad News for Campaign Finance
        
Mutually Assured Donations
        
Bundled Up
        
Does Disclosure Hurt Speech Rights?
        
501(c) Mischief
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (86%); MURDER (83%); ROBBERY (53%) alternative minimum tax; Campaign Finance; stimulus spending

PERSON: LISA MURKOWSKI (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2013



444 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2013

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: 2012: The Year of Extreme Weather

BYLINE: CHRISTOPHER F. SCHUETZE


HIGHLIGHT: A long-term weather forecast for the United States has been released, prompting experts to proclaim that climate change and its related impacts are unavoidable. But will it change the minds of climate-change deniers? 

 BODY:
The weather reports are in. 2012 was the hottest and the most extreme year on record in many places.
While parts of China are enduring the harshest winter in 30 years, the Antarctic is warming at an alarming rate. In Australia, out-of-control bushfires are partially the result of record-breaking weather (new colors were added to weather forecast maps, to account for the new kind of heat). In the United States, where Hurricane Sandy devastated parts of New Jersey and New York and where extreme drought still lingers in the Midwest, the average temperature in 2012 was more than a whole degree Fahrenheit (or 5/9 of a degree Celsius) higher than average - shattering the record.
On Friday a long-term weather forecast for the United States was released, when the National Climate Assessment and Development Advisory Committee published a draft of the third Climate Assessment Report. Like last year's weather, the assessment does not pull its punches. 
"Climate change threatens human health and well-being in many ways, including impacts from increased extreme weather events, wildfire, decreased air quality, diseases transmitted by insects, food, and water, and threats to mental health," write the authors as part of their key findings.
Experts from 13 federal agencies, including NASA, the State Department and the Department of Defense put together the report under the auspices of the United States Global Change Research Program.
While some predictions have been adjusted upward from previous reports, the difference in tone in this newest assessment is striking. The second assessment, published in 2009, predicted thresholds that will be crossed, while the 2013 draft presents a reality in which some of the changes are already irreversible.
"As a result of past emissions of heat-trapping gases, some amount of additional climate change and related impacts is now unavoidable," wrote the authors in the executive summary.
Adaptation to climate change is discussed in the new draft, which is open for public comment before it is officially released early in 2014. The authors write:
Planning and managing based on the climate of the last century means that tolerances of some infrastructure and species will be exceeded. For example, building codes and landscaping ordinances will likely need to be updated not only for energy efficiency, but also to conserve water supplies, protect against insects that spread disease, reduce susceptibility to heat stress, and improve protection against extreme events.
The authors predict that within the next several decades, temperatures will go up between 2 and 4 degrees Fahrenheit, roughly 1 and 2 degrees Celsius. The experts discuss a possible 10 degree Fahrenheit (or more than 5 degrees Celsius) warming by the end of the century, in the case that not enough is done to curb emissions. (The World Bank recently released a report of the dangers of a world warmed by 4 degrees Celsius).
Sea levels could rise up to four feet, or 1.2 meters, within the century, according to the experts.
Though official assessments, predictions and studies like these serve to reinforce what many already fear, they do not necessarily lead to policy change. Andrew Restuccia predicted in a Politico article that the new report would ultimately do little to change the embittered climate-change politics in that country. He wrote:
But don't hold your breath for serious action on climate change in Congress. Republicans and some moderate Democrats remain opposed to measures to address climate change. The Obama administration, meanwhile, is moving forward with its own efforts on climate change, including beefed-up fuel economy standards and greenhouse gas regulations for new power plants.
Sometimes official assessment reports provide substance for those who question man-made climate change.
My colleague Andrew C. Revkin recently reported on how a revision by Britain's Weather and Climate Agency on short-term global temperature forecast became fodder for climate change deniers. The fact that the government agency had revised its numbers downward allowed climate change skeptics to argue that the world was not significantly warming after all.
In December, Alec Rawls, a climate-change skeptic, made a name for himself by leaking an unpublished Assessment Report from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, one of the major global players in climate change assessment. Mr. Rawls tried to argue that the panel's language on solar radiation was an admission that much of the warming trends were caused by the sun, not human activity.
As Andrew reported at time, his claims were mostly debunked.

        
Beware, We're Having a Heat Wave
        
Signs Europe Bending on Airline Carbon Fee
        
Breathing in Beijing: Coping With China's Smog
        
Carbon Taxes Provoke Debate on Economic Impact
        
Ignoring Planetary Peril, a Profound 'Disconnect' Between Science and Doha

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WEATHER (92%); CLIMATE CHANGE (91%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EMISSIONS (89%); WRITERS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (87%); GLOBAL WARMING (77%); DROUGHT (75%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (73%); HURRICANE SANDY (73%); NATURAL DISASTERS (72%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (72%); FIRES (72%); GREENHOUSE GASES (72%); DISEASE AGENTS & VECTORS (66%); MENTAL HEALTH (66%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (65%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (65%) Climate Assessment Report; climate change; extreme weather; Global Warming; IPCC; World Bank; Greenhouse Gas Emissions; Weather; Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change; United States; Featured; Sustainability

ORGANIZATION: INTERGOVERNMENTAL PANEL ON CLIMATE CHANGE (84%) Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); AUSTRALIA (73%) United States

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2013



445 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 949 words

HEADLINE: Why Obama May Drive a Hard Bargain

BYLINE: NATE SILVER


HIGHLIGHT: Unlike during the 2011 debt ceiling negotiations, this time it is only members of Congress who will come before voters again. 

 BODY:
President Obama has repeatedly stated that he will not negotiate over the federal debt ceiling, which must be raised soon to avoid a default.
As observers on both the left and right have pointed out, saying that you will not negotiate may itself be a negotiating position. And in the past, Mr. Obama has not always held firm to the negotiating positions he has taken. In advance of the so-called fiscal cliff, for instance, Mr. Obama said that he wanted taxes to be raised on family incomes of $250,000 or more. Instead, he settled with Republicans on a threshold of $450,000.
But there is one important difference between the current round of negotiations and the stand-off that Congress and Mr. Obama engaged in over the debt ceiling in July 2011. It is such an obvious point that it almost seems to have been forgotten: Mr. Obama no longer needs to worry about re-election. Members of Congress still do, however. 
To be sure, this represents a simplification of a complex set of incentives and priorities. Mr. Obama surely has a variety of reasons, political and otherwise, to see the debt ceiling increased. An economic crisis brought on by an actual or near-default would very probably harm his approval ratings, as occurred when negotiations were pushed to the brink in 2011. That could make it even harder for him to pass substantive reforms through Congress, like those for gun control or immigration. Mr. Obama is also presumably concerned with his legacy, with the fate of Democrats in Congress and with who will succeed him in the White House in 2017.
For many members of Congress, meanwhile, concern over re-election is mitigated by the fact that they are in extremely Democratic or Republican districts that have almost no chance of electing someone from the other party. A profound political or economic crisis could put a higher-than-usual number of seats in play; even so, the majority of members of the House now come from districts where one party's presidential candidate wins by landslide margins every four years.
Nonetheless, the aim of seeking re-election may have colored Mr. Obama's priorities during the prior debt ceiling negotiation.
Economists differ on exactly how severe the economic costs of a United States debt default would be. But the most severe recessions, like the one that officially began in December 2007, can persist for about a year and a half. When added to an economic recovery that was already very feeble, a new economic shock could easily have produced a new recession that lasted through the November 2012 elections. Even if the economy had technically exited recession by then, growth in jobs tends to lag other economic indicators, so labor-market conditions would almost certainly have remained very poor.
Of course, the political science models that link the president's fate to economic conditions are also oversimplifications. Ordinarily, the public defaults toward giving the president credit or blame for economic performance late in his term. The effect of the economy on Congressional incumbents is more ambiguous, especially under divided government. 
Ordinarily, however, recessions do not have such a direct and immediate link to the actions (or the deliberate failure to act) by Washington policymakers. A debt default might have had catastrophic consequences for the economy; it would also have been a fascinating data point for political science.
But Mr. Obama's willingness to negotiate looks prudent, in retrospect.
His approval ratings recovered from their lows of just over 40 percent in late 2011 to about 50 percent by Election Day. The protracted negotiations over the debt ceiling may well have damaged the economy by undermining business and consumer confidence -- the economy grew at just a 1.3 percent rate in the third quarter of 2011 -- but there was just enough good news by late 2012 for voters to give Mr. Obama another term.
Mr. Obama has less to lose this time around. That does not necessarily imply that he will not negotiate at all, but it does make his bargaining position more formidable.
The change in conditions may help to explain why the administration has disavowed ideas like minting a platinum coin or invoking a provision of the 14th Amendment to avert a debt default. In the 2011 negotiations, much of the Republicans' leverage came from the possibility that an economic crisis might have imperiled Mr. Obama's re-election more than it did their own. End-around approaches that might have mitigated the economic damage might therefore have diminished their bargaining power. 
This time, it is only members of Congress who will come before voters again. Given the lack of certainly in how the public reacts to economic crises in Congressional elections, the aesthetics of the debt-ceiling endgame could matter a great deal. Minting a platinum coin, especially if it proved to be less effective at staving off financial panic than its advocates hoped, could look like a clumsy power grab by the White House, perhaps allowing the G.O.P. to stave off blame for the economic harm that ensued.
The White House's stated refusal to consider the platinum coin has been described as a capitulation by some liberals, but it is actually the more aggressive negotiating posture. It implies that Mr. Obama thinks the G.O.P. will swerve first - or will only damage itself if Congress fails to lift the debt ceiling. That threat was less credible when a debt default might have wrecked Mr. Obama's chances at a second term.

        
July Jobs Report Likely to Preserve Status Quo
        
Obama's Magic Number? 150,000 Jobs Per Month
        
What the White House Left on the Table
        
The Fine Print on the Debt Deal
        
Surveying the Electoral Damage of the Debt Debate

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: DEBT CEILING (92%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); RECESSION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (70%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (69%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (61%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (60%); IMMIGRATION (50%); GUN CONTROL (50%) Obama, Barack; Elections, House of Representatives; National Debt (US); United States Economy; United States Politics and Government; Economics; Politics

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2013



446 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 475 words

HEADLINE: Bernanke Unplugged

BYLINE: BINYAMIN APPELBAUM


HIGHLIGHT: The Fed chairman opens up in an appearance before University of Michigan students in a way he rarely does in Washington. 

 BODY:
Much is made of the fact that Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, is more open and candid than his predecessors, but in fairness, that's a low bar. His public appearances are infrequent by comparison with other national leaders, his remarks are guarded and his personal life is carefully obscured. 
Except when Mr. Bernanke, a former college professor, speaks with students.
The Fed chairman seemed relaxed and happy as he answered questions at the University of Michigan on Monday, much the same as he did last year when he taught a series of classes at George Washington University.
Asked what keeps him up at night, Mr. Bernanke joked that he and his wife have a dog that shares their bed. Asked whether he reads online commentary, he replied, "I follow a lot of baseball blogs myself, actually."
Even when he talked about the economy, he sounded like a man who had left work and was spending some time with some friends.

So how are things looking, Ben? "As long as fiscal policy isn't getting too messed up, consumers seem to be more upbeat," he said. Local governments have stopped cutting jobs. Better yet, people are building houses again.
"That's one factor that's going to help us have a better year, I hope, in 2013," he said.
Why did the Fed decide in December to stop predicting an end date for low interest rates, and instead to describe its economic objectives
"We gave a date which was just our best guess, and then it changed a couple of times," Mr. Bernanke said. "What we've tried to do in our more recent evolution is explain what we will be looking for."
Hopefully that will be more clear, he said. And as he noted later, he really is trying to be more clear.
"There's just been an enormous change and we are just much, much more transparent and easy to understand than would have been the case 15 or 20 years ago," Mr. Bernanke said.
So what's the deal with all these experimental strategies?
The problem with central bankers in the 1930s, Mr. Bernanke said, is that "they were afraid to do anything that was unorthodox."
"Sometimes," he went on, "you need to consider unorthodox approaches."
Some of those things have worked; others not.
How about the latest campaign, the Fed's effort to reduce unemployment more quickly by purchasing mortgage-backed securities
"We think we're getting some effects. It's kind of early."
Mr. Bernanke is a former college professor, and it's easy to imagine him slipping back into the role once his time as chairman comes to an end.
But even in Monday's relatively loose atmosphere, it was impossible to forget that the Fed chairman would shortly return to Washington.
And how are things back in Washington? 
"We're not out of the woods yet," he said.

        
After Fed Action, Then What?
        
A Critique of Fed Policy
        
What the Jobs Report Means for the Fed
        
Bernanke on What the Fed Can Do
        
Fed Outlook: No Big Steps, No Retreat

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (69%); INTEREST RATES (64%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (60%); LAYOFFS (54%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (52%) Bernanke, Ben S; Federal Reserve System; University of Michigan

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (93%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (84%); GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (57%) Federal Reserve System; University of Michigan

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (94%) Bernanke, Ben S

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2013



447 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 961 words

HEADLINE: Agencies Push JPMorgan to Improve Risk Controls

BYLINE: JESSICA SILVER-GREENBERG


HIGHLIGHT: Federal banking regulators hit JPMorgan Chase with two enforcement actions on Monday for failures in risk management that led to a multi-billion trading loss, the first formal sanctions in a case that damaged the bank's reputation and brought heightened scrutiny to its trading operations. 

 BODY:
Federal banking regulators hit JPMorgan Chase with two enforcement actions on Monday for failures in risk management that led to a multibillion-dollar trading loss, the first formal sanctions in a case that damaged the bank's reputation and brought heightened scrutiny to its trading operations. The regulators also ordered the bank to fix breakdowns in money-laundering controls that threatened to allow tainted money to move through its network.. 
The dual cease-and-desist orders from the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Reserve came just as the nation's largest bank is poised to report earnings on Wednesday and potentially issue its own report publicly on the trading debacle. 
The regulators identified deficiencies in several layers of the bank, from flaws in assessing potential losses due to complex trades to failures by bank executives to fully inform the board about the increasingly risky wagers.
 The chief investment office, the once little-known unit at the center of the trade, was making large bets on credit derivatives from its London offices. In its order, the Comptroller of the Currency's office, one of the bank's top regulators, said the unit was "able to increase its positions and risk, and ultimately losses, without sufficiently effective intervention by the bank's control groups."
Separately, a British regulator, the Financial Services Authority, announced it was continuing to conduct "a formal enforcement investigation into the trading losses." The Securities and Exchange Commission and law enforcement agencies are also investigating the trades.
The trading loss, now estimated at more than $6 billion, was first disclosed in May 2012 and has claimed the jobs of several senior executives and forced the bank's chief executive, Jamie Dimon, once highly regarded for his risk prowess, to appear before Congress to explain the fiasco.
The moves against JPMorgan Chase point to the changing stance of the regulatory agencies, which are working to crack down on outsize risk taking by the nation's biggest banks after being faulted in the depths of the financial crisis for failing to police Wall Street.
Even as the chief investment office took increasingly large and complex bets, for example, the regulators did not station any examiners in the unit's offices in London or New York, according to current and former regulators.
Under the terms of the Federal Reserve's order on Monday, JPMorgan's board has to outline a plan to bolster its risk management along with other critical functions. The bank also has to alter how it rewards senior executives, factoring in poor "risk outcomes and control deficiencies," according to the order.
Neither of Monday's actions, also known as consent orders, requires JPMorgan to pay any fine, and the bank did not admit or deny wrongdoing.
"We've been working hard to fully remediate the issues identified," said Joe Evangelisti, a spokesman for JPMorgan Chase.
Since announcing the botched trade, which Mr. Dimon acknowledged was "egregious," the bank has shuffled senior management and commissioned an internal investigation into the trades, which was led by Mike Cavanagh, JPMorgan's former chief financial officer.
JPMorgan's board will review the findings of that investigation in a meeting Tuesday ahead of the company's earnings announcement, according to several people close to the bank. At the meeting Tuesday, the board is also expected to vote on whether to make the report public and whether to reduce the bonuses of Mr. Dimon and Douglas Braunstein, formerly the bank's chief financial officer. Mr. Dimon's bonus could be reduced by up to 20 percent, according to two people familiar with the matter.
Among the six largest banks in the United States, Mr. Dimon was the highest-paid chief executive, receiving $23.1 million in 2011. That year, his total pay package was made up of stock and option awards along with a $4.5 million cash bonus.
The report is expected to outline concerns that were privately expressed throughout the upper echelons of the bank. Among the chief problems discussed, according to these people, were critical gulfs in how the bank managed the increasingly complex bets made by the chief investment office.
The report is expected to be especially critical of Mr. Braunstein, who stepped down as chief financial officer in November 2012 and no longer directly reports to Mr. Dimon. Mr. Braunstein, these people said, is faulted in the internal report for not exercising stricter oversight of traders in the London office.
Some within the bank said Mr. Braunstein's credibility was undercut because he assured analysts just weeks before the trading errors were unearthed that he was "very comfortable with the positions we have."
In July, Mr. Cavanagh disclosed initial findings of the internal investigation, which unearthed troubling questions about how traders were valuing their bets. Attempting to mask the size of their losses, traders at the bank may have mismarked their trades, senior executives said during the bank's quarterly earnings call.
The orders issued on Monday also focus on weak money-laundering safeguards, requiring the bank to fortify its monitoring of transactions and its filing of suspicious-activity reports. The Comptroller of the Currency's office faulted the bank for "an inadequate system of internal controls and independent testing."
Mr. Evangelisti, JPMorgan's spokesman, said compliance with controls against money laundering "is a top priority for us." 
"We have already made progress addressing the issues cited in the consent orders, which contain no allegations of intentional misconduct by the firm or any of its employees," he said.

        
Hold Your Applause, Please, Until After the Toasts
        
FERC Takes Aim at Wall Street

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (93%); RISK MANAGEMENT (93%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (92%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (79%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (69%); MONEY LAUNDERING (56%) Banking and Financial Institutions; Dimon, James; JPMorgan Chase & Company; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; JPMorgan Chase & Company|JPM|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (98%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF THE COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY (57%); FINANCIAL SERVICES AUTHORITY (54%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%) JPMorgan Chase & Company

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (98%); JPM (LSE) (98%); 8634 (TSE) (98%) JPMorgan Chase & Company; JPM; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (98%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (98%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (98%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (98%)

PERSON: JAMES DIMON (78%) Dimon, James

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (70%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2013



448 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1060 words

HEADLINE: The Banker Who Put His Faith in Armstrong

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSS SORKIN


HIGHLIGHT: Thomas Weisel was Lance Armstrong's biggest financial backer and the single individual most responsible for the money machine that propelled Mr. Armstrong's career. 

 BODY:
When Lance Armstrong's interview with Oprah Winfrey about his suspected use of illegal performance-enhancing drugs is broadcast on Thursday, an investment banker will most likely be watching it very carefully (and nervously): Thomas Weisel.
Mr. Weisel is a legend in finance and Silicon Valley. He was the banker behind Yahoo's public offering and some of the biggest deals during the dot-com bubble. He famously sold the firm he ran, Montgomery Securities, for $1.2 billion in 1997. And he sold his next firm, Thomas Weisel Partners, for $300 million to Stifel Financial in 2010. 
But it is Mr. Weisel's extracurricular activity that connects him to the news of the moment: he was Mr. Armstrong's biggest financial backer and the single individual most responsible for the money machine that propelled Mr. Armstrong's career.
 Depending on what Mr. Armstrong says in the interview about his purported doping, Mr. Weisel, who was a co-owner of the United States Postal Service Pro Cycling Team through a cycling management firm that he helped found called Tailwind Sports, could be subject along with his partners to lawsuits from corporate sponsors seeking millions of dollars. Already, there is a False Claims Act case contending that Mr. Armstrong and the team defrauded the Postal Service.
Perhaps more anxiety-producing is what Mr. Weisel may have known, or should have known, about a team that for years ran "the most sophisticated, professionalized and successful doping program that sport has ever seen," according to the United States Anti-Doping Agency.
Its report last year did not name Mr. Weisel, but did say that Mr. Armstrong was assisted by a "small army of enablers, including doping doctors, drug smugglers, and others within and outside the sport and on his team."
Mr. Armstrong is expected to admit to doping in an effort to persuade officials to lift his lifetime ban from Olympic sports. To do so, however, he would probably need to lay out in explicit detail how the program worked and implicate those who were part of it. Late Monday, The New York Times reported that Mr. Armstrong had confessed in the interview with Ms. Winfrey that he used performance-enhancing drugs. The Times also reported that he was in discussions with the Justice Department to possibly testify in a federal whistle-blower case against several team officials and owners, including Mr. Weisel.
Mr. Weisel is currently not talking. When I called Mr. Weisel seeking a comment, his assistant told me: "He's not commenting. And he's not returning any calls."
For a glimpse of the way Mr. Weisel thinks about performance-enhancing drugs in cycling, here's what he had to say about the matter four years ago: "Handle the problem below the surface and keep the image of the sport clean," he told The Wall Street Journal. "In the U.S. sports - baseball, basketball, football - most fans couldn't care less."
For Mr. Weisel, the team and Mr. Armstrong were an all-consuming passion. He would go every year to the Tour de France and at times travel in the team's pacer car, occasionally yelling instructions to Mr. Armstrong over the radio system. He rode the team's bus, ate meals with them and ultimately celebrated each year's victory. On the wall of his office in San Francisco, he displayed Mr. Armstrong's yellow jerseys.
Always the consummate banker, Mr. Weisel even tried to help Mr. Armstrong raise funds to buy the Tour de France itself. (The effort never went anywhere.)
Mr. Weisel's name has occasionally come up in connection with accusations of doping on the team.
The wife of the famed cyclist Greg LeMond, Kathy, reportedly testified under oath in a deposition in 2006 that she had been told by one of Mr. Armstrong's mechanics that Mr. Weisel, along with Nike, paid $500,000 though a Swiss bank account to the honorary president of the International Cycling Union to silence a drug test Mr. Armstrong purportedly failed in 1999.
Nike has vehemently denied the contention. So far, Mr. Weisel has not commented publicly. 
When Floyd Landis, one of Mr. Armstrong's former teammates, tested positive in 2006, he denied using performance-enhancing drugs under pressure from Mr. Armstrong. Soon after, Mr. Weisel set up the Floyd Fairness Fund with some of Tailwind's co-owners to help pay his legal bills. Mr. Landis later confessed to doping in 2010.
Mr. Weisel, a longtime athlete who was a champion speed skater as a teenager, became a cycling enthusiast in the 1980s and took up racing himself. Sports dominated his life: he often said that he liked to hire athletes to work for him at the bank because of their competitive instincts. He was also the chairman of the United States Ski Team Foundation. In 1987, while still working as a banker, he started Montgomery Sports, to begin his first cycling team. In the early 1990s the team was called Subaru-Montgomery; it later became Montgomery-Bell (Bell Sports was a client that he took public) and then was renamed for the Postal Service. (Yahoo, another client, was also a sponsor of the team.)
According to a biography of Mr. Weisel, "Capital Instincts: Life as an Entrepreneur, Financier and Athlete," he invested more than $5 million in the early teams and lost money on the investment. Mr. Armstrong was one of Mr. Weisel's early riders for the Subaru-Montgomery team. He later left the team to join the Motorola team. After his bout with cancer, Mr. Armstrong joined what was the Postal Service team in 1998.
Tyler Hamilton, another former teammate of Mr. Armstrong, told "60 Minutes" that the team was pushing performance-enhancing drugs on its cyclists long before Mr. Armstrong battled cancer and then in 1998 rejoined the team.
"I remember seeing some of the stronger guys in the team getting handed these white lunch bags," Mr. Hamilton said on "60 Minutes" about when he joined the team in 1995. "So finally I, you know, started puttin' two and two together and you know, basically there were doping products in those white lunch bags." 
Given how widespread the doping now appears to have been on the Postal Service team based on testimony of 11 teammates, and charges against the team's director and several of its doctors, you wonder how much due diligence its founding banker did on the most prominent deal of his career.

        
It's Bonus Week on Wall Street
        
Goldman Retreats From Plan to Award Bonuses Later in Britain

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: DRUGS IN SPORTS (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); CYCLING (89%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (78%); SMUGGLING (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); SPONSORSHIP (73%); LITIGATION (73%); OLYMPICS (67%); POSTAL SERVICE (67%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (67%) Armstrong, Lance; Banking and Financial Institutions; Doping (Sports); Weisel, Thomas; DealBook Column; Financial Services; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: THOMAS WEISEL PARTNERS GROUP INC (58%); STIFEL FINANCIAL CORP (57%); UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (55%); TAILWIND SPORTS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (73%)

TICKER: SF (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (55%); SIC4513 AIR COURIER SERVICES (55%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: LANCE ARMSTRONG (94%); OPRAH WINFREY (89%) Armstrong, Lance; Weisel, Thomas

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2013



449 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 976 words

HEADLINE: The Science of Prophets and Profits

BYLINE: NANCY FOLBRE


HIGHLIGHT: Competing interpretations and scholarship on economic issues lead to progress, not confusion, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Nancy Folbre is an economics professor at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst. She recently edited and contributed to "For Love and Money: Care Provision in the United States." 
Some say economics is not a science at all, because it doesn't successfully predict the future. Others point accusingly at a lack of unanimity. Many construe fierce political convictions as a sign of bias. 
Wrong on all three counts. Both science in general and economics in particular are much more interesting than these formulas imply. The meetings of the American Economic Association and the larger umbrella of organizations in the Allied Social Science Association in San Diego in early January offered plenty of examples. 
Seldom can any science accurately predict the future. In a region particularly susceptible to earthquakes, it's impossible to say when and how cities like San Diego will be shaken. Sea levels are rising as a result of global climate change; no one knows exactly when they will flood the first floor of the luxury hotels.
Many economists, themselves, long for unanimity. One paper, "Views Among Economists: Professional Consensus or Point-Counterpoint?" by Roger Gordon and Gordon B. Dahl of the University of California, San Diego, presented at a session on "What Do Economists Think About Public Policy Issues?" used data from a regular survey of economic experts to assert that opinions differed little as long as extensive research was available. 
In another paper at the same session, "Comparing Beliefs of Economists and the Public," Luigi Zingales of the University of Chicago, asserted that public opinion is least swayed by economists when economists are largely in agreement.

Two discussants - both with strong claims to economic expertise - begged to differ with the first of these presentations.
Paul Krugman of Princeton forcefully asserted that disagreements regarding macroeconomic policy are momentous. Justin Wolfers, currently at the University of Michigan, offered a sharp and funny analysis of policy differences between "Team Blue" and Team Red" among surveyed experts, acknowledging that, in some cases, he used Facebook pictures to infer political affiliation. His analysis got even more laughs from the audience than the official humor session on Friday night.
A voice from the audience complained that the expert panel survey, assembled by the University of Chicago's Booth School of Business, was limited to about six faculty members from each of the seven "most elite research universities in the U.S." The session organizer seemed taken aback by the very possibility that any respectable economist might feel unrepresented by such eminences.
Differences among economists teaching at elite research universities and others are probably quite significant and deserve attention in survey research. 
These differences of opinion don't signal immaturity or inadequacy in scientific endeavors; they are a driving force of scientific progress. As the well-known philosopher of science Thomas Kuhn explained, dominant paradigms typically become encrusted and resistant to change, making it difficult for their adherents to even perceive anomalies that are inconsistent with existing theory.
Burgeoning research in behavioral economics speaks to this issue, pointing to many examples of putatively rational consumers behaving in distinctly irrational ways. So-called framing effects influence the way everyone, including scientists, interpret information. Sometimes the only way to see how one is implicitly framing a problem is to face a direct challenge from someone who frames it completely differently. 
The late Professor Kuhn contended, even more assertively, that older scientists almost never relinquish a theoretical frame, but are, thankfully, eventually replaced by a younger generation that has smaller intellectual investments in the status quo. 
Some economists are probably convinced that their own views, however imperfect, are more accurate than those of the public at large and that more unanimity (even if slightly forced) would increase the profession's policy impact. They should, instead, consider how fully discredited the profession would be if all its members (rather than just a few leading lights) agreed on a policy measure that turned out, in retrospect, to be completely incorrect. 
In other words, there are benefits to a diverse portfolio. 
As Professor Zingales pointed out, the carbon tax, which most surveyed economists favor (as do I), is so disliked by voters that politicians of both parties are loath to raise it. 
Political allegiances are clearly linked to theoretical frames. Knowing whether someone leans left or right is often makes it possible to predict where they stand in economic debates. But it does not follow that those who clearly or even vehemently state their allegiances are somehow more biased than those who don't. 
Trying to evenly split the difference between left and right defines a path that is about as predictable as either of the extremes - and heavily influenced by both. 
Better to have differing views debated openly and to identify all sources of financial support for research. To its credit, the American Economics Association just officially adopted conflict-of-interest rules, as Ben Casselman wrote in The Wall Street Journal, "in response to criticism that the profession not only failed to predict the 2007-8 financial crisis but may actually have helped create it."
Economists can't vow impartiality. But they should always reach, with humility, for the truth. 
The Marxist historian E.P. Thompson put it this way: "The evidence is there, not to disclose its own meaning, but to be interrogated by minds trained in a discipline of attentive disbelief."

        
Ethics for Economists
        
The Cliff Game
        
Sharers, Takers, Carers, Makers
        
What Job Openings Tell Us
        
A Keynesian Blind Spot

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); PHILOSOPHY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); POLITICS (76%); GLOBAL WARMING (73%); BEHAVIORAL FINANCE (59%) behavioral economics; climate change; Daily Economist; earthquakes; Economics; framing; Global Warming; Nancy Folbre; Paul Krugman; Thomas Kuhn; Economics (Theory and Philosophy); American Economic Assn; Today's Economist

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION (91%); UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%) American Economic Assn

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%)

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (93%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (87%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (87%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2013



450 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1161 words

HEADLINE: Geithner Urges Congress to Act 'As Early as Possible' on Debt Ceiling

BYLINE: ANNIE LOWREY


HIGHLIGHT: The Treasury Department has officially set a deadline for raising the debt ceiling, albeit a loose one: Congress needs to act by mid-February or early March, or the country will face an unprecedented default. 

 BODY:
The Treasury Department has officially set a deadline for raising the debt ceiling, albeit a loose one: Congress needs to act by mid-February or early March, or the country will face an unprecedented default. 
In a letter to Speaker John A. Boehner of Ohio, outgoing Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said that the estimate was subject to "significant" uncertainty because the country is entering tax-filing season. Higher-than-expected refunds could mean the country runs out of cash sooner. Higher-than-expected tax payments mean it could run out of cash later. But Mr. Geithner urged Congress to act "as early as possible." 
He also said that Congress could cause "irreparable harm" to the economy by failing to lift the debt ceiling in a timely manner. The country makes about 80 million separate payments a month, to seniors, soldiers, bondholders and thousands of others. Were Congress to fail to raise the ceiling, Treasury would miss an estimated 40 percent of those payments. It might also throw the financial markets into a panic, compounding any economic damage caused by the missed or delayed payments themselves. 
The letter comes as President Obama on Monday held a press conference to urge Congress to raise the debt ceiling without delay. Some Republicans have said they will not raise the debt limit without also passing package of spending cuts, likely to entitlement programs like Social Security. Mr. Obama has said he will not negotiate on raising the debt limit, and that Congress has no choice but to lift the statutory borrowing limit. 
The full text of Mr. Geithner's letter is below: 
PUB-DATE: January 14, 2013
The Honorable John A. Boehner
Speaker
U.S. House of Representatives
Washington, DC 20515
Dear Mr. Speaker:
I am writing to provide additional information regarding the extraordinary measures Treasury has undertaken in order to avoid default on the nation's obligations.
Treasury currently expects to exhaust these extraordinary measures between mid-February and early March of this year. We will provide a more narrow range with a more targeted estimate at a later date. Any estimate, however, will be subject to a significant amount of uncertainty because we are entering the tax filing season, when the amounts and timing of tax payments and refunds are unpredictable. For this reason, Congress should act as early as possible to extend normal borrowing authority in order to avoid the risk of default and any interruption in payments.
If the extraordinary measures were allowed to expire without an increase in borrowing authority, Treasury would be left to fund the government solely with the cash we have on hand on any given day. As you know, cash would not be adequate to meet existing obligations for any meaningful length of time because the government is currently operating at a deficit.
The U.S. government makes approximately 80 million separate payments per month. These include payments for Social Security; Supplemental Security Income; Medicare; Medicaid; national security needs, including military salaries, military retirement, veterans' benefits, and defense contractors; income tax refunds; federal employee salaries and retirement; law enforcement and operation of the justice system; unemployment insurance; disaster relief; goods and services sold to the government under contracts with small and large businesses; and many others. If Congress does not act to extend borrowing authority, all of these payments would be at risk. This would impose severe economic hardship on millions of individuals and businesses across the country. 
It is important to point out that extending borrowing authority does not increase government spending; it simply allows the Treasury to pay for expenditures Congress has previously approved. Failure to meet those obligations would cause irreparable harm to the American economy and to the livelihoods of all Americans. Even a temporary default with a brief interruption in payments that Congress subsequently restores would be terribly damaging, calling into question the willingness of Congress to uphold America's longstanding commitment to meet the obligations of the nation in full and on time. It should also be noted that default would increase our borrowing costs and damage economic growth and therefore add to future budget deficits, not decrease them. This is why no President or Secretary of the Treasury of either party has ever countenanced even the suggestion of default on any legal obligation of the United States.
Protecting the full faith and credit of the United States is the responsibility of Congress because only Congress can extend the nation's borrowing authority. No Congress has ever failed to meet that responsibility. It must be understood that the nation's creditworthiness is not a bargaining chip or a hostage that can be taken to advance any political agenda; it is an essential underpinning of our strength as a nation. Threatening to undermine our creditworthiness is no less irresponsible than threatening to undermine the rule of law, and no more legitimate than any other common demand for ransom.
In an address to the nation in 1987, President Reagan said, "Unfortunately, Congress consistently brings us to the edge of default before facing its responsibility. This brinkmanship threatens the holders of government bonds and those who rely on Social Security and veterans benefits. Interest rates would skyrocket. Instability would occur in financial markets and the federal deficit would soar. The United States has a special responsibility to itself and the world to meet its obligations. It means we have a well-earned reputation for reliability and credibility - two things that set us apart in much of the world."
President Obama has put forth detailed proposals to restore fiscal responsibility to the federal budget, and he strongly believes Democrats and Republicans should join together to reduce our deficits. In the meantime we must protect America's creditworthiness by ensuring that our government can pay the bills it has already incurred. Therefore, I respectfully urge Congress to meet its responsibility to the country by extending normal borrowing authority well before the risk of default becomes imminent.
Sincerely,
Timothy F. Geithner
Identical letter sent to:
 The Honorable Nancy Pelosi, House Democratic Leader
 The Honorable Harry Reid, Senate Majority Leader
 The Honorable Mitch McConnell, Senate Republican Leader
cc: The Honorable Dave Camp, Chairman, House Committee on Ways and Means
 The Honorable Sander M. Levin, Ranking Member, House Committee on Ways and Means
 The Honorable Max Baucus, Chairman, Senate Committee on Finance
 The Honorable Orrin G. Hatch, Ranking Member, Senate Committee on Finance

        
White House Paints Doomsday Default Scenario
        
Republican Unity Cracks as Election Nears
        
House Leaders Plan Facebook Hackathon
        
Events Erode Hope of a Tax Overhaul Before Election Day
        
The Vote That Delayed Obama's Speech

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (95%); DEBT CEILING (95%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); TAX LAW (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICS (77%); BONDS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (67%); US PRESIDENTS (66%); PRESS CONFERENCES (51%) Boehner, John A; Geithner, Timothy F; House of Representatives; National Debt (US); Treasury Department; United States Politics and Government; The White House

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives; Treasury Department

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (91%); JOHN BOEHNER (89%); BARACK OBAMA (58%) Boehner, John A; Geithner, Timothy F

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2013



451 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Dot Earth)

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 888 words

HEADLINE: Draft Federal Report Sees Big U.S. Impacts from Global Warming

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN


HIGHLIGHT: A new draft federal report on climate change foresees enormous impacts across the United States should greenhouse gas emissions continue unabated. 

 BODY:
Justin Gillis has filed a post on the Green Blog summarizing the main points in a new and voluminous draft federal report on current and anticipated impacts from greenhouse-driven global warming on the United States. (Yes, the Green Blog, thankfully, is still up and running despite the end of the environment news desk at The Times.)
Here's an excerpt from his post and link to the rest: 
The natural conservatism of science has often led climatologists to be cautious in their pronouncements about global warming. Indeed, more than once they have drawn criticism for burying their fundamental message - that society is running some huge risks -- in caveats and cavils.
To judge from the draft of a new report issued by a federal advisory committee, that hesitation may soon fall by the wayside. The draft, just unveiled for public comment before it becomes final, is the latest iteration of a major series of reports requested by Congress on the effects of climate change in the United States.
I caution that it is a draft, so we don't know what final language will make it into the report. I am always hesitant to give too much credence to drafts that could change substantially, but in its current form, the document minces no words.
"Climate change is already affecting the American people," declares the opening paragraph of the report, issued under the auspices of the Global Change Research Program, which coordinates federally sponsored climate research. "Certain types of weather events have become more frequent and/or intense, including heat waves, heavy downpours, and, in some regions, floods and droughts.
"Sea level is rising, oceans are becoming more acidic, and glaciers and Arctic sea ice are melting. These changes are part of the pattern of global climate change, which is primarily driven by human activity."
When it is final, this report will be an official document of the United States government. Let it be noted that this aggressive language about climate change comes two months after the end of a presidential campaign in which the subject was barely mentioned, to the frustration of a great many voters. That climate silence occurred partly because the reporters moderating the presidential debates did not pose a single question on the topic. [Read the rest.]
Over the weekend I posted a list of links to all the report sections on my Tumblr site. Here are links to two sections -- agriculture and health impacts -- with the "key messages" for each (it's a report to Congress):
Agriculture
1. Climate disruptions to agricultural production have increased in the recent past and are projected to increase further over the next 25 years. By mid-century and beyond, these impacts will be increasingly negative on most crops and livestock.
2. Many agricultural regions will experience declines in crop and livestock production from increased stress due to weeds, diseases, insect pests, and other climate change-induced stresses.
3. Current loss and degradation of critical agricultural soil and water assets increasing extremes in precipitation will continue to challenge both rain-fed and irrigated agriculture unless innovative conservation methods are implemented.
4. The rising incidence of weather extremes will have increasingly negative impacts on crop and livestock productivity because critical thresholds are already being exceeded.
5. Agriculture has been able to adapt to recent changes in climate; however, increased innovation will be needed to ensure the rate of adaptation of agriculture and the associated socioeconomic system can keep pace with future climate change.
6. Climate change effects on agriculture will have consequences for food security both in the U.S. and globally, not only through changes in crop yields, but also changes in the ways climate affects food processing, storage, transportation, and retailing.
Human Health
1. Climate change threatens human health and well-being in many ways, including impacts from increased extreme weather events, wildfire, decreased air quality, diseases transmitted by insects, food and water, and threats to mental health. Some of these health impacts are already underway in the U.S.
2. Climate change will, absent other changes, amplify some of the existing health threats the nation now faces. Certain people and communities are especially vulnerable, including children, the elderly, the sick, the poor, and some communities of color.
3. Public health actions, especially preparedness and prevention, can do much to protect people from some of the impacts of climate change. Early action provides the largest health benefits. As threats increase, our ability to adapt to future changes may be limited.
4. Responding to climate change provides opportunities to improve human health and well-being across many sectors, including energy, agriculture, and transportation. Many of these strategies offer a variety of benefits, protecting people while combating climate change and providing other societal benefits.
There's much more coverage. Dig in.

        
More On a Quest for Common Ground on Climate Change
        
A Coal Sales Ticker Next to a 'Clean Energy' Claim?
        
Creating a Vital Long View for Gauging Environmental Change
        
With Economy Still Trumping Emissions, Obama Plans an Education Push on Climate
        
Will Storm's Wall Street Impact Influence U.S. Carbon Policy?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: GLOBAL WARMING (92%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); OCEANOGRAPHY (89%); WEATHER (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (85%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (77%); SCIENCE NEWS (76%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (76%); CONSERVATISM (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); LIVESTOCK RESEARCH (69%); OCEANS (68%); POLITICAL DEBATES (67%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (66%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (66%); ANIMAL FARMING & BREEDING (63%); AGRICULTURE (60%) Agriculture and Farming; Carbon Dioxide; Drought; Environment; Floods; Global Warming; Greenhouse Gas Emissions; National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration; Obama, Barack; Climate Change

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL OCEANIC & ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION (84%) National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (66%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: ARCTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); ARCTIC (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2013



452 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THE APPRAISAL; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1246 words

HEADLINE: Decades Later, A Critic's Disapproval Still Rings True

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH A. HARRIS

 BODY:
The architecture critic Ada Louise Huxtable died last week at age 91, with a Pulitzer Prize and many decades of lively reviews for The New York Times and The Wall Street Journal behind her. She wrote about libraries and skyscrapers, art museums and corporate headquarters, and this being New York, she also did battle over the city's twinkling residential buildings.
And not every apartment house was to her liking.
''The result is a pitiful compendium of watered-down mannerisms that are supposed to maintain the integrity of the avenue,'' she wrote of a building on Fifth Avenue, ''but speak more clearly of the inflation of costs and the impoverishment of crafts in our time.'' 
''It does not help,'' she continued of a building nearby, ''that the moldings look like sliced-off Tootsie Rolls.''
These two descriptions came from the same article, ''The 'Pathetic Fallacy,' or Wishful Thinking at Work,'' published in The Times in February 1979. In it, Ms. Huxtable appraised two buildings on Fifth Avenue that were new at the time, 800 Fifth Avenue and 1001 Fifth Avenue, and she found them both to be pretty dreadful.
Both towered above their older, more dignified neighbors, while making unconvincing references to prewar materials and details, Ms. Huxtable said, like a smarmy tip of the hat. Thirty years later, it appears that both buildings have aged much as her criticism suggested they would. They might be moneymakers, but they are still, it is generally agreed, awful to look at.
''You can see why she was so upset,'' Jorge Otero-Pailos, an associate professor at Columbia University's Graduate School of Architecture, said of 800 Fifth Avenue. ''All you have to do is look at the building.''
Take 1001 Fifth Avenue -- a 23-story building with a facade designed by Johnson/Burgee, firm of the famed architect Philip Johnson -- which stands opposite the Metropolitan Museum of Art. Solid lines of black bay windows stretch along its length, dark gashes slicing through its limestone facade. (It is on this facade that Ms. Huxtable's Tootsie Roll moldings reside.)
Perhaps the most unusual element is at the top, where the limestone facade extends beyond the roof for an additional story or so, just a lonely slab visibly propped up from behind, which lends it the look of a budget movie set, or perhaps a toupee.
''This sort of thing does not age well,'' Peter Pennoyer, of Peter Pennoyer Architects, said.
Apparently, buyers agree. Compared with most of the universe, the prices found at 1001 Fifth Avenue are frighteningly expensive. But compared with its Fifth Avenue neighbors, mostly prewar co-ops on one of the most extravagant stretches of the city, 1001 Fifth has not appreciated especially well.
According to Jonathan Miller, president of the Miller Samuel appraisal firm, the average sale price last year for a one-bedroom apartment on Fifth Avenue between 77th and 86th Streets was $3.56 million, while the average three-bedroom sold for $6.375 million.
But in December, a three-bedroom apartment on the 16th floor of 1001 Fifth Avenue, which came with Central Park views, was taken off the market after languishing for a year at sale prices hovering around $4 million. The last sale in the building, according to the Web site StreetEasy, was a three-bedroom on the 22nd floor that sold for $4.5 million in 2011.
''The prices are less, and the sales are much, much more difficult there,'' said Kathryn Steinberg, a managing director at Brown Harris Stevens, comparing 1001 with its neighbors. ''It's not a coveted building.''
Reached by telephone on Monday, John Burgee, one of the architects, recalled immediately that Ms. Huxtable was not fond of the building, feeling its nods to both past and present made it confusing. But he was gracious toward the longtime critic all the same.
''I wish she would've liked it, but in this case we differed,'' Mr. Burgee said, adding that his partner, Mr. Johnson, liked the building so much that he lived there for a time after its completion. ''But I must say, even in that difference, I very much appreciated what she had to say. And there was no question that what she said affected what you did the next time.''
Whether the building is to one's taste or not, few would dispute that the views can be spectacular, and even Ms. Huxtable had some more positive things to say about the entrance. And the infrequency with which apartments come up for sale can be a sign that people do not want to leave a building.
''I have amazing views of the West Side, the park and the reservoir,'' said Anne Camuto, a 19th-floor resident who bought an apartment at 1001 Fifth Avenue when the building was brand new. But she described the interior architecture of the building as ''pretty cheap.''
That said, Ms. Camuto loves her apartment, and she likes the facade well enough, greatly preferring it to the brick buildings that are its contemporaries, she said. Though she is not entirely sure about the top.
''There's no reason architecturally for there to be that kind of facade,'' Ms. Camuto said. The architect, she added, ''was definitely making a statement.''
The statement made by 800 Fifth Avenue, designed by Ulrich Franzen & Associates, is even more pronounced. Or, as Ms. Huxtable described the effect: ''If there is any achievement here, it is making the bland grotesque.''
This building stands at the corner of 61st Street with the Knickerbocker Club to its north and the Pierre hotel to its south, and is the only rental building on Fifth Avenue between 59th and 72nd Streets. Plopped into this grand setting is 800, a brick affair about the color of yellow mustard gone bad with a conspicuously false limestone facade slapped onto the bottom five stories -- only on the Fifth Avenue side.
''It is appalling from the side approaches and would have been considerably better if it had been honestly faked,'' Ms. Huxtable wrote.
''See the hotel Pierre's urn-topped, carved balustrades,'' she said elsewhere in the article, ''and the 'balustrade' of holes in the stone with metal rods that are supposed to recall it.''
This building came up in her writing a few times, including in an article called ''A Building That Looks Like a Loser.'' Even the designation report for the area's historic district, a document that can generally be counted upon for its vanilla civility, calls the stubby limestone facade ''peculiar.''
Nonetheless, the rents in the building are enormous.
The average price for a one-bedroom at 800 Fifth Avenue for new leases last year was $6,784, said Mr. Miller of Miller Samuel, and the average two-bedroom was just over $15,000.
''There is a whole different set of expectations for a rental,'' Ms. Steinberg, of Brown Harris Stevens, said. Renters, she explained, are interested in the views and location; they do not care if the construction quality is relatively poor.
Ms. Huxtable was unimpressed by the insincere tributes 800 and 1001 Fifth Avenue paid to their prewar neighbors, not just because of their aesthetics, but also because they served as an excuse to cram large buildings into cherished streets where they would be out of scale. But perhaps most of all, her bone to pick was with the officials who, desperate for revenue, let the developers get away with it.
''When you read between the lines, she's actually criticizing city government,'' Mr. Otero-Pailos, the Columbia professor, said. ''For her, it was a series of really bad compromises,'' he said about 800 Fifth Avenue. ''And the building attests to that.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The architecture critic Ada Louise Huxtable said the false front on 800 Fifth Avenue, above, was ''appalling from the side approaches.'' Ms. Huxtable also had few kind words for 1001 Fifth Avenue, right
 its limestone facade extends beyond the roof. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROBERT CAPLIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (63%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2013



453 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1012 words

HEADLINE: Personal Narratives, All Bound In Fantasy

BYLINE: By MICHIKO KAKUTANI

 BODY:
TENTH OF DECEMBERStories
By George Saunders251 pages. Random House. $26.
No one writes more powerfully than George Saunders about the lost, the unlucky, the disenfranchised, those Americans who struggle to pay the bills, make the rent, hold onto a job they might detest -- folks who find their dreams slipping from their grasp as they frantically tread water, trying to keep from drowning.
In earlier story collections like ''Civilwarland in Bad Decline'' and ''Pastoralia,'' Mr. Saunders used humor and satire and hyperbole to give us darkly funny snapshots of a nightmare America only a hop, skip and jump removed from the country we see on Drudge, TMZ and reality TV: an America at the mercy of greedy corporations and venal politicians, reeling from the absurdities of a pop culture machine driven by fame and commodification. 
If his earlier books reverberated with echoes of Nathanael West and Kurt Vonnegut, Mr. Saunders's latest offering, ''Tenth of December,'' seems to have more in common with Sherwood Anderson's ''Winesburg, Ohio.''
There are still touches of surreal weirdness here -- like ''illegal fugitives'' strung together by wires running through their heads, used as lawn ornaments -- but for the most part the humor is more muted and the stories tend to pivot around loneliness, disappointment, frustration and the difficulty of connecting with other human beings. Although sentiment has always lurked beneath the antic, corrugated surface of Mr. Saunders's work, there is a new sympathy for his characters in these pages, an emphasis on how bad luck, poor judgment, lack of resources and family misfortune can snowball into violence or catastrophe.
Before they grew up or things spiraled downward, many of these people recall having had intimations of specialness, a sense that the glittering promises of the American dream were actually within reach. The hero of ''The Semplica Girl Diaries'' calls it a ''feeling of special destiny'' he used to have ''when tiny, sitting in cedar-smelling bedroom closet, looking up at blowing trees through high windows, feeling I would someday do something great.'' Now this husband and father finds himself stuck on a hamster wheel of familial responsibility, trying to juggle credit card payments to get his daughter the birthday present she wants so she doesn't feel poor or ''poorish'' next to her more entitled friends.
Keeping up with the neighbors -- or feeling envious of them -- is the theme of several other stories in this volume too. The narrator of ''Home'' resents his ex-wife's new husband, who has a fancy house in a fancy part of town, and three cars for two adults. And the title character of ''Al Roosten'' develops a toxic grudge against a neighbor who seems to have the perfect life (beautiful wife, ''elflike'' children) and a mansion on a hill.
Class envy of a former spouse's new mate is a pretty predictable theme, and so are the setups Mr. Saunders contrives for other characters -- like having a corporate director exhort his staff to undertake some unseemly business without engaging in any ''namby-pamby thoughts of right/wrong,'' or having an athletic teenager debate whether to intervene when he sees a neighbor girl being abducted by a stranger. What injects such schematic moral dramas with real vitality is the energy of Mr. Saunders's kinetic prose and his ability to depict his characters from both the outside (with plenty of satirical snarl) and the inside (with some genuine feeling).
In story after story there is a chasm between the characters' fantasies and the grinding boredom of their daily existence, between their aspirations to wealth and wisdom, and the derailing of their dreams through foolishness, impulsivity or the simple passage of time.
One of the heroes in the volume's title story realizes that he is 53 and seriously ill, and that he'd now ''never deliver his major national speech on compassion'' or go down the Mississippi in a canoe, or get to live ''in an A-frame near a shady creek with the two hippie girls he'd met in 1968 in that souvenir shop in the Ozarks,'' who had giggled about him growing up to become a real fox. He'd waited for ''some special dispensation,'' some sign perhaps from God that his woes might be alleviated, but found instead that ''the big something/someone was neutral,'' apparently unconcerned about his plight.
In one tale a man with money woes wins the lottery but fritters away his winnings on a ridiculous status symbol that will throw his family into turmoil and threaten to bankrupt him. In another story a man wins a long-coveted promotion that would enable him to take care of his unemployed relatives (an invalid mother and a father who ''sadly cracked his spine'' when a car he was fixing fell on him), but blurts out the ugly truth about his boss, causing his recent ''Good Fortune'' to unravel.
And yet, Mr. Saunders suggests, there is always the possibility of rescue or hope. A woman, who has survived an unhappy childhood to have a family of her own and a sense that ''the world was good,'' takes her children on a drive to look at a puppy they might buy, and is shocked to see a little boy in the backyard of a house, harnessed and chained, like a dog, to a tree. She wants to say to him, with a single look: ''Life will not necessarily always be like this. Your life could suddenly blossom into something wonderful. It can happen. It happened to me.''
Regarding the stunning title story in this volume, which itself makes this book worth reading, it's a deeply affecting tale about the collision of two lives: a fat, pale boy with ''unfortunate Prince Valiant bangs'' who dreams of being a hero; and a middle-aged cancer patient who is thinking about killing himself because he fears becoming an invalid and burden to his family and friends. It's a measure of Mr. Saunders's talents as a writer -- his brassy language, his narrative instincts, his bone-deep understanding of his characters -- that he takes what might have been a contrived and sentimental parable and turns it into a visceral and moving act of storytelling.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (C1)
 George Saunders (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHLOE AFTEL) (C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); REALITY TELEVISION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2013



454 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 961 words

HEADLINE: Agencies Push JPMorgan To Improve Risk Controls

BYLINE: By JESSICA SILVER-GREENBERG

 BODY:
Federal banking regulators hit JPMorgan Chase with two enforcement actions on Monday for failures in risk management that led to a multibillion-dollar trading loss, the first formal sanctions in a case that damaged the bank's reputation and brought heightened scrutiny to its trading operations. The regulators also ordered the bank to fix breakdowns in money-laundering controls that threatened to allow tainted money to move through its network..
The dual cease-and-desist orders from the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Reserve came just as the nation's largest bank is poised to report earnings on Wednesday and potentially issue its own report publicly on the trading debacle. 
The regulators identified deficiencies in several layers of the bank, from flaws in assessing potential losses due to complex trades to failures by bank executives to fully inform the board about the increasingly risky wagers.
The chief investment office, the once little-known unit at the center of the trade, was making large bets on credit derivatives from its London offices. In its order, the Comptroller of the Currency's office, one of the bank's top regulators, said the unit was "able to increase its positions and risk, and ultimately losses, without sufficiently effective intervention by the bank's control groups."
Separately, a British regulator, the Financial Services Authority, announced it was continuing to conduct "a formal enforcement investigation into the trading losses." The Securities and Exchange Commission and law enforcement agencies are also investigating the trades.
The trading loss, now estimated at more than $6 billion, was first disclosed in May 2012 and has claimed the jobs of several senior executives and forced the bank's chief executive, Jamie Dimon, once highly regarded for his risk prowess, to appear before Congress to explain the fiasco.
The moves against JPMorgan Chase point to the changing stance of the regulatory agencies, which are working to crack down on outsize risk taking by the nation's biggest banks after being faulted in the depths of the financial crisis for failing to police Wall Street.
Even as the chief investment office took increasingly large and complex bets, for example, the regulators did not station any examiners in the unit's offices in London or New York, according to current and former regulators.
Under the terms of the Federal Reserve's order on Monday, JPMorgan's board has to outline a plan to bolster its risk management along with other critical functions. The bank also has to alter how it rewards senior executives, factoring in poor "risk outcomes and control deficiencies," according to the order.
Neither of Monday's actions, also known as consent orders, requires JPMorgan to pay any fine, and the bank did not admit or deny wrongdoing.
"We've been working hard to fully remediate the issues identified," said Joe Evangelisti, a spokesman for JPMorgan Chase.
Since announcing the botched trade, which Mr. Dimon acknowledged was "egregious," the bank has shuffled senior management and commissioned an internal investigation into the trades, which was led by Mike Cavanagh, JPMorgan's former chief financial officer.
JPMorgan's board will review the findings of that investigation in a meeting Tuesday ahead of the company's earnings announcement, according to several people close to the bank. At the meeting Tuesday, the board is also expected to vote on whether to make the report public and whether to reduce the bonuses of Mr. Dimon and Douglas Braunstein, formerly the bank's chief financial officer. Mr. Dimon's bonus could be reduced by up to 20 percent, according to two people familiar with the matter.
Among the six largest banks in the United States, Mr. Dimon was the highest-paid chief executive, receiving $23.1 million in 2011. That year, his total pay package was made up of stock and option awards along with a $4.5 million cash bonus.
The report is expected to outline concerns that were privately expressed throughout the upper echelons of the bank. Among the chief problems discussed, according to these people, were critical gulfs in how the bank managed the increasingly complex bets made by the chief investment office.
The report is expected to be especially critical of Mr. Braunstein, who stepped down as chief financial officer in November 2012 and no longer directly reports to Mr. Dimon. Mr. Braunstein, these people said, is faulted in the internal report for not exercising stricter oversight of traders in the London office.
Some within the bank said Mr. Braunstein's credibility was undercut because he assured analysts just weeks before the trading errors were unearthed that he was "very comfortable with the positions we have."
In July, Mr. Cavanagh disclosed initial findings of the internal investigation, which unearthed troubling questions about how traders were valuing their bets. Attempting to mask the size of their losses, traders at the bank may have mismarked their trades, senior executives said during the bank's quarterly earnings call.
The orders issued on Monday also focus on weak money-laundering safeguards, requiring the bank to fortify its monitoring of transactions and its filing of suspicious-activity reports. The Comptroller of the Currency's office faulted the bank for "an inadequate system of internal controls and independent testing."
Mr. Evangelisti, JPMorgan's spokesman, said compliance with controls against money laundering "is a top priority for us."
"We have already made progress addressing the issues cited in the consent orders, which contain no allegations of intentional misconduct by the firm or any of its employees," he said.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RISK MANAGEMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (91%); US DOLLAR (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (79%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (69%); MONEY LAUNDERING (56%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (98%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF THE COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY (57%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%); FINANCIAL SERVICES AUTHORITY (54%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (98%); JPM (LSE) (98%); 8634 (TSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (98%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (98%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (98%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (98%)

PERSON: JAMES DIMON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (70%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2013



455 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; HANGING ON; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1870 words

HEADLINE: Life in the Red

BYLINE: By BENEDICT CAREY

 BODY:
DETROIT -- The belt-tightening was the easy part. Cancel the cable. Skip the air conditioners. Ration the cellphone, unplug the wireless Internet, cook rice and beans -- done, and done.
The larger problem for LaKeisha Tuggle, 33, who had lost her public relations job, was cash flow: After her unemployment insurance and savings ran dry, there was none. So she did some creative financing, juggling loans, credit lines, tax refunds and educational grants, to stay afloat -- until a Sunday in September of 2011, when it looked as if the jig was up. She awoke to a foreclosure notice on her front door that announced her home would be auctioned in a week.
''One week?'' said Ms. Tuggle, a single mother who was more than $20,000 behind on her house payments. ''I had no idea what to do.''
The usual explanations for reckless borrowing focus on people's character, or social norms that promote free spending and instant gratification. But recent research has shown that scarcity by itself is enough to cause this kind of financial self-sabotage. 
''When we put people in situations of scarcity in experiments, they get into poverty traps,'' said Eldar Shafir, a professor of psychology and public affairs at Princeton. ''They borrow at high interest rates that hurt them, in ways they knew to avoid when there was less scarcity.''
The psychological burden of debt not only saps intellectual resources, it also reinforces the reckless behavior, and quickly, Dr. Shafir and other experts said. Millions of Americans have been keeping the lights on through hard times with borrowed money, running a kind of shell game to keep bill collectors away. The average debt for households earning $20,000 a year or less more than doubled to $26,000 between 2001 and 2010, according to the Urban Institute. The averages for households in slightly higher brackets grew by 50 to 90 percent in the same period.
People dig deeper precisely because they long to escape.
Ms. Tuggle was too busy getting ahead to imagine falling behind.
In the fall of 2005, she bought a brand new bungalow in Mexicantown, a neighborhood then on the rise. The October issue of the Michigan Citizen Newspaper featured her under the headline ''American dream in Southwest Detroit.''
''The neighborhood has just blossomed,'' she told the paper.
In the accompanying photo she wears a slight smile -- assured, restrained -- the smile of a 26-year-old who has just become a homeowner, thanks to a mortgage assistance program she found through a neighborhood redevelopment agency.
Even when her employer laid off its entire staff in 2008, including Ms. Tuggle, her confidence remained. She turned down an offer from her old employer to return as a part-time receptionist. ''It wasn't enough to cover my bills, and I just assumed I'd be back working soon,'' she said.
She had resources, after all. A couple of thousand dollars in savings. A 401(k) plan. A Discover card with a $500 limit. Her parents were next door, and she had friends to help out, if needed.
''I remember early on, maybe late in 2008, I paid off my Discover card and closed it out,'' she said. ''I felt, like, O.K., that was good, I'm taking care of this.''
That combination -- self-confidence, with a history of paying bills on time -- sets many people up for a steep fall, experts say. They are comfortable borrowing, they make most payments on time, and their debt goes up only incrementally at first.
''I went out on the street to talk to constituents about the national debt during that congressional debate last year, and as soon as people heard that word, they said, 'Debt? Let me tell you how much I owe!' '' said former Representative Hansen Clarke, whose district included much of Detroit and who last year proposed legislation to provide some relief.
Pamela Brown, a former office manager who has worked sporadically since having a stroke and a heart attack in 2009, said she had to borrow because she owns her house, disqualifying her for many public benefits. ''I won't give up this house because, well, it's all I have,'' said Ms. Brown.
Tenecia Hardwick began borrowing after losing her job as a casino worker in 2009. Her two boys have learning disabilities that qualify the family for some federal aid. She has taken out payday loans, has a $400 credit-union debt, and said that the only way she could see to make good was to borrow more.
She recently made an appointment at GreenPath, a national debt-consolidation service, to see whether she could begin to pay down what she has borrowed. ''By the time people come to see us, they have no more credit to use,'' said Kathryn Moore, a counselor at GreenPath. ''They've been borrowing just to meet payments on previous loans; it builds on itself.''
In a paper published in November, a trio of researchers led by Anuj K. Shah of the University of Chicago's school of business showed how pronounced this effect can be.
In one experiment, participants competed in rounds of the game ''Family Feud,'' a trivia contest in which each question allows for multiple guesses. One team was ''poor,'' allotted only 15 seconds per round; another was ''rich,'' having budgets of nearly a minute per round. Both groups could borrow time against future rounds, but the poor borrowed far more, progressively shrinking their future paychecks while the rich mostly avoided debt.
The research team, which included Sendhil Mullainathan and Dr. Shafir of Princeton, demonstrated that same effect in a series of related experiments. Scarcity by itself -- independent of personality or any other factors -- fuels a drive to borrow recklessly.
Living in the Red Zone
By early 2009, all of Ms. Tuggle's rainy-day funds were gone, and all her favors called in. She had no job prospects on the radar and only a trickle of income from part-time work at a day care center.
But one remnant of her former life remained: a bank account, still open, on life support.
She picked up her purse on a chilly afternoon that winter, drove to a local strip mall and walked into a storefront payday loan office.
''As long as you have that bank account, and a check with you, you can qualify,'' she said. ''So I took a check in, and when I walked out I felt bad. But I looked at the payments and thought, 'Oh sure, I can do that.' ''
And she could, just not for very long.
Payday loan operations typically charge 15 to 30 percent interest every two weeks, and many who have used them report slipping behind quickly and being forced to pay off the loan -- with yet another loan, often from another payday operation.
By the time people are in this deep, they have usually crossed a line and begun to think of borrowing as a necessity rather than a convenience or quick fix, experts said.
Kristin Seefeldt, a sociologist at the University of Michigan, has followed the same group of 39 single mothers living in or near Detroit, asking about this very issue -- the level and consequences of carrying debt.
She has uncovered a financial Atlantis, lives lived under water, with debts owed to utility and cable companies that don't show up in typical surveys. The women carried an average of $3,700 in debt, but some owed 10 times as much. They were nurses' aides and fast food cooks, retail and factory workers.
Dr. Seefeldt found that the women tended to group their bills into three categories: those to be ignored; those to be paid later; and those on which to make at least partial payments. They continually checked their credit reports and considered bills that did not appear on them safe to ignore. Those that did show up but generated little or no hassle from bill collectors fell into the ''pay later'' category.
The partial payments went for core necessities: cellphone or car repair payments, for example. ''You're keeping the lights on, you're not being evicted, the kids are not hungry, the family is protected,'' Dr. Seefeldt said. ''It allows you to say, 'I'm doing what I'm doing, and I'm not out on the street.' ''
Some of the study participants were as sophisticated as any debt manager. One woman, a former retail worker, was using more than a dozen credit cards to buy food and pay her mortgage, playing the cards against one another to lower rates.
''What I did last week was, I called the credit cards I already have and said, hey, you know, I'll transfer this balance over here if you give me this rate for the period of time,'' she told Dr. Seefeldt. ''And they seem to be buying into that.'' The woman kept track of all the credit cards and their varying rates on an Excel spreadsheet.
Ms. Tuggle tracked her borrowing in a large manila envelope and built a portfolio that went well beyond credit cards. In addition to payday loans, she enrolled at Full Sail University in 2009, in the entertainment business department, and got a loan and $3,500 in education grants.
''That worked for a little bit,'' she said -- until she got pregnant and had to take a leave from school.
She sang throughout her pregnancy last year, too, leading a reggae band called Roots Vibrations, earning $50 to $100 per show. And by 2011 she had landed a job as an enrollment officer at an alternative high school.
After two years, it felt like Ms. Tuggle had finally broken her fall. The load was lighter, she had some income, and by September of 2011 an air of relief had entered the house.
She was getting ready for church one morning, blasting music, singing along, when she saw though the front window a neighbor from across the street, gesturing toward her front door. She pulled the door open and there was a foreclosure sign on it, ''huge, practically as big as the door, with that duct tape,'' she said.
She laughed at first -- it seemed so impossibly wrong. At church she sang her part in the choir and did not say a word to anyone about it. Back home, the blunt force of the sign began to make itself felt; she was more than $20,000 behind on her mortgage payments and nowhere near catching up.
She lay down on her bed and cried.
''I'm not going to throw a pity party for myself. That's just not who I am,'' she said. ''But it was one of those moments when I thought I was going to give up.''
Helpful Neighbors
She had little time to mourn and no idea what to do.
It was her next-door neighbor -- her mother -- who came to the rescue. Katherine Tuggle urged her daughter to use the last source of relief that she knew of, the law. The prospect of paying a lawyer $600 almost killed that plan. But LaKeisha found the money and filed for Chapter 13 bankruptcy, consolidating her debt and reducing her monthly nut. A few months later, she refinanced through the Neighborhood Assistance Corporation of America, or NACA, reducing her interest rate from 7 percent to 2 percent.
Last month, she made her third full payment, completing a probationary period to keep the new loan.
''Whew,'' she said. ''It was close.''
She still has no cable or air conditioning. And there is just enough money coming in to pay the bills. But for all that, she counts herself lucky.
''Until I hit it big as a singer, I'm still stretching, even now,'' she said. ''In fact, what I'm thinking right now is maybe I could sell meals. I do love to cook.''
Hanging On: This is the second of two articles that look at hard times through the lens of science.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: STRUGGLING: LaKeisha Tuggle, a Detroit resident who was pushed into a spiral of debt after being laid off in 2008, takes a taxi to her new job because she cannot afford to own a car. She narrowly avoided losing her house. (D1)
AFLOAT: LaKeisha Tuggle, now working at an alternative high school in Detroit, sings in her local church, below, and also in a band.
 SUPPORT: Ms. Tuggle's mother, Katherine, helps take care of her son, Emmanuel. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MAISIE CROW FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PSYCHOLOGY (87%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (78%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); CASH FLOW (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (73%); CITIZEN JOURNALISM (73%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (72%); FORECLOSURE (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (66%); INTEREST RATES (65%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (62%); SINGLE PARENTS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2013



456 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 619 words

HEADLINE: Wal-Mart to Announce a Five-Year Commitment to Hire 100,000 Veterans

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO

 BODY:
Wal-Mart, the nation's largest retailer, will announce Tuesday a plan to hire every veteran who wants a job, provided that the veterans have left the military in the previous year and did not receive a dishonorable discharge.
The announcement, to be made in a speech in New York by William S. Simon, the president and chief executive of Wal-Mart U.S., represents among the largest hiring commitments for veterans in history. 
Company officials said they believe the program, which will officially begin on Memorial Day -- May 27 this year -- will lead to the hiring of more than 100,000 people in the next five years, the length of the commitment.
''Let's be clear: Hiring a veteran can be one of the best decisions any of us can make,'' Mr. Simon will say in his keynote speech to the National Retail Federation, according to prepared text. ''These are leaders with discipline, training and a passion for service.''
In a statement, the first lady, Michelle Obama, who has led a campaign by the White House to encourage businesses to hire veterans, called the Wal-Mart plan ''historic,'' adding that she planned to urge other corporations to follow suit.
''We all believe that no one who serves our country should have to fight for a job once they return home,'' Mrs. Obama said in the statement. ''Wal-Mart is setting a groundbreaking example for the private sector to follow.''
The unemployment rate for veterans of the recent wars has remained stubbornly above that for nonveterans, though it has been falling steadily, dropping to just below 10 percent for all of 2012. That was down from 12.1 percent the year before. The year-end unemployment rate for nonveterans was 7.9 percent in 2012.
Reducing the veteran unemployment rate was among the few veterans' issues discussed by the presidential candidates last year. It has also been central to the work of Mrs. Obama's campaign to assist veterans and military families, Joining Forces. Last August, her office said that private companies working with Joining Forces had hired or trained 125,000 veterans or their spouses in a single year, surpassing the group's goal of 100,000 a full year early.
Wal-Mart's foundation has consistently been among the most generous contributors to veterans' charities, committing to donate $20 million to veterans' causes by 2015. ''I take this one personally,'' Mr. Simon, a Navy veteran, says in his prepared text.
But the company has also been aggressive about hiring veterans because it views them as good employees, said Nelson Lichtenstein, a labor historian at the University of California, Santa Barbara, and the author of the book ''The Retail Revolution: How Wal-Mart Created a Brave New World of Business.''
About 100,000 of the company's 1.4 million employees in the United States are veterans, company officials said.
''They like military people because they have a sense of hierarchy and a commitment to the organization they are in,'' said Professor Lichtenstein, who has been a critic of Wal-Mart's management practices. ''And that's important to Wal-Mart.'' In recent years, Wal-Mart has been the target of lawsuits by women, accusing the company of discrimination in salaries and promotions.
Gary Profit, a retired Army brigadier general who is senior director of military programs at Wal-Mart, said the company might not be able to guarantee that every veteran who wants a full-time job will be able to get one. But he said that because of the size of Wal-Mart's retail operation and supply chain, it is almost certain that the company could find a job -- even a part-time one -- close to any veteran who wanted one.
''If you're a veteran and you want a job in the retail industry, you have a place at Wal-Mart,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VETERANS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); RETAILERS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (87%); MILITARY DEPENDENTS (78%); CHARITIES (78%); HISTORY (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); FAMILY (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); WRITERS (60%)

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (96%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL RETAIL FEDERATION (56%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (96%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (96%)

PERSON: MICHELLE OBAMA (76%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (50%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2013



457 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 

LENGTH: 863 words

HEADLINE: Hold the Referendum

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN

 BODY:
London
IN case you have wondered, Brexit is not a new breakfast cereal or a form of early-morning euthanasia.
No, dear reader, it is the neologism doing the rounds in this land of alternating euphoria and despair to describe possible British withdrawal from the European Union, the 27-member Nobel-Prize winning club whose hold on national affection has been distinctly mixed ever since the retirement of De Gaulle and his French veto opened the way for membership in 1973.
David Cameron, the Tory prime minister, is to give a much-awaited speech on Europe later this month in which he will demand renegotiated terms and set out the road map for an eventual referendum on revised membership. So-called ''Outs'' are convinced they can win. 
Brexit alarm is on the rise. The United States, Germany and British business leaders have all warned Cameron in recent weeks that a 21st-century Britain bobbing adrift off the Continent is a losing proposition. Philip Gordon, the U.S. assistant secretary of state for European affairs, said this month of Britain that, ''More than most others, its voice within the European Union is essential and critical to the United States.''
It was an unusually forthright U.S. intervention in the murk of euro-affairs, reflecting geostrategic concerns that a British exit would destabilize Europe, leave it under German-French domination, reduce the free-market voice within it, and deprive a multitude of British-based American corporations of the benefits of the vast single European market.
Has the Obama administration overreacted? Britain has been grumbling about the European Union for four decades without getting close to withdrawal; a 1975 referendum backed membership by a wide margin. Tabloids bang on about silly E.U. regulations (like a supposed ban on reusing jam jars), but referendums are not won on such issues.
I think not. This time the British rumblings are serious. A recent Guardian/ICM poll found that 51 percent of respondents would vote for a British exit, against 40 percent who would vote to stay in. The causes for concern lie deep.
First, the euro crisis has cemented the British conviction that it was right to stick with sterling and soured the image of Europe in general.
Second, the only long-term answer to that crisis is ever closer union, both fiscal and political, and that is precisely the federalist direction most people here (including many who favor continued membership but not a United States of Europe) reject. The logical consequences for the European Union of its euro dilemma are not consequences that Britain, the world's sixth largest economy, relishes.
Third, the rise of the rabidly anti-European U.K. Independence Party has put pressure on Cameron because of potential Tory voter defection to Nigel Farage's growing political movement. This pressure is unlikely to abate. Austerity has been the name of the game for the Cameron coalition, an abstract term for lost jobs and squeezed incomes that have fueled the disgruntlement on which anti-immigrant rightists thrive. Britain is in a bipolar state. Its post-Olympics euphoria has subsided into a new despondency; the search for scapegoats is on. The Union is not a bad candidate, seen as a synonym for bureaucracy and, on the right of the political spectrum, for state-heavy economies full of ''freeloaders'' sapping the will of British ''strivers.''
Fourth, Britain has changed in unpredictable ways. The recent census [pdf] revealed a country where 7.5 million people are foreign-born, an increase of 2.6 million since 2001. The country is more diverse, less white, less Christian, less religious overall, less hidebound, more open. In theory these changes should favor Europe, but I am not sure: The Jessica Ennis generation, named for the popular gold-medal winning athlete of mixed Jamaican and English descent, does not look to Brussels with the reverence that will be on display at the Franco-German celebration on Jan. 22 of the 50th anniversary of the treaty cementing their postwar reconciliation. Europe's agony and rebirth as a Continent whole and free are not its concern.
For these reasons, continued British E.U. membership should not be taken for granted, even if Britain would be mad to leave Europe. Little-Britainism does not suit a globalized world. Business would suffer, influence diminish, and the special relationship (such as it is) with the United States would not fill the gap. Nor would the new ties to emergent economies that euro-skeptic Tories are keen to talk up.
Paul Haydon, writing in The Guardian, noted that there has been close to $10 billion of foreign investment in the British auto industry in the last two years, and 80 percent of all U.K.-produced vehicles are sold overseas, more than half to the European Union. If the ''Outs'' won and tariffs went up, investors would exit. Just extrapolate from that.
Still, Cameron should go ahead with his referendum plans. The democratic deficit of the European Union is real. It is a core problem. Precisely because the British debate is serious and deep-rooted this time, it has to be played out. A vote is needed. And I believe that, as in 1975, British good sense would prevail.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REFERENDUMS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); VETO (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); AWARDS & PRIZES (72%); NOBEL PRIZES (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%)

PERSON: DAVID CAMERON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%) EUROPE (97%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (92%); GERMANY (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2013



458 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1007 words

HEADLINE: E.U. Officials Impatient Over Lack of Progress on Trade Pact With U.S.

BYLINE: By JACK EWING

 BODY:
FRANKFURT -- American and European officials are taking longer than expected to agree to begin free-trade talks, leading to some barely contained impatience among European political leaders who are hoping that President Barack Obama will signal support for a pact in his State of the Union address next month.
A joint statement by top U.S. and European trade officials was expected by the end of December or the beginning of this month, clearing the way for formal talks aimed at removing tariffs between the United States and the European Union, which are each other's largest trading partners by far. 
The continued absence of the statement, with no clear indication when it might come, has led to some frustration among European leaders, as well as among U.S. and European business groups who say that an accord could spur growth and job creation on both sides of the Atlantic.
''One is a bit impatient,'' said Peter Beyer, a member of the German Parliament who has been involved in efforts to push trade talks forward. Mr. Beyer belongs to the center-right party led by Chancellor Angela Merkel, who like most euro zone leaders has expressed strong support for a trade accord.
Mr. Beyer and others involved in the issue said that they were not aware of any problem with the substance of a deal, and that they assumed the delay was a result of changes in the White House as Mr. Obama prepared to begin his second term.
''It has a lot to do with Obama building a new administration,'' Mr. Beyer said.
There is considerable commerce at stake. Imports and exports between the United States and the European Union totaled $594 billion in the first 11 months of 2012. There is broad agreement in government and industry that both regions would benefit by eliminating tariffs and harmonizing regulations that apply to a broad range of products that include drugs, auto parts and even toys.
Among the groups filing statements last year in support of an agreement was the Spanish Toy Association, which complained that products approved for safety in Europe must be recertified in the United States and vice versa, adding unnecessary costs.
U.S. business groups have also been pushing energetically for talks to begin, arguing that the economic impact could be substantial because the overall volume of trade is so large.
''This is an important opportunity for both sides to get their economies going again, and we hope there will be positive recommendation by the end of the month,'' said Peter H. Chase, vice president for Europe at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce in Brussels.
While some food producers and other industry groups have expressed concerns about what the provisions of a deal might be, there does not seem to be any broad-based opposition. But because the United States and European Union are both so large, reaching an agreement will be extremely complex.
Andrea Mead, a spokeswoman for the U.S. trade representative in Washington, was unable to provide much detail on progress on a free-trade agreement.
''We know there is a lot of interest in whether we will decide with our E.U. colleagues to launch F.T.A. negotiations,'' she said Monday. ''Our work in that regard is ongoing. We want to take the time to get the substance right so that any agreement we might pursue would maximize job-supporting economic opportunities.''
The most optimistic estimates are that an accord could be reached by the end of the year, but it could take longer.
A so-called High Level Working Group, made up of top trade officials from the United States and the European Union, was originally supposed to issue a statement in November that would establish a broad framework for detailed negotiations.
That deadline was then delayed until December or early January. There is still no firm indication when it might come.
Proponents of a deal would be delighted if Mr. Obama were to make even a glancing reference to an agreement when he makes his State of the Union address on Feb. 12.
The president's endorsement would send a signal of encouragement to the hundreds of midlevel officials who would have to do the mind-numbing work involved in formulating an accord.
''That would be very positive,'' said Mr. Beyer, the member of the German Parliament. ''I don't know how realistic that is.''
The United States and Europe have been discussing a trade pact informally since the 1990s. But despite widespread agreement that a comprehensive pact would be good for both economies, progress has been achingly slow.
Governments may have been put off by the complexity of the negotiations that would be needed, and they were also preoccupied with opening up new markets in Asia and other fast-growing regions.
In addition, because the United States and European Union are each accustomed to being the dominant power in trade talks, it will take some adjusting to negotiate with a trade partner on roughly equal terms.
Still, with Europe struggling to emerge from a recession, leaders including the British prime minister, David Cameron, have argued that a free-trade deal would be both a cheap and a relatively painless way to stimulate growth.
Mr. Cameron said this month that reaching an agreement would be his priority as Britain takes over the rotating leadership of the G-8 group of wealthy nations.
Another impetus will come from Ireland, which this month assumed the rotating presidency of the European Union. Ireland is the only member of the euro zone where English is an official language, making it a favored gateway for U.S. companies and giving Ireland an especially keen stake in smoother trade relations.
U.S. companies that maintain headquarters or very large operations in Ireland include Dell, Google, Microsoft and Pfizer.
Richard Bruton, the Irish minister for jobs, enterprise and innovation, said in a statement that a trade deal could lift the E.U. economy by &#x20ac;120 billion, or $160 billion, per year and the U.S. economy by $100 billion.
''Gains of that scale are invaluable at a time like this,'' he said.
Brian Knowlton contributed reporting from Washington.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE DEVELOPMENT (91%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); EURO ZONE (75%); MONETARY UNIONS (70%); FOOD INDUSTRY (70%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (68%); JOB CREATION (68%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (62%); TOYS & GAMES (61%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); ANGELA MERKEL (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (78%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (92%) EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); GERMANY (92%); BELGIUM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2013



459 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 905 words

HEADLINE: Rubio Pushes His Party On Immigration Changes

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

 BODY:
As President Obama and Democratic leaders are preparing a major push to overhaul the immigration system, Senator Marco Rubio of Florida is asserting his leadership among Republicans on the volatile issue, previewing a proposal that includes measures to give legal status to millions of illegal immigrants.
Mr. Rubio, a Cuban-American in his first term whose star is rising rapidly in his party, has outlined views in recent days that set him apart from many other Republican conservatives, who reject any legalization as a form of amnesty that rewards immigrant lawbreakers. Mr. Rubio said he would not rule out some kind of legal status for immigrants in the United States illegally, although he insists that any measures should not penalize immigrants who have tried to come here through legal channels. 
Mr. Rubio described his proposals in interviews last week with the Wall Street Journal editorial page and with The New York Times. By Monday he was already gathering support, as Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, a conservative who was the Republicans' vice-presidential nominee last year, endorsed Mr. Rubio's ideas.
Mr. Rubio laid out three: aside from fair treatment for foreigners who play by the rules, he said, any legislation should also recognize that legal immigration has been a boon to the United States in the past and is ''critical to our future.'' He would also insist on new measures to ensure strict enforcement at the border and within the country.
''We can't have the kind of vibrant growth we need and the economy we want, based on limited government and free enterprise, if we don't have a legal immigration system that works,'' Mr. Rubio said. ''And in order to have a system that works, we have to deal with those people who are already here illegally.''
Mr. Ryan, on his Facebook page, wrote that Mr. Rubio was ''exactly right on the need to fix our broken immigration system.''
''I support the principles he's outlined,'' Mr. Ryan said, ''modernization of our immigration laws; stronger security to curb illegal immigration; and respect for the rule of law in addressing the complex challenge of the undocumented population.''
As one of three Hispanics in the Senate, Mr. Rubio, who won his seat in 2010 with support from the Tea Party, seemed to be trying to set a new tone for his party to discuss immigration. Many Republican leaders have been reconsidering the party's stance on the issue since the November election, when Latinos, the electorate's fastest-growing group, overwhelmingly supported Mr. Obama.
Strikingly, Mr. Rubio's principles did not sound that different from proposals for an immigration overhaul by Mr. Obama, Democratic leaders and a handful of other Republicans. Aside from work under way at the White House on legislation, a bipartisan group of Senators has been meeting to draft a bill.
Where Mr. Rubio differed significantly with Democrats was on the legal pathway illegal immigrants would follow, with him proposing a long and indirect course before some of those immigrants could apply to become American citizens.
In a telephone interview, Mr. Rubio said a starting point for his plan was recognizing that the current immigration system was ''burdensome, bureaucratic, difficult to navigate and sometimes it just doesn't work.''
Mr. Rubio said he would seek to reorient the visa system to bring in more educated immigrants with skills in technology and science. As for the estimated 11 million illegal immigrants in the country, Mr. Rubio said, ''We have to understand these folks are here to stay.'' He added that most of them had not committed serious or violent crimes.
''The right way to deal with them is not amnesty,'' Mr. Rubio said, ''and it is not a special pathway to citizenship.'' Instead, he said, he would offer a provisional legal status to immigrants who passed criminal background checks, paid fines and passed English and civics tests.
But, he said, ''ultimately it's not good for our country to have people permanently trapped in that status where they can't become citizens.'' After a certain period, he said, immigrants would be allowed to apply to become legal permanent residents, a status that would eventually allow them to become citizens.
The current system is clogged with huge backlogs, with some immigrants waiting as long as two decades to receive visas. Mr. Rubio said that potentially large flaws in his plan would be worked out in negotiations.
Although Mr. Rubio said it would be better for Congress to take up the complex issues in separate pieces of legislation, he said he would not insist on that.
Mr. Rubio said he would offer a faster track to citizenship for young undocumented immigrants who came here as children. Members of Mr. Rubio's staff have been meeting with leaders of United We Dream, the largest organization of those young immigrants.
''To me the most surprising thing was that he was talking about a pathway to citizenship,'' Lorella Praeli, a leader of the organization, said on Monday. ''There has been such a shift in the tone, in his vision.''
Some conservative Republicans made it clear they would not support Mr. Rubio. In a statement, Senator Jeff Sessions of Alabama said Mr. Obama had undercut the chances for an overhaul by weakening enforcement. ''If the administration had spent the last four years ending illegality instead of abetting it,'' he said, ''we would be in a better position for some kind of agreement.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Marco Rubio of Florida is taking a leading role among Republicans on proposals to overhaul the immigration system. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN HOFFMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (96%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); BORDER CONTROL (72%); AMNESTY (72%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (56%); FACEBOOK INC (53%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%)

PERSON: MARCO RUBIO (93%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); PAUL RYAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2013



460 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 871 words

HEADLINE: Illuminating Jewish Life in a Muslim Empire

BYLINE: By ISABEL KERSHNER

 BODY:
JERUSALEM -- A batch of 1,000-year-old manuscripts from the mountainous northern reaches of war-torn Afghanistan, reportedly found in a cave inhabited by foxes, has revealed previously unknown details about the cultural, economic and religious life of a thriving but little understood Jewish society in a Persian part of the Muslim empire of the 11th century.
The 29 paper pages, now encased in clear plastic and unveiled here this month at the National Library of Israel, are part of a trove of hundreds of documents discovered in the cave whose existence had been known for several years, with photographs circulating among experts. Remarkably well preserved, apparently because of the dry conditions there, the majority of the documents are now said to be in the hands of private dealers in Britain, Switzerland, and possibly the United States and the Middle East. 
''This is the first time that we have actual physical evidence of the Jewish life and culture within the Iranian culture of the 11th century,'' said Prof. Haggai Ben-Shammai, the library's academic director. While other historical sources have pointed to the existence of Jewish communities in that area in the early Middle Ages, he said, the documents offer ''proof that they were there.''
The texts are known collectively as the Afghan Geniza, a Hebrew term for a repository of sacred texts and objects. They were written in Hebrew, Aramaic, Judeo-Persian, Judeo-Arabic and Arabic, and some used the Babylonian system for vowels, a linguistic assortment that scholars said would have been nearly impossible to forge.
One text includes a discussion of Hebrew words that are spelled the same but have different meanings. Another is a letter between two brothers in which one denied rumors that he was no longer an observant Jew. There are legal and economic documents, some signed by witnesses, recording commercial transactions and debts between Jews and their Muslim neighbors, and other mundane yet illuminating details of daily life like travel plans.
One missive between two Jews, Sheik Abu Nasser Ahmed ibn Daniel and Musa ibn Ishak, dealing with family matters, was written in the Hebrew letters of Judeo-Persian, but had an address in Arabic script on the back, presumably for the benefit of the Muslim messenger. One document has a date from the Islamic calendar corresponding to the year 1006.
The most important religious text among those acquired by the National Library is a fragment of a Judeo-Persian version of a commentary on the Book of Isaiah originally written by the renowned Babylonian rabbinic scholar Saadia Gaon, a previously unknown text. A sliver of it has been sent to the Weizmann Institute of Science in Rehovot for carbon dating.
The exact source of the documents is murky. The manuscripts are said to have come from a remote area near the borders of Uzbekistan and Tajikistan, wild terrain largely controlled by warlords. Jews probably migrated there in the early Middle Ages to engage in commerce along the Silk Road, the important trade route linking China and Europe.
Scholars say the texts were probably found several years ago and have been sold and scattered around the globe. An Israeli antiquities dealer obtained 29 of the texts and, after a year of negotiation, sold them several weeks ago to the library for an undisclosed sum.
People involved in the purchase refused to give exact details, but they said the library ended up paying an affordable price of several thousand dollars per text. Professor Ben-Shammai said that despite the ''very exaggerated prices'' demanded by dealers abroad, the Jerusalem dealer did not want the documents to end up in private hands.
The National Library would like to gather the entire collection under one roof, but the current asking prices for the remaining texts add up to many millions of dollars.
Prof. Shaul Shaked, an expert in Iranian culture at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, said that dealers abroad had asked his opinion of the documents, and that he was one of the first who recognized their importance. ''So in a way I am guilty of having driven up the prices,'' he said.
Aviad Stollman, the curator of the library's Judaica collection, said that the library was looking for a donor to buy the rest of the collection.
The acquisition comes as the National Library is in the midst of transformation, separating from a merger with Hebrew University, moving off campus and digitizing its vast collection. Founded in 1892 with the goal of gathering the intellectual heirlooms of a widely dispersed Jewish people, the library counts among its prized possessions two volumes of Maimonides's Commentary on the Mishna, Isaac Newton's manuscripts, a 15th-century Persian Koran illuminated in gold and lapis lazuli, and a notebook in which Franz Kafka practiced Hebrew vocabulary.
The 29 Afghan pages will join those texts and, once scanned, complete their journey from a dark cave to the glow of the world's computer screens. The goal is to build a digital platform that would make the manuscripts widely accessible, with translations and explanations available online.
''This tells the story of the Jewish people,'' Mr. Stollman said. ''The technology is here. You can make it come alive.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Prof. Haggai Ben-Shammai of the National Library of Israel, which obtained 29 handwritten texts from the 11th century. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIM HOLLANDER/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JEWS & JUDAISM (92%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); SPECIAL LIBRARIES (89%); LIBRARIES (89%); NATIONAL LIBRARIES (89%); RELIGION (89%); EVIDENCE (74%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (70%); LINGUISTICS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%) ISRAEL (92%); AFGHANISTAN (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UZBEKISTAN (79%); TAJIKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2013



461 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; DANCE REVIEW; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1043 words

HEADLINE: Greek Tragedy, Economic Mayhem and Other Sources of Modern Movement

BYLINE: By ALASTAIR MACAULAY

 BODY:
Those of us who don't know the drag-ball world may not be aware that the word ''realness'' has specific implications: it's about passing as something you're not. The point arose at the end of last week, when I attended the opening events of American Realness 2013, the festival of experimental dance and category-defying performance that is now in its fourth annual season.
When I asked the festival's curator and producer Thomas Benjamin Snapp Pryor about the title ''American Realness,'' he offered several explanations. One meaning is a deliberate play, as in drag, on the traditions of art as illusion and performance as impersonation. A quite different aspect is the realness evident in the raw, do-it-yourself elements that so often, largely thanks to economic conditions, characterize dance work made in America. And a third intention is the realness of the marketplace: the festival is deliberately aimed at arts presenters who each January visit from outside New York. As for the presenting artists, they're not exclusively American, but all of them work chiefly here. 
For me, American Realness 2013 -- which continues through Sunday, principally at the Abrons Arts Center -- is full of second chances. Several of the works and artists it presents are ones easy to miss during the larger rush of the dance year. I watched nine performances by eight artists from Thursday to Sunday; four of the artists were new to me and I'd seen only two of the works before.
Discussion was rife. I strongly disliked two of the nine pieces I saw (Neal Medlyn's ''Wicked Clown Love'' and Trajal Harrell's ''Judson Church Is Ringing in Harlem [Made-to-Measure]'') and I had mixed feelings about most of the others. Of the two pieces I admired most, I had already seen and reviewed Tere O'Connor's ''poem,'' an engrossing pure-dance work (rewarding to see a second time), while Jennifer Monson's ''Live Dancing Archive'' is a work in progress that will be presented more completely in February at the Kitchen. Although Saturday's hourlong showing concentrated too much on methodology and theory, Ms. Monson is evidently an artist of integrity and subtlety (peculiarity too), with a developed style and vocabulary, swiftly creating a world when she dances.
But the festival's range is most evident in the work of two of its most controversial artists, Mr. Harrell and Keith Hennessy. Both have obvious flaws and virtues; in terms of temperament, style and structure, they're worlds apart.
Although Mr. Harrell's ''Antigone Sr.'' is an overlong, perplexing, self-indulgent, often obscure and often tedious exercise in pseudointellectuality and camp, I'd recommend it to anyone interested in dance as long as it continues to feature the quite exceptional performances by Rob Fordeyn, Thibault Lac, Stephen Thompson and Ondrej Vidlar. None of their material is radical -- much of it comes from voguing, the stylized Harlem ballroom genre -- but they take it into realms of transcendence. (Mr. Harrell, who also performs, is less remarkable.) The element of camp in ''Antigone Sr.'' is overt. These four men -- wonderful movers -- make it beautiful, pure, large and intense.
Two of them, Mr. Lac and Mr. Vidlar, also dance admirably in Mr. Harrell's shorter ''Judson Church Is Ringing in Harlem'' (which had a single performance on Sunday at MoMA PS1 in Long Island City, Queens). This, however, is a far thinner and even more boring piece: its material is so limited that the dancers start to look limited and narcissistic. As Mr. Harrell and his colleagues tell the audience before each performance, this and ''Antigone Sr.'' are part of a seven-part series, ''Twenty Looks or Paris Is Burning at the Judson Church.'' (The seventh part will be a book.)
The much-advertised thesis of this series is that it addresses the relationship between the traditions of early postmodern dance theater and voguing. But both ''Antigone Sr.'' and ''Judson Church Is Ringing'' obviously fail to investigate either Judson Church or voguing dance idioms seriously. Though voguing is evidently Mr. Harrell's comfort zone, he's not the only choreographer to take on this genre or by any means the best. There are also dozens of young choreographers who exhibit more signs of having absorbed Judson Church principles than he.
I heard people who didn't know Sophocles's ''Antigone'' complain that they didn't understand it from Mr. Harrell's ''Antigone Sr.'' I'm here to say the experience is no better for those who do. Mr. Harrell's most banal sections are the mock-choral interludes in which he and others chant the refrain ''We are -- ,'' adding such answers as ''Johns and Rauschenberg,'' ''Dolce and Gabbana,'' ''Fred and Ginger,'' ''stage fright,'' ''the tradition,'' ''an epic.'' These chants aren't clever, merely showy. And like everything in Mr. Harrell's work, they get stuck in a rut.
Mr. Hennessy's ''Turbulence (a dance about the economy)'' stands at the opposite end of the experimental spectrum. ''Turbulence'' is one of the most incoherent, messy pieces I've ever seen. Yet, unlike Mr. Harrell's work, it keeps changing. There are often two or more things happening at once, and the spirit that emerges is funny, permissive, unsensational and inquiring.
At one point a naked man who had climbed up into a corner above the audience spoke into a microphone; at another two bare-breasted women conducted a fairly erotic duet. What was admirable is that these really were just incidental phenomena, not attention-seeking stunts: it was easy to look at other things going on at the same time. Mr. Hennessy has things to say about the economy; he said them poorly, and in that sense his piece failed. His stage world, however, includes much else. The tone that emerges from its liberal, eccentric smorgasbord is both generous and entertaining.
It's remarkable that the same short festival includes both of these as well as Maria Hassabi's glamorous, posey, sly, but fatally limited ''Show''; Mr. O'Connor's compelling ''poem''; the impish diva Jack Ferver in his show ''Mon Ma Mes''; and others. I look forward to reviewing more in days to come.
American Realness 2013 continues through Sunday at the Abrons Arts Center, 466 Grand Street, Lower East Side; (866) 811-4111, abronsartcenter.org.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: From left, Rob Fordeyn, Ondrej Vidlar and Stephen Thompson in Trajal Harrell's ''Antigone Sr.'' at the Abrons Arts Center. (PHOTOGRAPH BY IAN DOUGLAS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FESTIVALS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); DANCE (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (76%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2013



462 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1156 words

HEADLINE: Leaving Job to Raise Better Children, But Then Feeling the Financial Strain

BYLINE: By THOMAS GAFFNEY

 BODY:
''Look at the neighborhood,'' said Jennifer Brito, a single mother raising three children in Washington Heights. ''There's drugs on every corner.''
''Two years ago, I would have told you that's in my son's near future,'' she said.
Ms. Brito had cause for concern in January 2011 when she received a phone call with news that her son Esthan, then 12, had brought a box cutter to school and used it to threaten one of his classmates. Esthan, who has facial paralysis as a result of a rare neurological disorder, Moebius syndrome, said he was standing up to a bully who teased him about his physical disability. He said he wanted to stand up for himself rather than to tell on the student and be labeled a snitch. He was given a one-month suspension.
This was a turning point for Ms. Brito, 32, who felt that her long workdays as a surgical coordinator, sometimes stretching as much as 15 hours, were partly to blame for her son's behavior because she was not at home during the day to look after her children. She feared that the box-cutter episode meant that her son was falling in with the wrong crowd. 
She decided to change this.
''I had a responsibility in my home,'' she recalled during a recent interview in her apartment, sitting beside Esthan, now 14. In February 2011, she quit her job.
After leaving her job, Ms. Brito learned the difficulties of supporting her family in New York without receiving her usual paycheck. She still needed to provide food and clothes for her younger children, Liam, 5, and Perchance, 6, and make monthly payments of $787 for her rent-stabilized apartment. She began collecting unemployment, although she says it hurt her pride to do so. ''I didn't want to feel like a charity case,'' she said. ''I didn't want to feel like I'm begging.''
But the extra time at home meant that she was able to keep a close watch on Esthan and make sure that he was avoiding trouble. ''My son is not on the path that he was going on,'' she said, because ''it's my being present at home.''
At first, the increase in motherly supervision caused some friction with him.''What's different here? You're always in my face, that's what the difference is,'' Ms. Brito joked, recalling how her son reacted to the change early on. But eventually they settled into their new routine. ''Now Esthan comes straight home,'' she said.
She described one recent example of her son's changed behavior. Once, Ms. Brito said, she was running late because of an appointment, and she missed the pickup time at school. She was surprised when Esthan called to ask what happened, and then offered to pick up his younger siblings.
Eddie Britt, who is the director of a weekend program called Study Now Play Later at the Dunlevy Milbank Center in Harlem that Ms. Brito's children attend, became familiar with the family's plight and has been active in helping them. When Mr. Britt, 47, learned that the family was not planning on exchanging gifts on Christmas, he arranged for the Children's Aid Society to provide gifts: bicycles for Liam and Perchance, a basketball for Esthan and a bunk-bed and dresser to furnish the family's apartment.
Upon learning about Ms. Brito's story, the Children's Aid Society, which operates the Milbank Center and is one of the organizations supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund, provided the family with $500 worth of gift cards to a supermarket and clothing stores. ''I was able to fill my fridge and put smiles on my children's faces,'' she said.
The gift cards to Modell's and Old Navy were a particular help for her youngest children because, as Ms. Brito noted, ''they're growing out of everything every day.''
Ms. Brito has begun looking for a new job in the medical field and is hoping to find one with responsibilities that match the training she received for her previous position. As a surgical coordinator, she booked operating rooms, changed dressings and drew blood while working in a high-pressure environment. But as she continues applying for jobs that fit that mold, she suspects that not being a registered nurse or holding a college diploma is holding her back.
Now her unemployment benefits have run out, and the family expects to begin receiving food stamps soon. Despite the financial hardships, Ms. Brito is quick to point out her improved relationship with her family. ''I feel like I've developed a better relationship with my children,'' she said.
''Jobs will come and go,'' she added. ''I will not always have a 14-year-old.''
HOW TO HELP: The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund has begun a special campaign to raise money in support of Hurricane Sandy relief efforts in the New York metropolitan area. This campaign will run with the Neediest Cases Fund annual campaign. Money contributed for this special campaign will be directed to social service agencies participating in the fund's annual campaign and to other agencies, like Atlantic City Rescue Mission, City Harvest, Community Food Bank of New Jersey, and FEGS, Long Island, among others. To direct your gift to support Hurricane Sandy relief efforts, follow the instructions below. Include a note indicating your donation is for Hurricane Sandy relief and write ''Hurricane Sandy Relief'' on all checks. To give to our annual New York Times Neediest Cases campaign, Hurricane Sandy relief efforts, or both: Make checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund and send to 4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245. A check intended for a particular agency participating in the annual campaign should be written to and mailed to the agency, noting that it is a Neediest Cases gift. For addresses visit nytimes.com/neediest and click How to Get Involved. BROOKLYN COMMUNITY SERVICES CATHOLIC CHARITIES ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK CATHOLIC CHARITIES BROOKLYN AND QUEENS CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK Donations may be made with a credit card by phone at (800) 381-0075 or at nytneediestcases.com. For instructions on how to donate stock, call (212) 556-1137 or fax (212) 556-1979. No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. The New York Times Company pays all administrative costs of the fund, so every dollar donated to the fund goes directly to serve those in need. The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund has been recognized by the Internal Revenue Service as a not-for-profit public charity under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code. Contributions to the fund are tax-deductible to the extent permitted by law. Federal Identification Number: 13-6066063. A copy of the Neediest Cases Fund's latest annual financial report may be obtained, upon request, from the fund or from the New York State Attorney General's Charities Bureau, Attn: FOIL Officer, 120 Broadway, New York, N.Y. 10271. To delay may mean to forget.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jennifer Brito, helps her son Liam, 5, get dressed as Esthan, 14, middle, and Perchance, 6, wait to leave for school. Ms. Brito left her job when she felt she needed to be home more often. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KARSTEN MORAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: Previously recorded $6,284,762 Recorded Sunday 555,082 Total* $6,839,844 Last year to date $6,104,950 *Includes $1,511,814 contributed to the Hurricane Sandy relief efforts. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); ORPHAN DRUGS (78%); SINGLE PARENTS (73%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (70%); PARALYSIS (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); DISABLED PERSONS (69%); RENT CONTROL (66%); RENTAL PROPERTY (64%); INTERVIEWS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2013



463 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1157 words

HEADLINE: Obama and G.O.P. Issue Challenges for Their Conflicting Views on the Debt Limit

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES and JONATHAN WEISMAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- With each side claiming popular support, President Obama and Congress's Republican leaders on Monday dug in on their conflicting positions about raising the nation's debt limit, indicating that the president's second term will open with a potentially perilous budget showdown.
Mr. Obama called the final news conference of his first term to reinforce before national television cameras his demand that Congress unconditionally increase the legal limit on the government's authority to borrow money to pay its bills. But Republicans continued to insist that he agree to equal spending cuts.
''They will not collect a ransom in exchange for not crashing the American economy,'' Mr. Obama vowed in the East Room, a week before his second inauguration. ''The financial well-being of the American people is not leverage to be used. The full faith and credit of the United States of America is not a bargaining chip.''
House Speaker John A. Boehner, immediately after Mr. Obama's news conference, said in a statement: ''The American people do not support raising the debt ceiling without reducing government spending at the same time. The consequences of failing to increase the debt ceiling are real, but so, too, are the consequences of allowing our spending problem to go unresolved.'' 
With the president refusing to negotiate over the essential increase and Republicans saying he must, reporters pressed Mr. Obama about whether he is considering some executive action to sidestep Congress and raise the debt ceiling -- as Democratic leaders have urged. But Mr. Obama declined to answer directly, and his administration has ruled out proposals to either invoke authority under the 14th Amendment or mint a platinum coin as a sort of collateral for more debt.
The debt issue dominated the news conference, and later the Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, added to the pressure by writing to Congressional leaders that the department still expects to hit the limit between mid-February and early March.
''Treasury would be left to fund the government solely with the cash we have on hand on any given day,'' he said, forcing it to choose among creditors, federal contractors, veterans, Social Security and Medicare beneficiaries and the many other claimants to federal dollars. Some Republicans support temporarily making choices among claimants, but the administration and some financial analysts say that approach would be unworkable and amount to the nation's first default on its obligations.
Separately, Mr. Geithner and Gene Sperling, director of the White House National Economic Council, held a conference call with corporate executives, many of whom have expressed concern the threat of default could damage the economy. The administration is hoping that business leaders can persuade Republicans to avoid confrontation over the debt limit, but party leaders were undeterred.
The Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, also called on Congress to increase the debt ceiling to cover bills that it has already incurred. ''The right way to deal with this problem is for Congress to do what it is supposed to do and what it needs to do,'' Mr. Bernanke, a Republican appointed by President George W. Bush and later reappointed by Mr. Obama, said in a speech at the University of Michigan.
On a separate topic at the news conference, Mr. Obama defended his record on appointing women and minorities to administration jobs, responding to criticism of the largely white male composition of his inner circle and recent cabinet nominations.
''I would just suggest that everybody kind of wait until they've seen all my appointments, who's in the White House staff and who's in my cabinet before they rush to judgment,'' he said. ''It's premature to assume that somehow we're going backwards. We're not going backwards, we're going forward.''
On the budget, Mr. Obama tried several times to emphasize that the debate over the debt ceiling was not one over how much the government should spend.
''I want to be clear about this: The debt ceiling is not a question of authorizing more spending,'' he said. ''Raising the debt ceiling does not authorize more spending. It simply allows the country to pay for spending that Congress has already committed to.''
He said that he agreed with Republicans that spending must be reduced to stabilize the debt. Unlike Republicans, though, he argued that such cuts should not be a condition for increasing the debt limit and should instead be part of other budget talks.
Mr. Boehner said the Republican-controlled House would pass legislation cutting spending and increasing the debt limit, and would defy Mr. Obama and the Democratic-controlled Senate to reject the package. : The Senate Republican minority leader, Mitch McConnell, in his own statement, also demanded spending cuts for a debt-limit increase.
House Republicans will meet for a retreat on Thursday and Friday in Williamsburg, Va., largely to develop plans to get through the three approaching fiscal deadlines. In addition to the debt ceiling, the automatic across-the-board military and domestic cuts will begin March 1 unless Mr. Obama and Congress agree to alternative deficit reductions, and the law providing financing for federal operations expires March 27.
''Yes, the House is going to act,'' said Rory Cooper, a spokesman for Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, the House majority leader. But, he added, ''We've got nothing yet until we can sit down as a conference and hammer out what we all want to do.''
Senate Democratic leaders are likely to act early next month on legislation that would allow the president to raise the debt ceiling on his own, both now and in the future. But just as the Senate would most likely reject the bill that House Republicans are considering, House Republicans would probably oppose the Senate Democrats' proposal.
Under the contemplated Senate bill, Congress could move to block an increase in the debt limit, but lawmakers would have to muster a two-thirds majority in both the Senate and House. Still, Senate Democratic leadership aides say they are unsure of their party's next move; Democrats might decide to wait until the House sends the Senate its debt-limit bill, with cuts Democrats consider unacceptable, and then seek to pass an amended version.
House Republicans have already listed cuts to programs including food stamps, children's health insurance, Medicaid, state and local grants to pay for antipoverty initiatives like Meals on Wheels and other programs. But their package underscores the challenge for even Republicans to meet their condition that spending cuts equal the amount of the debt increase.
Their tentative measure, combined with $550 billion in across-the-board reductions from other domestic programs, would save nearly $900 billion over 10 years -- enough to raise the debt ceiling for about one year, forcing Congress to look for more cuts in 2014, an election year.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama on Monday in the East Room of the White House, where he called on Congress to increase the legal limit on the government's authority to borrow money to pay its bills (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEBT CEILING (93%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); POLITICS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGETS (77%); COINS & COINAGE (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (71%); MEDICARE (71%); CONFERENCE CALLS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (62%); ECONOMIC POLICY (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%); BEN BERNANKE (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2013



464 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1040 words

HEADLINE: A Poorer San Bernardino, and a More Dangerous One, Too

BYLINE: By IAN LOVETT

 BODY:
SAN BERNARDINO, Calif. -- The gunshots ripped through a house party here, an hour before midnight on New Year's Eve, wounding three and killing one. It was a brutal, if fitting, cap to a year that left this city bloody and broke.
Five months after San Bernardino filed for bankruptcy -- the third California city to seek Chapter 9 protections in 2012 -- residents here are confronting a transformed and more perilous city. 
After violent crime had dropped steadily for years, the homicide rate shot up more than 50 percent in 2012 as a shrinking police force struggled to keep order in a city long troubled by street gangs that have migrated from Los Angeles, 60 miles to the west.
''Lock your doors and load your guns,'' the city attorney, James F. Penman, said he routinely told worried residents asking how they can protect themselves.
This is one of the prices that cities often pay for falling into bankruptcy: the police force is cut, crime skyrockets and residents are left trying to ensure their own safety.
A little over a year ago, this city's falling crime rate was a success story. An aggressive gang intervention effort helped cut the homicide rate by nearly half since the 2005 peak, and in 2011 the program was held up by the National League of Cities as a model for other cities to follow.
But nearly all that progress was erased last year as San Bernardino collapsed under the weight of the same forces that have hit cities all over California and threaten to plunge still more of them into insolvency: high foreclosure rates that eroded the city's tax revenue, stubborn unemployment, and pension obligations that the city could no longer afford.
Stockton, Calif., which filed for bankruptcy in June, has followed a similarly grim path into insolvency, logging more homicides last year than ever before. In Vallejo, Calif., which filed for bankruptcy in 2008, cuts left the police force a third smaller, and the city became a hub for prostitution.
In San Bernardino, dozens of officers have been laid off since the bankruptcy filing, leaving the police force with 264 officers, down from 350 in 2009. Those who remain call in sick more often, said the police chief, Robert Handy. Emergency response times are up. Nonemergency calls often get no response.
At the same time, as part of a plan to reduce the state prison population, nearly 4,000 criminals who would once have been sent to state prison have been put in the custody of San Bernardino County law enforcement authorities. Some have been released, putting more low-level criminals back on the streets of San Bernardino, Chief Hardy said, and adding to the challenges already faced by the police.
''All of our crime is up, and the city has a very high crime rate per capita anyway,'' Chief Handy said. ''I can't police the city with much less than this. We're dangerously close as it is.''
As lawyers wrangle in court over San Bernardino's plan to cut $26 million from its budget and defer some of its pension payments, city officials say there is little more they can do to turn back the rising tide of violence.
Mayor Patrick J. Morris said he was even looking into eliminating the Police Department entirely, and relying on the county Sheriff's Department for law enforcement, which could save money. Many other city services, he said, have already been cut ''almost into nonexistence.''
''The parks department is shredded, the libraries similarly,'' Mr. Morris said. ''My office is down to nobody. I've got literally no one left.'' (Mr. Morris's son now serves as a volunteer chief of staff for the mayor's office.)
With the city unable to provide, residents have begun to take more responsibility. Volunteers help with park maintenance, work at the city animal shelter and, in some cases, even replace broken streetlights.
Neighborhood watch groups have also grown in number in the last year, as they did in Vallejo and Stockton after those cities filed for bankruptcy. There are now more than 100 groups and counting, up from 76 last year. Chief Handy said the groups would play a ''huge part'' in fighting crime, especially given the cut to the police.
In less affluent parts of the city, though, community groups have had less influence. On the West Side, traditionally a gang-controlled area, one resident, Elisa Cortez, said that almost all the neighbors on her block had recently moved in, and that she did not know them.
On a recent Saturday, Ms. Cortez repeatedly called the city about a stray dog that lay dead on the sidewalk just outside her house. No one came. ''We can't get ahold of anybody to get rid of it,'' she said.
The city is still doing regular trash collection -- at least for now -- if not dead animal removal. But after 15 years driving a garbage truck here, Carlos Teran does not know if the city will have enough money to pay him next month. His payroll is now month-to-month, he said.
Mr. Teran owes more than $200,000 on a house in Bloods gang territory that is now worth closer to $50,000, he said.
Up the street, a tree-lined avenue with views of the nearby foothills, four candles marked the spot where a gang member was killed in a drive-by shooting. Across the street, metal thieves have gutted one of the foreclosed homes that dot the neighborhood, ripping air conditioners and electrical boxes off the walls long before the police responded.
''It's scary,'' said Mr. Teran's wife, Elizabeth. ''You hear gunshots. You have to watch your surroundings.''
Some of Mr. Teran's co-workers, even the ones who have not been laid off, have left San Bernardino. The Terans, who both grew up here, have considered doing the same, walking away from their underwater mortgage and moving their five children to a place where they can leave the house wearing their blue soccer shirts without fear.
But they have decided to stay. Mr. Teran is the block captain for a neighborhood watch group that also cleans up a park every month. Like other residents in the rougher parts of San Bernardino, he said he knew the area well enough to feel safe here.
''I know people say this is a shameful city, one of the worst places to live, one of the worst cities to raise your kids,'' Mr. Teran said. ''But down deep in my heart, I love this city. And one day it will turn around.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: With San Bernardino, Calif., in bankruptcy, basic services have dwindled. Clockwise from top left: Discarded materials in Carlos Teran's neighborhood
City Council members preparing to vote on filing for bankruptcy
a memorial for a homicide victim
and Mr. Teran with his wife, Elizabeth, and 9-year-old son Maccabeus at home. (A12)
 James F. Penman, the San Bernardino city attorney, said he told residents they had to take their own security measures. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIME RATES (92%); SHOOTINGS (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (90%); HOMICIDE (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); VIOLENT CRIME (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); FORECLOSURE (72%); CITIES (72%); LAWYERS (72%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (71%); GANGS (69%); LAYOFFS (68%); PRISONS (60%); PROSTITUTION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL LEAGUE OF CITIES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN BERNARDINO, CA, USA (97%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (99%); CALIFORNIA, UNITED STATES (97%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2013



465 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1058 words

HEADLINE: The Banker Who Put Much Faith In Armstrong

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROS SORKIN

 BODY:
When Lance Armstrong's interview with Oprah Winfrey about his suspected use of illegal performance-enhancing drugs is broadcast on Thursday, an investment banker will most likely be watching it very carefully (and nervously): Thomas Weisel.
Mr. Weisel is a legend in finance and Silicon Valley. He was the banker behind Yahoo's public offering and some of the biggest deals during the dot-com bubble. He famously sold the firm he ran, Montgomery Securities, for $1.2 billion in 1997. And he sold his next firm, Thomas Weisel Partners, for $300 million to Stifel Financial in 2010. 
But it is Mr. Weisel's extracurricular activity that connects him to the news of the moment: he was Mr. Armstrong's biggest financial backer and the single individual most responsible for the money machine that propelled Mr. Armstrong's career.
Depending on what Mr. Armstrong says in the interview about his purported doping, Mr. Weisel, who was a co-owner of the United States Postal Service Pro Cycling Team through a cycling management firm that he helped found called Tailwind Sports, could be subject along with his partners to lawsuits from corporate sponsors seeking millions of dollars. Already, there is a False Claims Act case contending that Mr. Armstrong and the team defrauded the Postal Service.
Perhaps more anxiety-producing is what Mr. Weisel may have known, or should have known, about a team that for years ran "the most sophisticated, professionalized and successful doping program that sport has ever seen," according to the United States Anti-Doping Agency.
Its report last year did not name Mr. Weisel, but did say that Mr. Armstrong was assisted by a "small army of enablers, including doping doctors, drug smugglers, and others within and outside the sport and on his team."
Mr. Armstrong is expected to admit to doping in an effort to persuade officials to lift his lifetime ban from Olympic sports. To do so, however, he would probably need to lay out in explicit detail how the program worked and implicate those who were part of it. Late Monday, The New York Times reported that Mr. Armstrong had confessed in the interview with Ms. Winfrey that he used performance-enhancing drugs. The Times also reported that he was in discussions with the Justice Department to possibly testify in a federal whistle-blower case against several team officials and owners, including Mr. Weisel.
Mr. Weisel is currently not talking. When I called Mr. Weisel seeking a comment, his assistant told me: "He's not commenting. And he's not returning any calls."
For a glimpse of the way Mr. Weisel thinks about performance-enhancing drugs in cycling, here's what he had to say about the matter four years ago: "Handle the problem below the surface and keep the image of the sport clean," he told The Wall Street Journal. "In the U.S. sports - baseball, basketball, football - most fans couldn't care less."
For Mr. Weisel, the team and Mr. Armstrong were an all-consuming passion. He would go every year to the Tour de France and at times travel in the team's pacer car, occasionally yelling instructions to Mr. Armstrong over the radio system. He rode the team's bus, ate meals with them and ultimately celebrated each year's victory. On the wall of his office in San Francisco, he displayed Mr. Armstrong's yellow jerseys.
Always the consummate banker, Mr. Weisel even tried to help Mr. Armstrong raise funds to buy the Tour de France itself. (The effort never went anywhere.)
Mr. Weisel's name has occasionally come up in connection with accusations of doping on the team.
The wife of the famed cyclist Greg LeMond, Kathy, reportedly testified under oath in a deposition in 2006 that she had been told by one of Mr. Armstrong's mechanics that Mr. Weisel, along with Nike, paid $500,000 though a Swiss bank account to the honorary president of the International Cycling Union to silence a drug test Mr. Armstrong purportedly failed in 1999.
Nike has vehemently denied the contention. So far, Mr. Weisel has not commented publicly.
When Floyd Landis, one of Mr. Armstrong's former teammates, tested positive in 2006, he denied using performance-enhancing drugs under pressure from Mr. Armstrong. Soon after, Mr. Weisel set up the Floyd Fairness Fund with some of Tailwind's co-owners to help pay his legal bills. Mr. Landis later confessed to doping in 2010.
Mr. Weisel, a longtime athlete who was a champion speed skater as a teenager, became a cycling enthusiast in the 1980s and took up racing himself. Sports dominated his life: he often said that he liked to hire athletes to work for him at the bank because of their competitive instincts. He was also the chairman of the United States Ski Team Foundation. In 1987, while still working as a banker, he started Montgomery Sports, to begin his first cycling team. In the early 1990s the team was called Subaru-Montgomery; it later became Montgomery-Bell (Bell Sports was a client that he took public) and then was renamed for the Postal Service. (Yahoo, another client, was also a sponsor of the team.)
According to a biography of Mr. Weisel, "Capital Instincts: Life as an Entrepreneur, Financier and Athlete," he invested more than $5 million in the early teams and lost money on the investment. Mr. Armstrong was one of Mr. Weisel's early riders for the Subaru-Montgomery team. He later left the team to join the Motorola team. After his bout with cancer, Mr. Armstrong joined what was the Postal Service team in 1998.
Tyler Hamilton, another former teammate of Mr. Armstrong, told "60 Minutes" that the team was pushing performance-enhancing drugs on its cyclists long before Mr. Armstrong battled cancer and then in 1998 rejoined the team.
"I remember seeing some of the stronger guys in the team getting handed these white lunch bags," Mr. Hamilton said on "60 Minutes" about when he joined the team in 1995. "So finally I, you know, started puttin' two and two together and you know, basically there were doping products in those white lunch bags."
Given how widespread the doping now appears to have been on the Postal Service team based on testimony of 11 teammates, and charges against the team's director and several of its doctors, you wonder how much due diligence its founding banker did on the most prominent deal of his career.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Thomas Weisel in 2002, with Lance Armstrong jerseys and memorabilia on the wall of his financial firm's office. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL MALONEY/SAN FRANCISCO CHRONICLE, VIA CORBIS) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRUGS IN SPORTS (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); CYCLING (89%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (78%); SMUGGLING (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (73%); SPONSORSHIP (73%); LITIGATION (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); OLYMPICS (67%); POSTAL SERVICE (67%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (67%)

COMPANY: THOMAS WEISEL PARTNERS GROUP INC (73%); STIFEL FINANCIAL CORP (57%); TAILWIND SPORTS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (73%)

TICKER: SF (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (73%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (73%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (73%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: LANCE ARMSTRONG (93%); OPRAH WINFREY (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2013



466 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 915 words

HEADLINE: 1st Part of Offshore Wind Power Line Moves Ahead

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- An audacious plan to lay a multibillion-dollar wind power transmission spine under the seabed from southern Virginia to the New York City area will take a step forward on Tuesday with an announcement of plans for the first leg, a 189-mile segment running from Jersey City to a spot south of Atlantic City.
The proposed backbone, first outlined publicly in October 2010, is intended to link future wind farms far offshore, sparing them the expense and regulatory problems of bringing power lines all the way to shore individually and to move power to land-based sources. The project's backers, which include Google and other prominent investors, argue that the buried offshore spine, impervious to storms, could also come in handy in an emergency, providing a backup for hospitals and police stations and restarting power plants in blacked-out areas. 
The latter selling point has gained importance for the line's promoters as interest in offshore wind has suffered setbacks, including the declining price of natural gas, a competing energy source.
The Atlantic Wind Connection, the project's sponsor, says the first segment would run from a substation called Cardiff, near Pomona, N.J., operated by Atlantic City Electric, out into the ocean 12 to 14 miles. That leg represents less than half of the 350-mile project, but the plan was always to build it in stages. Near the line's southern end, it would tie into multiple wind farms in a region that the Obama administration has identified as prime territory for offshore wind.
Executives at Atlantic Wind say they chose to begin with a segment solely in New Jersey because the project could level the big price differences for electricity within the state, yielding an economic benefit that could justify at least some of the first leg's $1.3 billion construction cost. Remaining within one state simplifies the regulatory process, they added, and political support for offshore wind farms is relatively strong in New Jersey.
The state has mandated that 22.5 percent of its electricity must come from renewable sources by 2021, and the bulk of that is expected to come from wind, some of which may come from outside New Jersey. Very few onshore sites in the state are suitable for wind, however. New Jersey's Offshore Wind Economic Development Act calls for at least 1,100 megawatts of offshore wind, but backers say it could go as high as 3,000 megawatts. Atlantic Wind hopes to secure regulatory approval and get the financing in place by mid-2015 and to start construction at the end of that year. Laying cable under the seabed will be an inducement for wind developers to move ahead as well, it predicts. In 2011, 11 companies expressed interest in building wind farms, although progress all over the East Coast has been quite slow.
Even if those farms do not materialize as fast as was once imagined, the sponsors argue that the transmission line is justified because it would allow faster recovery from crippling storms like Hurricane Sandy.
''This is great for offshore wind, but it's supergood for the grid itself,'' said Robert L. Mitchell, the chief executive of the Trans-Elect Development Company, a transmission-line business based in Bethesda, Md., that proposed the venture.
A report that the company commissioned from the Chertoff Group, led by Michael Chertoff, a former secretary of homeland security, asserts that in a blackout, the line would transport electricity from a faraway location to critical facilities like hospitals and police stations, or start up power plants in blacked-out areas.
Not everyone agrees on the reliability benefit, though. Jersey Central Power and Light, which serves much of the Atlantic coast, lost 55 of its 75 transmission lines in Hurricane Sandy. But even if there had been an alternative, it would not have made much of a difference, because most of the distribution lines feeding buildings were also down.
''It's certainly an interesting concept,'' said Todd Schneider, a spokesman for the utility. But he said the project would ''not necessarily speed restoration work during a significant storm.''
The project passed a major hurdle last May when the Interior Department, which controls the ocean floor, said that preparation of an environmental-impact statement could begin.
The president of the State Senate, Stephen M. Sweeney, welcomed Atlantic Wind Connection's proposal. ''The potential jobs and economic benefit this could bring to New Jersey is definitely exciting, especially in a state with the fourth-highest unemployment rate in the nation,'' he said. He added that he wanted to evaluate the costs before making a decision on whether to support construction.
For the project to be built, New Jersey would have to submit a request to the regional grid operator, PJM Interconnection.
The first step for PJM would be to determine how much money the line would save by importing cheap power from southern New Jersey into northern New Jersey. Another factor is how much prices in southern New Jersey would rise as a result of its exports. Such transfers are now limited by congestion on the grid.
Once the economic value of the line had been established, a sum related to that value would be charged to all PJM customers, including those in New Jersey. If the estimated construction cost of an estimated $1.3 billion exceeded that, which seems likely, the balance would be charged to New Jersey ratepayers as an environmental project, to meet the state's renewable energy goals.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A drawing of a point where electricity from wind farms could be put on the transmission line. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN HAND/POPULAR SCIENCE) MAP: Settling on the First Segment: The first segment of a proposed 350-mile underwater transmission line and wind farm backbone would be built entirely offshore in New Jersey. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIND ENERGY (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); WIND POWER PLANTS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (89%); POWER PLANTS (78%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); POWER FAILURES (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); POLICE FORCES (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); APPROVALS (71%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (67%); CONSTRUCTION (65%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (57%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2013



467 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 94 words

HEADLINE: A Phased-In Carbon Tax

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''The Market and Mother Nature'' (column, Jan. 9):
Listen up, Congressional leaders, to Thomas L. Friedman's phenomenally good idea: Phase in carbon taxes to both cut the deficit and tame carbon emissions.
The overarching objection to carbon taxes is that they'll hurt economic growth. Well, any of the solutions to our deficit problem will do that, so we might as well at least get the huge societal benefits of carbon reduction as a silver lining to that cloud. This would truly be a grand bargain.
MARY L. KUKOWSKI West Conshohocken, Pa., Jan. 9, 2013 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EMISSIONS (85%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%)

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2013



468 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 179 words

HEADLINE: What Palestinians Need

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Your Jan. 11 editorial ''Financial Crisis in the West Bank'' is absolutely right: This problem should not be ''swept under the rug.'' 
But blaming rich Arab countries for the Palestinians' financial situation is not the answer. Since 1993 Arab countries, Europe and the United States have poured billions into occupied Palestinian territory to support the ''peace process.'' They've basically ended up paying for Israel's occupation and colonization and relieving it of its international obligations. Why pay more?
Palestinians cannot develop a thriving economy while Israel controls the movement of people and goods to and from the West Bank (from Mahmoud Abbas, the Palestinian Authority president, on down) and almost all movement to Gaza, while swallowing up most land and water resources.
Palestinians don't need more aid. They need American political clout to end the occupation as the first step to a just and lasting peace.
NADIA HIJAB Nice, France, Jan. 11, 2013
The writer is director of Al-Shabaka: The Palestinian Policy Network and an author and commentator.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); WRITERS (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); PEACE PROCESS (70%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); WATER QUALITY (52%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD ABBAS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PROVENCE-ALPES-COTE D'AZUR, FRANCE (76%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); ISRAEL (92%); FRANCE (76%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2013



469 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1009 words

HEADLINE: China Lets Media Report on Air Pollution Crisis

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG; Mia Li contributed research.

 BODY:
BEIJING -- The Chinese state news media on Monday published aggressive reports on what they described as the sickening and dangerous air pollution in Beijing and other parts of northern China, indicating that popular anger over air quality had reached a level where Communist Party propaganda officials felt that they had to allow the officially sanctioned press to address the growing concerns of ordinary citizens.
The across-the-board coverage of Beijing's brown, soupy air, which has been consistently rated ''hazardous'' or even worse by foreign and local monitors since last week, was the most open in recent memory. Since 2008, when Beijing made efforts to clean up the city before the Summer Olympics, the air has appeared to degrade in the view of many residents, though the official news media have often avoided addressing the problem. 
The wide coverage on Monday appears to be in part a reaction to the conversation that has been unfolding on Chinese microblogs, where residents of northern China have been discussing the pollution nonstop in recent days.
The problem is so serious -- the worst air quality since the United States Embassy began recording levels in 2008 -- that hospitals reported on Monday a surge in patient admissions for respiratory problems. Beijing officials ordered government cars off the road to try to curb the pollution, which some people say has been exacerbated by a weather phenomenon, called an inversion, that is trapping dirty particles.
''I've never seen such broad Chinese media coverage of air pollution,'' said Jeremy Goldkorn, a business consultant in Beijing who tracks the Chinese news media. ''From People's Daily to China Central Television, the story is being covered thoroughly, without trying to put a positive spin on it.''
People's Daily, the official party mouthpiece, published a front-page signed editorial on Monday under the headline ''Beautiful China Starts With Healthy Breathing.'' ''The seemingly never-ending haze and fog may blur our vision,'' it said, ''but makes us see extra clearly the urgency of pollution control and the urgency of the theory of building a socialist ecological civilization, revealed at the 18th Party Congress.''
The 18th Party Congress, a meeting of party elites held in Beijing last November, was part of a once-a-decade leadership transition. In a political report delivered on the first day, Hu Jintao, the president and departing party chief, said China must address environmental problems worsened by rapid development. The inclusion of sections in the report on the need for ''ecological progress'' could be opening the door for greater dialogue on such issues under the watch of Xi Jinping, the new party chief, and his colleagues on the Politburo Standing Committee.
Even before the congress, the official news media had some latitude to publish critiques of environmental policy and investigate environmental degradation, in contrast to strict limits on what they can say on ''core interest'' issues like Tibet and Taiwan. Nevertheless, the coverage unfolding now represents a new level of depth in addressing air pollution.
Bill Bishop, the editor of Sinocism, a daily online newsletter about news media coverage of China, wrote on Monday that ''Chinese media is all over the story in a remarkably transparent contrast to today's haze in Beijing.''
Mr. Bishop, who is also a columnist for the DealBook blog of The New York Times, wrote: ''Clearly it is impossible to pretend that the air is not polluted or that the health risks are not significant, so are the propaganda authorities just recognizing reality in allowing coverage? Or is there something more going on here, as perhaps the new government wants to both demonstrate a commitment to transparency and accountability as well as use this crisis to further the difficult reforms toward a more sustainable development model?''
China Youth Daily, a state-run newspaper, published a scathing signed commentary on Monday under the headline ''Lack of Responsive Actions More Choking Than the Haze and Fog.'' The commentary questioned basic economic policies and the China growth model: ''This choking, dirty and poisonous air forces the Chinese to rethink the widespread, messy development model.''
Global Times, a newspaper that often defends the party, said in an editorial that the government in the past had erred by releasing pollution information in a ''low-key way.'' It said: ''In the future, the government should publish truthful environmental data to the public. Let society participate in the process of solving the problem.''
On Saturday, when a Twitter feed from the United States Embassy rated the air in central Beijing an astounding 755 on an air quality scale of 0 to 500, China Central Television, the main state network, devoted a large part of its 7 p.m. newscast to the pollution. That night, the Beijing government reported alarming levels of a potentially deadly particulate matter called PM 2.5; in some districts, it exceeded 900 micrograms per cubic meter, on par with some days of the killer smog in London in the mid-20th century.
Under pressure from the existence of the embassy monitor and growing anger among prominent Chinese Internet users, Chinese officials have been releasing more data on PM 2.5 levels, in a sign of creeping transparency. Beijing began reporting PM 2.5 levels in January 2012. Xinhua, the state-run news agency, announced late last year that the Ministry of Environmental Protection had required 74 cities to start releasing PM 2.5 data. For years, Chinese officials had been trying to limit public information to data on PM 10 or other pollutants that are generally considered less deadly than PM 2.5, which is invisible and can lodge deep in the lungs.
''Last year, Chinese media began to report with regularity on air pollution, especially in Beijing and concerning PM 2.5 in particular,'' Mr. Goldkorn said. ''But the apocalyptic skies above the capital this last weekend seemed to have encouraged an even greater enthusiasm for reporting this story.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A worker in Hefei, China, on Monday. Hospitals on Monday reported a surge in patient admissions for respiratory problems. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIANAN YU/REUTERS)
 People in an industrial district of the eastern city of Qingdao, China, wore masks in the hazy morning on Monday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WU HONG/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIR POLLUTION (91%); AIR QUALITY (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); POLITICS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); OLYMPICS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (71%); WEATHER (69%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (54%)

PERSON: XI JINPING (78%); HU JINTAO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (98%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (99%); EAST CHINA (79%); ANHUI, CHINA (58%); SHANDONG, CHINA (58%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2013



470 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2013

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 469 words

HEADLINE: IHT Quick Read: Jan. 15

BYLINE: THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE


HIGHLIGHT: Islamists gain ground in Mali; Chinese censors in Los Angeles; another Washington showdown looms; men's wear in Milan. 

 BODY:
 NEWS Despite intensive airstrikes by French warplanes, Islamist fighters overran a strategic village and military post in central Mali on Monday, indicating that the war against extremists who have carved out a jihadist state in the nation's north could be a long and difficult one. Steven Erlanger, Alan Cowell and Adam Nossiter report. 
President Barack Obama and Republican Congressional leaders dug in Monday on their conflicting positions over raising the U.S. debt limit, indicating that the president's second term will open with a potentially perilous budget showdown. Jackie Calmes and Jonathan Weisman report from Washington.
The chief human rights official at the United Nations, Navi Pillay, called on Monday for an international inquiry into human rights offenses committed by the North Korean government over many decades. Nick Cumming-Bruce reports from Geneva.
The Chinese state news media on Monday published aggressive reports on what they described as the dangerous air pollution in Beijing and other parts of northern China, indicating that popular anger over air quality had reached a level where propaganda officials felt they had to let the officially sanctioned press address the issue. Edward Wong reports from Beijing.
Unidentified gunmen on Monday sprayed bullets into the headquarters of Greece's governing New Democracy party in Athens, adding to a wave of politically motivated violence. Liz Alderman reports from Athens.
 ARTS When "Kung Fu Panda 3" kicks its way into China's theaters in 2016, the country's vigilant film censors will find no nasty surprises - after all, they have already dropped in to monitor the movie at the DreamWorks Animation campus in Los Angeles. The lure of access to China's fast-growing film market is entangling studios and moviemakers with the state censors of a country in which American notions of free expression simply do not apply. Michael Cieply and Brooks Barnes report from Los Angeles.
 Yannick Nzet-Sguin, the Philadelphia Orchestra's Quebec-born music director, is what the orchestra world is desperate for: a young, charismatic maestro who can win the respect of grizzled orchestra veterans, the enthusiasm of audiences and the praise of critics. Daniel J. Wakin reports from Montreal.
 FASHION Something in the dank winter air or the chily economy is bringing out the tough side of the alpha male. Boots elevated on rubber soles and leather jackets padded with nylon and neoprene make men's wear for winter 2013 look like it is designed to handle a hurricane. Suzy Menkes writes from Milan.
 SPORTS Caroline Wozniacki, long No. 1 in women's tennis, is now No. 10. Her plan for 2013 is to minimize the pain and the confusion; to restore clarity to her game and stability to her off-court structure. Christopher Clarey reports from Melbourne.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CENSORSHIP (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); FILM (89%); MEN (87%); MEN'S CLOTHING (87%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (85%); FASHION & APPAREL (84%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (76%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); AIR QUALITY (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); ARMED FORCES (73%); SHOOTINGS (71%); DEBT CEILING (71%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (70%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (69%); RUBBER & SILICONE (68%); AIR POLLUTION (68%); ANIMATION (64%); ANIMATED FILMS (64%); MUSIC (62%); SYNTHETIC RUBBER (60%) IHT Rendezvous

COMPANY: DREAMWORKS ANIMATION SKG INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%)

TICKER: DWA (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (54%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); ATHENS, GREECE (87%); BEIJING, CHINA (87%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (69%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%); QUEBEC, CANADA (78%) MALI (94%); CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GREECE (87%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); CANADA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2013



471 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Lens)

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2013

SECTION: MULTIMEDIA

LENGTH: 1038 words

HEADLINE: A South Bronx Family Album

BYLINE: JAMES ESTRIN


HIGHLIGHT: For Ricky Flores, one of the photographers in a group exhibition at the Bronx Documentary Center, chronicling his South Bronx neighborhood transformed him from a hobbyist into an obsessive. 

 BODY:
When Ricky Flores started taking pictures as a high school senior in 1980, he did what a lot of young photographers did: he photographed his friends, family and neighbors. He captured giddy, even goofy moments, of dancers in the park, teenagers on stoops and costumed children on Halloween.
In the South Bronx. 
His neighborhood was no stranger to cameras. But as he got older, Mr. Flores was bothered by how other photographers swooped into his Longwood neighborhood to make clichd images that plumbed the depths of their preconceptions.
"If there was a picture in the newspaper from the block, it was always negative," said Mr. Flores, who is now a staff photographer for The Journal News in Rockland County. "It was the image of the Puerto Rican wearing a bandanna with a knife in his pocket. But that wasn't my experience. You know, my mom was a garment worker. She was very hard working, as were most people in my community."
That sentiment guided his photography, which went from hobby to obsession. His images showed the full range of experience and emotion in Longwood - the same neighborhood that had been home decades earlier to Colin Powell. He shot the fires and those who fell to drugs, of course. But he also captured everyday images that often escaped others' attention.
His images from that era will be on exhibit at the Bronx Documentary Center in "Seis del Sur: Dispatches From Home by Six Nuyorican Photographers," which opens Saturday. The show is a nuanced, insider's view of an area that was as misunderstood as it was notorious. The show also includes Joe Conzo Jr., Francisco Molina Reyes II, Edwin Pagan, Angel Franco (a staff photographer for The New York Times) and David Gonzalez (co-editor of the Lens Blog).
Mr. Flores's chronicle of Longwood is part of a deep archive of South Bronx life. He moved to a six-story walk up apartment on Fox Street, in 1965, when the area was a vibrant, mostly black and Latino blue-collar neighborhood. He was a curious 5-year-old who played street games like Skelly, Kick the Can, Johnny on the Pony or Stoop Ball.
Although his father had recently died, others looked out for him. If he misbehaved, Mrs. Robinson - a one-woman neighborhood watch - would tell his mother by the time he got home.
Longwood may not have looked like the pristine communities he saw on television, but its sidewalks were alive with music, domino games and hard-working people leaving early and returning late from their jobs. Yes, there were drugs, yet any disputes were usually settled with fists.
Then the fires came.
As the old, brick buildings in his neighborhood began to burn, Mr. Flores became a very, very light sleeper. Often he would wake up in the middle of the night to the screaming sirens and clanging bells of fire engines racing down the street.
"First thing you would do is pop up, make sure they're not running into your apartment building and make sure that nothing bad was going on so you were secure," he recalled.
He became hypervigilant, always worrying whether his building would be the next on the block to burn. As more blocks were reduced to clusters of charred, broken shells, landlords cut services to remaining buildings, eventually abandoning them or having them taken over by the city. A once-bustling neighborhood became a rubble-strewn urban prairie.
It got bad enough that even the city - the reluctant landlord of last resort - slowly turned its back on the community, too. The city stopped picking up abandoned cars that were left on the block, and it was common to see three or four cars sitting there with the wheels off. This became the new normal for Mr. Flores.
A modest inheritance from his father let him buy his first camera - a Pentax with a 50-millimeter lens - when he was a senior at James Monroe High School. After attending college in Puerto Rico for a year he met Mel Rosenthal, a photographer teaching at the SUNY Empire State College. As he studied with Mr. Rosenthal - himself a sensitive chronicler of the South Bronx - Mr. Flores realized he had an opportunity, and a responsibility, to document what was really happening in his community.
By the late 80s, Mr. Flores moved farther north in the Bronx, but he continued to photograph the streets of his youth. He also photographed the politically charged protests over racial violence and freelanced for The Village Voice and The New York Times before landing a job at the Gannett-Westchester Rockland newspapers.
Pablo Delano, a photographer and a professor at Trinity College in Hartford, often instructs his students to look at Mr. Flores's "raw and real" photos to understand what an insider view can bring to documentary photography. Mr. Delano says that there is a role for both outsider and insider views, but that growing up in the Bronx and seeing the close-knit neighborhood unravel, then survive, gives Mr. Flores's work an authority that no outsider can bring.
"He takes full advantage of what you get growing up with the smell of the place in your nostrils," Mr. Delano said.
The memory of that era is still fresh for Mr. Flores. When Mr. Flores was a teenager, and the neighborhood was in steep decline, he had long discussions with his friends about what they would do with their lives.
"And the question for many of us was choice," he said. "What kind of life do you want to live? Do we want to spend our entire lives living in that type of environment? What would make us better people? Changing our personalities or leaving the block? Or was it both?"
They would struggle over these issues, but Mr. Flores said that each one had a personal choice: many of his friends went to college, some became b-boys and rappers. And some were consumed by the streets.
Photography provided the path for Mr. Flores.
"I breathed it, I ate it, I slept with it," he said. "It allowed me to look at what was taking place around me and figure out what was going on and what I wanted to do."
 Follow @followbdc, @JamesEstrin and @nytimesphoto on Twitter. Lens is also on Facebook, as is Seis del Sur. 

        
Close-Ups of Puerto Rican New York
        
A Mentor's Passion for Pictures and Social Justice
        
The Human Toll of Europe's Economic Statistics
        
The Images of 2012: New York
        
Dodging the Police at the 1968 Democratic Convention

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EXHIBITIONS (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (89%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (86%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); HOME SECURITY (76%); GARMENT WORKERS (73%); HALLOWEEN (72%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (69%) Angel Franco; Black-and-white photography; Bronx; Bronx Documentary Center; David Gonzalez; Edwin Pagan; Francisco Molina Reyes II; James Estrin; Joe Conzo Jr.; Ladies and gentlemen the Bronx is burning; Longwood; Mel Rosenthal; Nuyoricans; Puerto Rico; Ricky Flores; South Bronx; Gonzalez, David; Labor and Jobs; Newspapers; Photography; Gannett Company Inc; New York Times; Bronx (NYC); South Bronx (Bronx, NY); Gannett Company Inc|GCI|NYSE; Showcase

ORGANIZATION: Gannett Company Inc; New York Times

TICKER: Gannett Company Inc; GCI; NYSE

PERSON: Gonzalez, David

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%) Bronx (NYC); Puerto Rico; South Bronx (Bronx, NY)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2013



472 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 951 words

HEADLINE: Coins, Bills and the National Debt

BYLINE: BRUCE BARTLETT


HIGHLIGHT: Creating a $1 trillion coin to address the nation's debt ceiling would simply have been business as usual for the government, writ large, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Bruce Bartlett held senior policy roles in the Reagan and George H.W. Bush administrations and served on the staffs of Representatives Jack Kemp and Ron Paul. He is the author of "The Benefit and the Burden: Tax Reform - Why We Need It and What It Will Take." 
Washington had been buzzing about the idea of minting a $1 trillion platinum coin in the event that Republicans block an increase in the debt limit (as they did in 2011), until the Treasury and the Federal Reserve rejected the idea. 
But whether or not creating a $1 trillion coin to avoid defaulting on the debt was reasonable, in accounting terms it would have been no big deal - simply a larger scale of what the Treasury and the Fed do every day.
The United States Mint, a division of the Treasury, would have had to create a $1 trillion coin of platinum - though it would not have had to contain $1 trillion of platinum - to meet the letter of the law, and the Fed would have taken ownership. 
The Fed would then have credited the Treasury's account with $1 trillion of cash that could be used to make payments authorized by the Treasury. The Fed is, in effect, the Treasury's bank, accepting deposits and clearing payments on a daily basis.
While some people worried aloud that the creation of $1 trillion of cash would be dangerously inflationary, this is nonsense. The coin would not affect monetary policy. The Treasury and Fed constantly coordinate their actions so that tax receipts don't reduce the money supply and Treasury payments don't lead to an increase.
If Treasury payments threatened to raise the money supply more than the Fed would like, it would simply sell bonds from its portfolio to absorb the excess liquidity. Possessing close to $3 trillion of Treasury securities, the Fed could easily offset all the cash created by the platinum coin.
In effect, rather than the Treasury selling securities to the public to pay for spending in excess of revenues, the Fed would do so. Bonds in the Fed's portfolio already count against the debt limit, so that is not a constraint.
Nor would the creation of a $1 trillion coin have led to higher spending. The Treasury could still spend only what has been authorized by Congress.
As a matter of accounting, the Treasury would book the $1 trillion paid by the Fed as "seigniorage." Technically, that is the difference between the cost of creating coins and their face value. When the Fed obtains coins from the mint to distribute through the banking system, it pays the face value of the coins. According to Table 6-2 in the Analytical Perspectives volume of the 2013 budget, the mint breaks even on coinage, providing no net seigniorage to the government.
In reality, the Treasury gets a lot of revenue from seigniorage, but it shows up in a different part of the budget. Although the Fed pays the face value for coins, that is not the case with bills. The Fed pays the Treasury 5.2 cents a bill for dollar bills to 12.7 cents for $100 bills because they require more security. In 2012, the Fed paid the Treasury $747 million for currency production by the Bureau of Engraving and Printing, which approximately offset its costs of operation.
The difference between the cost of bills and their face value is also seigniorage, but the profit accrues to the Fed. It also gets revenue from the Treasury on its vast holdings of Treasury securities. These securities are a byproduct of monetary policy; when the Fed buys them on the open market - it is prohibited by law from buying them directly from the Treasury - it expands the money supply, and when it sells securities the money supply shrinks.
The Fed makes an enormous profit from interest paid to it by the Treasury, from seigniorage on currency and other services for which it charges banks. By law, the Fed subtracts its costs of operation and, annually, gives the rest back to the Treasury. On Jan. 10, the Fed made its annual payment to the Treasury, of $88.9 billion.
As the chart indicates, this is two or three times the revenue historically received by the Treasury from the Fed. But the Fed's unprecedented actions, in coping with the financial crisis that began in 2008, led to a vast expansion of its portfolio, which generates much additional interest income.
This accounting raises some interesting issues of which even economists are generally unaware. For example, although it is part of the federal government, the Fed is treated as a private bank for the purposes of calculating the gross domestic product. The data can be found in Table 6.16D of the national income and product accounts. They show that in 2011, the Fed generated a profit of $75.9 billion - 18.6 percent of all the profits generated by the financial sector of the United States economy and 5.6 percent of the total profits of all domestic industries.
Since the Fed's profits come primarily from interest on Treasury securities, its payment to the Treasury in effect offsets much of the net interest portion of the budget. In 2013, net interest is expected to be $229 billion. But actually it is $89 billion less than that because of the Fed payment. It would make more sense, as a matter of accounting, to treat the Fed payment as an "offsetting receipt" that would lower the net interest outlay, rather than as a "miscellaneous receipt" in the budget. This has implications for calculating the burden of the national debt.
With the idea now off the table, we may never be able to assess how the coin would have played out. But most likely it would have been business as usual between the Treasury and the Fed.

        
The Debt Limit Is the Real Fiscal Cliff
        
Doing Away With the Debt Ceiling
        
The Supreme Court and the Next Fiscal Cliff
        
Opening Up the Fed
        
The True Federal Debt

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: NATIONAL DEBT (91%); COINS & COINAGE (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (91%); DEBT CEILING (91%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MONEY SUPPLY (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); WRITERS (77%); TAX LAW (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); BUDGETS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); JEWELRY & SILVERWARE MFG (76%); MONETARY POLICY (75%); TREASURY SECURITIES (75%); TAX REFORM (71%); CLEARING OPERATIONS (71%); SECURITIES TRADING (67%) Bruce Bartlett; Currency; Daily Economist; debt ceiling; financial crisis; national debt; Ronald Reagan; The Federal Reserve; Treasury; U.S. Mint; National Debt (US); Federal Reserve System; Treasury Department; Today's Economist

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (84%); US MINT (83%) Federal Reserve System; Treasury Department

PERSON: RON PAUL (88%); RONALD REAGAN (78%); GEORGE H W BUSH (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2013



473 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 492 words

HEADLINE: All Your Base Are Belong To Us, Continued (Still Wonkish)

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Think about the coin and what happens next. 

 BODY:
Steve Randy Waldman replies reasonably to my post about the currency domination of the monetary base. But I think we're still having a failure to communicate.
What Waldman is now saying is that in the future the Fed will manage monetary policy by varying the interest rate it pays on reserves rather than the size of the conventionally measured monetary base. That's possible, although I don't quite see why. But in his original post he argued that under such a regime "Cash and (short-term) government debt will continue to be near-perfect substitutes". 
Well, no -- not if by "cash" you mean, or at least include, currency -- which is the great bulk of the monetary base in normal times.
 But this could come across as word games. I think the way to get at the substance is to ask the question that set this discussion off: what happens if the US government issues a trillion-dollar coin to pay its bills?
Everyone sensible (a group containing nobody on the political right) agrees that right now it makes no difference: financing the government by selling T-bills with zero yield, and financing it by making a deposit at the Fed, which either adds to the monetary base or sells some of its zero-yield assets, has, um, zero implication for anything except some peoples' blood pressure.
But what happens if and when the economy recovers, and market interest rates rise off the floor?
There are several possibilities:
1. The Treasury redeems the coin, which it does by borrowing a trillion dollars.
2. The coin stays at the Fed, but the Fed sterilizes any impact on the economy, either by (a) selling off assets or (b) raising the interest rate it pays on bank reserves
3. The Fed simply expands the monetary base to match the value of the coin, an expansion that mainly ends up in the form of currency, without taking offsetting measures to sterilize the effect. 
What Waldman is saying is that he believes that the actual outcome would be 2(b). And I think he's implying that there's really no difference between 2(b) and 3.
But that's not right either in economic or in fiscal terms. Option 3 would be inflationary; on the other hand, it would not lead to any increase in government debt. Option 2(b) would not be inflationary -- but it would affect the federal budget. Why? Because the Fed's additional interest payments would reduce the amount it can remit to the Treasury.
In fact, the effects of option 2(b) would be identical, both for the economy and for the federal government's cash flow, to option 1. Either way, the budget deficit would be enlarged by the payment of interest on $1 trillion of borrowing. In that sense, the Treasury will have redeemed the coin, for practical purposes, even if it never redeems the coin.
The bottom line, as I see it, is that the Fed's new policy of paying interest on reserves makes much less difference than some people think. Short-term debt and currency are still not at all the same thing, and this is what matters.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); COINS & COINAGE (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); MONETARY POLICY (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2013



474 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 440 words

HEADLINE: British Retailer HMV Enters Equivalent of Bankruptcy

BYLINE: MARK SCOTT


HIGHLIGHT: The British music retailer HMV announced on Tuesday that it had entered administration, a form of bankruptcy, as it became the latest British company to suffer from the country's flagging economy 

 BODY:
LONDON - The British music retail chain HMV announced on Tuesday that it had entered administration, a form of bankruptcy, as it became the latest British company to suffer from the country's flagging economy. 
HMV, whose history dates back to 1902 and iconic trademark is a dog sat next to a gramophone, said it had failed to reach an agreement with its creditors over outstanding debts, and would appoint administrators to oversee the business, including a potential sale to new owners. The company's shares have also been suspended from trading on the London Stock Exchange.
The bleak fortunes of the British company, which opened outlets across North America in the 1980s, but closed its last New York store in the early 2000s, mirror similar problems at many of the country's retailers. Many have been hit by weakness in the local economy and mounting competition from online rivals.
In recent months, the British sporting goods chain JJB Sports and the camera retailer Jessops also have filed for administration, which is equivalent to Chapter 11 bankruptcy in the United States.
Despite an increase in sales during the holiday period, retailers continue to suffer from the moribund state of the local economy. The gross domestic product of Britain grew a mere 0.9 percent in the third quarter of last year, the latest figures available, according to official statistics. The meager rise was a slight decline from what economists had expected.
The plight of HMV, whose name stands for His Master's Voice, is a continuation of a sea change in consumer habits as more music and video is bought through online retailers like Amazon and Apple.
HMV was spun out of the music record label EMI in 1998, and listed on the London Stock Exchange in 2002 through an initial public offering worth around $1.6 billion. Since the company's share price hit a record high in early 2005, the stock price has fallen more than 99 percent.
The British music retailer operates around 240 stores across Britain, Ireland, Singapore and Hong Kong, and employs more than 4,000 people.
The future of many of the country's retailers remains in jeopardy. More than 1 in 10 stores across Britain currently are vacant, the highest rate since statistics began to be compiled two years ago, according to the British Retail Consortium, a trade body.
"Financial challenges for both customers and retailers are far from over," the British Retail Consortium's director general, Stephen Robertson, said in a statement. "Many retailers are battling stagnating sales and rising costs."

        
Muzak Wins Approval to Exit Chapter 11
        
What A.I.G. Shareholders Should Have Expected After the Rescue

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); RETAILERS (90%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); MUSIC STORES (89%); INTERNET RETAILING (78%); SPORTING GOODS STORES (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); CAMERA & PHOTOGRAPHIC SUPPLIES STORES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (75%); SHAREHOLDERS (75%); STOCK OFFERINGS (75%); SUSPENSION OF TRADING (70%); STATISTICS (70%); APPROVALS (66%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (64%) Bankruptcies; Great Britain; HMV; Music; Shopping and Retail; Restructuring & Bankruptcy; Retail/Leisure

COMPANY: HMV GROUP PLC (92%); JJB SPORTS PLC (90%); EMI GROUP LTD (84%); JESSOPS PLC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: HMV

INDUSTRY: NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (92%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (92%); NAICS451110 SPORTING GOODS STORES (90%); NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (84%); SIC3652 PHONOGRAPH RECORDS & PRERECORDED AUDIO TAPES & DISKS (84%); NAICS812922 ONE-HOUR PHOTOFINISHING (84%); NAICS812921 PHOTOFINISHING LABORATORIES (EXCEPT ONE-HOUR) (84%); SIC7384 PHOTOFINISHING LABORATORIES (84%); SIC5946 CAMERA & PHOTOGRAPHIC SUPPLY STORES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) UNITED KINGDOM (98%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Great Britain

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2013



475 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 592 words

HEADLINE: Goldman Retreats From Plan to Award Bonuses Later in Britain

BYLINE: JULIA WERDIGIER


HIGHLIGHT: Goldman Sachs decided Tuesday it would not delay the payment of bonuses to its staff in Britain, a move that would have helped investment bankers and other top employees to benefit from a lower income tax rate. 

 BODY:
LONDON - Goldman Sachs decided on Tuesday that it would not delay the payment of bonuses to its staff in Britain, a move that would have helped investment bankers and other highly paid employees benefit from a lower income tax rate.
The decision was made as lawmakers criticized banks that were considering paying bonuses later than usual. The top tax rate in Britain is scheduled to drop to 45 percent from 50 percent on April 6. 
Goldman Sachs's compensation committee had considered delaying the bonus payments but decided at its meeting on Tuesday not to proceed, said a person with direct knowledge of the decision, who declined to be identified because the meeting was not public. Goldman Sachs is scheduled to report fourth-quarter earnings on Wednesday and usually announces the size of the annual bonuses to its staff soon afterward.
Even the consideration of such a move had threatened to become another public relations problem for the banking industry. Top executives had pledged to try to improve their reputations, which were tarnished by the financial crisis.
Goldman Sachs was already drawing scrutiny in the United States after it distributed $65 million in stock to 10 senior executives in December instead of January, when the company typically makes such awards. The move helped the executives avoid the higher marginal tax rates that will now be imposed on income of $450,000 or more.
Mervyn King, the governor of the Bank of England, told a parliamentary committee on Tuesday morning that even though a delay in bonus payments was not illegal, it was "a bit depressing that people who earn so much seem to think that it's even more exciting to adjust the timing of it."
Sajid Javid, a Treasury minister in Britain, called Goldman Sachs this week to urge it not to delay the payments, a person briefed on the discussion said.
The British government announced last year that it would scrap the 50 percent top tax rate for income above 150,000, or about $238,000, which was introduced by the last Labour government to help reduce the budget deficit. George Osborne, the chancellor of the Exchequer, had called the tax "cripplingly uncompetitive" because it cost jobs and did not raise any money.
A spokeswoman for Goldman Sachs declined to comment.
Mr. King said that investment bankers were privileged because a lot of their compensation was made up of bonuses, which the banks can decide to pay whenever they want. But he also said that delaying bonuses to benefit from the coming tax cut "would be rather clumsy and lacking in care and attention to how other people might react."
"In the long run, financial institutions, like all large institutions, do depend on good will from the rest of society," he said. "They can't just exist on their own."
Earlier, several Labour Party politicians criticized the banking industry for considering a delay of bonus payments. John Mann, of the Labour Party, said such a step would be an "opportunistic money grab," The Financial Times reported on Monday.
The headline on an earlier version of this article referred mistakenly to the timing of the bonuses awarded by Goldman Sachs in Britain. As the article correctly noted, the investment bank decided to award bonuses before the tax rate is adjusted on April 6, not after. An earlier version also misstated the currency conversion that would apply to the 50 percent top tax rate for income. The tax rate applied to incomes above 150,000, or about $238,000, not $181,000.

        
It's Bonus Week on Wall Street
        
Bonuses on Wall St. Expected to Edge Up

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BONUS PAY (91%); INCOME TAX (91%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (78%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); TAX LAW (77%); TAX RELIEF (77%); BUDGETS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (67%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%) Banking and Financial Institutions; Bonuses; Executive Compensation; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Great Britain; Income Tax; Financial Services; Investment Banking

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); BANK OF ENGLAND (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Goldman Sachs Group Inc

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (54%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE OSBORNE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%) UNITED KINGDOM (96%); UNITED STATES (79%) Great Britain

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2013



476 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 911 words

HEADLINE: 'Tax Extenders' That Slip Under the Radar

BYLINE: VICTOR FLEISCHER


HIGHLIGHT: Consider the special provision for "qualified small business stock," which provides a zero percent tax rate on capital gains from certain investments. A better name would be the "angel investor loophole." 

 BODY:
The best tax loopholes hide in plain sight.
While the recent fiscal negotiations focused mostly on changes to the top income rate, the final bill (H.R. 8) contains a bonanza - 52, to be exact - of what are known as "tax extenders." These are temporary or permanent extensions of special tax relief for particular industries or types of investments.
Congress likes these tax extenders, which have come to dominate the tax legislative process in recent years. The temporary nature of extenders reduces their estimated costs; budget estimates assume that the provisions will sunset as promised, instead of being extended each year, as most in fact are. 
In addition to finessing the budget process, the annual ritual of enacting the tax extenders gives Congress a regular opportunity to check in on favored industries to see if they have been naughty or nice. As public scrutiny has led to a decline of direct spending in the form of earmarks, indirect spending through tax expenditures has become a more comfortable method of extracting campaign donations from industry and doling out tax breaks in return.
The worst tax extenders have gotten some unwanted media attention. These include the special expensing rules for film and television productions, Nascar sites and rum production, and creative tax breaks for both fossil fuels and clean energy. But even the less offensive tax extenders, which tend to slip under the radar, are questionable from a tax policy perspective.
Consider the special provision for "qualified small business stock," which provides a zero percent tax rate on capital gains from certain investments. A better name would be the "angel investor loophole."
The tax break mainly benefits angel investors, who are individuals (often retired entrepreneurs) who invest in early stage companies. As these start-ups grow, they seek financing from venture capitalists, eventually seeking to be acquired or sell stock to the public. (Venture capitalists have held on to their own special tax break for carried interest.)
The special rules for qualified small business stock were first enacted back in 1993. The rules offered a 50 percent exclusion from the then-applicable 28 percent rate for capital gains, creating an effective 14 percent rate.
But as the base rate on capital gains dropped down during the last decade to 20 percent and then to 15 percent, the 14 percent rate for qualified small business stock became trivial. Then in 2009, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act knocked the special rate for qualified small business stock down to 7 percent. That was followed up in 2010 by a bill taking the special rate down to zero.
Here is how the rules work. If you invest in a qualified small business, and hold the investment for at least five years, then your tax rate on any capital gains is zero. The amount of income excluded from tax is limited to the greater of $10 million, or 10 times the original cost basis of the investment. So a founder of a company who contributes only labor can avoid paying tax on the first $10 million of profit; an angel investor who put in $2 million can avoid paying tax on the first $20 million.
Why haven't you heard of this rule? The rules are tailored to apply only to investments in certain types of small businesses. To qualify, the business must be organized as a C corporation. Most small businesses, by contrast, are organized as pass-throughs (partnerships, L.L.C.'s, or S corporations), which allows them to avoid corporate-level taxes. The main group of small businesses that organize as C corporations are those that expect to seek venture capital or other institutional funding.
Angel investors and venture capitalists, of course, argue that these are precisely the type of start-ups that tend to create new jobs, and thus they should be encouraged, not taxed. Perhaps the low tax rate encourages angels to put more money into start-ups instead of index funds. Maybe an engineer quits her job and starts a company knowing the first $10 million is tax-free.
On the other hand, it is not clear that the tax break is necessary to encourage investment that would not otherwise take place. Angel investing fluctuates according to expectations about whether certain markets - dot-coms in the 1990s, social media start-ups in the 2000s, mobile computing today - will stay hot long enough to give the investors a lucrative exit. Tax is not a first-order consideration.
If there is any doubt that this special tax break is about handouts, not job creation, it is resolved by looking at the details of the bill. The legislation offers the zero percent tax rate retroactively for 2012 investments, as well as new investments going forward. It is hard to see how a tax break provides incentives for investments that were either made, or not, last year.
Obviously, the angel investor tax break is not the worst thing in the tax code. It is projected to cost us about $1 billion in revenue, assuming it isn't renewed. But even the most appealing tax break erodes the tax base, requiring higher rates on the rest of us to make up the difference in revenue.
***
For further reading on the tax treatment of investments in start-ups, see Victor Fleischer, "Taxing Founder Stock,"UCLA Law Review (2011). For further reading on angel investing, see Darian Ibrahim, "Financing the Next Silicon Valley," Washington University Law Review (2010).

        
Carried Interest Tax Raise Is Softened
        
Not All Companies Would Welcome a Lower Tax Rate

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX LAW (92%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); BUDGETS (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (71%); BUDGET FORECASTS (70%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (51%); DISTILLERIES (51%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (51%) Capital Gains Tax; Corporate Taxes; House of Representatives; Senate; Small Business; Tax Credits, Deductions and Exemptions; Venture Capital; Standard Deduction

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives; Senate

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2013



477 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Diner's Journal)

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2013

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 466 words

HEADLINE: What We're Reading

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: A collection of links from the reporters and editors of the Dining section. 

 BODY:
The Wall Street Journal: Did KFC sell chicken with higher-than-permitted levels of antibiotics to customers in China? Shanghai authorities are investigating, and the chain's corporate chairman has apologized to diners in a newly health-conscious China. (Subscription required.) - Glenn Collins 
The San Francisco Chronicle: California's statute AB1616, which went into effect on Jan. 1, means that fledgling food artisans can legally cook in their own kitchens. -- Julia Moskin
Palate Press: Alcohol levels have been rising in wines all over the world, and some wineries take steps to lower the alcohol in their wines. What are their techniques? Erika Szymanski reports. -- Eric Asimov
Latino Foodie: North meets South: adding passilla chiles to shake up that meatloaf recipe. -- Maria Newman 
The Wall Street Journal: At an event last weekend, the photographer Melanie Dunea brought together notables like Mario Batali, Eric Ripert, Anthony Bourdain, Reggie Watts and Patrick Stewart to raise money for families struggling in the aftermath of Hurricane Sandy. (Subscription required.) -- Jeff Gordinier 
Wine Terroirs: A profile of Franois Ecot, who makes wine in the Yonne region, a little-known sector of Burgundy, and whom American consumers might know better as half of Jenny & Franois, leading importers of natural wines. Little-known fact: before he joined the wine trade, Bertrand Celce reports, Franois worked as an accordian tuner. -- Eric Asimov
Afar: A chef from Maine and Massachusetts gets hairy crab, wine-poached chicken and fried dumplings in Shanghai. -- Jeff Gordinier 
The Economist: It's called Gelato University, it's near Bologna and it's run by Carpigiani, the Italian gelato-machine maker. The students are mostly from Belgium, Colombia, Great Britain, Japan, Morocco, Russia and the United States because there is a growing worldwide dearth of gelato expertise and a yearning for authenticity. - Glenn Collins
Chicago Reader: Jenny Kessler creates a cocktail made with blueberries, tequila and (you heard right) shiitake mushrooms. -- Jeff Gordinier
New York magazine: A cheesemonger's prose got him into trouble, but now he's back. -- Maria Newman
The Huffington Post: A snarkfest highlighting six Olive Garden menu items you won't find in Italy, including "Hot Artichoke Spinach Dip," "Chicken & Gnocci Soup" and "Tour of Italy," a chicken parmigiana served with fettucine alfredo. - Glenn Collins 
LA Weekly: Is this low-carb pie the pizza of the future? -- Jeff Gordinier 
The New York Times: "I don't think about what anything costs," a recent college graduate living in New York City tells The Times about her food-buying habits. "I'll drop $60 once a week at the Greenmarket, which I would never do at a grocery store; I like supporting local farmers." -- Maria Newman

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); FAST FOOD (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (88%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (75%); WINERIES (75%); ANTIBIOTICS (73%); CHEESE SHOPS (72%); VISUAL ARTISTS (71%); TROPICAL STORMS (52%); HURRICANE SANDY (52%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (93%)

PERSON: ARIANNA HUFFINGTON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); EAST CHINA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); BOURGOGNE, FRANCE (79%) CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); MOROCCO (79%); FRANCE (79%); JAPAN (78%); ITALY (70%); UNITED KINGDOM (68%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (53%); BELGIUM (53%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2013



478 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Diner's Journal)

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2013

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 500 words

HEADLINE: The Future of the New York Steakhouse

BYLINE: PETE WELLS


HIGHLIGHT: Is the New York steakhouse merely taking a breather, or will it continue to decline once the economy is roaring again? 

 BODY:
Is the steakhouse done?
In my review of Arlington Club this week, I point out that some of the best things to eat there have no business in a place that claims to be a steakhouse: popovers, French-style gnocchi, carrot-cake madeleines and crepes souffls, an old-school French dessert. This led me to ask if Arlington Club had an identity crisis, or if perhaps it was the steakhouse genre itself that was confused. 
Just four or five years ago, it seemed that a new steakhouse opened in Manhattan every few months. This was during the boom; steak consumption tends to rise in expanding economies, as witness the craze for imported beef in Russia and Asia. 
There haven't been as many new steakhouses around town since the economy shifted into idle. Arlington Club is the first I've reviewed in my year on the job. This makes me wonder: Is the New York steakhouse merely taking a breather, or will it continue to decline once the economy is roaring again?
Steakhouses aren't especially on-trend right now. Porterhouses that drape over the edge of their platters can seem out of step with the appetites of modern New Yorkers, who line up to eat blossoms and shoots tweezed into artful disarray over a morsel of protein no bigger than an overcoat button. 
But styles of serving food come and go. A more lasting problem might be our perceptions of the meat itself. Classic steakhouse beef is fattened on corn before slaughter. The feedlots where this happens can be no picnic for the cows, who have a hard time digesting corn, or for the waterways that happen to be downstream. As Michael Pollan and other writers have set out a critique of feedlot beef over the past decade or so, it's become more difficult to regard marbled steak that glistens with fat as an American birthright. 
I've had some great nights in New York's steakhouses. They all involve abandon: abandoning my diet, abandoning my worries about getting blood on my tie, abandoning my usual notions of just how big and expensive dinner should be. 
I'm happy to check those concerns with my coat. But it's not so easy to abandon what we now know about traditional beef, just as it's not easy to forget the cries of alarm that scientists have raised about Bluefin tuna stocks. 
Giving up beef is the answer for some people. Not for me. I love it. But I am less happy about the ritual of gorging on oversized cuts of beef that have been raised in ways that are becoming hard to defend. Dinner in a steakhouse may soon feel like one of those cultural relics that we take part in even though we've stopped believing in them, something like the groom's pre-wedding expedition to a strip club. (On that subject, has anyone been to recently? Let me know in the comments, along with your thoughts on whether steakhouses are still relevant.)

        
Outcry Scuttles Plan to Put Horse on Menu at M. Wells Dinette
        
Mediterranean Barbecue Alfresco
        
Three Dishes at Hill Country Barbecue Market
        
BrisketTown to Open in Williamsburg
        
On This Cruise Ship, It's Not All-You-Can-Eat

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); BEEF (89%); CATTLE FEEDLOTS (88%); TRENDS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); MEAT EXPORTS & IMPORTS (69%) Arlington Club; Beef; Economic Conditions and Trends; Meat; Restaurants; steak

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (76%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (56%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2013



479 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2013

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 369 words

HEADLINE: The Nissan Versa Note Sure Looks Like a Hatchback

BYLINE: CHRISTOPHER JENSEN


HIGHLIGHT: Nissan shows a replacement for the Versa hatchback at the Detroit auto show. 

 BODY:
 Introduced on Tuesday, Jan. 15: Nissan Versa Note
 What is it? A replacement for the Versa hatchback
 Is it real? Absolutely.
 What they said: "As the entry segment is expanding with new models and nameplates, it's not enough to offer value alone. The new Nissan Versa Note shakes up the category by satisfying both the emotional and rational needs with features that are truly unexpected in the class, such as sleek styling and advanced innovation features like our Around View Monitor parking assist system at an affordable price." It is also rated at 40 miles per gallon highway with the automatic (continuously variable) transmission. That is six miles per gallon better than the best the old hatchback could do. 
 What they didn't say: We're not calling it a hatchback anymore because Americans have some bizarre and unfortunate aversion to hatchbacks, the origin of which is unclear but apparently involves incurable vehicular, mass hysteria. 
 What makes it tick? It shares key underpinnings with the Versa sedan introduced last year. Improving the fuel economy meant using a 1.6-liter 4-cylinder rated at 109 horsepower, instead of the 1.8 liter rated at 122 horsepower on the old model. The Note is also lighter. A 5-speed manual replaces a 6-speed, helping keep the price down on entry-level trim. The continuously variable transmission replaces the old 4-speed automatic. It also has front-wheel drive. The overall length is 163.7 inches, about 5.4 inches shorter than the previous model. However, the 21.4 cubic feet of cargo volume is up from 17.8 cubic feet on the older model.
 How much, how soon? The Note is already on sale in Japan and Europe, and it goes on sale in the United States this summer. The least expensive model will be about $14,000. It will be assembled in Aguascalientes, Mexico.
How's it look? Smoother and not as odd looking as the old hatchback, but not a thing of beauty except to members of the cult of practicality.

        
Resonance Concept Signals Design Direction for Nissan
        
Megabytes From the Motor Show
        
Nissan and Mitsubishi Among Detroit Auto Show's Notable Absentees
        
Corolla Furia Concept May Signal a New Styling Direction for Toyota
        
Infiniti Turns to Drive-by-Wire for the Q50 Sedan

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: NEW PRODUCTS (90%); NEW CAR MODELS (90%); SEDANS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE ELECTRONICS (60%); CULTS & SECTS (50%) Automobiles; Nissan Motor Co; Detroit (Mich); 2013 Detroit Auto Show; Auto Shows; New Cars

ORGANIZATION: Nissan Motor Co

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (95%) MICHIGAN, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (74%); MEXICO (74%); JAPAN (69%) Detroit (Mich)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2013



480 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2013

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 301 words

HEADLINE: A Ford F-150 Concept, Larger Than Life

BYLINE: JERRY GARRETT


HIGHLIGHT: The concept design is a preview of the redesigned 2015 version of America's best-selling vehicle. 

 BODY:
 Introduced on Tuesday, Jan. 15: Ford F-150 Atlas Concept
 What is it? A preview of the coming redesign for the 2015 model year of the popular F-150 pickup truck, America's best-selling vehicle. 
 Is it real? Not really. It is a concept - and one that was intended to look larger than life. Which it is.
 What they said: "The Ford Atlas Concept looks ready for anything - and it is," Joe Hinrichs, Ford's president for the Americas, said at the introduction. "It pushes the limits of what a full-size pickup can be."
 What they didn't say? The latest Ram pickup has been highly praised -- and it was named North American Truck of the Year at the show. General Motors will soon have new pickups, which were on display here, in dealerships. Ford isn't yet ready with its new model, so it introduced a teaser to stay in the conversation.
 What makes it go? A next-generation version of the EcoBoost turbocharged engine; the current V-6 version has proved quite popular in the current F-150. Ford has said that many variations of the EcoBoost technology, including hybrid applications, are possible.
 How much? How soon? Check back at the North American International Auto Show a year from now for more information, as this truck moves closer to production-ready form.
 How's it look? As mighty as Atlas, the Greek god who held up the world on his shoulders. Improvements in utility, aerodynamics, performance and fuel economy seem to all be well integrated into the design. With this version of the handsome F-150, Ford seems to have perfected the chiseled look.

        
An Exclusive Event for Expensive Cars and Their Admirers
        
The Motor City Though the Camera Lens
        
Wheelies: The Eastern Promises Edition
        
Offstage, Simulators Take Up Their Positions at Detroit Auto Show
        
Lexus LF-LC Concept and Ford Fusion Win EyesOn Design Awards

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); PICKUP TRUCKS (90%); NEW CAR MODELS (90%); PRODUCT ENHANCEMENTS (78%); AUTOMOBILE RATINGS (73%); AWARDS & PRIZES (61%) Automobiles; North American International Auto Show; Ford Motor Co; Detroit (Mich); Ford Motor Co|F|NYSE; 2013 Detroit Auto Show; Auto Shows

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Ford Motor Co

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (56%) Ford Motor Co; F; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%) Detroit (Mich)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2013



481 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Latitude)

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 638 words

HEADLINE: Wreckless Driving

BYLINE: SHMUEL ROSNER


HIGHLIGHT: You think Israelis are aggressive, competitive and careless drivers? They're among the safest in the world. 

 BODY:
TEL AVIV - Israeli drivers have a reputation for having bad road manners: They're aggressive and needlessly competitive; they won't let anyone pass them; they're on the phone constantly. Google "Israeli drivers are" and you get: "crazy," "a danger" and even "the worst." "The most dangerous thing in Israel is the Israeli driver," one tour guide warns his potential clients.
Yet Israel today is one of the 10 safest countries to drive in. Recent statistics from the official National Road Safety Authority [pdf] put the number of deaths caused by car accidents in 2012 at about 290. That's the lowest number in 50 years [pdf]. "I am still rubbing my ears," Yaakov Sheinin, director of the National Road Safety Authority, said upon getting the good news. 
In 2004, for the fifth year in a row, about 500 Israelis were killed on the road - that's 12.7 fatalities per billion kilometers traveled, about 2.5 times as many as in Britain at that time. Distressed by the trend, in 2005, the government formed a committee on road safety, with Sheinin as its head. The year after that the independent road safety authority was created [pdf], and immediately it began implementing plans to identify the common causes of accidents, fix roads and shorten ambulances' response times, among other things.
That worked. By 2012, 5.6 Israelis were killed for every billion kilometers traveled. That's a 56 percent decline since 2004, explains Sheinin, if you consider that in the meantime the number of cars in Israel grew by 35 percent and the number of kilometers traveled by Israeli drivers increased by more than 30 percent. 
Israel is not exactly exceptional in this: The number of fatal car accidents has been dropping across developed countries. In 30 of 33 countries studied by the International Transport Forum there was a "dramatic drop in road deaths" between 2000 and 2009 [pdf].
But if Israel is riding a safety tide, it is riding it high, with even better results than most other countries. Australia, Canada, the United States, France and Japan were all ahead of it 10 years ago; now, they are all behind.
As to be expected, many groups in Israel are claiming credit for this success. Most deserve it, including the government agencies that heavily invested in infrastructure and road improvements; nongovernmental organizations like Or Yarok (Green Light), which shamed the government into action; the police, for devising smarter policies to curtail the most dangerous driving; the hospitals that improved their trauma units; car manufacturers worldwide, which have made cars increasingly safe; and the Israeli public, for changing its ways. 
Wait. Why exactly have angry, chatty, reckless Israelis calmed down at the wheel? I asked the sociologist Shlomo Fischer and he speculated that Israelis may be less aggressive as economic, political and racial tensions within Israel abate (the current election campaign certainly has been comparatively civil). Fischer also said that as economic disparities lessen, the middle class increasingly concerns itself with everyday matters like personal safety.
When I asked Sheinin the same question, he was dismissive: He thought it was based on the faulty premise that Israelis have a specific "mentality" that supposedly explains their supposedly wild behavior. As a counterargument, he offered this nugget of data: Did you know that more people who ride in the front of cars wear their seatbelts in Israel than anywhere else in the world?
This, for Sheinin, is evidence that there was never anything intrinsically Israeli about careless driving - and so with education and policing, Israelis' driving habits could improve. The Israeli driver of old didn't just vanish; he drove away, wearing a seatbelt.

        
Summer of No Discontent
        
Steppe by Steppe
        
Democracy. Period.
        
Pound for Pound
        
Extreme Makeover, Israel

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ROAD TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (90%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (90%); MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TRENDS (89%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (78%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (78%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (78%); DRIVER BEHAVIOR (78%); PRODUCT SAFETY (76%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (75%); TRAUMA CENTERS (74%); ACCIDENTAL INJURIES (74%); AMBULANCE & RESCUE SERVICES (70%); AUTOMAKERS (69%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (69%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (69%); SOCIOLOGY (67%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%) Automobile Safety Features and Defects; Economic Conditions and Trends; Israel; Roads and Traffic; Traffic Accidents and Safety; Middle East

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (58%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (90%) ISRAEL (98%); JAPAN (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (52%) Israel

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2013



482 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2013

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 715 words

HEADLINE: Climate Scientist Backs Bill to Curb Emissions

BYLINE: JON HURDLE


HIGHLIGHT: Michael E. Mann promotes passage of a Pennsylvania bill that would subsidize energy retrofits and strengthen the state's renewable energy standard. 

 BODY:
Michael E. Mann, a prominent climatologist at Penn State, has thrown his support behind an effort to get Pennsylvania to do more to reduce its carbon dioxide emissions.
Dr. Mann appeared Monday at news conference organized by a state representative, Greg Vitali, to promote two bills that would provide subsidies for solar installations and increase the amount of electricity that the state's electric power utilities must generate from renewable sources of energy.
Dr. Mann, director of Penn State's Earth System Science Center and a leading contributor to the reports of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, recently wrote a book for generalists, "The Hockey Stick and The Climate Wars," in which he explored the barrage of political attacks that climate science has faced in recent years. The "hockey stick" refers to a graph he has used in to illustrate his argument that global temperature has risen in step with industrialization and the increasing use of fossil fuels. 
Appearing with Representative Vitali, Dr. Mann criticized those who would deny climate change and mankind's responsibility for it, even in the face of recent weather extremes

"One often hears the misleading claim that no single event, regardless of how extreme or unprecedented, can be blamed on climate change," he said. "That is like saying that no single roll of a 'six' with loaded dice can be blamed on the loading of the dice.
"Just as the unusual number of 'sixes' rolled is due to the loading of the dice, so are the more frequent and extreme weather events we are seeing due collectively to the 'loading' of weather dice by increased heat-trapping greenhouse gases produced by our continued burning of fossil fuels," he told reporters.
Representative Vitali, a Democrat, called on state lawmakers in the Republican-majority legislature to pass his bills, which would establish $25 million a year in financing for rebates for residential, commercial and nonprofit solar installations and raise Pennsylvania's alternative energy portfolio standard to 15 percent by 2023 from the current 8 percent.
Requiring greater use of renewable fuels would help bring Pennsylvania closer into line with neighbors like New Jersey and Delaware, which have higher requirements for use of renewables, said Bruce Burcat, executive director of the Mid-Atlantic Renewable Energy Coalition.
Representative Vitali said that Pennsylvania contributes 1 percent of the world's greenhouse gas emissions and accused Gov. Tom Corbett, a Republican, of failing to "even acknowledge the climate crisis."
Patrick Henderson, Governor Corbett's energy executive, said that the lawmaker was "simply wrong" in accusing the governor of avoiding public statements on climate change. He cited the governor's role in unveiling a solar farm in Phoenixville, Pa., at a ceremony last April.
He said that the governor, a strong supporter of the state's booming natural gas industry, has also backed a multistate initiative to convert government vehicle fleets from gasoline to natural gas.
By encouraging the production of natural gas from the gas-rich Marcellus Shale, Mr. Henderson said, Pennsylvania is doing its bit to cut carbon dioxide emissions, which dropped to a 20-year low nationally last year, in part because of the increased use of natural gas by electricity generators rather than coal.
"Put simply, one of the best things to happen in addressing climate change emissions is the emergence of the Marcellus Shale and other natural gas plays in the United States," Mr. Henderson wrote in an e-mail.
"This market-based approach is much more desirable" than Representative Vitali's "approach of mandating and subsidizing select energy sources," he said.
Yet another state lawmaker, Representative Brendan Boyle, a Democrat, said recent national data showing that 2012 was the warmest year on record should be a "wake-up call" for action on climate change.
Efforts to reduce carbon emissions don't have to be made at the expense of economic growth, he added. "We don't have to choose between economic growth and dealing with global climate change," he said.

        
On Not Reaching Carbon Goals
        
Replacing Coal With Gas Is No Panacea, Study Says
        
Climate Change and 'Balanced' Coverage
        
A 20-Year Low in U.S. Carbon Emissions
        
A Dispatch From the Barricades

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (93%); CLIMATOLOGY (92%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (91%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (91%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); SOLAR ENERGY (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); WEATHER (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); BIOFUELS (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (76%); POLITICS (74%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (72%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%) "The Hockey Stick and the Climate Wars"; Brendan Boyle; climate change; Gov. Tom Corbett; Greg Vitali; Michael E. Mann; Corbett, Thomas W; Mann, Michael E; Alternative and Renewable Energy; Carbon Dioxide; Fuel Efficiency; Global Warming; Greenhouse Gas Emissions; Mid-Atlantic States (US); Natural Gas; Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change; Pennsylvania State University; Pennsylvania; Breaking News; Efficiency; Emissions Reduction; Fossil Fuels; Politics and Policy; Research/Studies; Science; Weather Extremes

ORGANIZATION: PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (94%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL PANEL ON CLIMATE CHANGE (91%) Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change; Pennsylvania State University

PERSON: TOM CORBETT (89%) Corbett, Thomas W; Mann, Michael E

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (97%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) Pennsylvania

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2013



483 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2013

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: Breaking New Ground on Grid Rules

BYLINE: MATTHEW L. WALD


HIGHLIGHT: Grid operators are scratching their heads over how they should weigh a proposal for an undersea transmission line for electricity. 

 BODY:
Among the "firsts" being attempted by the Atlantic Wind Connection, the venture seeking to build an electric transmission line from southern Virginia to northern New Jersey, is negotiating the regulatory system. The problem is that the cable, which would be buried under the seabed, is what grid officials call a "multidriver project," or a project that is undertaken for more than one reason -- something that those officials have little experience with.
 To be built, the project must win the approval of the regional grid association, the PJM Interconnection. (The letters used to stand for Pennsylvania-Jersey-Maryland, but the organization now extends into all or part of Virginia, West Virginia, Delaware, Ohio and Illinois.) And PJM has three different systems for approving lines and apportioning their costs. 
The Atlantic Wind Connection project fits into at least two of these categories. The regulatory complications help explain why so little transmission capability is built these days in this country, even when there is growing agreement that the United States should be moving toward low-carbon energy sources like wind power. Often wind turbine technology operates best in places lacking transmission capability.

 PJM has the authority to approve a line and add the cost to the bills of all the customers in its territory, or just to some, depending on the line's function. Other regional transmission organizations, like the New York Independent System Operator or ISO New England, which covers that six-state area, have similar provisions.
 If the line is judged to be important for the reliability, then a "socialization" principle is applied and everybody pays a little bit. The developer would borrow money to build the line and be paid back through revenue over the years, using a rate of return on its investment approved by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. The rates tend to be generous by comparison with typical investment returns today because the commission wants to encourage construction of new transmission.
 A second reason for building the line is if that is electricity is expensive at one end of the line are high and far cheaper at the other, the new connection would help lower the price of electricity. Steven R. Herling, vice president for planning at PJM, said that if that is the assumption, his organization runs a computer simulation of anticipated prices in both areas, taking into account planned new generation and retirements of power plants. Then it runs a second simulation with the new line in place. 
 The calculation includes how much prices will fall in the expensive area and how much they will rise in the area from which power will be taken. The difference is judged to be the benefit to the economy, and the ratio of benefit to cost must be at least 1 to 1.25. That, too, could be billed to all participants. 
The third reason to build the new line is to support a state policy related to encouraging renewable energy. New Jersey has a cluster of such policies; one requires that 22.5 percent of the state's electricity be generated from renewable sources by 2021, and the bulk of that is expected to come from wind, some of it possibly from outside New Jersey.
Another policy sets aside part of that total for solar power. A third calls for at least 1,100 megawatts of wind power generation within the state (or offshore), as opposed to imported from places that are better suited to wind power than most of New Jersey, like Pennsylvania ridge tops.
 The developers are claiming a reliability benefit for the Atlantic Wind Connection, but it is far from clear that the line would qualify. Still, it appears to meet an economic need, with prices in southern New Jersey generally far lower than those in northern New Jersey, plus a policy goal. 
 The catch, Mr. Herling said, is that grid operators like PJM "really don't have a track record" for approving projects undertaken for more than one reason, although procedures for doing so are now on file at the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. "The line is not realistically going to make it as simply a transmission corridor in the water,'' he said. 
"As the means of satisfying significant amounts of renewable requirements, it may very well be a very strong project.,'
he said. But that, he and others point out, depends partly on those offshore wind farms finally getting built.

        
Wind Farm Would Link Northeastern Grids
        
Offshore Wind Backbone Begins to Take Shape
        
Offshore Transmission Line Takes a Step Forward
        
Better Batteries: Not Just for Cars Anymore
        
Awards Season for Environmentalists

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WIND ENERGY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); APPROVALS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); WIND POWER PLANTS (87%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); MODELING & SIMULATION (60%); COMPUTER SIMULATION (60%) Atlantic Wind Connection; electric light and power; grid; PJM Interconection; Renewable energy; transmission lines; Wind Power; Electric Light and Power; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Federal Energy Regulatory Commission; PJM Interconnection; New Jersey; Business; Politics and Policy

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION (84%) Atlantic Wind Connection; Federal Energy Regulatory Commission; PJM Interconnection

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (93%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2013



484 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1133 words

HEADLINE: In Debt Game, an Early Move From Obama

BYLINE: RICHARD W. STEVENSON


HIGHLIGHT: In his news conference Monday, President Obama suggested that Washington will have tamed the government's debt problems if the two parties can agree on another $1.5 trillion or so in spending cuts and tax increases. 

 BODY:
In a high-stakes negotiation, the most important moves often come not in the end game but at the very start, when one side or the other prevails in defining what is on the table. If you listened closely, you might have heard President Obama try to do just that in his news conference on Monday, when he suggested that Washington will have tamed the government's debt problems if the two parties can agree on another $1.5 trillion or so in spending cuts and tax increases.
Fiscal hawks and small-government conservatives say the White House is setting the bar for fiscal responsibility way too low and just kicking the can down the road again on hard decisions that will only become more painful as time goes by. But Mr. Obama appeared intent on establishing that he was just one more deal away from putting the government back on sound footing, if only Republicans would go along.
His numbers are relatively straightforward. During his re-election campaign he committed himself to $4 trillion in deficit reduction over 10 years - he referred to that figure on Monday as the "consensus" on what is necessary "to stabilize our debt and deficit" - including savings he and Congress had already agreed to. Altogether, they have enacted roughly $2.5 trillion in budget cuts and tax increases so far. 
At around $4 trillion in deficit reduction, the United States would have a good shot at achieving what Mr. Obama and a growing number of Democrats consider to be a politically plausible and economically meaningful outcome: holding the national debt steady for a decade or so at under 75 percent of gross domestic product. (As recently as last summer the Congressional Budget Office was projecting a debt-to-G.D.P. ratio climbing into the 80s by the end of this decade if the government did not act to cut spending further and raise more tax revenue.) 
Banking that last $1.5 trillion in budget savings would no doubt be achieved only after considerable partisan warfare, and the task will be that much tougher because it is tied up in the showdown over whether Congress will raise the debt ceiling. But if the president can threaten, cajole and compromise his way to one more big deficit-reduction pact, the job of putting the nation's fiscal house in order, in his telling, would be more or less complete.
Best of all, from a Democratic perspective, reaching that goal would not require immediate deep cuts to Medicare or Social Security or a fundamental rethinking of the social welfare compact.
"If we combine a balanced package of savings from spending on health care and revenues from closing loopholes, we can solve the deficit issue without sacrificing our investments in things like education that are going to help us grow," he said, referring to his existing proposals for modest trims to Medicare and tax-code changes that would generate more revenue from the wealthy.
"Solve" might be too strong a term for the impact on the nation's fiscal challenges, and there are a lot of technical assumptions in Mr. Obama's numbers that might prove overly optimistic. But if the United States does not suffer another deep recession, reaching $4 trillion in deficit reduction could buy Washington a decade or so to experiment with ways to curb the main driver of fiscal pressures - rising health care costs. The two parties might be able to nurture greater consensus during that period on whether or how to reshape the entitlement programs to make them sustainable for decades to come. And if the country was especially lucky, a burst of economic growth could wipe away some portion of the remaining long-term problem.
But Mr. Obama's effort to define success on his terms is coming up against two primary counterarguments as the White House and Congress hurtle toward the next budget showdown in coming weeks.
Fiscal hawks - those most concerned with the potential economic and financial impact of chronic deficits - say Mr. Obama's approach is merely a short-term patch, sufficient only to create a 10-year illusion that the nation has made the hard decisions necessary to maintain long-term solvency. In their view, bolder action is needed now to assure that the debt does not spiral out of control in the following decade as the full costs of providing for an aging population put vastly greater strains on the government's finances.
"Getting some of the easier reforms is not victory, not even close," said Maya MacGuineas, president of the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget and the leader of Fix the Debt, advocacy groups dedicated to greater budget austerity. "I'm incredibly worried about the argument that we don't need to do anything more quickly."
Then there are the small-government conservatives. They want lower deficits, but they also want to lead the nation to a philosophical shift away from what they see as a society too dependent on entitlements and an economy being suffocated by the growth of government.
"Government can't solve our problems," said Chris Chocola, president of the Club for Growth, a conservative advocacy group. "We can't tax our way out of this. We need to structurally reform the way we do things."
The limits of Mr. Obama's case are laid out in a recent report from the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a liberal research organization. The center's report calculated that Congress and Mr. Obama could stabilize the debt at 73 percent of G.D.P. by later in this decade by agreeing on another $1.2 trillion in tax increases and/or spending cuts (a change that would also yield an additional $200 billion in savings over a decade by reducing what the government would otherwise have to pay in interest on the debt).
Stabilizing the debt during periods of economic growth, the report said, is the "minimum appropriate budget policy," since any nation needs to maintain the flexibility to borrow when times get tough. At 73 percent, the ratio would still be higher than the level recommended for healthy industrial economies by institutions like the International Monetary Fund; the Bowles Simpson report two years ago recommended policy changes that would have put the debt ratio on a declining path for decades to come. And even achieving stability at 73 percent would be a temporary victory.
"In ensuing decades, the aging of America's population and projected increases in per-capita health care costs - which are likely to rise faster than per-capita G.D.P. - will put considerable pressure on federal health and retirement programs," the center's report said, "returning the budget to an unsustainable path of rising debt as a share of the economy."

        
Social Security Checks Enter the Debate
        
Obama and Boehner Talk Deficits at the White House
        
White House Sees Stunted Growth if Tax Cuts Expire
        
Sunday Breakfast Menu, Aug. 7
        
Now, the Hard Part for Nervous Republicans

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PUBLIC DEBT (91%); BUDGETS (91%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); DEBT CEILING (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); SOCIAL SECURITY (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); BUDGET CUTS (75%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (75%); MEDICARE (71%); BUDGET FORECASTS (65%) Campaign to Fix the Debt; Congressional Budget Office; Federal Budget (US); National Debt (US); Obama, Barack; United States Economy; Congress; The White House

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (84%) Campaign to Fix the Debt; Congressional Budget Office

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2013



485 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 485 words

HEADLINE: Credit Rating Agency Warns of Downgrade if Debt Limit is Not Raised

BYLINE: JONATHAN WEISMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Fitch Ratings Ltd. warned Tuesday that Congress's failure to raise the federal government's statutory borrowing limit would "very likely" prompt a downgrading of the U.S. Government's credit rating. 

 BODY:
Fitch Ratings Ltd. warned on Tuesday that Congress's failure to raise the federal government's statutory borrowing limit would "very likely" prompt a downgrading of the United States Government's credit rating, and the agency seemed to suggest that Congress should simply do away with the debt ceiling altogether. 
In a pointed statement, Fitch dismissed the assurances of some Republicans that the Treasury Department would be able to use incoming tax receipts to prioritize the payment of government debt and interest, as well as vital services like military pay and Social Security. That warning echoed the Treasury's own assessment that breaching the debt ceiling could not be managed in any way that would minimize the economic turmoil or avoid default.
"It is not assured that the Treasury would or legally could prioritize debt service over its myriad of other obligations, including Social Security payments, tax rebates and payments to contractors and employees. Arrears on such obligations would not constitute a default event from a sovereign rating perspective but very likely prompt a downgrade even as debt obligations continued to be met," Fitch wrote. 
Standard & Poor's, a larger credit rating agency, downgraded United States debt a notch in August 2011 after the last standoff over the federal debt limit, reflecting "our view that the effectiveness, stability, and predictability of American policy making and political institutions have weakened at a time of ongoing fiscal and economic challenges to a degree more than we envisioned." 
Fitch and Moody's Investors Service, the other major rating agency, did not follow suit, keeping the rating of United States Treasury debt at AAA. Far from serving as a unifying moment, the S.&P. downgrade divided Washington further. Republicans said the downgrade resulted from President Obama's refusal to dramatically cut spending to get the federal deficit under control. Democrats said it was a reflection of political paralysis that stemmed from Republican intransigence.
The Fitch warning seemed to hem in Republicans further, however. Mr. Obama has repeatedly said he will not negotiate over the debt ceiling, and on Monday, he compared Republican refusal to raise it to a criminal taking a hostage. Fitch appeared to side with the president. 
"In Fitch's opinion, the debt ceiling is an ineffective and potentially dangerous mechanism for enforcing fiscal discipline. It does not prevent tax and spending decisions that will incur debt issuance in excess of the ceiling while the sanction of not raising the ceiling risks a sovereign default and renders such a threat incredible," the agency wrote.

        
Geithner Urges Congress to Act 'as Early as Possible' on Debt Ceiling
        
Frugality Is a Virtue, but Politics Rule the Debt-Limit Fight
        
Amid Din, Serious Talk on Debt
        
In Debt Game, an Early Move From Obama
        
Obama Defends His Record on Diversity in Appointments

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CREDIT BUREAUS (96%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); DEBT CEILING (92%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); POLITICS (86%); SOVEREIGN RISK (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (76%); TAX RELIEF (71%); HOSTAGE TAKING (65%) Credit Ratings and Credit Rating Agencies; Fitch Ratings; Moody's Corporation; National Debt (US); Standard & Poor's Corp; United States Politics and Government; Moody's Corporation|MCO|NYSE; Congress

COMPANY: FITCH RATINGS LTD (95%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (66%)

ORGANIZATION: Fitch Ratings; Moody's Corporation; Standard & Poor's Corp

TICKER: Moody's Corporation; MCO; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (95%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (95%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (95%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (95%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (95%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (95%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2013



486 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 482 words

HEADLINE: No More, No Less

BYLINE: BINYAMIN APPELBAUM


HIGHLIGHT: The Fed policy debate is shifting from whether to do more to when to do less, though neither course seems likely soon. 

 BODY:
A speech on Tuesday by Eric Rosengren, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, underscores that debate within the central bank once again is shifting from whether to do more to when to do less. 
This should not suggest that the Fed is on the verge of doing less. It seems clear that a strong majority of the Fed's policy-making committee supports the current round of stimulus, announced in September and December. The Fed's chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, said on Monday that the persistence of high unemployment "motivates and justifies" those steps, which he called "extraordinarily important."
But an account of the committee's most recent meeting in December, released earlier this month, showed participants already debating whether the Fed should end the bond purchases as early as this summer. 
Mr. Rosengren, who holds one of the four rotating seats on the committee this year, pushed back against calls for an early end. The Fed is buying $85 billion a month in Treasuries and mortgage bonds to drive down borrowing costs, which it hopes will encourage spending and foster job creation. Mr. Rosengren said the campaign was working and that it should continue for some time.
"I consider it imperative that monetary policy continue to actively support the economy at present -- since we continue to have an unacceptably high unemployment rate while, at the same time, inflation is undershooting the Federal Reserve's 2 percent target," Mr. Rosengren said.
But Mr. Rosengren - who has been one of the strongest advocates for the Fed to act more aggressively to reduce unemployment -- did not argue that the Fed should expand its efforts, even though he and other Fed officials expect that unemployment will remain higher than they would like, and that inflation will remain lower.
After the speech, in an interview with Bloomberg News, Mr. Rosengren made clear that the Fed could do more - he just doesn't think it should, at least not for now.
Another strong supporter of the asset purchases, Narayana Kocherlakota, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, did call Tuesday for additional action to reduce unemployment, but his views are less significant because he does not hold a vote on the policy-making committee this year.
"Monetary policy is currently not accommodative enough," Mr. Kocherlakota said, noting that inflation is projected to remain below the 2 percent annual pace the Fed regards as most healthy, so the central bank is failing both in its obligation to reduce unemployment and to control inflation.
Mr. Kocherlakota said the Fed should announce its intention to keep short-term interest rates near zero until the unemployment rate falls below 5.5 percent, rather than the 6.5 percent threshold the central bank adopted in December.

        
What to Expect From the Fed
        
The Fed Splits
        
Bernanke Unplugged
        
A Critique of Fed Policy
        
The Fed Should Stop Paying Banks Not to Lend

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); INFLATION (89%); INTEREST RATES (87%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); BONDS (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); JOB CREATION (70%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (68%) Bernanke, Ben S; Federal Reserve System; Interest Rates; Kocherlakota, Narayana R; Rosengren, Eric S; United States Economy

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF BOSTON (91%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF MINNEAPOLIS (63%); BLOOMBERG LP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (84%) Federal Reserve System

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (91%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (91%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (53%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (53%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (89%) Bernanke, Ben S; Kocherlakota, Narayana R; Rosengren, Eric S

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2013



487 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2013

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 714 words

HEADLINE: At a Climate Protest, Science and Religion

BYLINE: JADA F. SMITH


HIGHLIGHT: Religious leaders, scientists and civil rights workers seized on Martin Luther King Jr.'s birthday to protest government inaction on climate change. 

 BODY:
Science and religion went hand-in-hand on Tuesday as leaders from both worlds gathered in front of the White House to protest what they cast as government inaction on climate change.
"This gathering today is to affirm that God has gifted us in many ways, one of which is a good mind to figure out how things are going," said Bob Coleman, the chief programming minister of the Riverside Church in New York City. "It's not so much an embrace of science, but an acknowledgement that science is a part of us, it's a part of our own living every day."
With record-breaking global temperatures in 2012, severe droughts and several storms and hurricanes on the East Coast, some members of the American clergy are saying that human decisions that contribute to the extreme weather associated with climate change can no longer be left in the hands of politicians. 
Promoting an awareness of climate change and the role of humans as stewards of the earth has become a popular theme among progressive religious congregations. Even the climate skeptics in their ranks, some said, are starting to realize that something strange is going on.

A "pray-in" at New York Avenue Presbyterian Church and a subsequent march to the White House, which was blocked by bleachers as workers swarmed about setting up for the inaugural parade, was timed for the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.'s birthday. The civil rights leader's face was on banners, and his name was evoked repeatedly throughout the event.
Some participants described environmental activism as an extension of the work that King did to advance civil rights and economic justice, especially given the correlation between poverty and pollution.
"It is the poor of our world now who are suffering now from global warming - in Asia, Africa and South America, " said Johari Abdul-Malik, the imam of a mosque in Falls Church, Va. "We have to go beyond personal recycling and reducing and reusing of plastic and paper - and the recycling of the same old politicians and policies."
From the devastation wrought by Hurricane Katrina in the Lower Ninth Ward of New Orleans to a proposal to lay the proposed Keystone XL pipeline through some American Indian communities, some religious leaders have begun to see the issue of weather extremes, fossil fuel emissions and threats to habitats as a moral one.
After prayers and religious readings from Jewish, Muslim, Christian, Buddhist, Hindu and Sikh leaders and a few American Indian chants, the names and ages of the victims of Hurricane Sandy were read aloud, with the crowd responding "present" to acknowledge "the spiritual presence of the deceased."
For the Rev. Lennox Yearwood Jr., the president of the civil and human rights group Hip Hop Caucus - one of the organizations behind the popular 2004 "Vote or Die" campaign - the protest and pray-in were an opportunity to highlight the increasing involvement of minority institutions in the environmental movement.
"People say, well, it's just a bunch of Birkenstock-wearing, environmentalist, tree-hugging rich white folk, but that's really not the case," Mr. Yearwood said. "A lot of times there are other things going on in the communities, such as gun violence in Chicago, which makes it hard to focus on this issue. But now we're seeing church involvement - the black churches - and urban communities getting more engaged. There really is a transition going on in the communities and young people asking what we can do to change our environment."
The next step, he says, is to bring even more groups into the fold.
"Dr. King, clearly he was about fighting against injustice, but he recognized that we cannot fight injustice as a segregated progressive movement," Mr. Yearwood said. "We could not do this movement siloed."
"In other words, this movement cannot be just all white, or the gun violence movement in the 'hood just all black, or the immigration issue just all brown," he said. King "would say that we need to come together because this is our planet, and if we lose this, then all the other issues won't matter."

        
Did Global Warming Contribute to Hurricane Sandy's Devastation?
        
Natural Causes Drove Russian Heat Wave, Study Finds
        
Climate Change to Force Mass Migration, Study Warns
        
Extreme Weather Helps Drive Up Food Prices
        
Why Are We Going Blind in Space?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RELIGION (99%); CIVIL RIGHTS (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (90%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); WEATHER (90%); HURRICANES (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); HURRICANE SANDY (88%); SIKHS & SIKHISM (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); HINDUS & HINDUISM (78%); NATIVE AMERICANS (77%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (76%); NATURAL DISASTERS (74%); HURRICANE KATRINA (74%); TROPICAL STORMS (74%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); DROUGHT (72%); EMISSIONS (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS (64%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (64%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (63%) climate change; economic justice; protests; relion; Science; King, Martin Luther Jr; Civil Rights and Liberties; Global Warming; Hurricane Sandy (2012); Religion and Belief; Religion-State Relations; Weather; Washington (DC); Breaking News; Politics and Policy

PERSON: MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (89%) King, Martin Luther Jr

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); AFRICA (79%) Washington (DC)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2013



488 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1908 words

HEADLINE: In Pursuit of Cohen, One Dead End

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: The government's strategy of relying on lower-level employees to investigate Steven A. Cohen is not without its challenges. | Jack Ma, the founder of Alibaba, is giving up his C.E.O. title but staying on as executive chairman. | Shares of Dell rose on Monday after a report that the company was in talks over a potential buyout. | Thomas Weisel, a legendary banker behind Yahoo's public offering, has been thrust in the spotlight for backing Lance Armstrong. 

 BODY:
IN PURSUIT OF COHEN, ONE DEAD END | The government's investigation of suspicious trading at SAC Capital Advisors has relied on lower-level employees who are mined for information about the firm's boss, Steven A. Cohen. But the investigation of Jonathan Hollander, a former SAC employee who cooperated with prosecutors, shows the challenges of using that strategy, DealBook's Peter Lattman and Ben Protess report. 
"Some authorities thought he possessed a rich vein of information about his former employer. Others dismissed him as a junior analyst who offered uncorroborated tips at best, lawyers close to the case recalled. With authorities at odds over his importance and the strength of the evidence against him, Mr. Hollander's criminal case fizzled."
Mr. Hollander was the unnamed hedge fund trader in a government complaint about insider trading in stock of the grocery business Albertsons, according to lawyers close to the case. "Prodded for information about the hedge fund giant, Mr. Hollander offered up several examples of questionable activity at SAC that he had either witnessed or had heard about, lawyers briefed on the matter said. He told the authorities about a lucrative, uncannily timed trade in the drug maker Elan," which is now at the center of another case. But the case against Mr. Hollander sputtered, as "prosecutors questioned the accuracy and utility of his tips." 
ALIBABA FOUNDER TO GIVE UP C.E.O. TITLE | Jack Ma is taking a step back from the Alibaba Group, the Chinese e-commerce giant he built over 14 years, giving up the chief executive role but staying on as executive chairman, DealBook reports. He plans to name his successor when the change becomes effective on May 10.
Mr. Ma is preparing the company for a new generation of executives, with most of the older leaders ready to hand over the reins to younger colleagues. "We believe that they understand the future better than us, and then have a better chance of seizing the future," Mr. Ma wrote in an e-mail to employees. The shift, the biggest at Alibaba in some time, follows the deal the company struck with Yahoo last year, when it agreed to buy back about half of the stake in itself held by its American partner.
DELL SHARES RISE ON SPECULATION OF BUYOUT | Shares of Dell rose nearly 13 percent on Monday after Bloomberg News reported that the company was in talks with two private equity firms over a potential buyout. TPG Capital and Silver Lake are said to be discussing taking the personal computer maker private, and a deal could be announced as soon as this week, according to the report, which cites two unidentified people with knowledge of the matter. But the report cautioned that the talks could still fall apart if the suitors are unable to line up financing.
A leveraged buyout could be worth more than $20 billion, making it the biggest technology buyout since the $17.6 billion acquisition of Freescale Semiconductor by a consortium led by the Blackstone Group in 2006, DealBook writes. "Though the stock has sunk, Dell would still be hard for a private equity firm to digest." The chief executive, Michael Dell, who owns nearly 16 percent of the company, would presumably roll over his stake. But buyers would then have to contribute more than $6 billion in equity, an enormous amount for two private equity firms to cover.
LANCE ARMSTRONG'S BANKER | Thomas Weisel, a legendary banker behind Yahoo's public offering, has been thrust in the spotlight for his longtime extracurricular activity, backing Lance Armstrong. As "the single individual most responsible for the money machine that propelled Mr. Armstrong's career," Mr. Weisel could be subject to lawsuits from corporate sponsors, Andrew Ross Sorkin writes in the DealBook column.
In an interview with Oprah Winfrey to be broadcast on Thursday, Mr. Armstrong confessed to using performance-enhancing drugs during his career, according to The New York Times. Mr. Armstrong is in discussions with the Justice Department to possibly testify against several of the owners of the team sponsored by the United States Postal Service, including Mr. Weisel, according to The Times. The anxiety-producing question for Mr. Weisel is what he "may have known, or should have known" about the team, Mr. Sorkin writes.
ON THE AGENDA | The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation meets at 10 a.m. to discuss a multi-agency rule that would toughen standards for higher-risk mortgages. The World Bank is due to release its semiannual report on global economic prospects. Data on retail sales for December is out at 8:30 a.m. Wilbur Ross is on CNBC from 7 to 9 a.m. Richard J. Byrne, chief executive of Deutsche Bank Securities, is on Bloomberg TV at 10 a.m. David J. Neithercut, chief executive of Equity Residential, is on CNBC at 5 p.m. Scott Weiss, a general partner at Andreessen Horowitz, is on Bloomberg TV at 6 p.m.
 | Contact: @williamalden | E-mail
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions 
Hedge Funds Suffer Losses as U.P.S.-TNT Collapses | As United Parcel Service abandoned its bid for TNT Express, arbitrage hedge funds were left with potential losses of more than $700 million, according to Reuters.
REUTERS
With U.P.S. Deal, European Antitrust Regulators Block Another Big Merger | U.P.S.'s $6.9 billion bid for TNT Express is the latest merger blocked by the European Union, and the most prominent since the proposed tie-up of NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Borse last year.
DEALBOOK
Royal Bank of Scotland Said to Be in Talks to Sell Indian Unit | Yes Bank of India is in discussions to buy the unit, after a plan to sell it to HSBC fell through, according to Reuters.
REUTERS
French Regulator Speaks Out Against Telecom Mergers | Reuters reports: "France's antitrust watchdog opposes mergers in the telecoms sector, its head Bruno Lasserre was quoted saying in Le Figaro newspaper on Tuesday."
REUTERS
Krispy Kreme, a Tasty Target? | Bloomberg News writes: "The shares have soared 26 percent this year amid speculation that the 76-year-old chain is a takeover target. Krispy Kreme advanced 4 percent to $11.82 at the close in New York, the highest price since 2007."
BLOOMBERG NEWS
INVESTMENT BANKING 
Agencies Push JPMorgan to Improve Risk Controls | Federal banking regulators hit JPMorgan Chase with two enforcement actions on Monday. The regulators also ordered the bank to fix breakdowns in money-laundering controls.
DealBook 
Loeb Takes Aim at Morgan Stanley's Compensation | Daniel S. Loeb, whose firm disclosed a stake in Morgan Stanley, "has raised questions about whether compensation levels at Morgan Stanley are justified given the New York company's size and relative simplicity compared with larger banks, said a person familiar with his thinking," The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Morgan Stanley Said to Be Cutting Investment Banking Jobs in Asia | The cuts will amount to about 15 percent of the investment banking positions in Asia, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Goldman's New C.F.O. Prepares to Step Up | Harvey Schwartz, who is set to become Goldman Sachs's chief financial officer at the end of this month, "understands the nitty-gritty of complex finance and is also able to speak in plain English in front of investors and clients. He already commands respect within the firm and is beginning to build a following outside, having met with investors and analysts dozens of times over the past year," Reuters reports.
REUTERS
Another Reminder of the Foreclosure Fiasco | The flawed foreclosure review that ended with a recent $8.5 billion settlement "illustrates just about everything that is wrong with the way the government has handled the Great Foreclosure Crisis," the New York Times columnist Joe Nocera writes.
NEW YORK TIMES
PRIVATE EQUITY 
Suitor for Billabong Said to Join With Ex-Oakley Chief | Altamont Capital Partners has joined forces with David Scott Olivet, a former chief executive of Oakley, in its bid with the VP Corporation for Billabong, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Private Equity Firms Exit Clean Energy Deals | 
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Apollo Global Management Sets $750 Million Target for Credit Fund | 
PEHUB
HEDGE FUNDS 
Herbalife Stock Recovers on Expectation of Repurchases | Shares of Herbalife rose 10 percent on Monday to $44.08, reaching territory last seen before William A. Ackman announced he was betting against the company. Analysts had said they expected the company to announce stock repurchases this week.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Fate of Herbalife's Stock May Lie With Government Agencies | The actions of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Federal Trade Commission may have more influence over the direction of Herbalife's stock price than two hedge fund managers do, Peter J. Henning writes in the White Collar Watch column.
DealBook 
For Hedge Funds, a Manhattan Location Has Advantages | Many hedge funds have traditionally been based in Connecticut, but some are moving to Manhattan, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
I.P.O./OFFERINGS 
Facebook's Lucrative Opportunity in Searches | Helping users find what they are looking for could potentially be Facebook's "most lucrative opportunity, a chance to topple Google as the king of search," The New York Times writes.
NEW YORK TIMES
VENTURE CAPITAL 
In California, a Big Test for Online Education | The New York Times reports: "A plan to offer an array of online college classes at a California state university could, if the students are successful, open the door to teaching hundreds of thousands of California students at a lower cost via the Internet. Udacity, a Silicon Valley start-up that creates online college classes, will announce a deal on Tuesday with San Jose State University for a series of remedial and introductory courses."
NEW YORK TIMES
LEGAL/REGULATORY 
Former Assistant to a Salomon Is Found Guilty of Stealing $1.3 Million | Karen Febles, 48, was convicted after a four-day trial of stealing $1.3 million from William R. Salomon, the 98-year-old son of a founder of Salomon Brothers.
DealBook 
3 Former Nortel Executives Acquitted of Fraud | Three former senior executives of the failed Nortel Networks were acquitted on Monday in a complex fraud case, in which prosecutors had charged that the three improperly manipulated cash reserves during 2002 and 2003 to create profitable quarterly results that resulted in bonus payments, The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
Chrysler, in Comeback, Outgains Bigger Rivals | With strong sales and new products, Chrysler has become "the envy of Detroit. And Chrysler's unlikely revival is accelerating, leaving General Motors and the Ford Motor Company scrambling to catch up," The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
Valuing Chrysler Too Cheaply | Fiat needs to raise its offer to buy a slice of the Detroit manufacturer from the United Automobile Workers' retiree health care trust, Antony Currie of Reuters Breakingviews writes.
DealBook 
Questions About China's Growth, Censorship and Air Pollution | The new government may be using the aggressive reporting to demonstrate a commitment to transparency and accountability as well as use this crisis to further the difficult reforms toward a more sustainable development model, Bill Bishop writes in the China Insider column.
DealBook 
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (91%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (88%); INSIDER TRADING (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); PRIVATE EQUITY (78%); LAWYERS (77%); COMPUTER MAKERS (72%); HEDGE FUNDS (68%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (66%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (62%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (60%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (55%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (50%) Morning Agenda

COMPANY: ALIBABA GROUP HOLDING LTD (68%); SAC CAPITAL ADVISORS LP (58%); TPG CAPITAL LP (51%); BLOOMBERG LP (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (68%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (51%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (51%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (51%)

PERSON: STEVEN A COHEN (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2013



489 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1046 words

HEADLINE: A.I.G. Seeks Approval To File More Bank Suits

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
Since the summer of 2011, the insurance giant American International Group has been battling Bank of America over claims that the bank packaged and sold it defective mortgages that dealt A.I.G. billions of dollars in losses.
Now A.I.G. wants to be able to sue other banks that sold it mortgage-backed securities that plunged in value during the financial crisis. It has not said which banks, but possibilities include Deutsche Bank, Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan Chase.
But to sue, A.I.G. first must win a court fight with an entity controlled by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, which the insurer says is blocking its efforts to pursue the banks that caused it financial harm.
The dispute illustrates the web of financial instruments that A.I.G. and the federal government became tangled in as the insurer nearly collapsed in 2008 and required a vast taxpayer bailout. It also shows the complexity of apportioning blame, five years after the financial crisis, and making wrongdoers pay for their share of the harm. 
According to a lawsuit filed Friday, A.I.G. is seeking a declaration from a New York state judge that it has the right to pursue ''billions of dollars of fraud and other tort claims that exist against numerous financial institutions,'' even though Fed officials have said A.I.G. gave up that right.
''If I were the general counsel of A.I.G., I would seek this kind of declaratory judgment,'' said Henry T. C. Hu, a former regulator who is now a professor at the University of Texas School of Law. ''I don't know whether I'd win, but it's certainly worth trying.''
Much of A.I.G.'s rescue was needed because it didn't have money in 2008 to cover guarantees that it sold banks in case the complex securities in their portfolios defaulted. But the latest dispute centers on a less familiar part of the bailout -- the part in which reserves were removed from A.I.G.'s life insurance units and replaced with what turned out to be troubled mortgage securities.
The securitized housing loans lost value so fast when the bubble burst that some of A.I.G.'s life insurers risked being shut down by state insurance regulators. The Fed stepped in instead, and A.I.G.'s current lawsuit centers on the relationship that formed between the insurer and its rescuer as a result.
The Fed paid about $44 billion to extricate A.I.G.'s life insurance units from soured trades, and set up a special entity, Maiden Lane II, to buy the plunging mortgage securities for $20.8 billion. Those securities had an original face value of $39.3 billion.
Maiden Lane II is the sole defendant in A.I.G.'s lawsuit. The complaint says that at the moment Maiden Lane II bought the securities, it locked the insurance units into an $18 billion loss -- the difference between the securities' face value and their price in late 2008, arguably the bottom of the market. A.I.G. attributes a large chunk of its losses to the mortgage securities that it bought from Bank of America. It sued the bank for $10 billion in August 2011.
But one of Bank of America's defenses is that A.I.G. lacks standing, having given its litigation rights to Maiden Lane II.
Last month, for instance, two senior Fed officials submitted declarations saying they believed that as part of the sale of assets to Maiden Lane II, A.I.G. had agreed not to go after any of the banks.
That prompted A.I.G. to file its suit, arguing that when it sold the tainted assets to Maiden Lane II, it did yield some litigation rights, but not the ones giving it the right to bring fraud complaints against the banks that put the securities together.
A.I.G. said those banks had misled its life insurance and money management businesses regarding the quality of the securities, and ''obtained artificially high credit ratings'' so the securities would pass the life insurers' investment rules.
A.I.G.'s lawsuit is separate from one that until late last week it considered joining, which argued that the New York Fed acted unconstitutionally during the bailout, harming the insurer's shareholders.
That lawsuit was filed in 2011 by Maurice R. Greenberg, a former chief executive of A.I.G. and a major shareholder. Mr. Greenberg had hoped the company would join the lawsuit, but the possibility that A.I.G. would sue its rescuer drew sharp criticism and A.I.G.'s board decided against it.
The new suit isn't seeking financial compensation from the Fed.
The New York Fed, which has sole control of Maiden Lane II, declined to discuss the matter and has not yet responded to the complaint. A hearing on the arguments in the Bank of America case is scheduled for Jan. 29 in U.S. District Court for the Central District of California.
A.I.G. did not name other banks it would take action against, but it bought mortgage-backed securities from banks that included Deutsche Bank, Goldman Sachs and Bear Stearns, which was acquired during the financial crisis by JPMorgan. Much of the securities were sold to A.I.G. by Lehman Brothers, which collapsed in September 2008.
A.I.G. watchers are intrigued by the newest chapter of the story.
''A.I.G. has a credible claim that they're pursuing aggressively,'' said Michael J. Aguirre, a San Diego lawyer who is representing a California couple who argue the Fed was bilked when it bailed out A.I.G. ''The question now is how aggressive the Fed is going to be on pushing back.''
''Is the government going to say, 'We're not pursuing these claims, but we're not going to let anybody else pursue them either -- we're just going to let the banks walk away with fraud profits?' '' he added.
Although it received relatively little scrutiny, the life insurance part of A.I.G.'s bailout was costlier than the better-known part involving A.I.G.'s Financial Products unit, which sold the notorious guarantees, known as credit-default swaps.
In 2011, A.I.G. tried to buy back the entire pool of mortgage securities from Maiden Lane II, but its offer, about $15 billion, was rejected.
Subsequently other bidders acquired all the assets, and last February the New York Fed announced it had made a $2.8 billion profit on its roughly $20 billion investment in the rescue entity. Terms of the bailout called for it to give one-sixth of any profit to A.I.G.
Maiden Lane II no longer holds any of the mortgage securities and is winding down its affairs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); INSURANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LIFE INSURANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (76%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (76%); INSURANCE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (74%); LAWYERS (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); SECURITIZATION (72%); JUDGES (70%); LAW SCHOOLS (69%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (67%); TORTS (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (91%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (91%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (90%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (83%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (91%); 8685 (TSE) (91%); JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%); BAC (NYSE) (91%); BAC (LSE) (91%); 8648 (TSE) (91%); GS (NYSE) (90%); DEUT (JSE) (90%); DBK (FRA) (90%); DBK (BIT) (90%); DBETN (JSE) (90%); DBA (ASX) (90%); DB (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (90%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (83%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2013



490 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 874 words

HEADLINE: Global Economy Brightens With Modest Growth Ahead, World Bank Says

BYLINE: By ANNIE LOWREY

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Some of the darkest clouds threatening the global economy have started to lift, according to the World Bank's periodic update to its economic forecasts.
The latest version of the twice-yearly Global Economic Prospects report is one of the development bank's least pessimistic in recent years, but hardly an exercise in optimism. It describes a ''dramatic'' easing of financial conditions around the world, stemming in part from policy changes to soothe the bond markets in Europe. Still, it warns that global growth will continue to be sluggish for years to come.
In the report, the World Bank estimates the world economy grew just 2.3 percent in 2012. It expects growth to pick up only modestly in the coming years, from 2.4 percent in 2013 to 3.3 percent in 2015. 
Developing countries were responsible for more than half of global growth in 2012, the report said, and they will continue to be an engine of growth. The report estimates that developing countries grew 5.1 percent in 2012, and that the pace of growth will accelerate to 5.8 percent in 2015.
''Four years after the crisis, high-income countries are still struggling,'' Andrew Burns, the report's lead author, said in an interview. ''Developing countries need to respond to that difficult environment not through fiscal and monetary stimulus, but rather by looking to reinforce their underlying growth potential in order to have sustainably stronger growth going forward.''
For the last four years, developing countries have remained in something of a defensive crouch, World Bank experts said. Their central banks and finance ministries have intently focused on managing the volatile financial and economic conditions emanating from the United States and Europe, and their policy making has focused on the short term.
But credit conditions have eased significantly in Europe, particularly since the European Central Bank, led by Mario Draghi, embarked on a major bond-buying program last year.
Growth has started to pick up in the United States, after taking a hit in the second half of 2012 because of uncertainty stemming from the presidential election and the so-called fiscal cliff, a series of automatic spending cuts and tax increases that Congress mostly averted this month.
Now, developing economies need to focus more on their domestic economic troubles, bank economists said. That might mean making long-term investments in infrastructure, education, public health or regulation, rather than focusing on short-term stimulus measures to counteract economic fluctuations from elsewhere around the globe.
''They have spent the past four years reacting to what's going on in high-income countries,'' said Mr. Burns, noting that different developing countries faced significantly different development challenges. ''As a result, almost necessarily, they've been paying less attention to some of these long-term growth-enhancing reforms that are so necessary.''
The report says that significant downside risks to global growth persist, including stalled progress in solving the European debt crisis, fiscal uncertainty in the United States, a decline in investment in China and spiking oil prices. However, the report said, ''the likelihood of these risks and their potential impacts has diminished, and the possibility of a stronger-than-anticipated recovery in high-income countries has increased.''
Developing countries may start to reorient away from a crisis mind-set, the bank said.
''The whole discussion has been dominated by the global crisis,'' said Hans Timmer, the director of the development prospects group at the World Bank. ''It's logical that you are distracted, but there are several problems with that: If you don't go back to the reform agenda, you don't have that growth in the future.''
Weakness in large, wealthy countries continues to weigh on growth in the developing world, the report notes, hitting big exporters in South Asia, for instance. Political turmoil continues to rack the Middle East and North Africa, it said. But economic activity in East Asia has rebounded because of increasing regional trade and domestic demand in China.
In contrast, developed countries, like Germany, Japan and the United States, had growth of only 1.3 percent in 2012. The bank expects that growth to pick up starting in 2014, reaching 2.3 percent by 2015. The bank projects that the euro zone will continue to contract in 2013, reaching sluggish growth of 1.4 percent by 2015.
Global trade in goods and services is a bright spot in the report. Over all, such trade grew just 3.5 percent in 2012. The bank expects trade to jump 6 percent in 2013 and 7 percent by 2015, in no small part because of accelerating demand from new consumers in big developing countries.
''From hopes for a U-shaped recovery, through a W-shaped one, the prognosis for global growth is getting alphabetically challenged,'' Kaushik Basu, the World Bank chief economist, said in a statement. ''With governments in high-income countries struggling to make fiscal policies more sustainable, developing countries should resist trying to anticipate every fluctuation in developed countries and instead ensure that their fiscal and monetary polices are robust and responsive to domestic conditions.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); BONDS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); INTERVIEWS (70%); BOND MARKETS (70%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); ELECTIONS (63%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (60%); TAX LAW (60%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (64%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2013



491 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 584 words

HEADLINE: Record Taxpayer Cost Is Seen for Crop Insurance

BYLINE: By RON NIXON

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The worst drought in 50 years could leave taxpayers with a record bill of nearly $16 billion in crop insurance costs because of poor yields.
The staggering cost of the program has drawn renewed attention, as the Obama administration and Congressional Republicans wrangle over ways to cut the deficit. Last month, Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said that reducing farm subsidies was one way that the administration could cut government spending. But Congress has resisted. 
The Agriculture Department, which runs the program, said that the total losses from crops harvested last year would not be known for weeks, but that costs from the program were estimated to be $15.8 billion, up from $9.4 billion in 2011.
Separately, a record $11.4 billion in indemnities for crop losses has been paid out to farmers, and officials say that number could balloon to as much as $20 billion. In 2011, a then-record $10.8 billion was paid out in indemnities.
The crop insurance program has drawn criticism from a wide range of groups, including the Environmental Working Group and the conservative Heritage Foundation, two Washington research groups, which say that the costs need to be reduced and that the program mainly benefits insurance companies and large farmers. Farmers' net income for 2012 is expected to be $114 billion, down 3 percent from 2011 but still the second highest in 30 years.
Thomas P. Zacharias, the president of National Crop Insurance Services, an industry trade group, defended the program, saying that the record crop losses last year showed the need for insurance.
''This year, most farmers will be able to rebound from historic drought, thanks to crop insurance,'' Mr. Zacharias said.
The federal crop insurance program dates to the Dust Bowl era of the 1930s, when Congress created the taxpayer-subsidized insurance to protect farmers against crop losses. Today, the government pays about 62 percent of the insurance premiums. The policies are sold by 15 private insurance companies that receive about $1.3 billion annually from the government. The government also backs the companies against losses.
Government documents show that taxpayers have paid nearly $7 billion so far to subsidize premiums for 2012. The documents also show that taxpayers could pay another $7 billion to underwrite losses by the insurance companies and other costs.
''Essentially, taxpayers are hit twice by the cost of the program,'' said Bruce A. Babcock, an agriculture economist at Iowa State University.
President Obama has proposed cutting crop insurance subsidies and reducing the amount paid to insurance companies, saving $4 billion over 10 years.
But Congress has balked at making such cuts, and has even proposed expanding the program. Last year, lawmakers on the House and Senate Agriculture Committees passed legislation that would eliminate $5 billion a year in direct payments to farmers and farmland owners who receive government checks regardless of whether they grow crops. But the legislation would use the savings to expand crop insurance.
Crop insurance subsidies are set to cost more than $94 billion over the next 10 years.
Steve Ellis, the vice president of Taxpayers for Common Sense, said farmers and insurance companies should assume more of the risks of farming.
''Given the trillions of dollars of debt, the government could scale back the scope of the premiums subsidy and other costs,'' he said. ''We can have significant savings without changing the scope of the program.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A failed crop field in August near Eads, Colo. Congress has resisted a proposal by President Obama to reduce crop insurance subsidies. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN MOORE/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURAL INSURANCE (93%); CROP INSURANCE (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); INSURANCE (89%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (89%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); DROUGHT (89%); CROP PRODUCTION (89%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); AGRICULTURAL INCOME (78%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (67%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (66%)

ORGANIZATION: HERITAGE FOUNDATION (55%); NATIONAL CROP INSURANCE SERVICES (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (77%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2013



492 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1849 words

HEADLINE: Looking Upstream in Doping Cases

BYLINE: By CLAUDIO GATTI. 
Claudio Gatti is an investigative reporter for Il Sole 24 Ore, a daily business newspaper in Italy. He is based in New York.

 BODY:
The case against Lance Armstrong by antidoping officials detailed how Armstrong, as the leader of his professional cycling team, used performance-enhancing drugs over many years to fuel his run as a seven-time Tour de France champion. It detailed the lengths that many teammates, trainers, doctors and other associates went to enable him to pull off what was called the most sophisticated doping program in the sport's history.
A prominent part of the cycling scene that received less attention, however, was the corporate sponsors that paid handsomely to hitch their brands to a global star.
No one has accused Armstrong's sponsors of being directly involved with his doping program, and none of his sponsors are accused of having actual knowledge of his use of banned substances. But as Armstrong begins confessing to doping during his career -- first in an interview with Oprah Winfrey that will be shown Thursday night -- some critics have seized on another possible dynamic at play throughout sports: companies that endorse athletes might prefer to stand by quietly if they know an athlete is doping, appreciating the benefits of his success rather than moving to expose their pitchman. 
''In recent years, the antidoping movement has recognized the need to look upstream of sophisticated dopers toward the traffickers and facilitators who form an integral component of doping networks,'' said Dr. Michael Ashenden, an adviser to the World Anti-Doping Agency and the director of the research organization, Science and Industry Against Blood Doping. ''My opinion is that networks should be seen to comprise not just those who directly aid and abet dopers, but also those support staff, agents and sponsors who choose to turn a blind eye rather than undertake due diligence. Those passive actors become part of the problem because athletes quickly assess the boundaries and subsequently know what they can expect to get away with.''
The release of the United States Anti-Doping Agency's report on Armstrong compelled Nike, Anheuser-Busch, Trek Bicycle Corporation and other sponsors to sever their association with him. The United States Postal Service, which ended its role as Armstrong's chief team sponsor in 2004, said in an e-mail that it was aware of the doping accusations against Armstrong and other riders, but had no further comment.
''Maybe U.S. Postal didn't know about doping, or maybe they didn't want to know, but you would have to keep your head in the sand not to know,'' said Tyler Hamilton, a former member of Armstrong's inner circle who described parts of the team's doping program in the book ''The Secret Race.''
One of Armstrong's lawyers, Tim Herman, cited a study commissioned by the Postal Service that showed it spent $32.27 million on Armstrong's team from 2001 to 2004 and in return received marketing benefits of $103.63 million.
According to Herman, anyone who receives a 320 percent return on investment in four years has no reason to complain. But Armstrong is seeking to repay several millions of dollars to the Postal Service as part of his cooperation as a witness in a federal whistle-blower case, according to someone with knowledge of the matter.
''Each new doping scandal follows the same pattern,'' Jrg Jaksche, a former pro cyclist from Germany, said in a telephone interview. ''When someone is caught, the system acts shocked and upset, declares its absolute rejection of doping and depicts the athlete as a black sheep that deserves to be slaughtered. After that, everything continues like before. But the fact is that they slaughter a scapegoat, not a black sheep, and nobody ever looks at the shepherd's responsibility. I'm talking about those in the higher levels, those who govern the sports and, most importantly, those who provide the money that fuels everything.
''For the sponsors, this system has no downside. If nobody is caught doping, they gain all the commercial benefits of the visibility generated by great performances. If somebody is caught, they have a swift exit strategy -- they declare their disappointment and receive the extra benefit of the good publicity gained for being righteous. It's the win-win situation. That's why nothing ever changed.''
Jaksche, 36, is among the riders trying to break the wall of silence, known as omert, that has long muffled any discussion of doping in cycling. He is studying economics at the University of Innsbruck, in Austria, and said his education helped him understand what he experienced as a cyclist.
''Corporate sponsors, like all companies, are looking for high return on investment,'' he said. ''In sports, winning provides that return, and doping increases the chances of winning. So the message that, directly or indirectly, sponsors give athletes is simple: we want you to win, and in order to do that you can do whatever you want. As long as you don't get caught.''
Jaksche's cycling team was sponsored by Deutsche Telekom/T-Mobile. In 1997, the team's lead rider, Jan Ullrich, became the first German to win the Tour de France. Less than two years later, in June 1999, the weekly magazine Der Spiegel published an article suggesting Ullrich and his team had engaged in systematic doping.
''We had just finished the Tour of Germany and were driving to Switzerland for the Swiss Tour when the article hit the newsstands,'' Jaksche said. ''I was in a car with Ullrich and the press officer that Telekom assigned to us, and I remember him telling us how to handle the press. They did not want to find out if Der Spiegel's accusations were true or false. They never made any attempt to verify the allegations. In fact, they must have assumed they were right, because the only countermeasure they took was to make sure that none of us would say anything compromising.
''It was omert all the way. The reason? With Ullrich's success in the Tour, a relatively small amount of money had produced a huge marketing return. For them, it was an extraordinarily successful business model and they didn't want to change it or, worse, ruin it.''
Jaksche testified to the German authorities that doping was team policy. Riders who wanted the banned blood-booster EPO, steroids or growth hormones could ask the team doctors. According to the cyclist's sworn testimony, the team manager, Walter Godefroot, was aware of this. Nobody asked Jaksche if the sponsor knew that doping was systematic, but a prosecutor in Bavaria opened an investigation against him for suspected fraud. In his report, the prosecutor withdrew the charge, stating that all the parties involved -- the team and the sponsor -- must have known about doping, so there could not have been any fraud.
In a statement, Deutsche Telekom said: ''As a sports sponsor, Deutsche Telekom fundamentally disapproves of any type of doping. Therefore, in 2007, we decided to discontinue our involvement in cycling, as we, as a sponsor, had to realize that cycling was unable to come to terms with the doping issue. Deutsche Telekom, as a sponsor, was at no time informed about any doping activities.''
Although a special independent committee that investigated the matter was unable to determine whether the top executives of Deutsche Telekom/T-Mobile knew about doping in the team, the committee's report criticized the company.
''What interested the sponsor in the first place was not a doping-free sport,'' the report said. The contract was terminated, it said, ''only when it stopped enhancing the corporate image.''
''When the two leading riders, Jan Ullrich and scar Sevilla, along with Ullrich's carer Rudy Pevenage, were suspended, the limit had not yet been reached. When Sergie Honchar was suspended on 11 May 2007 and Patrik Sinkewitz's blood test was found positive on 8 June 2007, nothing happened. It was not until 27 November 2007 that Deutsche Telekom announced that its executive board was terminating its sponsorship arrangement. Deutsche Telekom, which had been involved in professional cycling since 1991, had decided to put its money elsewhere.''
A July 2008 report on the Ullrich affair by the B.K.A., the equivalent of the F.B.I. in Germany, concluded that ''it can be assumed'' that T-Mobile was informed of doping within the team.
The antidoping officials' case against Armstrong, published in October, included statements from several cyclists who admitted taking banned substances. The testimony of the American Levi Leipheimer, the bronze medalist in the 2008 Olympics, was among them. He admitted to using EPO since 1999, when he rode with the Saturn team, but also described the following years with the team sponsored by the Dutch banking group Rabobank.
''I continued to use EPO while with Rabobank in 2002, 2003 and 2004, and was also assisted in using it by the Rabobank team doctor, from whom I purchased EPO,'' Leipheimer said. ''During my time at Rabobank, I was aware that [another] rider was using EPO, and on several occasions, we discussed his EPO use.''
A few days after that affidavit was made public by Usada, Rabobank announced that it was withdrawing from cycling because it ''was no longer convinced that the international professional world of cycling can make this a clean and fair sport.''
But for years, riders on the cycling team sponsored by Rabobank were linked to doping.
The former team director Theo de Rooij recently told a Dutch newspaper that while he was there, riders were allowed to arrange for their own medical care and it was their responsibility to determine ''how far they wanted to go.'' In the years that de Rooij managed the team, the Rabobank riders Thomas Dekker, Denis Menchov, Michael Boogerd and Michael Rasmussen were named in connection to doping investigations. They all denied taking any illegal substances.
Rabobank has said that things changed with the departure of de Rooij in the summer of 2007. But soon after he left, Dekker was found to have abnormal blood values, and in 2010 Menchov was caught talking to his manager about the need to have his teammates treated by a notorious doping expert. In December 2012, the international cycling union opened a doping case against Carlos Barredo, accusing him of having used performance-enhancing drugs.
''In my entire career, I never had a sponsor asking me any question about doping,'' Jaksche said. ''They are only good at covering their back, for example through contracts with built-in deniability.''
Rabobank cyclists were asked to sign a contract said that included a confidentiality clause pertaining to doping. It said that the rider ''will not at present nor in the future make any disclosure to third parties except with the explicit permission of the employer about any matter directly or indirectly tied to ... the alleged use of banned substances.''
The contract clause, Rabobank said in a statement Monday, ''is a standard clause, which is intended to prevent leakage of company secrets.''
''Rabobank Cycling Teams (now called Blanco Procycling Team) relieve employees from this confidentiality clause with respect to statements to research bodies on doping.''
This article is being published by The Times and Il Sole 24 Ore.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The U.S. Postal Service sponsored Lance Armstrong's team in the 2004 Tour de France. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LAURENT REBOURS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B11)
 Lance Armstrong, who finished 23rd in his final Tour de France in 2010, has begun confessing he doped. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BENOIT TESSIER/REUTERS) (B14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRUGS IN SPORTS (92%); CYCLING (90%); SPONSORSHIP (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); SPORTS SPONSORSHIP (78%); POSTAL SERVICE (60%)

COMPANY: TREK BICYCLE CORP (63%); ANHEUSER-BUSCH COS INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (63%); NAICS332431 METAL CAN MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS327213 GLASS CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (52%); NAICS111199 ALL OTHER GRAIN FARMING (52%)

PERSON: LANCE ARMSTRONG (94%); OPRAH WINFREY (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2013



493 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 402 words

HEADLINE: Reports Signal Rising Strength in Consumer Spending

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (Reuters) -- Retail sales rose more than expected in December, the Commerce Department said on Tuesday, as Americans shrugged off the threat of higher taxes and bought automobiles and a variety of other goods. 
The government said retail sales rose 0.5 percent last month, compared with a 0.4 percent increase, after revisions, in November. Sales in November were previously reported to have gained 0.3 percent.
Economists polled by Reuters had expected sales to rise only 0.2 percent. Sales were up 4.7 percent from December 2011 and up 5.2 percent for the whole of 2012, suggesting momentum in consumer spending as the year ended.
So-called core sales, which excludes automobiles, gasoline and building materials and corresponds most closely with the consumer spending component of gross domestic product, increased 0.6 percent after gaining 0.5 percent in November.
The second consecutive month of gains in core sales suggested that consumer spending picked up in the fourth quarter after rising at an annual pace of 1.6 percent in the July-through-September period.
The government also said on Tuesday that producer prices fell in December for the third consecutive month as food prices declined by the most in a year and a half.
The Labor Department said its seasonally adjusted Producer Price Index slipped 0.2 percent last month. Economists polled by Reuters had expected prices at farms, factories and refineries to drop 0.1 percent.
A 0.9 percent drop in food costs drove most of the December decline. Excluding volatile food and energy costs, wholesale prices rose 0.1 percent, which was in line with analysts' forecasts.
The core reading suggested that businesses were seeing little growth in price pressures. It could reinforce the outlook that modest inflation would give the Federal Reserve space to continue with easy-money policies aimed at propping up the economy.
The decline in overall prices brought 12-month inflation to 1.3 percent.
The Commerce Department also said business inventories rose modestly in November as sales increased solidly, indicating that a buildup in inventories would not add much to economic growth in the fourth quarter.
Inventories increased 0.3 percent, to a record $1.62 trillion, after rising by the same margin in October.
The gain in November was in line with economists' expectations. Automobile inventories rose 0.5 percent after increasing 0.8 percent in October.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A mall in Glendale, Calif. The government said retail sales rose more than expected last month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBYN BECK/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) CHARTS: Retail Sales: Total retail and food services sales, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Commerce Department)
 Producer Prices: Index of finished goods prices, 1982 =100, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Labor Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); RETAIL SALES (91%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); PRODUCER PRICES (90%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); FOOD PRICES (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); INVENTORIES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); WHOLESALE PRICES (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (65%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2013



494 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1015 words

HEADLINE: 2 Makers Press the Case for Electric Cars

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC; Vindu Goel contributed reporting from Detroit.

 BODY:
DETROIT -- The greenest cars on the market -- electric vehicles and plug-in hybrids -- have attracted very few buyers so far.
But instead of scaling back, major automakers are eager to bring more battery-powered models to their showrooms.
Two of the biggest producers, General Motors and Nissan, served notice at the annual Detroit auto show that they are in the electric-car business for the long haul.
G.M., the biggest American automaker, on Tuesday said it would begin production later this year of the Cadillac ELR, a luxury version of the Chevrolet Volt, the company's current extended-range plug-in hybrid sedan.
Nissan, the Japanese automaker, is taking a different approach to lift sales of its all-electric Leaf sedan. Rather than turn more upscale, it will offer a new base-model Leaf that is $6,000, or 18 percent, cheaper than the current car. 
Both strategies have the same intent -- to lure a wider range of consumers to electric cars.
''We think the Volt is very much a success story for General Motors and that the ELR will feed off that success,'' said Robert E. Ferguson, head of G.M.'s Cadillac brand.
Despite Mr. Ferguson's expression of confidence, it's debatable whether the Volt, which runs primarily on battery power but has a small gasoline engine to extend its driving range, has truly been a hit.
Last year, G.M. sold 23,000 Volts in the United States, less than 1 percent of its overall sales and well below the expectations set by the company. Much of the Volt's volume was attributed to cut-rate lease deals that made it decidedly more affordable than its $39,000 sticker price. (Volts, Leafs and other electric cars typically qualify for a $7,500 federal tax credit and sometimes state credits that lower the effective purchase price.)
''Even with $199-a-month leases, the Volt is still barely making a dent,'' said Larry Dominique, president of the auto-leasing research firm ALG. ''With gas prices moderating, it's tough to make an economic argument to buy a plug-in hybrid.''
G.M. is hopeful that its new Cadillac plug-in will attract affluent consumers who want an eco-friendly car but don't want to scrimp on luxury options like a suede interior and a powerassisted cup holder.
''There are wealthy people who don't consider price to be an obstacle when buying electric,'' said Joseph Phillippi, head of the market-research firm AutoTrends. ''In Silicon Valley, they'd write a check for the ELR without thinking about it.''
Mr. Ferguson declined to say how many ELRs that G.M. planned to build, or what the price would be. The vehicle will be built in limited numbers alongside the Volt at a plant in the Detroit area.
''We haven't decided on the price yet,'' he said. ''But the car and the value it provides will be compelling.''
Analysts said G.M. would most likely build 2,000 to 3,000 ELRs a year, which represents an incremental increase in its plug-in production.
Nissan is faced with the more serious challenge of spurring demand for the Leaf at the same time that it opens a new assembly plant for the car in Tennessee.
Last year, Nissan sold only about 9,800 Leafs in the United States, less than half of what it had originally projected. Now, with a new factory producing the car, the company needs a major increase in sales to justify the costs.
Nissan's chief executive, Carlos Ghosn, said at the Detroit show that a new, more modestly equipped Leaf would go on sale in February for $28,800, before federal and state tax credits.
That is a large reduction from the $35,000 sticker price for what previously was the car's base model.
It is rare for an auto company to slash prices so drastically. But Nissan made the move because it fell far short of its goal of increasing global sales of the Leaf by 50 percent last year.
''We got 22 percent,'' Mr. Ghosn said. ''It was a disappointment for us.''
Despite the slow sales, Mr. Ghosn has hardly backed off his belief that electric cars can account for 10 percent of all Nissan sales by 2020.
''Zero emissions are here to stay,'' he said.
G.M. and Nissan have placed the biggest bets on battery power among the major automakers. But they are not alone.
Toyota sells a plug-in model of its popular Prius hybrid sedan and an electric version its small RAV4 sport utility vehicle. Last year, the Ford Motor Company began offering an electric-powered variation of its mainstay Focus sedan, and it is planning other vehicles primarily powered by batteries.
Other new entries coming to market include small, electric cars from the Italian automaker Fiat and the German luxury-car company BMW.
Still, analysts are doubtful the market will grow much in the near term. ''It's going to be a slow increase in sales,'' said Mr. Dominique of ALG.
''G.M. is wedded to the technology, and so is Nissan. But nobody knows whether they are making any money on it.''
And while fuel efficiency in general was a prime topic at the Detroit show this week, most of the attention was on traditional, gas-powered vehicles like pickup trucks, sports cars and S.U.V.'s.
Standing out from the crowd, however, was the electric-car company Tesla Motors, which is based in California.
On Tuesday, Tesla unveiled a coming electric S.U.V. that can travel nearly 300 miles on a fully charged battery.
The Tesla Model X, which is scheduled to go on sale next year, follows the introduction in 2012 of the company's high-performance Model S sedan.
A Tesla executive, George Blankenship, declined to say how many electric cars the company had sold so far, but he forecast global sales of 20,000 for the Model S this year.
The Model S occupies a much higher price niche than the Leaf and the Volt. The car starts at just under $60,000, before tax credits, and can rise above $90,000 with the addition of extra features.
Tesla, Nissan and Ford have received hefty government energy loans to hasten the development of electric-car technology.
Mr. Blankenship said Tesla's progress could not be measured by early sales figures.
''This isn't about numbers to us -- it's about a long-term vision,'' he said. ''And our vision is to accelerate the adoption of electric vehicles.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mark Adams, a top Cadillac executive, introduced the Cadillac ELR, a luxury version of the Chevrolet Volt, on Tuesday at the Detroit auto show. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
 Analysts expect that G.M. will build 2,000 to 3,000 Cadillac ELRs a year. An executive said the company had not yet set a price. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TANNEN MAURY/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC VEHICLES (93%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (93%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (91%); AUTOMAKERS (91%); MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); SEDANS (90%); NEW CAR MODELS (79%); AUTOMOBILE LEASING (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); AFFLUENT MARKET (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (72%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%); GASOLINE PRICES (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (63%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (50%) CALIFORNIA, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2013



495 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 876 words

HEADLINE: Obama's 1-2 Punch?

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
If election campaigns are supposed to be an exercise in coming to grips with our biggest problems, then the one we just went through was a dismal failure. Our only real solution -- a strategy to reignite consistent growth so we can narrow our income gaps and lift the middle class -- never got a serious airing. Instead, each side was focused on how to secure a bigger slice of a shrinking pie for its own base. This lousy campaign produced the worst of all outcomes: President Obama won on a platform that had little to do with our core problems and is only a small part of the solution -- raising taxes on the wealthy -- so he has little incentive to rethink his strategy. And the Republicans did not lose badly enough -- they held the House -- to have to fully rethink their strategy. It does not bode well. 
In his book ''The Moral Consequences of Economic Growth,'' the Harvard economist Benjamin Friedman argues that periods of economic growth have been essential to American political progress; periods of economic prosperity were periods of greater social, political and religious harmony and tolerance. On Sunday, The Times's Annie Lowrey wrote a piece quoting Friedman who wondered aloud whether we're not now entering a reverse cycle, ''in which our absence of growth is delivering political paralysis, and the political paralysis preserves the absence of growth.''
I think he's right and that the only way to break out of this deadly cycle is with extraordinary leadership. Republicans and Democrats would have to govern in just the opposite way they ran their campaigns -- by offering bold plans that not only challenge the other's base but their own and thereby mobilizes the center, a big majority, behind their agenda, to break the deadlock. If either party does that, not only will it win the day but the country will win as well.
What would that look like? If the Republican Party had a brain it would give up on its debt-ceiling gambit and announce instead that it wants to open negotiations immediately with President Obama on the basis of his own deficit commission, the Simpson-Bowles plan. That would at least make the G.O.P. a serious opposition party again -- with a platform that might actually appeal outside its base and challenge the president in a healthy way. But the G.O.P. would have to embrace the tax reforms and spending cuts in Simpson-Bowles first. Fat chance. And that's a pity.
As for Obama, if he really wants to lead, he will have to finally trust the American people with the truth. I'd love to see him use his Jan. 21 Inaugural Address and his Feb. 12 State of the Union Message as a one-two punch to do just that -- offer a detailed, honest diagnosis and then a detailed, honest prescription.
On the diagnosis side, Obama needs to explain to Americans the world in which they're now living. It's a world in which the increasing velocity of globalization and the Information Technology revolution are reshaping every job, workplace and industry. As a result, the mantra that if you ''just work hard and play by the rules'' you should expect a middle-class lifestyle is no longer operable. Today you need to work harder and smarter, learn and re-learn faster and longer to be in the middle class. The high-wage, middle-skilled job is a thing of the past. Today's high-wage or decent-wage jobs all require higher skills, passion or curiosity. Government's job is to help provide citizens with as many lifelong learning opportunities as possible to hone such skills.
In the State of the Union, I'd love to see Obama lay out a detailed plan for tax reform, spending cuts and investments -- to meet the real scale of our problem and spur economic growth. We'll get much more bang for our buck by deciding now what we're going to do in all three areas, and signaling markets that we are putting in place a truly balanced approach, but gradually phasing it in. If you tell investors and savers that we're going to put our fiscal house in order with a credible plan, but one that is gradually phased in, all the money now sitting on the sidelines paralyzed by uncertainty will get off the sidelines and we'll have a real stimulus.
As for investment, I'd love to see the president launch us on an aspirational journey. My choice would be to connect every home and business in America to the Internet at one gigabit per second, or about 200 times faster than our current national household average, in five years. In an age when mining big data will be a huge industry, when online lifelong learning will be a vital necessity, and when we can't stimulate our way to prosperity but have to invent our way there, no project would be more relevant.
I still believe that America's rich and the middle classes would pay more taxes and trim entitlements if they thought it was for a plan that was fair, would truly address our long-term fiscal imbalances and set America on a journey of renewal that would ensure our kids have a crack at the American dream. Then again, I may be wrong. Maybe my baby-boomer generation really does intend to eat it all and leave our kids a ticking debt bomb. If only we had a second-term president, unencumbered by ever having to run again, who was ready to test what really bold leadership might produce.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); POLITICS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); DEBT CEILING (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); TAX LAW (69%); TAX REFORM (68%); RELIGION (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2013



496 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 514 words

HEADLINE: Goldman Bonuses Won't Be Timed to Ease a Tax

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER

 BODY:
LONDON - Goldman Sachs decided on Tuesday that it would not delay the payment of bonuses to its staff in Britain, a move that would have helped investment bankers and other highly paid employees benefit from a lower income tax rate. 
The decision was made as lawmakers criticized banks that were considering paying bonuses later than usual. The top tax rate in Britain is scheduled to drop to 45 percent from 50 percent on April 6.
Goldman Sachs's compensation committee had considered delaying the bonus payments but decided at its meeting on Tuesday not to proceed, said a person with direct knowledge of the decision, who declined to be identified because the meeting was not public. Goldman Sachs is scheduled to report fourth-quarter earnings on Wednesday and usually announces the size of the annual bonuses to its staff soon afterward.
Even the consideration of such a move had threatened to become another public relations problem for the banking industry. Top executives had pledged to try to improve their reputations, which were tarnished by the financial crisis.
Goldman Sachs was already drawing scrutiny in the United States after it distributed $65 million in stock to 10 senior executives in December instead of January, when the company typically makes such awards. The move helped the executives avoid the higher marginal tax rates that will now be imposed on income of $450,000 or more.
Mervyn King, the governor of the Bank of England, told a parliamentary committee on Tuesday morning that even though a delay in bonus payments was not illegal, it was "a bit depressing that people who earn so much seem to think that it's even more exciting to adjust the timing of it."
Sajid Javid, a Treasury minister in Britain, called Goldman Sachs this week to urge it not to delay the payments, a person briefed on the discussion said.
The British government announced last year that it would scrap the 50 percent top tax rate for income above 150,000, or about $238,000, which was introduced by the last Labour government to help reduce the budget deficit. George Osborne, the chancellor of the Exchequer, had called the tax "cripplingly uncompetitive" because it cost jobs and did not raise any money.
A spokeswoman for Goldman Sachs declined to comment.
Mr. King said that investment bankers were privileged because a lot of their compensation was made up of bonuses, which the banks can decide to pay whenever they want. But he also said that delaying bonuses to benefit from the coming tax cut "would be rather clumsy and lacking in care and attention to how other people might react."
"In the long run, financial institutions, like all large institutions, do depend on good will from the rest of society," he said. "They can't just exist on their own."
Earlier, several Labour Party politicians criticized the banking industry for considering a delay of bonus payments. John Mann, of the Labour Party, said such a step would be an "opportunistic money grab," The Financial Times reported on Monday.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mervyn King, the Bank of England governor, called it ''a bit depressing'' that such bonus earners found it ''even more exciting to adjust the timing of it.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN MCDERMID/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONUS PAY (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); TAX LAW (77%); TAX RELIEF (77%); INCOME TAX (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (67%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); BANK OF ENGLAND (54%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (54%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE OSBORNE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%) UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2013



497 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 

LENGTH: 732 words

HEADLINE: Nationalists or Islamists?

BYLINE: By PETER RUTLAND

 BODY:
WESTERN powers were taken by surprise by the sudden emergence of an Islamist regime in northern Mali, and are scrambling to understand what has transpired there. Increasingly, the narrative is one of militant Islam. But the core of the conflict is the nationalist secession movement of the Tuareg people -- one that in recent months has been hijacked by Islamist radicals.
In the Cold War, the West had a hard time separating out communism from nationalism. That failure led to a string of disastrous interventions, from Cuba to Vietnam. It was easier to see leaders such as Fidel Castro and Ho Chi Minh as tools of Moscow than try to deal with their legitimate nationalist demands. 
The same mistake is now being made in the ''war on terror.'' For many years the international community largely ignored the demands for self-determination by the Tuaregs who inhabit the northern half of Mali, known as Azawad. The Tuaregs are nomadic pastoralists who number about 1.5 million and speak Tamashek, one of the Berber languages. They are ethnically distinct from Arabs, who make up the nations to the north, and the Africans who inhabit southern Mali and control the national government.
Across Africa and the Middle East, Western powers supported the post-colonial state with economic and military aid, which more often than not was used to crush self-determination movements by ethnic minorities. Some of these were well-known, such as the Kurds; others were more or less invisible to Western eyes, such as the Berbers and Tuaregs in North Africa.
Mali achieved independence from France in 1960, and the first Tuareg uprising broke out in 1962. A second rebellion in 1990 resulted in the 1991 Tamanrasset Accords promising the Tuaregs self-government, which were abandoned by the Malian authorities. After 2001 the United States stepped up its military aid to the Malian government in the name of the war on terror, though this assistance could have been just as easily used to crush Tuareg rebels as against Islamist radicals.
The third Tuareg rebellion, which broke out in 2006, was complicated by the rise of Al Qaeda in the Islamic Magreb (AQIM), meaning that there was now a three-way struggle among Islamists, Tuareg nationalists and the Malian state.
At first the Tuaregs and Malians formed an alliance against the Islamists, but in 2011 the Tuaregs switched sides and aligned with the Islamists. A new Islamist movement emerged, Ansar Dine, led by Iyad Ag Ghali, who had been one of the leaders of the 1990 and 2006 Tuareg revolts.
October 2011 saw an influx of Tuareg fighters and Islamist radicals from Libya following the defeat of the Qaddafi regime. A new unified National Movement for the Liberation of Azawad (MNLA) was formed, and it started an all-out war against the Malian government in January 2012.
After a string of military victories, they achieved in a few weeks the goal that had eluded them for decades -- the expulsion of the Malian Army from northern Mali. The humiliation of the Malian armed forces led to a coup in March that brought down the democratically elected president, Amadou Toumani Tour. The independence of Azawad was declared on April 6, 2012.
However, Ansar Dine and some smaller jihadist groups turned on the MNLA -- a contest in which they had the advantage of economic and military support from the transnational Islamist network. They imposed harsh Shariah rule on the towns under their control, causing at least 400,000 residents to flee.
It was their continued advance south -- to spread Islamist rule, not to secure independence for the Tuaregs -- that triggered French military action this past weekend after months of efforts by the African Union had failed to organize a military intervention to deal with the problem.
The position of the U.S. government (and the African Union) is still to ignore the Tuareg independence movement and instead call for democracy and reconciliation within a unified Mali. This despite the fact that previous attempts to form power-sharing governments repeatedly broke down due to failure to protect the rights of the Tuaregs.
At this stage, however, it might be too late for the Western forces that are entering the fray to distinguish and win over the moderate nationalists within the Tuareg ranks.
Peter Rutland is a professor of government at Wesleyan University. He blogs about nationalism at www.nationalismwatch.com.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); TERRORISM (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (88%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); AL-QAEDA (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (77%); COLD WAR (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); RELIGION (77%); WAR ON TERROR (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); ETHNIC GROUPS (67%); ETHNICITY (50%)

PERSON: FIDEL CASTRO (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MALI (97%); AFRICA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); FRANCE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2013



498 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 

LENGTH: 869 words

HEADLINE: France to the Rescue

BYLINE: By FRANOIS HEISBOURG

 BODY:
PARIS -- On Jan. 11, French military forces entered Mali, taking and inflicting casualties in a war as sudden as it is important.
Even at this early stage, broadly applicable lessons can be drawn from the conflict. Although the future course of the fighting is laden with risks, skillful diplomacy can turn it into a major opportunity in the struggle against international terrorism.
The French intervention was prompted by the combined offensive towards Bamako, the capital of Mali, of the three jihadi organizations which seized control of the northern half of the country last year. This unforeseen attack prompted the president of Mali to ask France for immediate help. 
One lesson, as old as the history of war, but as often forgotten, is that one should not expect one's enemy to cooperate. The general assumption had been that the jihadis would not move until a Western-trained African force was ready to free northern Mali next fall.
Given the situation on the ground, only an instantaneous counterstrike could have prevented the jihadis from seizing the capital within days. Were Bamako to fall, Mali could form the basis of what some call ''Sahelistan'' -- a safe haven for terrorist fighters akin to pre-9/11 Afghanistan, with a similar threat potential to both the region and to the West, notably Europe.
Although French forces garrisoned in West Africa did not possess the latest in combat aircraft, speed was deemed to be of the essence. High stakes entailed high risks. It was only later that state-of-the-art Rafale jets and Tiger helicopters started being sent to the theater of operations.
The French have blocked and smashed one of the jihadi columns, while the other arm of the jihadi pincer attack is being dealt with at the time of this writing.
Another consideration was the crucial importance of effective in-place forces and the political decision-making enabling their prompt release. France is one of only a handful of countries which has that speed of reaction.
This in turn confirms another lesson, drawn by Donald Rumsfeld (admittedly Europe's least favorite American politician) after 9/11: it is the mission that makes the coalition.
The cast of France's military supporters ranges from the Economic Community of West African States (Ecowas) to the United States, and many in between. But NATO as such is absent -- as is, for the time being, the European Union. The E.U. in particular has proven yet again that the words ''speed and urgency'' don't figure in its lexicon.
Finally, the capability gaps that became evident in the war in Libya continue to bedevil the French -- in-flight refueling and strategic reconnaissance (notably in terms of drones) are a big problem and U.S. help in these areas is always appreciated.
For the time being, the war poses few political problems. Domestic support in France is broad, and the French president is enjoying what I've called ''springtime in Hollande.''
Behind a world-weary faade, the French support their soldiers, revile terrorism and accept casualties if the mission is seen as just and achievable. The United Nations Security Council and the African Union have been supportive, as have all of France's allies.
But such popularity has a due date. If operations drag on and casualties pile up to no obvious advantage, the mood will sour. In the case of Mali, several conditions have to be met simultaneously to avoid an Afghanistan-style outcome.
First, the number of French soldiers must not increase beyond the 2,500 now being deployed in Mali, and their prime function should be to fight the jihadis, not to occupy territory.
Holding territory should be the responsibility of Mali and Ecowas troops from neighboring countries, supported by training and assistance from the West.
Second, the momentum of the current fighting should be sustained. Far from their logistical bases, the jihadi columns (with some 150 vehicles each) are being savaged. As Al Qaeda's affiliates and their jihadi allies try to head back to the Sahara, they should not be allowed to recover.
In other words, the remaining weeks of the dry season should involve risk-taking by ground forces and air operations in order to break the enemy in the north.
That will entail some serious diplomatic footwork to ensure that this is seen as Africa's war, supported by France and others, rather than a remake of Afghanistan.
Just as importantly, Algeria's cooperation must be secured. By accepting the overflight of its territory by French combat aircraft and closing its border with Mali, Algiers has displayed a new spirit in the international fight against cross-border terrorism.
If confirmed, this shift could be critical, as the retreating jihadis get caught between the hammer of French and African intervention and the anvil of Algeria's combat helicopters and desert fighters. However, such a stance will come with a price for French diplomacy, with its policy of choosing Morocco in its perennial standoff with Algeria.
President Franois Hollande, as commander-in-chief, has proven that he can act decisively. Now comes a severe test of political and diplomatic skill.
Franois Heisbourg is special adviser at the Fondation pour la Recherche Stratgique, a Paris-based think-tank.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); TERRORISM (76%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (76%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); COUNTERTERRORISM (76%); EUROPEAN UNION (74%); HELICOPTERS (64%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (89%) FRANCE (98%); MALI (95%); EUROPE (93%); WESTERN AFRICA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFRICA (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (77%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2013



499 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE 30-MINUTE INTERVIEW; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: David T. Ennis

BYLINE: By VIVIAN MARINO

 BODY:
Mr. Ennis, 44, is the founder and president of the Daten Group, a real estate development and consulting company based in New York. Before starting the company in 2001, he worked as a financial analyst for the Blumenfeld Development Group.
Interview conducted and condensed by 
VIVIAN MARINO
Q. The company name ''Daten'' comes from your own name, right?
A. It's a little bit of a puzzle, and some people are like, ''David, I'm not seeing it.'' But people who are good visually look at my name and they see it right away.
Q. So what kind of year was 2012 for Daten?
A. 2012 was an amazing year. It was a year of growth. The market actually took off and exceeded our expectations, which toward the end of the year made it harder to acquire new projects because it got so hot. Good for the properties we own and bad for finding and buying hidden gems.
Q. Will you be shifting your search then to areas outside New York City?
A. We're going to look in different places. Our latest acquisition is three parcels in White Plains, which is an emerging market. It's a submarket of the New York City market and it has great train transportation into the city. We bought three vacant parcels to build three residential buildings there.
Q. Where does that project stand?
A. It's three separate locations within five minutes of each other. They're all around the downtown White Plains area that's been redeveloped.
We closed on the first parcel about a few weeks ago; we're buying the second parcel in a month; and the third parcel we'll close on in the next three months. We'll start construction on all three -- to do a combined 100 units over the three parcels of moderate-to-luxury residential rental -- in July.
The rents there will be $2,000 to $3,000, depending on the size unit.
Q. Daten seems focused on residential these days.
A. Yes. It's 75 to 80 percent residential.
Q. What's the status of your project at 72 Poplar Street in Brooklyn?
A. Fourteen family-size condos. This property was vacant for about two decades -- it was a former police precinct. We bought it in 2011.
The first 12 months after acquisition was about getting approvals, and then we ultimately got our permits and started construction in July 2012.
We're taking off an entire floor -- it's a three-story building -- lowering it and rebuilding the third floor and then adding a fourth and fifth.
Plus, we're turning a detached garage on the property into a three-story town house.
Q. The station house is historic.
A. The existing building was built in 1912 and it's quite a presence on that street. We're going to restore the facade in the traditional character that it was built and the interiors will be a modern reflection of this very storied building.
Q. How will you price the condominium units?
A. Based on where the market is at and comparables around the corner, the pricing is going to be north of $1,000 a square foot -- which is completely impressive in how Brooklyn has evolved.
Q. Where do you stand with your building at 1462 Second Avenue?
A. We bought that in February 2011. It's currently under renovation. We're creating Euro-style apartments in a five-story walk-up to make it a boutique, funky building, bringing a little bit of downtown flavor to the Upper East Side. There will be eight residential rentals.
It was a 60-year hardware store that closed down in the recession, so we're completely renovating it and bringing in the Meatball Shop. They're going to be open in March and the apartments will be done in March as well. They're large one-bedrooms. We're reinvigorating old-style railroad apartments, repurposing them.
Q. Do you have anything else in the pipeline?
A. We're actively looking at several other projects in Brooklyn, Lower Manhattan and even Queens for acquisitions. We're looking in Long Island City and all the way out east.
Q. You started out in Miami. Would you ever consider investing there again?
A. I've looked in Miami and I've been asked to invest in development projects in South Beach. I'd say it's 50-50: of the projects I passed on, half were successful and the other 50 percent tanked. That's the Florida market, and that's why you have to be really careful.
That's what I love about the New York market -- if you buy it right, our feeling is New York is a sure market.
Q. Were you always interested in real estate?
A. I was either going to be an airplane pilot or go into real estate -- I decided that at the age of 13. So I started taking flying lessons at about 13 years old. A neighbor owned the plane, so he taught me how to fly.
I never got my license because I decided to go into real estate.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2013



500 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1111 words

HEADLINE: In Debt Game, An Early Move From Obama

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

 BODY:
In a high-stakes negotiation, the most important moves often come not in the end game but at the very start, when one side or the other prevails in defining what is on the table. If you listened closely, you might have heard President Obama try to do just that in his news conference on Monday, when he suggested that Washington will have tamed the government's debt problems if the two parties can agree on another $1.5 trillion or so in spending cuts and tax increases.
Fiscal hawks and small-government conservatives say the White House is setting the bar for fiscal responsibility way too low and just kicking the can down the road again on hard decisions that will only become more painful as time goes by. But Mr. Obama appeared intent on establishing that he was just one more deal away from putting the government back on sound footing, if only Republicans would go along.
His numbers are relatively straightforward. During his re-election campaign he committed himself to $4 trillion in deficit reduction over 10 years - he referred to that figure on Monday as the "consensus" on what is necessary "to stabilize our debt and deficit" - including savings he and Congress had already agreed to. Altogether, they have enacted roughly $2.5 trillion in budget cuts and tax increases so far. 
At around $4 trillion in deficit reduction, the United States would have a good shot at achieving what Mr. Obama and a growing number of Democrats consider to be a politically plausible and economically meaningful outcome: holding the national debt steady for a decade or so at under 75 percent of gross domestic product. (As recently as last summer the Congressional Budget Office was projecting a debt-to-G.D.P. ratio climbing into the 80s by the end of this decade if the government did not act to cut spending further and raise more tax revenue.)
Banking that last $1.5 trillion in budget savings would no doubt be achieved only after considerable partisan warfare, and the task will be that much tougher because it is tied up in the showdown over whether Congress will raise the debt ceiling. But if the president can threaten, cajole and compromise his way to one more big deficit-reduction pact, the job of putting the nation's fiscal house in order, in his telling, would be more or less complete.
Best of all, from a Democratic perspective, reaching that goal would not require immediate deep cuts to Medicare or Social Security or a fundamental rethinking of the social welfare compact.
"If we combine a balanced package of savings from spending on health care and revenues from closing loopholes, we can solve the deficit issue without sacrificing our investments in things like education that are going to help us grow," he said, referring to his existing proposals for modest trims to Medicare and tax-code changes that would generate more revenue from the wealthy.
"Solve" might be too strong a term for the impact on the nation's fiscal challenges, and there are a lot of technical assumptions in Mr. Obama's numbers that might prove overly optimistic. But if the United States does not suffer another deep recession, reaching $4 trillion in deficit reduction could buy Washington a decade or so to experiment with ways to curb the main driver of fiscal pressures - rising health care costs. The two parties might be able to nurture greater consensus during that period on whether or how to reshape the entitlement programs to make them sustainable for decades to come. And if the country was especially lucky, a burst of economic growth could wipe away some portion of the remaining long-term problem.
But Mr. Obama's effort to define success on his terms is coming up against two primary counterarguments as the White House and Congress hurtle toward the next budget showdown in coming weeks.
Fiscal hawks - those most concerned with the potential economic and financial impact of chronic deficits - say Mr. Obama's approach is merely a short-term patch, sufficient only to create a 10-year illusion that the nation has made the hard decisions necessary to maintain long-term solvency. In their view, bolder action is needed now to assure that the debt does not spiral out of control in the following decade as the full costs of providing for an aging population put vastly greater strains on the government's finances.
"Getting some of the easier reforms is not victory, not even close," said Maya MacGuineas, president of the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget and the leader of Fix the Debt, advocacy groups dedicated to greater budget austerity. "I'm incredibly worried about the argument that we don't need to do anything more quickly."
Then there are the small-government conservatives. They want lower deficits, but they also want to lead the nation to a philosophical shift away from what they see as a society too dependent on entitlements and an economy being suffocated by the growth of government.
"Government can't solve our problems," said Chris Chocola, president of the Club for Growth, a conservative advocacy group. "We can't tax our way out of this. We need to structurally reform the way we do things."
The limits of Mr. Obama's case are laid out in a recent report from the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a liberal research organization. The center's report calculated that Congress and Mr. Obama could stabilize the debt at 73 percent of G.D.P. by later in this decade by agreeing on another $1.2 trillion in tax increases and/or spending cuts (a change that would also yield an additional $200 billion in savings over a decade by reducing what the government would otherwise have to pay in interest on the debt).
Stabilizing the debt during periods of economic growth, the report said, is the "minimum appropriate budget policy," since any nation needs to maintain the flexibility to borrow when times get tough. At 73 percent, the ratio would still be higher than the level recommended for healthy industrial economies by institutions like the International Monetary Fund; the Bowles Simpson report two years ago recommended policy changes that would have put the debt ratio on a declining path for decades to come. And even achieving stability at 73 percent would be a temporary victory.
"In ensuing decades, the aging of America's population and projected increases in per-capita health care costs - which are likely to rise faster than per-capita G.D.P. - will put considerable pressure on federal health and retirement programs," the center's report said, "returning the budget to an unsustainable path of rising debt as a share of the economy."
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''We can solve the deficit issue'' with savings and revenues, the president said on Monday. But ''solve'' can be a relative term. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); DEBT CEILING (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); SOCIAL SECURITY (75%); BUDGET CUTS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); MEDICARE (71%); BUDGET FORECASTS (65%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2013



501 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1196 words

HEADLINE: A Fight Over Historic Preservation Brews in Art Deco Country

BYLINE: By LIZETTE ALVAREZ

 BODY:
MIAMI BEACH -- When South Beach was little more than a forlorn chunk of beachfront property, preservationists clung to the idea that the faded, often derelict pastel buildings lining the streets were too precious to knock down.
Their campaign to preserve the area's fanciful Art Deco buildings ushered in one of the country's most successful urban revivals. Years later, South Beach is still a juggernaut.
Preservationists are now pushing hard to bolster historic preservation laws, a move that has ruffled wealthy property owners (and potential buyers) and stepped up pressure on local commissioners who are reluctant to wade into the politically precarious battle.
''We have reached a tipping point on Miami Beach where we are losing entirely too many pre-1942 single-family homes,'' said William H. Cary, the assistant planning director for Miami Beach and the former preservation director for the New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission. ''It appears it could begin to have a dramatic impact in changing the character of Miami Beach's residential areas.'' 
While it had been brewing on and off for years, the campaign by preservationists to better protect these Miami Beach homes was abruptly set in motion last month by the planned demolition of one especially notable house: a gleaming white neo-Classical house, built in 1925 by Walter DeGarmo, a prominent Miami architect of the era, that sits on the aptly named Star Island and exudes old Florida grandeur.
It does not hurt the preservationists' cause that the house's new owners carry splashy names in South Florida social circles. Dr. Leonard M. Hochstein, a well-known plastic surgeon, and his wife, Lisa, a Canadian model and one of the ''Real Housewives of Miami,'' took control of the waterfront house last year, sight unseen, in a foreclosure proceeding. They paid $7.6 million.
After sending an engineer to inspect the house, the Hochsteins decided that it was too deteriorated and outmoded to renovate. Instead, they submitted design plans to the City of Miami Beach to raze the house, as many property owners do, and build a 20,000-square-foot home, with six bedrooms, seven bathrooms, a game room and wine cellar, among other amenities. Applications of this sort are common in Miami Beach.
''That's when the fireworks started,'' Dr. Hochstein said.
When the Miami Design Preservation League, which led the movement to keep Art Deco hotels in South Beach from the rubble pile, heard about the demolition application last month, a member filed a request to designate the house at 42 Star Island Drive as historic. The designation would help protect the house, which is near the homes of Gloria Estefan and Sean Combs.
The request was unusual. Historic designation of private homes is typically sought by a homeowner who prizes the design and wants to benefit from tax deductions meant to encourage preservation. But, in this case, preservation league members felt compelled to stop the expected demolition of a ''crown jewel on that chain of islands,'' said Michael D. Kinerk, chairman emeritus of the league.
Dr. Hochstein, though, said he felt ambushed by the preservationists, particularly because the city does not have the power to stop the demolitions of nonhistoric homes. Dr. Hochstein said that he was distressed by the personal tenor of the fight and that the preservationists are capitalizing on the couple's celebrity to make a larger point.
''The house is not habitable, and renovating it, while keeping the shell, is also not possible,'' Dr. Hochstein said. ''It's not a home that can be preserved.''
He added, ''If this home was a historic home, I wouldn't have bought it. To go and try to do this after the fact, against my will, is really unsettling.''
The house, he said, sits well below the flood plain and has severe structural problems. It does not comply with strict hurricane regulations. It has cloth wiring, no air-conditioning and no plumbing on the second floor. And because it was built to maximize sea breezes, the house is long and narrow, with one room tumbling into the next.
Dr. Hochstein said he reached 22 of the 32 homeowners on the island, and none objected to the house's demolition, considering its state of disrepair. Meanwhile, he continues to negotiate with the city's Design Review Board, which oversees the construction of houses, about the new home and whether a portion of the old house can be saved.
The city is expected to make a decision on 42 Star Island in February.
''This is not Vizcaya,'' he said, referring to a historic Miami estate that is now a museum. ''This is a residential home. It is a private home, a huge difference.''
Preservationists said that the recent increase in the number of demolition applications for important pre-World War II homes has underscored the need to change the law. Demolition permits have been issued for 24 of these homes in the past year. By comparison, only 13 permits were given out from 2007 to 2011. More are pending. At the moment, the city's Design Review Board cannot block a permit to demolish single-family home unless it has been declared historic; it can only approve the design of a new home.
Tax incentives put in place in 2002 meant to encourage homeowners to ask for historic designation and preserve their houses are no longer working. That is because, in recent years, Miami Beach has drawn increasingly wealthy owners who are building increasingly large houses. The recession did not slow the pace of these renovations.
''Now, you have so many people coming in with so much money, they are saying we don't need to be bothered with that,'' said Jeff Donnelly, the public historian for the Miami Design Preservation League. ''Incentives are not working anymore. We are not saying that every single property should be designated historic, but there should be a public process to determine it.''
With the pressure on, Miami Beach commissioners are expected to consider whether to strengthen historic preservation laws and allow residential historic districts. First, though, the community must weigh in. A similar effort begun a decade ago foundered under the hefty opposition of developers, real estate brokers and some residents.
Still, Miami Beach residents are generally in favor of preservation, despite the few homes designated historic. They recognize that it was the preservation of the city's Art Deco and Moderne architecture that stoked Miami Beach's popularity and economic boom. In November, residents voted 61 percent in favor of a measure that would require a referendum to weaken preservation laws and the city's preservation boards.
''Our historic architecture defines our city,'' Mr. Kinerk said. ''We have very strong preservation laws in Miami Beach, and it has done nothing but benefit the city. Nobody can dispute this.''
But the task, when it comes to individual homes and property rights, is far from simple.
''There has to be substantial public support for it, and it's going to be tough, yes, because development pressures and the level of wealth are so great,'' said Mr. Cary, the assistant planning director. ''Many residents feel they should have the right to demolish their homes; they own it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Dr. Leonard M. Hochstein and his wife, Lisa, paid $7.6 million for 42 Star Island Drive in a foreclosure proceeding last year. They want to raze the house to build a 20,000-square-foot replacement. (A11)
 A sign outside 42 Star Island Drive in Miami Beach announced a public hearing on the proposed demolition of the house. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JASON HENRY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); HISTORIC SITES (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); BEACHES (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); FORECLOSURE (73%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2013



502 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1163 words

HEADLINE: When Public Outperforms Private In Services

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER. 
E-mail: eporter@nytimes.com; Twitter: @portereduardo

 BODY:
Few corporate sagas capture the virtues and vices of state-owned companies and private enterprise better than the drama of BP's roller-coaster ride between failure and success.
Ten years ago, BP was the darling of the energy world -- the unprofitable duckling transformed by privatization under the government of Margaret Thatcher into a highly profitable swan.
The London civil servants of the 1960s and '70s who all but ignored profitability as they issued directives across British Petroleum's bloated corporate network were replaced by highly motivated managers who were rewarded for cutting costs, reducing risk and making money. The company's more incongruous businesses -- food production and uranium mines, for instance -- were sold. Payroll was cut by more than half. Oil reserves jumped. The time it took to drill a deepwater well plummeted. Profits soared. 
But then, in 2005, a BP refinery in Texas City blew up, killing 15 and injuring around 170. In 2006, a leak in a BP pipeline spilled hundreds of thousands of gallons of oil in Prudhoe Bay, Alaska. And in 2010, an explosion on the Deepwater Horizon oil rig killed 11 and resulted in the biggest offshore oil spill in the history of the United States. These days, BP's stock trades about 25 percent below where it was before the disaster off the coast of Louisiana, about the same place it was a decade ago.
BP's bumpy ride is recorded in ''The Org: The Underlying Logic of the Office,'' a compelling new book by Ray Fisman, a professor at Columbia Business School, and Tim Sullivan, the editorial director of Harvard Business Review Press. ''The Org'' aims to explain why organizations -- be they private companies or government agencies -- work the way they do.
The book offers telling insight on a topic that has ebbed and flowed across the world over the last 30 years, as governments of all stripes have set out to privatize state-owned enterprises and outsource services -- what does the private sector do better than government, and what does it do worse? Long dormant in the United States, the debate has acquired new urgency as governments from Washington to statehouses and city halls around the country consider privatizing everything from Medicare to the management of state parks as a possible solution to their budget woes. One of the authors' chief insights is that every organization faces trade-offs -- inherent conflicts between competing objectives. The challenge is to manage them. This is way more difficult than it sounds.
While in government hands, British Petroleum paid too little attention to profitability, constrained by its need to please elected officials who often cared more about keeping energy cheap and employment high. But in private hands, it may have cared about profits far too much, at the expense of other objectives. ''BP veered from being a company that made sure nothing blew up to one focusing on cost-cutting at all costs,'' Professor Fisman said.
The success or failure of an organization often depends on whether it can clearly identify its goals and align the interests of managers and employees to serve them. Yet whatever reward structure an organization picks can skew incentives in an undesirable way.
''The Org'' tells us of the sociologist Peter Moskos, who joined the Baltimore police force to study police behavior. The police hierarchy demanded arrests, so police officers arrested people: 20,000 in one year in the Eastern District alone, out of a local population of 45,000. One officer set a record by locking up people for violating bicycle regulations. Unsurprisingly, perhaps, Baltimore's murder rate continued to climb.
''The more we reward those things that we can measure, and not reward the things we care about but don't measure, the more we will distort behavior,'' observed Burton Weisbrod, a professor of economics at Northwestern University who was a pioneer in research on the comparative behavior of nonprofit institutions, corporations and government organizations. As Professor Fisman and Mr. Sullivan put it: ''If what gets measured is what gets managed, then what gets managed is what gets done.''
Rewarding teachers for how well their students perform on standard math and reading tests will encourage lots of teaching of reading and math, at the expense of other things an education might provide. Private prison operators who bid for government contracts by offering the lowest cost per inmate will most likely focus on cutting costs rather than tightening security. Unsupervised apple pickers who are paid by the apple will probably pick them off the ground.
This insight is important to the debate over the competence of public and private organizations because it underscores a significant difference in how they meet their goals. Profit is one of the most potent incentives known to man -- a powerful tool to align managers' interests with corporate goals. But it also has drawbacks. With earnings as the overriding, nonnegotiable priority, private enterprise often has little wiggle room to handle the tension between conflicting objectives.
There are instances in which privatization can help achieve broad social goals. After Argentina privatized many of its municipal water supply systems in the 1990s, investment soared, the network expanded into previously underserved poor areas and the number of children dying of infectious and parasitic diseases tumbled. (Most water companies were nonetheless renationalized by a later government.)
Still, our recent memory of mortgage banks blindly offering risky mortgages to shaky borrowers and bundling them into complex bonds to sell to unwary investors should dispel the notion that the profit motive inevitably aligns incentives in a socially desirable way.
The pursuit of financial rewards, by private companies or even nonprofit organizations, can directly undermine public policy goals.
A recent study found that private universities and colleges collect higher fees from poor students who receive Pell Grants, absorbing over half the value of federal aid. Public colleges, by contrast, do not discriminate against those who get aid.
This suggests a good rule of thumb to determine when a private company will outperform the public sector: if the task is clear-cut and it's possible to define concrete goals and reward those who meet them, the private sector will probably do better. ''If I can write a perfect contract in which I pay for a concrete observable outcome, can rule out cream-skimming and can ensure the measure is not gamed, there is no reason that the private sector can't do it better,'' Professor Fisman said.
But if the objectives are complex and diffuse -- making it difficult to align profit with goals without undermining some other desirable outcome -- the profit motive could well make conflicts more difficult to manage. In these cases, privatization is probably not the best solution. In their rush to save money by outsourcing services, governments might forget that.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The remnants of a BP refinery in Texas City after a 2005 explosion. BP had a string of accidents after its privatization. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WILLIAM PHILPOTT/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL SPILLS (90%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PRIVATIZATION (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (78%); MEDICARE (76%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (75%); BUDGETS (75%); OIL EXTRACTION (75%); OUTSOURCING (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); STATE PARKS (68%); WRITERS (64%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (58%); URANIUM MINING (54%)

COMPANY: BP PLC (92%)

TICKER: BP (NYSE) (92%); BP (LSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (92%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (92%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (92%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY W SULLIVAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%) ALASKA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2013



503 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1106 words

HEADLINE: Amazon Drives Seattle Office Market Surge

BYLINE: By KRISTINA SHEVORY

 BODY:
If the strength of Seattle's office market could be chalked up to one company, it would be Amazon.
Last year, the online retailer was responsible for the city's biggest deal, its largest lease and the purchase of the only large chunk of downtown land to come on the market in decades. Amazon bought its 1.8-million-square-foot headquarters last month from Vulcan Real Estate for $1.16 billion, the biggest office sale nationwide and a bold departure for a company that had been content to rent space until last year.
And it's not done yet. Although Amazon leases or owns 2.7 million square feet of space in Seattle, the online retailer plans to more than double that figure when it breaks ground on three office towers of its own on the northern fringe of downtown this year. Amazon did not return calls seeking comment.
Amazon's flurry of activity has led to rent increases and a drop in office vacancy and has inspired confidence in the market. Other companies, largely led by technology firms, have shaved the vacancy rate to 10.7 percent at the end of last year, from 12.4 percent in the fourth quarter of 2011, according to Kidder Mathews, a commercial real estate brokerage. 
The biggest vacancy decrease has been in South Lake Union, an area north of downtown where Amazon's stake in the neighborhood has drawn other companies looking for large floorplates and new buildings. In the last three years, about half of Seattle's net absorption, or the amount of space companies leased and occupied, was in South Lake Union, where the vacancy rate fell to 5.4 percent from 9.3 percent, according to CBRE, a commercial real estate brokerage.
''We're seeing a lot of companies that want to be closer to Amazon and that synergy, whether they do business with Amazon or not,'' said Jesse Ottele, a senior vice president at CBRE in Seattle.
A tighter office market has pushed up rents across the city. The average rent rose to $29.19 a square foot at the end of last year, from $27.80 in the fourth quarter of 2011, according to Kidder Mathews. With few large blocks of Class A office space available and little new space expected to reach the market soon, brokers expect rents to go even higher this year.
Developers are now talking about building again -- even without a tenant. Eight million square feet of office space are in the works across the city, with more than half planned or under construction in South Lake Union, according to CBRE. Residential developers will also open 5,800 units this year, the most in decades, according to Dupre & Scott Apartment Advisors, a research firm.
Vulcan Real Estate is betting more companies will want to move to South Lake Union. Although the developer, which owns 30 percent of the land there, has built more than five million square feet of space in the last decade, it has up to seven million square feet of space left that it can build. This year, Vulcan is breaking ground on two office buildings leased to Amazon and a life-sciences research building. If the City Council raises height limits in the neighborhood this spring, Vulcan may move ahead with plans for two more office buildings and three 24-story residential towers.
''We're now looking to position ourselves for a recovering economy and teeing up speculative buildings,'' said Ada Healey, a vice president at Vulcan Real Estate. ''We want to be in a situation to take advantage of 2013.''
Other developers are also moving ahead in anticipation of the height rezoning. After purchasing blocks in South Lake Union in the last year and a half, Touchstone and Skanska, a Swedish development and construction company, submitted permits for three office buildings, for a total of 1.1 million square feet, that would exceed current limits. Company executives said they would consider building without a signed tenant.
''Sometime around mid-2012, we saw rents for Class A office that justified new construction,'' said Lisa Picard, executive vice president of Skanska USA Commercial Development in Seattle. ''The project is ready to start. We'll look at the supply and demand of the market and decide whether to go.''
Seattle appears to be at the top of many investors' shopping lists. The Urban Land Institute ranked the city as fourth-best in the country for office buildings thanks to its projected job growth of 1.2 percent and its roster of expanding brand-name companies like Starbucks, Nordstrom and Boeing. Real estate investors, who are looking for steady returns, have flocked to Seattle for its stable and growing companies.
''The capital followed the fundamentals,'' said Kevin Shannon, CBRE's vice chairman in Los Angeles. ''Seattle and San Francisco were the two stars in West Coast markets. A couple of years ago, I'm not sure Seattle would be on a core shopping list. We now have a lot of people looking at Seattle.''
The city's investment market cemented its revival last year. The volume of deals skyrocketed 203 percent in 2012 over the previous year, to $5 billion, according to Real Capital Analytics, a research and consulting firm. Among the 14.5 million square feet sold, Amazon's headquarters space is the largest.
The sale of the Russell Investments Center building early last year, though, was perhaps the most significant of the year because it showed the city's investment market had fully recovered. When the 42-story office tower was put up for sale in late 2011, it attracted 34 buyer tours, an ''incredible'' number, said Mr. Shannon of CBRE, which handled the sale. It sold last spring for $480 million -- more than four times its purchase price in 2009.
After its bid for the Russell building lost, Clarion Partners, an investment management company, looked for other buildings with the same ''blue chip roster'' and reliable rents, which it found at 1201 Third Avenue, the city's second-tallest tower and a former headquarters of the failed Washington Mutual. Clarion advised on a deal to sell the 55-story tower for $548.8 million, the 10th-largest deal in the country last year, to a joint venture of MetLife and an unidentified institutional real estate investor.
''We expect it to continue to have blue chip tenancy and generate good, predictable cash flow,'' said Steve Latimer, a managing director at Clarion Partners. ''We're not expecting spectacular headlines of tripling our money in three years, just steady growth.''
Seattle's brisk sales pace may slow this year since so many office buildings have traded hands and there are few left.
''Were there other first-class properties, we'd be interested,'' said Mr. Latimer, Clarion's Seattle director. ''Seattle is clearly a market that will continue to grow.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An apartment project in the South Lake Union, where a flurry of activity has lured developers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATTHEW RYAN WILLIAMS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); RETAILERS (90%); INTERNET RETAILING (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (89%); SPACE INDUSTRY (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (63%)

COMPANY: CBRE GROUP INC (84%)

TICKER: CBG (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (84%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (96%) WASHINGTON, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2013



504 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 832 words

HEADLINE: Meeting in Cuba Angers Venezuelan Opposition

BYLINE: By WILLIAM NEUMAN; Mara Eugenia Daz contributed reporting.

 BODY:
CARACAS, Venezuela -- With the president absent and ailing, the country on edge and the government eager to portray a sturdy sense of continuity, there might be nothing unusual about the most powerful officials in Venezuela meeting over the weekend, except for the location they chose for the sit-down: Havana.
It has been five weeks since President Hugo Chvez of Venezuela went to Cuba for his fourth cancer-related operation, and the normally garrulous leader has not been seen or heard from in public since -- a closely guarded silence that underscores the extremely tight relationship between the two countries. 
Venezuelan officials have worn a path between the two nations with frequent trips to Mr. Chvez's bedside. But for opponents of Venezuela's government, who have long warned of the extent of Cuba's influence, the weekend meeting was simply too much.
The Cuban newspaper Granma reported that the officials met with Fidel and Ral Castro to discuss ''aspects of the strategic alliance between both countries.''
''The capital of Venezuela has moved to Havana,'' said Leopoldo Lpez, the leader of an opposition party, Popular Will.
Cuba has everything to lose from a change of leadership in Venezuela, a possibility if Mr. Chvez dies or is too sick to continue as president. For years, Venezuela has propped up Cuba's limping economy with oil shipments on generous terms. Government opponents have long resented that arrangement, and now they fear that Cuba is seeking to influence events in Venezuela to keep the oil flowing.
Depending on the price of oil, Cuba sends goods or services to Venezuela as barter for 40 percent to 50 percent of the market value of the roughly 100,000 barrels of oil it receives a day, said Jorge R. Pion, an expert at the University of Texas at Austin. Over the years that has included thousands of doctors and nurses, sports trainers and advisers to the armed forces and security services. The remainder, 50 percent to 60 percent of the shipments' value, is treated as a loan, to be paid back over 25 years at 1 percent interest.
If that arrangement ended, Cuba would be forced to buy its oil on the open market, costing about $4 billion a year at current prices and probably pushing it into a recession, Mr. Pion said. ''The political impact for Cuba losing its Venezuelan support will be catastrophic,'' he said. ''The economic impact will be substantial.''
Venezuelan officials defend the oil shipments to Cuba and the closeness of the relationship by saying that the two countries have much in common, including a revolutionary ideology and an attitude of defiance toward the United States.
The most visible Cuban presence here is in the doctors who staff hundreds of small neighborhood clinics established by Mr. Chvez. But the Cuban barter comes in many forms, ranging from the reported training of intelligence officers, which was discussed in an American State Department cable made public by WikiLeaks, to the building of an ice cream factory.
On Tuesday, after returning from Havana, Vice President Nicols Maduro shot back at critics of the relationship with Cuba.
''There are those who say that we are a colony of Cuba,'' Mr. Maduro said during a televised government meeting. ''Really, it's an offense against Cuba and against Venezuela.'' He said the two countries shared ''the most profound brotherhood.''
He added that he had visited Mr. Chvez, who he said was ''advancing'' in his recovery. He said that they had discussed government issues and that Mr. Chvez had asked questions of his subordinates.
But opponents cite the presence of Cuban advisers in the military and other aspects of government as evidence of the Castros' not-so-hidden hand.
Mr. Maduro, whom Mr. Chvez has picked as his successor if he cannot continue as president, is seen in particular as being very close to the Cubans. He leads a faction within Mr. Chvez's movement that is deeply committed to Cuban-style revolution and establishing socialism in Venezuela, and he received political training in Cuba as a young man. The man seen as his main rival, Diosdado Cabello, president of the National Assembly, is believed to be less friendly to Cuba.
Demonstrators in Caracas focused on Cuba at a rally over the weekend that was called to protest a Supreme Court ruling allowing last Thursday's scheduled swearing in of Mr. Chvez to be postponed indefinitely, letting him continue as president despite his prolonged absence. People in the crowd of a few hundred held signs denouncing Cuba and chanted, ''Cubans, go away!''
''Never in 200 years of our history as a republic has the future of Venezuela been decided outside Venezuela,'' Mara Corina Machado, an opposition legislator, told the crowd. ''How can they talk today about independence? What independence? What independence? When in Venezuela we know that our security and intelligence agencies, our notaries and registries are totally infiltrated by people, officials and functionaries of the Cuban government.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); SHIPMENTS (86%); POLITICS (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%); NURSES & NURSING (62%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (79%); RAUL CASTRO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%) VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (99%); CUBA (98%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2013



505 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 919 words

HEADLINE: Walmart Plans to Buy American More Often

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD

 BODY:
The manufacturer 1888 Mills produces most of its sheets and towels overseas, in part to keep costs low for retailers like Walmart. But after Walmart gave 1888 Mills a long-term contract for towels made in the United States, 1888's chief executive said the company expected to produce more goods here.
A wide range of companies, including Apple, General Electric and Brooks Brothers, are experimenting with making more products in the United States. The moves make good public relations, but they also take advantage of cheaper energy costs and transportation benefits in this country. 
On Tuesday, Walmart, the nation's largest retailer, gave its suppliers an added incentive, announcing that it would increase sourcing of American-made products by $50 billion over the next 10 years. Walmart said it would buy more goods already produced in the United States, like games and paper, as well as help vendors in areas like furniture and textiles return production that had moved overseas.
The company did not disclose the value of the American-made products it already sourced. In its most recent fiscal year, Walmart spent $335 billion buying and transporting merchandise globally. (It does not break out figures for the United States and Sam's Club, which represent about 70 percent of over all sales.) The $50 billion commitment -- $5 billion a year -- represents about 1.5 percent of that annual total.
With rising labor and energy costs overseas, ''a few manufacturers have even told Walmart privately that they have defined the 'tipping points' at which manufacturing abroad will no longer make sense for them,'' William S. Simon, the Wal-Mart U.S. chief executive, said in making the announcement at the National Retail Federation conference in New York.
Walmart has been under pressure concerning its overseas sourcing because of a deadly fire in November in Bangladesh that killed more than 100 people at a factory used by Walmart suppliers. Walmart has said it did not know the suppliers were using the factory, and a Walmart spokesman, David Tovar, said on Tuesday that the company had been working on the new initiative to buy more American goods for more than a year.
James Cerruti, a senior partner for strategy and research at the consulting firm Brandlogic, said that while Walmart no doubt wanted to get away from recent negative news like the factory fire, gun sales and a Mexico bribery inquiry, ''these are real commitments.''
One beneficiary of the new effort, 1888 Mills, said an advantage was Walmart's committing to contracts longer than the standard six months to a year. Jonathan R. Simon, the 1888 chief executive, said Walmart had given the company a multiyear contract outlining how and when it would buy the American-made towels.
That ''allows us to make investments with confidence,'' he said. ''We've been staying with U.S. manufacturing and quite honestly, we're one of the very last producers of terry towels left in the United States. It had been quite a challenge, keeping the operation going, but we stuck with it hoping that eventually there would be more opportunity.''
Mr. Simon said 1888 Mills made about 10 percent of its products in the United States, including towels in Griffin, Ga. While 1888 Mills had been supplying Walmart with foreign-made products, the retailer recently agreed to carry an American-made towel at 600 of its stores starting this spring.
Executives at Walmart told Mr. Simon that ''especially in some of the towns where we manufacture that have been hit hard by the economic downturn, that these are Walmart customers and it makes perfect sense to try to support jobs here in the U.S. for people who end up shopping in their stores,'' he said.
In the last decade or so, American manufacturers have moved operations to China, Bangladesh, Vietnam and other lower-cost countries as they try to meet retailers' strict cost requirements. However, recent consumer interest in American-made goods, rising labor and energy costs overseas, and pressure to get merchandise from the design phase into stores within weeks rather than months have renewed interest in manufacturing in this country.
For instance, the United States turned out almost 100 million pairs of shoes in 2000, but that fell to about 26 million by 2009, according to the American Apparel and Footwear Association. In 2011, though, there was a rebound to 30 million pairs.
The association reported a similar trend in apparel, with about one-third of all apparel sold in the United States being produced in this country in 2000. By 2009 that amount had fallen to 2.1 percent, but ticked up to 2.3 percent in 2011.
Bill Kilbride, the president of Mohawk Home, a Walmart supplier that produced rugs and mats in the United States, said that although American-made products often cost more, Walmart seemed to find the speed with which domestic manufacturers could make and get items into stores compelling.
Even so, Kevin Burke, the chief executive of the American Apparel and Footwear Association, said the challenge for Walmart would be finding vendors who could meet its price points with American production, which was generally much more expensive than overseas production.
''The trend has been to be offshore,'' Mr. Burke said. Overseas production is ''indicative of consumer demand for product at a lower price.''
The 1888 Mills product made in the United States, for instance, would not be budget-priced, but would be ''more in the luxury end of the business,'' Mr. Simon, the 1888 Mills chief executive, said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: William S. Simon, the chief executive of Wal-Mart U.S. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN MOORE/GETTY IMAGES) (B1)
 A shopper in Chicago. Walmart spent $335 billion buying and transporting merchandise globally in its last fiscal year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN GRESS/REUTERS) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (91%); FACTORY FIRES (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); TEXTILES (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); FIRES (62%); BRIBERY (50%)

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (76%); SAM'S CLUB (68%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (57%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (76%); GNE (PAR) (57%); GEC (LSE) (57%); GE (SWX) (57%); GE (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (76%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (76%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); BANGLADESH (77%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2013



506 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 349 words

HEADLINE: Behind Double-Digit Premium Increases

 BODY:
National health care spending has been rising at an unusually low rate for three consecutive years. Yet health insurance companies in some states with lax regulations are requesting and winning double-digit premium increases for some customers. That jarring discrepancy suggests that both the federal government and the states need more power to reject premium increases that can't be justified. 
The Affordable Care Act requires that proposed premium increases of 10 percent or more for small businesses and for individuals who lack employer coverage must be reviewed by state or federal regulators to determine if they are reasonable. Most states can reject increases found to be unjustifiable. But some states cannot; they simply rely on public disclosure to deter insurers from getting too greedy.
For example, in California, which lacks the power to deny excessive rate increases, three major insurers are proposing premium rate increases for 2013 of as much as 20 percent, 22 percent, and 26 percent for some policyholders. In New York, however, the rate increases for 2013 are far lower than what insurers requested because state law allows state regulators to roll back unjustified increases. For individual policies, the insurers sought an average 9.5 percent increase but were granted only 4.5 percent. For small groups, insurers asked for 15.8 percent but were approved for 9.6 percent.
For now, the slow rate of growth in national health spending -- a modest 3.9 percent annually in 2009, 2010, and 2011, the lowest annual increases in the 52 years the government has been collecting such data -- is good news. But experts don't know whether this is a temporary, recession-related slowdown or a permanent downward trend. Insurers often claim that high premiums for individual policies are driven by rising medical costs in some states and younger and healthier people forgoing insurance in the slow economy, leaving only sick and costly patients signed up for insurance. That rationale should disappear in 2014 when virtually all Americans will be required to buy insurance or pay a penalty.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (91%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INSURANCE POLICIES (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); APPROVALS (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2013



507 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 365 words

HEADLINE: Wal-Mart Reaches Out to Veterans

 BODY:
Wal-Mart, the nation's largest private employer, says it plans to offer jobs to any recent veterans who want one and hire more than 100,000 of them in the next five years. Other companies should follow Wal-Mart's lead in this welcome effort to help reduce high unemployment among those who served in recent wars. 
Government statistics show that the unemployment rate for veterans was 10.8 percent in December. That is down from 13.1 percent a year earlier, but it is still far higher than the 7.5 percent jobless rate for nonveterans.
Michelle Obama and Jill Biden have led an admirable program called Joining Forces to help connect veterans with jobs and other resources. Congress also allows businesses to claim a tax credit of up to $9,600 per qualified veteran they hire. But much more can be done, which is where initiatives like Wal-Mart's come in.
The company, which employs about 1.4 million people in the United States, says that it already employs about 100,000 veterans and finds that they are ''quick learners'' and ''team players.'' It's no surprise that a company like Wal-Mart sees veterans as valuable given its need for large numbers of able workers. Some skeptics point out that Wal-Mart's effort is a public-relations campaign to draw attention away from a bribery scandal in its Mexican operation and an active lawsuit by female employees who claim the company discriminated against them. But a pledge to hire veterans does not reduce the company's responsibility to get to the bottom of the corruption allegations and ensure fairness for its workers.
A Congressional report last year found that many veterans are jobless because their previous work experience was often in construction and manufacturing, which had big job losses during the recession. Another factor is that nearly one-third of recent veterans work in the public sector, presumably because government agencies are more willing to give them a chance. But government employment has fallen by more than 600,000 jobs in the last four years. That is why it is important that companies in other industries, including retailing, step in to hire veterans who have skills that could be adapted to many kinds of work.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); VETERANS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WOMEN WORKERS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); STATISTICS (71%); BRIBERY (69%); CORRUPTION (69%); DISCRIMINATION (69%); TAX LAW (69%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (64%); WOMEN (64%); LITIGATION (64%); SCANDALS (64%)

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (96%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (96%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (96%)

PERSON: MICHELLE OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2013



508 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 156 words

HEADLINE: The U.S. and the World

 BODY:
To the Editor:
The critical challenge for United States foreign policy is not how to ''manage the world on the cheap'' (''In Step on 'Light Footprint,' '' news analysis, front page, Jan. 9). It is whether the United States should be trying to manage the world at all. 
In a young century characterized by globalization, rising powers, emerging economies and an increasingly multilayered and multipolar world order, the effort by any nation-state, no matter how powerful it was previously, to proactively ''manage'' the system will merely attract stronger backlashes and further examples of its relative impotence.
America may not be in absolute decline, but a simple system based on whether nation-states are up or down in some sort of pecking order certainly is.
PHILIP G. CERNY York, England, Jan. 9, 2013
The writer is professor emeritus of politics and global affairs at Rutgers University-Newark and the University of Manchester, England.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); GLOBALIZATION (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); EMERGING MARKETS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (51%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (50%) NEW JERSEY, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (96%); ENGLAND (65%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2013



509 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1049 words

HEADLINE: For 'Party of Business,' Allegiances Are Shifting

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Not for the first time, the White House made known on Monday that top administration officials had reached out to corporate executives for their help in getting Republicans in Congress to compromise on pending budget issues. But as both President Obama and industry chieftains are finding, today's Republican Party is hardly so quick to bow to big business.
Corporate chiefs in recent months have pleaded publicly with Republicans to raise their taxes for the sake of deficit reduction, and to raise the nation's debt limit without a fight lest another confrontation like that in 2011 wallop the economy. But the lobbying has been to no avail. This is not their parents' Republican Party. 
In a shift over a half-century, the party base has been transplanted from the industrial Northeast and urban centers to become rooted in the South and West, in towns and rural areas. In turn, Republicans are electing more populist, antitax and antigovernment conservatives who are less supportive -- and even suspicious -- of appeals from big business.
Big business, many Republicans believe, is often complicit with big government on taxes, spending and even regulations, to protect industry tax breaks and subsidies -- ''corporate welfare,'' in their view.
''One of the biggest lies in politics is the lie that Republicans are the party of big business,'' Ted Cruz, a new senator from Texas and a Tea Party favorite, told The Wall Street Journal during his 2012 campaign. ''Big business does great with big government. Big business is very happy to climb in bed with big government. Republicans are and should be the party of small business and of entrepreneurs.''
The tension, so evident last month in the tax fight over the fiscal deadline, is apparent again as Mr. Obama and a new Congress contend over the even more pressing need to increase the nation's debt limit next month.
Big business is so fearful of economic peril if Congress does not allow the government to keep borrowing -- to pay creditors, contractors, program beneficiaries and many others -- that it is nearly united in skepticism of, or outright opposition to, House Republicans' demand that Mr. Obama first agree to equal spending cuts in benefit programs like Medicare and Medicaid.
That explains the administration's outreach to corporate chiefs, like Monday's conference call. Mr. Obama wants business's support to buttress his vow that he will never again negotiate over so essential an action like he did in 2011, when the nation flirted with default and the economy suffered. Vexing Republicans, many business leaders are siding with him.
''I'm agreeing with the president -- you should not be using the debt limit as a bargaining chip when it comes to how you run the country,'' said David M. Cote, chief executive of Honeywell, and a Republican. ''You don't put the full faith and credit of the United States at risk.''
As a new warning was issued Tuesday about a possible credit downgrade, even the hard-line conservative group Americans for Prosperity, financed by the billionaire Koch family, urged Republicans not to use the debt limit as leverage for deep spending cuts.
Another flash point between Republicans and corporate America: Even as they pocket big campaign contributions from business, many Republicans resent that the donors play both sides of the political fence. A senior aide to a House Republican leader summed up the feeling: ''Corporate America isn't the friend to Republicans that most people assume. So I think there is a healthier sort of skepticism that is brought into those meetings'' with business leaders. (Chief executives still have some sway; no critics wanted to be identified slamming them.)
Some of the Republicans' distancing from big business is a matter of political tactics -- to alter their image as the party of wealth and corporate power. A writer for the conservative Weekly Standard said of the fiscal fight last month, ''While big business cozies up to Obama once again, Republicans have an opportunity to enhance their reputation as the party of Main Street.''
A news release e-mailed in late December from the office of Speaker John A. Boehner captured the changed dynamic. On a day when Mr. Obama met executives from the Business Roundtable, a group that for decades was close to Congressional Republicans, the subject line on the Boehner e-mail, abbreviating ''President of the United States,'' read: ''GOP to Meet With Small Biz While POTUS Meets With Big CEOs.''
Courtship of business has been central to the president's postelection legislative strategy, both to repair relations strained in his first term and to gain allies who might influence Republican lawmakers in the second. Yet Republicans on Capitol Hill profess bemusement, saying that administration officials misread their party.
''They trot out these big business executives and just assume, 'Well, these guys are big business -- if they just go tell Republicans what to do, they'll do it.' That's just a cartoon version of how things work,'' said a House Republican adviser.
But the White House was not alone late last year in believing that a group called Campaign to Fix the Debt -- the biggest and best-financed mobilization of corporate clout in lawmakers' memory, with more than 150 chief executives and $46 million -- could create pressure for a bipartisan grand bargain of tax increases and entitlement program reductions to stabilize the federal debt.
There was no such deal in December, and people in both parties agree that Fix the Debt has had no impact so far. Yet the coalition is back: ''I definitely think this is a marathon, not a race, so it's not going to all happen when we want it to happen,'' said Mark T. Bertolini, chief executive of Aetna and a leader in the coalition.
Privately, however, some Republicans in the group concede their advocacy has limits among the new breed of Republican lawmakers.
With each year, ''you're getting even further away from the big-city, corporate domination of the Republican Party,'' said Merle Black, a scholar of Southern politics at Emory University. And if a Republican in a conservative district did back a deal with Mr. Obama, Mr. Black added, ''It won't get you very far if you say, 'Well, I talked to the corporate guys and they're all for this.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Ted Cruz, top, Republican of Texas, disputes the idea that his party is tied to big business, as represented by leaders like David Cote, middle, of Honeywell, and Mark Bertolini, above, of Aetna. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSHUA ROBERTS/REUTERS
CARLO ALLEGRI/REUTERS
 JACQUELYN MARTIN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); DEBT CEILING (89%); LOBBYING (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); POLITICS (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); BUDGETS (77%); TAX LAW (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); TAX RELIEF (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (71%); MEDICARE (66%); MEDICAID (52%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); DAVID M COTE (89%); TED CRUZ (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2013



510 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 388 words

HEADLINE: Invitation to a Dialogue: Working Arrangements

 BODY:
To the Editor:
The United States lags behind most of the world's developed nations in rankings of the best places for mothers, especially working mothers. One reason is that the careers of many Americans demand schedules incompatible with the requirements of parenthood. Having no available middle ground, some primary caregivers (mostly mothers) leave their careers. If they do later return, they nearly always do so at salaries and positions well behind peers who did not interrupt their careers. 
This problem can't be remedied simply by extending maternity and paternity leaves. Germany, Belgium, the Netherlands and France have shown us a solution. By law, employers there cannot unreasonably refuse an employee's request for a part-time or nonstandard schedule. Employers in Britain must ''seriously consider'' such requests, and not discriminate against those who ask. As their needs change, employees can also seek to return to full time.
Legislation modeled after the modest British law and introduced six years ago by Representative Carolyn Maloney, with co-sponsorship by Senators Barack Obama, Edward M. Kennedy and Hillary Rodham Clinton, is stalled in Congress. By increasing access to part-time schedules, the Working Families Flexibility Act would end or diminish the practice of assigning less important work to part-time workers and lessen their career stigma. Full-time workers taking reduced schedules might create jobs for those unemployed.
Workplace flexibility is not just for the benefit of parents. Significant numbers of men and women would gladly reduce their hours and pay to have more time for other pursuits. (Improving the circumstances of unskilled workers involuntarily on unpredictable part-time schedules is an important but different concern.)
More than a century ago, the labor movement introduced the then radical 40-hour workweek and the vacation to improve Americans' lives. Passage of the Working Families Flexibility Act by Congress would be another important step.
ROBERT WARING Redwood City, Calif., Jan. 14, 2013
The writer is the author of ''Upside Down: The Paradoxes of Gender in the Twenty-First Century.''
Editors' Note: We invite readers to respond by Thursday for the Sunday Dialogue. We plan to publish responses and Mr. Waring's rejoinder in the Sunday Review. E-mail: letters@nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY WENDY MACNAUGHTON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WORKING MOTHERS (90%); RANKINGS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (89%); FAMILY (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); WRITERS (78%); PATERNITY LEAVE (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); LABOR UNIONS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); MEN (75%); WORK WEEK (75%); FLEXIBLE WORK ARRANGEMENTS (74%); JOB CREATION (74%); LEGISLATION (74%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (74%); PUBLISHING (73%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

COMPANY: ASK ASA (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (69%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (70%); BARACK OBAMA (56%); CAROLYN MALONEY (52%); TED KENNEDY (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (51%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); FRANCE (79%); NETHERLANDS (76%); GERMANY (56%); BELGIUM (56%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2013



511 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2013

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 486 words

HEADLINE: IHT Quick Read: Jan. 16

BYLINE: THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE


HIGHLIGHT: Numbers underline Euro zone's woes; Mali's insurgents dig in; Melbourne shines as a Grand Slam site; Lance Armstrong confesses. 

 BODY:
 NEWS Despite a drumbeat of optimistic forecasts from economists and upbeat statements from various European leaders, the news on the economy continues to be grim, with figures released Tuesday showing that Germany contracted by about 0.5 percent in the final months of last year. Combined with disappointing results in other major economies, the stumble raised questions about Europe's ability to escape recession. Nicholas Kulish and Jack Ewing report. 
Barely a year after fears of a military coup plunged Pakistani politics into chaos, the country is in crisis again - this time besieged by forces that threaten the civilian government just a few months ahead of elections. Declan Walsh reports from Islamabad.
In the face of bombardment by the French military, Mali's Islamist insurgents have hunkered down to fight again. Barging into some of the mud-brick houses in the battle zone and ejecting residents, they have sought to implant themselves in the local population and add to the huge challenges facing the French military campaign to loosen their grip on Mali. Adam Nossiter and Eric Schmitt report from Bamako, Mali.
As the Syrian civil war nears the two-year mark, the opponents of President Bashar al-Assad and their international backers have failed to win the backing of many government supporters, including minorities, a slice of the population whose help is essential not only to resolve the conflict, but also to keep Syria from becoming a failed state, analysts say. Anne Barnard reports from Beirut.
President Obama is expected to make gun control proposals on Wednesday that will be intended not only to prevent mass shootings, but also to curb everyday gun violence. Michael Cooper, Michael Luo and Michael D. Shear report.
 ARTS Jusepe de Ribera's portraits, hidden up high and in the darkness of a church in Naples, Italy, are, like the city, expressions of the spiritual embedded in the profane. Michael Kimmelman writes from Naples.
 SPORTS Melbourne Park, the site of the Australian Open since 1988, is in the midst of its latest growth spurt. It will soon have a third stadium with a retractable roof. Wimbledon has one, and the United States Open and the French Open have none. And as the Australian Open rises, players are expressing their frustrations about the U.S. Open. Chris Clarey reports from Melbourne.
In an interview with Oprah Winfrey that is scheduled for broadcast on her network on Thursday, Lance Armstrong confessed that he used performance-enhancing drugs during his cycling career, according to two people briefed on the interview, which was recorded Monday in Austin, Tex. Armstrong, 41, is planning to testify against officials from the International Cycling Union, the worldwide governing body of cycling, about their involvement with doping in cycling, but he will not testify against other riders, according to the people familiar with his plans. Juliet Macur reports.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); INTERVIEWS (87%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (85%); CYCLING (84%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); TENNIS (77%); SPORTS (77%); CIVIL WAR (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); POLITICS (75%); ELECTIONS (75%); 2011 SYRIAN UPRISING (74%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); COUPS (71%); ARMED FORCES (71%); SPORTS AWARDS (70%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (70%); SHOOTINGS (69%); DRUGS IN SPORTS (67%); GUN CONTROL (64%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (62%); RELIGION (62%) IHT Rendezvous

PERSON: LANCE ARMSTRONG (84%); BASHAR AL-ASSAD (55%); BARACK OBAMA (55%); OPRAH WINFREY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA (92%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%) EUROPE (95%); MALI (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); AUSTRALIA (92%); GERMANY (92%); SYRIA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); FRANCE (92%); LEBANON (79%); ITALY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2013



512 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2013

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 583 words

HEADLINE: What Have Your Parents Taught You About Money?

BYLINE: KATHERINE SCHULTEN


HIGHLIGHT: What lessons have you learned, directly or indirectly, from your parents about the topic of money and how to handle it? 

 BODY:
 The topic of how to teach your children about money is one that comes up in many different contexts in The New York Times. 
For instance, the Motherlode blog recently wrote about deciding what an allowance is for, while the Your Money column discussed managing those allowances online. The Bucks blog advised teaching children the magic of compound interest early. 
How have your parents handled the topic of money with you and your siblings? Do they give you money as a regular allowance or in other ways? Pay your for chores? What lessons and attitudes do you think you have you learned from their approach?
 
In another recent article with implications for how families deal with money, Tamar Lewin reports that "Parents' Financial Support May Not Help College Grades":
Parents saving for college costs, take heed: A new national study has found that the more college money parents provide - whether in absolute terms or as a share of total costs - the lower their children's college grades. 
Students from wealthy families are more likely than those from poor families to go to college, and those whose parents pay their way are more likely to graduate. But according to "More Is More or More Is Less? Parent Financial Investments During College," a study by Laura Hamilton, a sociology professor at the University of California, Merced, greater parental contributions were linked with lower grades across all kinds of four-year institutions. 
...Dr. Hamilton suggested that students who get a blank check from their parents may not take their education as seriously as others. She became intrigued with this possibility years ago, after spending a year living in a college dormitory and observing the students, then following them through graduation and, eventually, interviewing their parents.
"Oddly, a lot of the parents who contributed the most money didn't get the best returns on their investment," she said. "Their students were more likely to stay and graduate, but their G.P.A.'s were mediocre at best, and some I didn't see study even once. I wondered if that was nationally true, which led me to this quantitative study, which found that it is." 
 Students: Tell us ...

        
Do your parents give you money? If so, how?
        
If they don't, do they encourage you to earn it?
        
What lessons and attitudes do you think you have learned about money from your family, either directly or indirectly?
        
How "financially literate" do you think you are? How well do you think you understand saving, interest, debt, budgeting, credit, investing, insurance or other "real life" aspects of personal finance? 
        
Do you agree with the expert quoted in the article above that college students who "get a blank check from their parents may not take their education as seriously" as those who have to work to put themselves through school? Why or why not?
        
 What's the best piece of advice or the best lesson you've ever gotten on the topic of money and how to deal with it -- either from your parents or anyone else? Why? 
 Related: High School Seniors: The Your Money column is looking for your college application essays on the topic of money.
 Students 13 and older are invited to comment below. Please use only your first name. For privacy policy reasons, we will not publish student comments that include a last name. 

        
What Are Your Attitudes Toward Money?
        
How 'Financially Literate' Are You?
        
How Do You Make Parenting Difficult for Your Parents?
        
Raising Children With Healthy Self-Images
        
Have You Ever Changed a Family Member's Mind?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); FAMILY (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); PARENTING (89%); CHILDREN (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); STUDENT EXPENSES (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); STUDENT HOUSING (69%); SOCIOLOGY (68%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (65%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) financial literacy; money; Parenting (Des);; Student Opinion

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2013



513 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 674 words

HEADLINE: Tax Exclusions for Health Insurance

BYLINE: CASEY B. MULLIGAN


HIGHLIGHT: Policy decisions that created tax exclusions and implicit subsidies have helped the health sector of the economy grow, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Casey B. Mulligan is an economics professor at the University of Chicago. He is the author of "The Redistribution Recession: How Labor Market Distortions Contracted the Economy." 
The magnitude and distributional effects of the tax exclusion for health insurance look quite different when viewed from the perspective of the entire safety net.
Expenditures on health services, especially those made through employer-sponsored health-insurance plans, are largely excluded from a host of taxes. The tax exclusions affect both the size of the health-services sector and society's distribution of disposable income. 
By excluding health services from tax, governments in effect redirect money toward health care and away from other activities that might be subsidized or prevent government from reducing overall tax rates, or both. The tax exclusions therefore have a lot in common with direct government spending on health, and for this reason are often described as "tax expenditures."
A typical approach to estimating the size of the health subsidy implicit in the tax exclusions is to estimate the amount of federal personal income tax revenue that is lost because of the income that escapes tax. It's important to know the amount of the implicit subsidy, because it is directly related to the amount by which the health sector is enlarged by public policy.

However, the income-tax approach underestimates the amount of the exclusion, because health services are often excluded from many other taxes. The payroll tax is an important instance: employer-provided health-insurance premiums are exempt from payroll and state personal income taxes, too, regardless of whether the employer or employee pays them.
Health-insurance premiums paid by employers on behalf of their employees will escape pretty much anything that taxes an employee's wages and salaries, because those premiums are not officially considered part of employee wages or salaries. For example, the food-stamp program and Section 8 housing subsidy programsimplicitly tax wages and salaries by withholding benefits according to how much a person earns, but for that purpose they ignore employee fringe benefits like health insurance.
Health goods and services often escape state sales taxes, depending on the type of good or service delivered or the type of organization delivering it. Many health services are delivered by nonprofit institutions that escape corporate income and property taxes, too. Just as with the housing industry, we vastly underestimate the government's effect on the health industry if we focus only on the income tax.
A good summary statistic for the overall effect of tax exclusions on the health industry would be a measure of the marginal tax rate on earned income that included all the relevant taxes. When an employee accepts a $1 pay cut so that his employer can add that dollar to his health insurance contribution, that overall marginal tax rate would tell us how much of that dollar comes back to the employee in the form of the various tax reductions.
I am not aware of a marginal tax-rate measure comprehensive enough for this purpose (it would also need to pay special attention to the Medicaid program and its different treatment of adults and children), but previous studies have taken some useful steps in this direction. The studies find marginal tax rates greater than 50 percent for families above but near the poverty line, which means most of the money they might devote to employer-provided health insurance would come back to them in terms of reduced taxes and enhanced benefits.
More study is needed to quantify accurately the government's effect on the health market. But we can be sure that public policy has served to enlarge the health industry at the expense of others and that previous estimates do not fully appreciate the magnitude of the distortion.

        
Employer-Provided Health Insurance and the Market
        
Medicaid Expansion and Jobs
        
What Your Taxes Do (and Don't) Buy for You
        
The Case for Higher Taxes
        
The Complexities of Comparing Medicare Choices

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); SALES TAX (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (85%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); WRITERS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); PROPERTY TAX (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (77%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (76%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (76%); CORPORATE TAX (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (72%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (70%); PUBLIC HOUSING (70%); FOOD STAMPS (62%) Casey B. Mulligan; Daily Economist; health care; health insurance; housing; housing market; Income Tax; Payroll Tax; sales tax; subsidies; tax expenditures; Taxation; U.S. health care costs; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Tax Credits, Deductions and Exemptions; Today's Economist

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%) ILLINOIS, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2013



514 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 399 words

HEADLINE: Robert Wolf Said to Hire Goolsbee as Adviser for His Firm

BYLINE: MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED


HIGHLIGHT: Robert Wolf, formerly a top rain-maker for UBS, has hired Austan Goolsbee as an adviser for his new firm, 32 Advisors, uniting two men with close ties to President Obama. 

 BODY:
One of President Obama's favorite bankers is teaming up with one of the president's go-to economists.
Robert Wolf, a top Wall Street rain-maker who left UBS last summer, has hired Austan Goolsbee as a "strategic partner" for his new firm, 32 Advisors, the two men have told friends in recent weeks, according to people briefed on the matter. 
Mr. Goolsbee will essentially serve as the firm's top in-house economics adviser, dispensing advice to a small number of clients, the two men have said. He will remain a professor of economics at the University of Chicago's Booth School of Business.
The hiring is the first prominent staffing move by Mr. Wolf, who left UBS after 18 years to form his own advisory and consulting firm.
The two men have been friends since around 2007, joined by their ties to the president. Mr. Goolsbee had advised Mr. Obama in his 2004 Senate campaign. After the 2008 presidential election, he joined the Council of Economic Advisers, becoming the group's chairman two years later.
During that time, Mr. Goolsbee became a prominent surrogate for the administration, frequently defending White House policies on television. He returned to teaching in 2011, though he continued to serve as an informal adviser to Mr. Obama during the recent presidential campaign.
Meanwhile, Mr. Wolf has become perhaps best known for his friendship with the president, which began at an event hosted by George Soros in 2006. He has since served as one of the administration's closest allies on Wall Street and a prolific fund-raiser.
Over Mr. Wolf's 28-year career, he had become a top banker with a network of contacts that spanned Wall Street and Washington.
Since leaving UBS last summer, Mr. Wolf has been busy building up 32 Advisors, named for his jersey number on the University of Pennsylvania's football team. He has been quietly wooing a number of high-profile partners and advisers, focusing on specialties like economics, foreign investment and restructuring.
He has also been staying in the spotlight by hosting "Impact Players," an online series of interviews with prominent figures on Reuters.
Mr. Wolf has hinted to close associates that more hirings may be disclosed in the coming weeks. Featured prominently on 32 Advisors' spartan Web site is the message, "Stay tuned for some exciting upcoming announcements!"

        
Wolf to Leave UBS to Form New Firm
        
Top Adviser to Lead Panel on Economy

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); FUNDRAISING (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (61%) 32 Advisors LLC; Goolsbee, Austan D; Wolf, Robert (1962- ); Financial Services; Investment Banking; Revolving Door; Top Headline 1

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (57%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (55%) 32 Advisors LLC

PERSON: AUSTAN GOOLSBEE (94%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); GEORGE SOROS (51%) Goolsbee, Austan D; Wolf, Robert (1962- )

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%) ILLINOIS, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2013



515 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2013

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 500 words

HEADLINE: Owning a Home, Mortgage Free

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS


HIGHLIGHT: Nearly a third of homeowners do not have a mortgage, an analysis by Zillow finds. 

 BODY:
With all the painful foreclosures during the recent economic downturn, it's easy to forget that some homeowners don't even have mortgages. Nearly a third of homeowners - 29.3 percent of them - do not, according to a recent analysisby the real estate site Zillow. 
That translates into nearly 21 million Americanswho own their homes free and clear, Zillow found. By comparison, about 14 million homeowners are underwater - that is, they owe more than their homes are worth.
Stan Humphries, chief economist at Zillow, said that looking at the number of debt-free homes is important, given that the inventory of homes for sale is tight in some markets. Homeowners without mortgages may have more flexibility, and therefore be more willing to put their homes up for sale.
The number of homeowners with mortgages, though, is still high. Roughly 71 percent do, according to Zillow's analysis. That compares with about 45 percent in 1945, and 62 percent in 1990, based on federal census data, Mr. Humphries said.
Not surprisingly, most debt-free homeowners tend to be older, since they have had longer to pay off their loans. Homeowners 65 to 74 years old are most likely to have no mortgage (21 percent), followed by 74- to 84-year-olds (18 percent).
But when looking at the various age groups, Zillow found that almost 35 percent of homeowners age 20 to 24 owned homes free and clear. Owners in that age group make up a small proportion of homeowners over all. They may have had wealthy parents who buy homes for them, or they may be young, successful entrepreneurs, the Zillow analysis notes.
Areas with higher concentrations of mortgage-free homes tend to be those where home prices are more affordable, since smaller loan amounts are easier to pay back more quickly.
Among the country's largest 30 metropolitan areas examined in the study, Pittsburgh and Tampa, Fla., had the highest rates of debt-free owners, at 39 percent for Pittsburgh and 33 percent for Tampa.
The New York area also ranked high on outright ownership, at about 30 percent. That is because the area included in the analysis encompassed northern New Jersey, parts of upstate New York and Long Island, according to Zillow. Because of the wide area, the median home value is lower than might be expected. The median home value for the entire New York metro area is $343,100, compared with $940,800 for Manhattan alone.
Washington, D.C., at about 16 percent, and Atlanta and Las Vegas, each at 18 percent, had the lowest percentages of homeowners without mortgages.
Zillow's analysis looked at mortgage data from TransUnion through the third quarter of 2012. The data covered roughly 800 metropolitan areas nationwide. The analysis excluded investor-owned and rental homes.
Do you own your home outright? How did you pay off your mortgage?

        
Most Underwater Homeowners Still Paying Mortgages
        
Fewer Homes Now Underwater
        
New Mortgage Rules Left Out Down Payments
        
Half of Homeowners Under 40 Are Still Underwater
        
Refinancing Your F.H.A. Mortgage at Lower Cost

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HOMEOWNERS (95%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (87%); FORECLOSURE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (73%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (71%); CENSUS (69%); CITIES (67%) Humphries, Stan; Mortgages; Real Estate and Housing (Residential); Zillow.com

COMPANY: ZILLOW INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: Zillow.com

TICKER: Z (NASDAQ) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (91%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (91%)

PERSON: Humphries, Stan

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2013



516 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Diner's Journal)

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2013

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 457 words

HEADLINE: What We're Reading

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: A collection of links from the reporters and editors of the Dining section. 

 BODY:
Food & Wine: Scarlett Johansson wishes she could have raw oysters with Bette Davis. -- Jeff Gordinier 
NPD Group: Baby boomers and their senior cohorts - who are called "mature traditionalists," in marketing jargon - are now more frequent diners in restaurants since the 2008 recession, but younger "millennials" are actually curtailing their restaurant visits, according to a new study by the restaurant-tracking arm of the NPD Group, a marketing service. - Glenn Collins 
The Washington Post: Mo Rocca, who seems to know a little bit about everything (and how to be funny about it), talks about his latest enthusiasm, cooking: "I like being the Charles Nelson Reilly of food." - Patrick Farrell
The New York Times: In "Not By Bread Alone,'' a play coming to New York University on Wednesday, the actors on the stage, all of them deaf and blind, make bread during a production that has no spoken words. The director said the play, written for an acclaimed Israeli theater ensemble, built on the actors' senses of taste, smell and touch and "explored the binding experience of preparing food.'' -- Maria Newman
: The trouble continues for Totonno's, the historically crucial Coney Island pizzeria that got hit hard by Hurricane Sandy. -- Jeff Gordinier
: If I were really smart, I would follow this excellent advice on clearing out one's pantry every January. Two weeks remain. -- Julia Moskin
: So you have a lot of loose nubs of sausage lying around? Here's something to do with them: chop them up, stuff the meat into radicchio leaves, and roast. -- Jeff Gordinier 
Food Republic: A new generation of butchers in San Francisco talk craft in a video. Says one: "I love geeking out and making nice clean cuts.'' -- Maria Newman
: More interesting than the news that Corton chef Paul Liebrandt is relocating to Williamsburg: the virulence of this post's comments on Brooklyn's so-called hipster food scene. -- Julia Moskin
: Here's what you want for the Super Bowl: tamale pie the way they make it at the Salt Lick in Texas. -- Jeff Gordinier 
: How to address the world food crisis? Experts from the USDA, the World Food Program, Earthbound Farm and Costco's wholesale operation hold forth on reducing hunger, increasing food safety, eliminating waste and improving agricultural efficiency. - Glenn Collins
: Can vitamin D make you stronger? -- Jeff Gordinier 
The New York Observer: Italy. Germany. Long Island. Joshua David Stein on The Marrow, where the chef Harold Dieterle draws together dishes he inherited from his family. - Emily Weinstein
The Wall Street Journal: Here's the latest manifestation of the niche-marketing online "share" economy: selling in-home mac-and-cheese tastings to strangers for $19.80 through EatFeastly.com. - Glenn Collins

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (89%); BABY BOOMERS (89%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (79%); FOOD SAFETY (79%); 2008 GLOBAL FOOD CRISIS (77%); THEATER COMPANIES (73%); THEATER (73%); THEATER & DRAMA (73%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); RESEARCH REPORTS (72%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (60%); HURRICANE SANDY (50%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (57%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (50%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (57%)

PERSON: SCARLETT JOHANSSON (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (91%); GERMANY (50%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2013



517 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 2307 words

HEADLINE: What Is Driving Growth in Government Spending?

BYLINE: NATE SILVER


HIGHLIGHT: A closer look at social insurance and entitlement programs reveals some surprises about where government spending is -&#160;and isn't - increasing. 

 BODY:
It's one of the most fundamental political questions of our time: What's driving the growth in government spending? And it has a relatively straightforward answer: first and foremost, spending on health care through Medicare and Medicaid, and other major social insurance and entitlement programs.
But I thought it was worth reviewing the evidence in a bit more detail. There are a few surprises along the way, some of which liberal readers might like and others of which will please conservative readers.
The Web site usgovernmentspending.com has an abundance of data on federal, state and local spending at different points in time. My focus will be on how government has been spending its money in the present and the past, rather than evaluating any future budgets or projections. 
I'll be looking principally at government spending as a share of the overall economy, specifically as compared to the gross domestic product. In the long run, the overall economic health of the country is the most important constraint on fiscal policy. A growing economy gives us a lot of good choices: maintaining or expanding government programs, cutting taxes or holding them at a moderate level, reducing or managing the national debt. A stagnant economy means that everything gets squeezed.
The first chart, below, documents the growth in federal government spending over the past hundred years as a share of gross domestic product spending is broken down into four major categories:
1. Entitlement programs, under which I classify government expenditures on health care programs; pensions and retirement programs like Social Security; and welfare or social insurance programs like food stamps and unemployment compensation.
2. Military spending 
3. Interest on the national debt 
4. Infrastructure and services, under which I include everything else -- the pot that is often referred to as discretionary spending: education spending; fire services, police and the criminal justice system; spending on physical infrastructure including transportation; spending on science, technology, and research and development; and the category called "general government," which largely refers to the cost of maintaining the political system (like salaries for public officials).
The most striking feature of the chart is the extraordinary amount of military spending during World War II (and to a lesser extent, during World War I). Even after World War II, however, military spending constituted the outright majority of federal government spending until 1969.
Military spending makes up closer to 24 percent of federal expenditures today. That's up from the near-term low from 1998 to 2001, when it made up about 20 percent of federal spending. (One contributor to the budget surpluses achieved briefly during the Clinton administration was a peace dividend in the interim between the cold war and the Sept. 11 attacks.) And military spending in the United States has generally been rising relative to inflation and remains very high relative to most other nations. But over the longer term, it has fallen slightly relative to the gross domestic product, and substantially relative to other types of government spending.
Another surprise is how little we are paying in interest on the federal debt, even though the debt is growing larger and larger. Right now, interest payments make up only about 6 percent of the federal budget. In addition, they have been decreasing as a share of the gross domestic product: the federal government spent about 1.5 percent of gross domestic product in paying interest on its debt on 2011, down from a peak of 3.3 percent in 1991.
How is this possible? The reason is that although the government is borrowing a lot of money, it is doing so very cheaply because interest rates are low both over all and on government debt specifically. We're now spending less than 2 percent of the principal annually to service our debt, down from a peak of close to 7 percent in the early 1980s. Borrowing costs aren't expected to remain this low forever, so this ratio is bound to increase some. Fortunately, much of the debt we have issued has relatively long maturities, meaning that we have locked in low rates. (This won't necessarily apply to future deficit spending: one of the consequences of failing to raise the debt ceiling would be a significant rise in borrowing costs, which would compound our debt problems later on.)
The growth in federal spending on physical infrastructure and on services provided directly by the government like policing and education, has been modest. In fact, federal spending on these categories has declined somewhat as a share of the gross domestic product over the past 40 years.
It might also be surprising that spending in this category is relatively quite small -- federal expenditures in these areas totaled only about 2.5 percent of gross domestic product in 2011 -- considering that they make up some of the most traditional functions of government (along with defense).
But part of this is because many of these services are financed and provided for by state and local governments, which spend most of their money in these areas.
That means most of the growth in federal government spending relative to inflation -- and essentially all the growth as a share of the gross domestic product -- has been because of the increased expense of entitlement programs.
We'll return to this theme in a moment, but let's first consider the role played by state and local governments.
While most discussions of government spending focus on what the federal government spends, state and local governments are a bigger part of the picture than you might think. Their collective spending is now the equivalent of about 15 percent of the gross domestic product, not counting money which is granted to them by the federal government for programs administered by states and localities. (By comparison, federal government spending, including grants to the states and interest on the national debt, has recently been about 24 percent of the gross domestic product.)
The states also spend their money much differently than the federal government: principally, as I mentioned, on infrastructure and on services like policing and education. States and localities do spend some on entitlement programs, and their expenditures in this area have been increasing, but federal expenditures have accounted for most of the growth.
However, states and localities pay for essentially nothing that would be classified as military spending. They also accumulate relatively little debt, so they don't pay much in the way of interest; many states are required by law to balance their budgets, or routinely do so as a matter of custom.
The flip side is that states and localities have very limited ability to engage in stimulative spending during economic downturns. Instead just the opposite is true: recessions reduce their tax base, so they either have to increase tax rates or cut services to keep their budgets balanced. The federal government provided various grants to the states in the stimulus package it passed in 2009, offsetting some of the states' expenses, but these programs have since largely expired, and many states and municipalities have had to cut their budgets or raise taxes since then. Partly as a result, about 500,000 local and state government jobs have been lost since 2009, even as private-sector employment has (somewhat) recovered.
Although accounting for state and municipal expenditures alongside federal ones increases the share of government expenditures that are spent on infrastructure programs, it does not change our conclusion
about what is driving the increase in spending relative to gross domestic product entitlement programs, which account for the vast bulk of it.
The usgovernmentspending.com data classifies three subcategories of entitlement programs. Spending on welfare programs like food stamps and unemployment insurance is the most cyclical - or technically the most countercyclical, since much of it kicks in automatically during an economic downturn. Spending on retirement programs, principally Social Security, is the steadiest, but it has been increasing faster than the rate of gross domestic product growth and considerably faster than inflation. And health care spending has been increasing at the fastest rate.
Specifically, overall government spending on entitlement programs increased at a 4.8 annual rate in the 40 years between 1972 and 2011, net of inflation. Health care spending increased at 5.7 percent per year (and federal government spending on health care increased at a 6.7 percent pace). In contrast, the gross domestic product grew at a rate of 2.7 percent over this period, with tax revenues increasing at about the same rate as the G.D.P. 
Spending on infrastructure and government services, excluding defense, has kept pace with gross domestic product growth. (Spending on infrastructure and services by the federal government specifically has lagged gross domestic product growth somewhat, growing at 1.8 percent per year.) Also, most of the subcategories of infrastructure and services spending that usgovernmentspending.com tracks have decreased slightly as a share of the gross domestic product, including spending on transportation, education, science and technology. The major exception is spending on the category they describe as "protection," reflecting the increase in the criminal justice apparatus, which has grown at 4.8 percent per year.
Another way to view these data is to allocate the increase in spending-to-G.D.P. between the different categories of expenditures. Total government spending - including federal, state and local spending - rose to about 39 percent of the gross domestic product in 2011 from about 30 percent in 1972. So we have a 9 percent increase to account for, which is equal to about $1.3 trillion per year in current dollars. 
Spending on entitlement programs was about $500 billion per year in 1972 in today's dollars. If it had increased at the same rate as the gross domestic product, it would now be about $1.4 trillion. Instead, it is now about $2.9 trillion per year. What this means is that there has been about a $1.5 trillion increase in entitlement spending above and beyond gross domestic product growth. This is actually slightly larger than the overall increase in government spending relative to gross domestic product. This results from the fact that spending on the other categories has been essentially flat relative to the gross domestic product (infrastructure and services), or constitutes a negligible part of the budget for the time being (interest), or actually decreased relative to gross domestic product over the 40-year period (defense).
To clarify: all of the major categories of government spending have been increasing relative to inflation. But essentially all of the increase in spending relative to economic growth, and the potential tax base, has come from entitlement programs, and about half of that has come from health care entitlements specifically.
The growth in health care expenditures, for better or worse, is not just a government problem: private spending on health care is increasing at broadly the same rates and is eating up a larger and larger share of economic activity. It's an immensely complicated problem, but the arithmetic is simple: if we can't slow the rate of growth in health care expenditures, we'll either have to raise taxes, cut other government spending or continue to run huge deficits. Or we could hope to grow our way out of the problem, but health care expenditures may be impeding private-sector growth as well.
And soon, we may cross an important symbolic threshold: when the overall majority of government expenditures are spent on, essentially, insurance programs. (Another way to conceive of the major categories of entitlement programs are as health insurance, retirement insurance, unemployment insurance and so forth). Already, this is true of federal government spending (and it has been true since the early-to-mid-1990s). It is very close to being true even if one also accounts for state and local spending, and may well become true as soon as this year.
Slowing the growth of entitlement spending will not be easy. Particularly in the case of health care, it has become substantially more expensive for individuals with both public and private insurance to purchase the same level of care.
And on a political level, cuts to entitlement programs are liable to be more noticeable to individual voters than cuts to things like infrastructure spending. A 10 percent cut to Social Security or Medicare benefits will surely draw the ire of voters. A 10 percent reduction in the amount allocated to bridge repair, or in the amount of government-sponsored energy research, will affect individual citizens less directly (even if they are perhaps ultimately more economically damaging: most of the academic literature is supportive of high long-run returns to infrastructure and research and development spending on private-sector productivity and economic growth).
Nevertheless, the declining level of trust in government since the 1970s is a fairly close mirror for the growth in spending on social insurance as a share of the gross domestic product and of overall government expenditures. We may have gone from conceiving of government as an entity that builds roads, dams and airports, provides shared services like schooling, policing and national parks, and wages wars, into the world's largest insurance broker.
Most of us don't much care for our insurance broker.

        
What the New G.D.P. Figures Mean for the Election
        
Overconfidence Suggested in Supreme Court Predictions
        
Details of Health Care Ruling Could Be Lost on Public
        
Beware 'Mission Accomplished' on Budget Debate

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); POLITICS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); DEFENSE SPENDING (89%); BUDGETS (89%); MEDICARE (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); COLD WAR (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); MEDICAID (73%); EDUCATION FUNDING (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (72%); EVIDENCE (71%); WORLD WAR II (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); ECONOMIC POLICY (67%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (64%); WORLD WAR I (63%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (61%) debt; defense; entitlements; G.D.P.; government spending; health care; infrastructure; insurance; Medicaid; Medicare; Social Security; Economics; Politics

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2013



518 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2013

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 381 words

HEADLINE: 2014 Transit Van: Ford Builds a Better Box

BYLINE: JERRY GARRETT


HIGHLIGHT: The Ford Transit is the big brother of an emerging family of commercial vans. 

 BODY:
 Introduced on Tuesday: 2014 Ford Transit commercial vehicle
 What Is It? The end of the line for the Econoline, a Ford nameplate since 1961. The new Transit is the big brother of an emerging family of commercial vans; not to be confused with the Transit Connect Wagon and Transit Connect Van, which are smaller, lighter-duty people- and cargo-movers (recently updated). 
 Is It Real? Ford is currently re-tooling its Kansas City plant to be able to crank out hundreds of thousands of Transits by year's end.
 What They Said: "The Transit is the new standard in full-size vans and customer choice," Len Deluca, director of Ford's commercial vehicle operations, said in a statement. "We're going from an exclusively gasoline engine lineup of two V-8s and a V-10 in the E-Series to offering customers a standard 3.7-liter V-6, the same 3.5-liter EcoBoost engine proven in the Ford F-150 and an all new 3.2-liter Power Stroke Diesel option."
 What They Didn't Say: Thanks, Europe, for showing America what a maneuverable size, user-friendly shape, environmentally more friendly and cargo-optimized configuration for these types of vehicles should look like. In Europe, vans have to do big jobs in much tighter quarters. These Euro-inspired styles are superior in almost every specification to the Eisenhower Era configuration that limited the Econolines so severely as to cargo capacity, maneuverability, weight and fuel economy.
 What Makes It Go? Much smaller, more fuel-efficient gas and diesel engines - good for at least a 25-cent bump in fuel economy. A CNG connect kit is also available.
 How Much? How Soon? Prices will vary according to configuration, lengths, cab size and roof height. In dealerships by fall.
 How's It Look? Like a big box on wheels - which it most certainly is. That's the whole idea of the Transit line design - maximum box, minimum weight. No wasted space. The edges are a bit softer than the original Transit Connect series of vehicles. The Ford car family (Aston Martin-inspired) grille looks a bit jarring in this application, and may take some getting used to.

        
The Designer's Night 2013 Party
        
A Ford F-150 Concept, Larger Than Life
        
Wheelies: The 'We're Hiring' Edition
        
Ford and G.M. Battle to Win Wired Drivers
        
Ford Announces In-Car Voice Commands for Amazon's Cloud Music

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (92%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); DIESEL FUEL (73%) Ford Transit; Automobiles; Ford Motor Co; Ford Motor Co|F|NYSE; 2013 Detroit Auto Show; Auto Shows

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Ford Motor Co

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%) Ford Motor Co; F; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2013



519 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2013

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 424 words

HEADLINE: An Acura MDX Prototype With Front-Wheel Drive

BYLINE: CHERYL JENSEN


HIGHLIGHT: The prototype hints at the looks of the coming, third-generation seven-passenger MDX. And for the first time it could be available in front-wheel drive. 

 BODY:
 Introduced on Tuesday, Jan. 15: 2014 Acura MDX Prototype
 What is it? The 2014 Acura MDX Prototype hints strongly at the looks of the coming, third-generation seven-passenger MDX. For the first time it could be available in front-wheel drive, making it more attractive to parts of the country that never see snow and don't want all-wheel drive. This reflects the importance of the MDX to Acura, because it is responsible for almost one-third of the company's sales. 
 Is it real? Given the history of past Acura prototypes, something very much like it will show up as the 2014 MDX. What is not real is the interior because there is none. Acura is not ready to show that yet. However, at the news conference we were assured the cabin would be even more functional, more refined and extra luxurious.
 What they said: "Considering the changing taste of today's luxury buyer and the increased requirements for fuel economy, the big challenge in creating a new S.U.V. is to design it to be smarter and more efficient inside and out. And that is precisely our intent and direction with the next-generation MDX," said Jon Ikeda, Acura's chief designer.
 What they didn't say: Front-wheel drive reduces weight, cost and complexity, and 16 miles per gallon in the city and 21 highway for the current model isn't all that great these days. Besides, its main competitors offer front-wheel drive.
 What makes it tick? An all-new 3.5-liter i-VTEC V-6 engine will provide the power, improved torque and what Acura said would be "class-leading" fuel economy, although executives did not give numbers. The engine will be based on the 310 horsepower engine in the new RLX, but tuned for a sport utility.
 How much, how soon: It goes on sale by the middle of this year. Pricing was not provided, although Acura prices generally do not change much with a redesign. Current pricing with all-wheel drive starts at $44,175.
 How's it look? The harder-edged look of the current MDX is replaced by a somewhat softer, more rounded body with lower, wider and sleeker proportions that express Acura's new "Aero Sculpture" styling. The roofline, which is 1.5 inches lower than the current generation, reflects a 16 percent reduction in aerodynamic drag. It has the "jewel-eye" LED headlights from the new RLX sedan.

        
With Racy LF-LC, Lexus Risks the Ire of LF-A Buyers
        
Acura RDX Hunts Redemption in Detroit
        
Acura Prepares Product Blitz, Including NSX Concept, for Detroit Auto Show
        
Anti-Auto Show Focusing on Alternative Transportation
        
The Fisker Karma With a V-8, Courtesy of Bob Lutz

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TRADE SHOWS (88%); SEDANS (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (75%); LUXURY GOODS (70%) Automobiles; Acura Division of Honda Motor Co; Detroit (Mich); 2013 Detroit Auto Show; Auto Shows; New Cars

ORGANIZATION: Acura Division of Honda Motor Co

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Detroit (Mich)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2013



520 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2013

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 752 words

HEADLINE: Counting the Vanishing Bees

BYLINE: DYLAN WALSH


HIGHLIGHT: No census exists so far, but a new monitoring method involving pan traps is remarkably cheap and efficient. 

 BODY:
A new method for monitoring the decline in bee populations may prove a useful tool in much-needed conservation efforts. It requires only a few hundred pan traps: bright shallow bowls partly filled with soapy water or propylene glycol.
When United Nations experts noticed that crop production was flagging in seven countries around the world, from Brazil to Nepal, they contacted Gretchen LeBuhn, an associate professor at San Francisco State University who studies bees. 
"The U.N. thought that the problem might be tied to a decline in bee populations," Dr. LeBuhn said. "I was hired to see if it would be feasible to monitor this decline."
Her results, published in the most recent issue of Conservation Biology, outline the new monitoring method, which is remarkably cheap and efficient for tracking national, regional or global bee populations. At any of these scales, the pan traps can do the job at a cost of less than $2 million over five years.
Globally, insect pollination is responsible for almost $200 billion of agricultural production every year, with 70 percent of the main crops used for human consumption dependent on pollinators. The annual contribution of pollinators to essential ecosystem functions like water and habitat health, though not directly valued by markets, likely exceeds $200 billion.
Despite the economic stakes, a decades-long scientific narrative of bee decline and growing concern about an acceleration of this decline, there is no fixed network for tracking bee populations.
"No one really monitors bees," said Sam Droege, a biologist at the United States Geological Survey and a co-author with Dr. LeBuhn. "Talk all you want about declines, but it's based on nothing, really - no census, no survey."
A critical feature of the published program is its ability to capture very slight population changes of 2 to 5 percent in a small window of time, thereby acting as an early-warning system. "Insect populations naturally go up and down a lot," Dr. LeBuhn said. "Because they're so variable, detecting a trend can be hard."
An even subtler and more intractable challenge is identifying bees once they've been collected. Outside of about a half-dozen experts across the country, very few people can efficiently identify bees by genus, much less by species.
"A lot of effort will be required for retraining the next generation of taxonomists," said Sydney Cameron, an entomologist at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign and a science adviser to the Bumblebee Specialist Group at the International Union for Conservation of Nature.
For the most part, grants available to taxonomists have shriveled as specialties like genomics gain ascendance in biology, Dr. Cameron said. "But this may be a case of throwing out the baby with the bathwater," she said. "We need taxonomy to understand what's happening in the biological world." 
In the case of agriculture, poor productivity of a particular crop could be caused by the disappearance of a single, very efficient pollinator. Without data at the species level, this crucial fact might be overlooked.
Mr. Droege, who is among a handful of expert bee taxonomists, is using the findings from the article in Conservation Biology to build a national monitoring network that he hopes will include a partnership with Canada. He will probably be the project's sole identifier of specimens.
But even with the development of a network, there is no central repository, federal or private, for the data. Dr. LeBuhn directs The Great Sunflower Project, a citizen-science program with 100,000 volunteers reporting daily pollinator observations. She is not sure what to do with the vast and growing collection of information.
"I'm sitting on an amazing data set," she said. "If I got hit bya car tomorrow, somebody would probably do something with it, but it's not feeding into anything like the U.S.D.A."
To underline the importance of systematic monitoring, Dr. LeBuhn recounted how a former student, Quinn McFrederick, surveyed bumblebees in San Francisco's urban parks in 2004 and discovered that a bee species that had been one of the city's most common ones in the 1990s had disappeared entirely.
"Wow, I thought. The most common bumblebee in San Francisco disappeared, and none of us noticed, not even me, a biologist," Dr. LeBuhn said. "That really got my attention."

        
In Flies' Innards, Vital Clues to Biodiversity
        
The Race to Document Biodiversity
        
Could Chicken Be the New Monkey Someday?
        
Bracing for a Bullfrog Invasion
        
A Biodiversity Map, Version 2.0

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); AGRICULTURE (90%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (90%); ENTOMOLOGY (90%); BIOLOGY (90%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (90%); TRENDS (78%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (78%); BIODIVERSITY (78%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); SCIENCE POLICY (74%); AGRICULTURAL OUTPUT (72%); CROP PRODUCTION (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); GENOMICS (71%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (71%); WRITERS (69%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (60%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (58%) bumblebees; Endangered species; monitoring; surveys; Droege, Sam; Agriculture and Farming; Bees; Biodiversity; Agriculture Department; Conservation Biology (Journal); International Union for Conservation of Nature; Agriculture; Research/Studies; Science; wildlife

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (93%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); INTERNATIONAL UNION FOR THE CONSERVATION OF NATURE & NATURAL RESOURCES (84%) Agriculture Department; Conservation Biology (Journal); International Union for Conservation of Nature

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (93%)

PERSON: Droege, Sam

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); NEPAL (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2013



521 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2013

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 809 words

HEADLINE: In Effort to Preserve Bedford-Stuyvesant, Some Ask: For Whom?

BYLINE: DAVID W. DUNLAP


HIGHLIGHT: Some residents of Bedford-Stuyvesant are challenging a proposed historic district, saying it would impose so many regulatory burdens that the very people who had held the blocks together would be the first to go. 

 BODY:
With block after block of crisply handsome 19th-century row houses arrayed in almost military precision, punctuated on the avenues by fantastically turreted schoolhouses and apartment buildings, the area of Bedford-Stuyvesant between Bedford and Tompkins Avenues and Monroe and Fulton Streets is unquestionably a historical district.
Whether it ought to become an official historic district, however, was the subject of sharp - though polite - disagreement at a hearing Tuesday before the Landmarks Preservation Commission. 
The proposed Bedford Historic District in Brooklyn would include all or parts of 16 blocks, about 800 buildings in all. (Map, as a PDF.) "With its unparalleled opportunities for homeownership, Bedford-Stuyvesant became the community of choice for many of New York's African-American residents," the commission said in its description of the district (PDF). The beauty of these blocks is still something of a secret in New York at large, a secret that may have helped protect its population.
Neighbors who oppose or challenge the historic district said that it would have the effect of raising property values and rents and that it would impose so many regulatory burdens that the very people who had held the blocks together through awfully lean years - poorer, older African-American and Caribbean-American owners and occupants - would be the first to go.
"What needs to be preserved are the people of Bedford-Stuyvesant," said Sehu Jeppe, who lives on Hancock Street, between Bedford and Nostrand Avenues. "I'd hate to see us become a Harlem, where the jewel has been extracted."
Neighbors who favor the creation of the district said it would reward and honor residents who had clung to their homes through decades of financial redlining, municipal neglect and economic decline. In a historic district, advocates said, it would be much more difficult for speculative developers to construct buildings out of character with their surroundings.
Anna Bloodworth, who lives on Jefferson Avenue, between Nostrand and Marcy Avenues, said she feared that displacement would occur if the area were not regulated, which is why she favors the district designation. "It will prevent anyone from sticking up a home or a house that they have no intention of living in," she told the commissioners. "Developers don't care about people who live in neighborhoods. They care about money."
The commission has not set a timetable for its vote on the Bedford Historic District.
Councilman Albert Vann, who has represented Bedford-Stuyvesant as an elected official since 1974, appeared in person to testify in favor of the district.
"It is difficult for a community to protect itself when powerful economic forces threaten changes that strike at the core of its identity," Mr. Vann said. He added that the proposal for a district was the "result of a community's decision to come together, to use the tools available to it to protect investments its members have made over generations."
How broadly the measure is favored or opposed in the neighborhood is hard to gauge. Evelyn Collier, the chairwoman of the landmarks committee of Community Board 3, read a letter from the board chairman, Henry L. Butler, saying that the residents of the district supported designation. 
Opponents, including the Rev. Johnny Ray Youngblood of the Mount Pisgah Baptist Church (just outside the district on Tompkins Avenue) and Kirsten John Foy, president of the Brooklyn chapter of the National Action Network, said that more than 200 residents had signed a form stating, "I cannot say whether I am for or against landmarking our homes because I have not been provided with enough information to make a decision." Mr. Foy said the scheduling of the hearing (a work day) and its location (the Municipal Building in Lower Manhattan) "benefit the architectural elite who happen to follow the workings of the Landmarks Preservation Commission and who share its objective and economic interest that are very different from the majority of the residents and homeowners in the community."
To which Charlene Phillips, the district manager of Community Board 3, replied that the commission had held three "very large public meetings" in the neighborhood and that volunteers had approached homeowners and block associations with information. Simeon Bankoff, the executive director of the Historic Districts Council (presumably one of Mr. Foy's "elite"), said he had attended at least 15 meetings about the district.
"It's not true that the agency and advocates have not done their darnedest to reach out to the community," he said.

        
In Fast-Gentrifying Bed-Stuy, a Celebration of Early Black Settlers
        
Ada Louise Huxtable's New York
        
Time's Fleeting for Storm-Displaced Pets' Free Care
        
Main Facade Intact at Ladies' Mile Landmark, but Damage Is Serious
        
When Trade Shows Were Both Grand and Central

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (94%); HISTORIC SITES (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (67%); CITY GOVERNMENT (67%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (62%) Bedford-Stuyvesant (Brooklyn, NY); Blacks; Foy, Kirsten John; Historic Buildings and Sites; Vann, Albert; Youngblood, Johnny Ray; Brooklyn; Building Blocks; Buildings and Landmarks

PERSON: Foy, Kirsten John; Vann, Albert; Youngblood, Johnny Ray

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Bedford-Stuyvesant (Brooklyn, NY)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2013



522 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Carpetbagger)

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2013

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 308 words

HEADLINE: Tell Us Your Candidates for Obama Cinema

BYLINE: STEPHANIE GOODMAN


HIGHLIGHT: The Times's chief film critics are making the case for Obama Cinema, movies that in some intrinsic way reflect the country and especially its leader since 2008. What film would you include? 

 BODY:
As the president's second inauguration approaches, The Times's chief film critics, A.O. Scott and Manohla Dargis, are proposing a new genre: Obama Cinema. In a "highly preliminary, wildly speculative thematic guide" -- as they put it -- they argue that it's possible to view recent American films as reflections of different aspects of the nation and especially its leader since 2008. 
Take the current crop of Oscar-nominated films, starting with "Zero Dark Thirty," a somber look at a central event of a wartime presidency. "Les Misrables" resonates after the Great Recession, while "Marvel's The Avengers" could be described as the efforts of a community organizer (Fury) "mobilizing fractious individuals"  la our community Organizer in chief.
Then there's "Lincoln" and "Django Unchained": both films address race explicitly, refracting thedebate over a postracial America begun in Mr. Obama's first term.
Speaking of "Lincoln," the seed for that movie (and for "Abraham Lincoln: Vampire Hunter") may well have been planted, along with the country's Lincolnmania, when Mr. Obama declared his candidacy in Springfield, Ill., the hometown of the 16th president.
The argument isn't limited to nominated films or even recent releases. In different ways, "The Help," "The Dark Knight Rises," "Rise of the Planet of the Apes," "The Descendants," "The Social Network" and "Company Men" all embody one or more of the themes -- war, recession, race, community organizing, Lincolnmania -- that run through Obama Cinema.
What do you think of the notion of an Obama film? What films would you consider Obama Cinema? Tell us in the comments section.

        
Obama, Fan of 'Lincoln' (and 'Beasts,' Too)
        
Nine Films Vie for Best Picture
        
Below the Line: Designing 'Moonrise Kingdom'
        
Another Change in the Oscar Rules for Documentaries
        
Add Spielberg to the List of 'Beasts' Fans

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FILM (93%); MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (76%) Obama, Barack; Movies; Academy Awards

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: SPRINGFIELD, IL, USA (74%) ILLINOIS, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2013



523 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2013

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 697 words

HEADLINE: Last Time Around, Striking Bus Drivers Had Plenty of Company

BYLINE: ANDY NEWMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Even Tiny Tim tiptoed onto a picket line in New York in 1979, when the city's bus drivers last went on strike and labor unrest was commonplace. 

 BODY:
The New York of 1979, much like the New York of mid-January 2013, was a city of unbused schoolchildren.
But the New York of 1979 -- the last time the city's school-bus drivers went out on strike -- was also a city of unmanned elevators and untaken bets. It was a place permeated, if metaphorically, by the scent of spoiled milk and literally by the scent of unbarged trash, where Tiny Tim picketed with Port Authority of New York and New Jersey police officers, American Ballet Theater dancers walked the line on point in toe shoes, and umpires wearing chest-protector-shaped protest signs called strikes outside Yankee Stadium instead of inside.
Which is to say, there was a dizzying amount of labor unrest in those days. 
From January, when the head of the cemetery-workers union went on a five-day hunger strike and hospital doctors ceased their rounds to protest closures, to December, when the Long Island Rail Road was stopped dead in its tracks and New-York Historical Society workers walked out (the museum's director declared himself "personally distressed" by the job action), the city and region were in a near-constant state of partial paralysis. 
When the bus drivers went out on Feb. 15 - like their current counterparts, they sought job protection -- they were followed in quick succession by the milk drivers, the Off-Track Betting clerks, the tugboat operators, the Port Authority officers, the state prison guards and the apartment-building service workers. By late April, The New York Times was running a daily digest called "Updates on New York's Strikes." The bus strike lasted 12 weeks.
Josh Freeman, a labor historian at City University of New York, said that rather than wonder why strikes were so rampant then, "I would kind of flip it on its head" and note that since the 1980s, strikes "have gone down to historic low levels and stayed there."
Before that, Mr. Freeman said, "a lot of unions were still confident and strong from the long post-war period when unions were very powerful, then in the 70's they got hit by a lot of economic bad news" - inflation, stagflation, recession -- and felt confident in their ability to fight back and make the best of the circumstances.
In fact, Mr. Freeman said, there were several points in the city's history, just after World War II and during the Lindsay Administration, when New Yorkers endured multiple simultaneous strikes. "People weren't exactly casual about it," he said, "but it was part of the expected landscape." 
The 1979 cascade of work stoppages led to fits of occupational overlap. Sanitation workers hauled the trash that the tugboat barges would not, except when they declined to cross the building-service workers' picket lines. Even as the state prison guards sat out on strike (their union chief took a busman's holiday to Albany County jail on a contempt charge), city correction workers, who were not, ferried children with disabilities to school in Rikers Island prisoner vans.
The 1979 strikes could be vicious. A maintenance worker was stabbed to death for daring to cross a picket line at St. John's University. School-bus drivers, some wielding bats and icepicks, smashed windows, slashed tires and surrounded vans carrying children who were emotionally disturbed, refusing to let the children get off and go to school. Someone cut a hole in the roof of a trailer full of milk at a Waldbaum's supermarket loading dock on Long Island, poured in gas or oil and set it aflame.
The year ended on a few positive notes, though. The Long Island Rail Road began running again in time for Christmas, the ballet corps ended an eight-week lockout by agreeing to a contract that doubled salaries for some dancers, and on New Year's Eve, a strike by Triborough Bridge and Tunnel Authority toll collectors was averted.
The stage was set for the transit strike of 1980, which would bring the city to a screeching halt.

Michael Kolomatsky and Diego Ribadeneira contributed research. 

        
Kids Draw the News: Draw the School Bus Strike
        
Office Owners and Cleaners Reach a Deal, Averting a Strike
        
Faculty Strike Delays Classes at L.I.U.
        
Triangle Fire: New Leaders Emerge
        
M.T.A. to Begin Restoring and Expanding Some Bus Services

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STRIKES (92%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (90%); BALLET (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); DANCE COMPANIES (90%); HISTORY (89%); SCHOOL & EMPLOYEE BUS SERVICES (78%); CHILDREN (78%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (78%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (75%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (73%); GAMING (71%); EMPLOYMENT (70%); DANCERS (70%); MARINE TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (70%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (70%); PORT AUTHORITIES (70%); PARALYSIS (68%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (67%); RECESSION (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); NEWS BRIEFS (63%); WORLD WAR II (60%) American Ballet Theater; Buses; Freeman, Josh; Organized Labor; Strikes; Labor; Local History

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (71%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (91%) American Ballet Theater

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (71%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (71%)

PERSON: Freeman, Josh

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2013



524 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 2130 words

HEADLINE: Now What, Liberalism?

BYLINE: THOMAS B. EDSALL


HIGHLIGHT: The Democratic left has to deal with the consequences of its succeses. 

 BODY:
The argument of the political commentator Walter Russell Mead that the United States has reached an end-stage death match between liberal constituent groups has received widespread attention, especially in the conservative blogosphere.
Mead, who teaches at Bard College, contends that
The core institutions, ideas and expectations that shaped American life for the sixty years after the New Deal don't work anymore. The gaps between the social system we inhabit and the one we now need are becoming so wide that we can no longer paper over them.
In many respects, liberalism is a fat target. Dozens of city and state public employee pension plans are on the verge of bankruptcy - or are actually bankrupt - from Rhode Island to California; in 2010, a survey of 126 state and local plans showed assets of $2.7 trillion and liabilities of $3.5 trillion, an $800 billion shortfall. The national debt exceeds $16 trillion.
Mead labels the "institutions, ideas and expectations" of contemporary liberalism the "blue model": 
In the old system, most blue-collar and white-collar workers held stable, lifetime jobs with defined benefit pensions, and a career civil service administered a growing state as living standards for all social classes steadily rose. Gaps between the classes remained fairly consistent in an industrial economy characterized by strong unions in stable, government-brokered arrangements with large corporations-what Galbraith and others referred to as the Iron Triangle. High school graduates were pretty much guaranteed lifetime employment in a job that provided a comfortable lower middle-class lifestyle; college graduates could expect a better paid and equally secure future. An increasing "social dividend", meanwhile, accrued in various forms: longer vacations, more and cheaper state-supported education, earlier retirement, shorter work weeks, more social and literal mobility, and more diverse forms of affordable entertainment. Call all this, taken together, the blue model.
While American business abandoned the blue model long ago, especially the notion of providing secure employment and defined benefit pensions on retirement, American government, in Mead's view, has not. Costs "are now exploding according to the immutable logic of demographic and actuarial facts, and it is clear that the government can't pay them into the future."
Hmm. I e-mailed Mead to ask what a functional, "post-blue" model of the liberal state might look like, and he wrote back:
Apologies that I don't have a fully formed alternative social model ready to drop on a grateful nation, but whatever insights I come up with I will be happy to share on the blog. Believe me, I am working on it. Creating the policy framework to capture the full power of modern information processing capability to raise social productivity is a big part of it.
Finding that Mead is far less radical in his thinking than his critique of contemporary liberalism would suggest, I thought I would move on to more quantitatively inclined analysts of social insurance regimes. So I contacted two economists, Richard Freeman of Harvard and David Autor of M.I.T.
Freeman directly addressed critics of big government:
As long as we have big problems - climate change, terrorism and terror states with nukes, threats of pandemics, adjusting to China, India catching up with us, etc. - and have big banks that can destroy economies and big companies which can harm us per cigarettes and pollutants - I do not see what shield we have but government. The solutions to these problems are collective ones, which mean government.
What is troubling is that governments are flawed, influenced by special groups, and so on. But, Freeman wrote
I would rather be ruled by an elected government than the top 1000 billionaires on Forbes' list - so I don't think the issue is big government but the way government operates and hope that technology and information and media offer some chance for us to get a better handle over what big government does. Also I am not sure what you can shrink that would not open space for other big entities less limited by law and less sensitive to reaction of people.
Autor is a nationally recognized expert on the federal disability program, Social Security Disability Insurance, which he (and many others) consider to be "malfunctioning." Autor writes that "it's inducing a lot of desperate people to choose government dependency over work." Given this line of analysis, Autor might be expected to be a critic of liberalism. By e-mail, I asked him "Is the disability program a prime example of the dysfunctionality of liberalism, or is it a unique problem not characteristic of the liberal agenda?"
His reply:
It's neither. It's an example of a program that was set up to do a lot of good and still does a lot of good, but one that has not changed with the times. Republicans are as complicit in this policy failure as Democrats. Neither has had the stomach to touch the program since the early 1980s, following Carter's and then Reagan's disastrous attempts at reforms. Every advanced country needs and has a disability program. But not all of them are on the same unsustainable trajectories as the U.S.' program. Countries that are far more liberal than the U.S., like the Netherlands, have had the wisdom and courage to reform their disability systems to stem abuses while maintaining needed social insurance.
Autor argues that a reformed disability program should be a part of a structure of safety net programs that would provide a level of security that 
arguably makes the public more not less receptive to accepting disruptive changes in market conditions. If the safety net is effective and voters understand that, they can safely support policies that have long-run benefits and short-run costs without putting themselves at personal economic peril.
In one significant respect, Autor agrees with Mead's sense that government is no longer responding as flexibly and vitally as it needs to:
We're going to have a social safety net. The question is whether we're going to have a rigid set of institutions and incentives that have been ossifying since the 1950s, or whether we're going to belly up to the bar and modernize these systems in light of how the world has changed and what we've learned from economics and social policy in the intervening half century.
Joel Kotkin, a fellow in urban design at Chapman University, faults the contemporary left from a different angle. Using apocalyptic language similar to Mead's, Kotkin argues that the Democratic Party and the left are dominated by what he calls "gentry progressives": largely white, well-educated, culturally liberal urbanites.
In an essay published by Forbes a month after Obama's decisive re-election, Kotkin wrote:
The now triumphant urban gentry have their townhouses and high-rise lofts, but the service workers who do their dirty work have to log their way by bus or car from the vast American banlieues, either in peripheral parts of the city (think of Brooklyn's impoverished fringes) or the poorer close-in suburbs. This progressive economy works for the well-placed academics, the trustfunders and hedge funders, but produces little opportunity for a better life for the vast majority.
Kotkin makes the case that the celebrated Obama coalition uniting well-educated, often upscale liberals, with such struggling, often disadvantaged constituencies as single women, racial and ethnic minorities, and the young is fragile at best:
The class issue so cleverly exploited by the president in the election could prove the potential Achilles heel of today's gentry progressivism. The Obama-Bernanke-Geithner economy has done little to reverse the relative decline of the middle and working class, whose share of national income has fallen to record lows. If you don't work for venture-backed tech firms, coddled, money-for-nearly-free Wall Street or for the government, your income and standard of living has probably declined since the middle of the last decade.
Entitlement reform, a darling of gentry progressives who share Mead's fear that "costs are now exploding according to the immutable logic of demographic and actuarial facts," is perhaps the quintessential case study of the inclination of the progressive elite to disregard the distributive consequences of their reform initiatives. Take the case of those calling for gradual reduction in Social Security benefits - either by raising the retirement age or switching to a "chained" Consumer Price Index (a revised inflation index which cuts government spending by reducing annual cost of living adjustments).
Who would be most affected? Those in the bottom 20 percent of the elderly who depend on Social Security for 84 percent of their annual income, and those in the next quintile dependent on Social Security for 83 percent of their income. At the beginning of 2012, the average Social Security benefit was $1,230 a month, or $14,740 a year. For 35 percent of elderly white beneficiaries, for 42 percent of Asian-Americans, for 49 percent of blacks, and for 55 percent of Hispanics, Social Security represents 90 percent or more of total income.
In the current debate over financing the cost of income support forolder Americans, the chained C.P.I. proposal has more political support than the progressive alternative of raising the current $110,100 cap on the amount of income subject to the payroll tax. Low-income Social Security beneficiaries are not equipped to absorb cuts in benefits that a switch to a chained consumer price index would entail; on the other hand, according to the centrist Tax Policy Center, raising the cap on income subject to the payroll tax could completely cover Social Security costs into the foreseeable future without reducing benefits.
Obama's victory and the growing evidence of an emerging majority Democratic coalition pose the danger that the left will take false comfort. The demographic forces currently powering the Democratic Party in no way guarantee a resilient coalition assured of a long-term competitive advantage.
In addition to the glaring class conflicts between the party's upscale cultural liberals and the larger body of Democratic voters with pressing material needs, there are a host of potential fissures.
In cities from Los Angeles to Chicago to Houston, African-Americans are competing with Hispanics and others for government jobs, good schools, good neighborhoods, political power and basic resources. Republicans are looking toward these tensions to see how their party can capitalize on them.
Insofar as austerity advocates force Obama and Democrats in the House and Senate to accept budget cuts, similar ethnic and regional conflicts will plague the party, undermining political unity.
The determination of the Obama administration and many of its Congressional allies to raise taxes on the affluent is not, in political terms, cost-free. The Democratic Party has made huge gains - although short of a majority - among upper-income voters, and inasmuch as Democratic tax policies threaten the standard of living of this cohort, upscale left partisans may get cold feet.
The much larger hurdle facing contemporary liberalism is the need to reconfigure the welfare state in ways that maintain popular support while addressing a host of conflicting forces:

        
The aging of the population is steadily reducing the ratio of workers to retirees, expanding the "dependency ratio," even as global competition drives governments worldwide to reduce corporate and individual taxes, cutting off the revenues to finance social welfare spending.
        
Other demographic trends, particularly the erosion of supportive extended family networks and the rising numbers of single elderly, serve to increase the demands for benefits from the welfare state.
        
Austerity policies enacted in response to high deficit and debt levels have resulted in increased voter suspicion of the "undeserving" poor and of "free riders" who are perceived as getting more out of government programs than they pay in, weakening support for the welfare state. Similarly, means testing old-age income security initiatives - particularly Social Security -would inevitably undermine universal support.
Liberalism now faces the job of paying for its own success in helping people live longer. The progressive ethos, currently embattled, has a proud history. What is uncertain is whether a durable social consensus can be mobilized in the face of the global economic pressure to reduce taxes and limit the scope of government. The Democratic left faces a daunting, but not necessarily insurmountable, obstacle.

        
From All Sides, Fiscal Plans Fall Far Short of What's Needed
        
A Deal Without a Compromise
        
The Fiscal Riff
        
The Liberation of General Motors
        
The War Democrats' Big Night

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LIBERALISM (94%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS (89%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (89%); POLITICS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (75%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (75%); CIVIL SERVICES (74%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (72%); HIGH SCHOOLS (71%); LIVING STANDARDS (71%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (59%); NATIONAL DEBT (53%) Autor, David; Democratic Party; Disability Insurance; Kotkin, Joel; Liberalism (US Politics); Mead, Walter Russell; Richard Freeman; Taxation; United States Economy; Thomas B. Edsall

ORGANIZATION: Democratic Party

PERSON: Autor, David; Kotkin, Joel; Mead, Walter Russell

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2013



525 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 605 words

HEADLINE: Inaugural Planners Spotlight Eight Citizens

BYLINE: SHERYL GAY STOLBERG


HIGHLIGHT: Planners of President Obama's inauguration named eight "citizen co-chairs" attuned to his agenda. 

 BODY:
A retired nurse, a 26-year-old who was denied health insurance, a soldier injured in Afghanistan and a laid-off auto worker who got her job back after President Obama moved to rescue the auto industry are among eight "citizen co-chairs'' of Monday's inaugural festivities, inaugural planners are to announce Thursday morning.
The co-chairs, all ordinary Americans who have met Mr. Obama during his travels, will participate in Saturday's National Day of Service and ride a float in the inaugural parade. They will also attend the inaugural balls. 
"Every day, I'm inspired by the determination, grit, and resilience of the American people," Mr. Obama said in a statement about their roles. "The stories of these extraordinary men and women highlight both the progress we've made and how much we have left to do. They remind us that when we live up to the example set by the American people, there is no limit to how bright our future can be."
Previous inaugurals have not included citizen co-chairs; Mr. Obama's inaugural planners say the president hopes he is beginning a new tradition. The eight people his committee selected dovetail with his political agenda; each spotlights a different theme or initiative of the Obama presidency.
 They are:
 Ida Edwards, a retired nurse from Petersburg, Va., who witnessed the civil rights movement and the passing of the Civil Rights Act as a young woman.
 Erica Chan, 26, of San Francisco, who was denied health insurance because of a pre-existing condition. After Mr. Obama's health bill became law, she had life-saving brain surgery.
 Lily Griego of Denver, a single mother working two jobs who volunteered for the president's re-election campaign. Her son is attending college with the help of Pell grants and other financial aid favored by the president.
 Kenyetta Jones, a 27-year veteran at the General Motors Powertrain Plant in Toledo, Ohio, who was laid off for 13 months during the economic downturn in 2009. A year later, she got her job back after the auto industry bailout.
 Liz McCartney of New Orleans, a co-founder of the St. Bernard Project, a nonprofit organization that seeks to rebuild homes destroyed by Hurricane Katrina within St. Bernard Parish in New Orleans. She has begun a similar project in the New York/New Jersey area in the wake of the storm Sandy.
 Rob Hach of Alta, Iowa, who with his wife, Tara, started Anemometry Specialists, a small renewable energy business, 10 years ago. He has been in the wind energy business since 1994; over the past decade, his business has grown to include 27 employees.
 David Hall of Washington, a former Air Force staff sergeant who was named a pilot, only to be excluded for "homosexual conduct" in August 2002 - a practice that ended after Mr. Obama signed a repeal of the military's "don't ask, don't tell'' policy.
 Petty Officer Second Class Taylor Morris, originally from Cedar Rapids, Iowa, who was injured by an improvised explosive device during his first deployment to Afghanistan and is now a quadruple amputee. Mr. Obama met him at Walter Reed Army Medical Center, and then surprised him during a White House tour to award him the Purple Heart.
An earlier version of this article misspelled the given name of one of the "citizen co-chairs" of the inaugural festivities. The GM employee who got her job back after the auto industry bailout is Kenyetta Jones, not Kenyatta.

        
Prominent Republicans Criticize Obama's Executive Actions
        
No Easy Path for Obama's Gun Safety Agenda
        
Obama Set to Announce Plans to Address Gun Violence
        
In Debt Game, an Early Move From Obama
        
Chelsea Clinton to Headline Inaugural 'Day of Service' Event

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (91%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); NURSES & NURSING (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); WOMEN (78%); HURRICANE KATRINA (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (77%); POLITICS (77%); WORKING MOTHERS (73%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (70%); CAUCUSES (70%); LEGISLATION (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); BAILOUTS (67%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (67%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (65%); GAYS & LESBIANS (64%); WIND ENERGY (62%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (62%); MOTOR VEHICLE POWER TRAIN MFG (61%); HURRICANES (60%); HURRICANE SANDY (60%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); SINGLE PARENTS (50%) Inaugurations; Obama, Barack; inauguration; The Caucus

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); TOLEDO, OH, USA (52%) LOUISIANA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2013



526 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(India Ink)

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2013

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 453 words

HEADLINE: India's Police Force Lags Much of the World

BYLINE: MALAVIKA VYAWAHARE


HIGHLIGHT: India has fewer cops per capita than most other countries. 

 BODY:
A recent spate of violent crimes against women in northern India has led to increased scrutiny of the Indian police force. In Delhi, after the gang rape and subsequent death of a young woman, residents called for the resignation of the city's chief of police and the retraining of the overwhelmingly male police force. 
But perhaps the question that should be asked about India's police officers is whether there are enough of them in the first place.
On the basis of police per capita, India is the second lowest among 50 countries ranked using data from the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime from 2010. Police forces around the world are commonly measured as the number of police per 100,000 people, and India has 129. Only Uganda fares worse.
While this ratio has increased significantly in India over the last decade, it remains far behind many other major economies. (The worldwide average is closer to 350).
Scotland, for example, has around 330 officers per 100,000; South Africa had 327, the United States had 238 officers, and Canada had 201, according to 2011 data.
Not surprisingly, some studies suggest that adding police officers reduces crime. "A nation with a larger proportion of police officers is somewhat more likely to have a lower crime rate," said a 2006 reportby the Institute for the Study of Civil Society, which looked at law enforcement data from European countries.
Just weeks before the gang rape in New Delhi on Dec.16, the Indian Supreme Court laid down guidelines to check sexual harassment, including greater deployment of female police officers in public spaces:
All states and Union Territories are directed to depute plain-clothed female police officers in the precincts of bus-stands and stops, railway stations, metro stations, cinema theatres, shopping malls, parks, beaches, public service vehicles, places of worship to monitor and supervise incidents of sexual harassment.
But, without significant increase in hiring, that may be difficult. Thenumber of female police constables in the country was only 84,479 out of 1,585,117 officers, or about 5 percent of the total police force in 2011.
India's judiciary is also considered understaffed. The country's judge-to-population ratio would be the fourth lowest in the world, if the country were included in a 2008 U.N. study that looked at 65 countries. Only Guatemala, Nicaragua and Kenya had a lower ratio than India, which only had 14 judges per million population in 2008.

        
Indian Woman Is Gang-Raped After Bus Ride
        
Insurgents in Jharkhand Plant Bombs Inside Bodies
        
Rape Victim's Friend Details Attack and Delays in Getting Help
        
A Conversation With: Psychologist Rajat Mitra
        
'If the Police Had Done Something, She Would Be Alive Today'

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLICE FORCES (94%); CRIMES AGAINST PERSONS (90%); SEX OFFENSES (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); CRIME RATES (90%); VIOLENT CRIME (90%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (89%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (89%); WOMEN (89%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); RESIGNATIONS (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (75%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (73%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (73%); BOMBINGS (72%); JUDGES (69%); BUS STATIONS & TERMINALS (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (66%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (64%); SUPREME COURTS (64%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (62%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (60%); RETAILERS (50%) India; Police

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS OFFICE ON DRUGS & CRIME (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%); DELHI, INDIA (73%) NORTH INDIA (92%); JHARKHAND, INDIA (58%) INDIA (99%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); UGANDA (79%); KENYA (79%); ASIA (79%) India

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2013



527 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Ross Douthat)

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1085 words

HEADLINE: Will Gridlock Last?

BYLINE: ROSS DOUTHAT


HIGHLIGHT: Why the current balance of power in Washington might be upset in the next few election cycles. 

 BODY:
Lately I've been arguing that both political parties should probably lower their expectations for what they're likely to achieve in a divided Washington D.C. This would mean focusing on consolidation (for liberals) and rebuilding (for conservatives), making small-ball deals instead of seeking grand bargains and comprehensive reforms, giving up on the idea that some brilliant legislative gambit will suddenly "break" the House Republicans or "force" the White House to accede to G.O.P. demands, and accepting that the next wave of significant legislating will probably have to await a shift in the balance of power come 2014 or 2016.
The most plausible rebuttal to this perspective comes from Ron Brownstein's piece in the latest National Journal, which argues that the next shift in the balance of power may take much more than two or four years to arrive: 
... Four-fifths of the House Republicans in the new Congress represent districts in which the white share of the voting-age population exceeds the national average, according to a new National Journal analysis. In a near-mirror image, almost two-thirds of House Democrats represent districts in which the minority share of the voting-age population exceeds the national average, the analysis found.
For each party, these stark patterns bring opportunities and challenges. The GOP's strength in these preponderantly white districts helped sustain its House majority in a year when overwhelming minority support powered President Obama to a comfortable reelection. But the party's disproportionate reliance on whites ... will likely make it tougher for the party to formulate an agenda, on issues from immigration to health care, that attracts more of the minority support it will almost certainly need to reclaim the White House in 2016 or beyond ...
Conversely, the tilt toward minority districts among Democrats ... could make it easier for the party to coalesce around common positions on issues that have long divided it, such as immigration and gun control. But with Republicans holding such a commanding advantage in heavily white districts-which still significantly outnumber the diverse districts-it also means that Democrats will struggle to regain a House majority until changing demography brings more seats within their reach.
This combination suggests a future much like our Reagan-era past, in which one party enjoys a clear presidential-level majority across multiple four-year cycles without being able to crack the other party's hold on the House of Representatives. (The American Conservative's Dan McCarthy wrote an interesting piece on this theme just before the November election.) In such a world, both parties would have to look for major bipartisan breakthroughs in the legislative arena, because the path to electoral breakthroughs would be temporarily closed. For Obama, that would mean turning the provisional coalitions of House Democrats and blue and swing-state House Republicans that have voted for the fiscal cliff legislation and now the Sandy relief bill into Reagan-style working majorities on issues like gun control, immigration, climate change and ultimately taxes and spending. For Republicans, it would mean finding a way to drive a wedge between the president (whether Obama or his successor) and the Democratic Party's liberal wing, the way that Democrats were sometimes able to do with George H.W. Bush and conservative Republicans. Neither scenario seems terribly likely at the moment, but if this is the balance of power we're stuck with for five or ten years to come, then those are the only paths to actual policy achievements across that span.
But while Brownstein's analysis is important, I'm skeptical that the current balance of power is actually quite so stable. In 1984, when Ronald Reagan won re-election with 59 (!) percent of the vote while the Democrats were winning 269 (!!) seats in the House, it was safe to bet that both coalitions would survive through the next presidential cycle - as, indeed, they did. But in our era of narrower mandates and more ideologically-polarized parties, what seem like "safe" majorities have had a much shorter shelf life. After the 2004 election, plenty of savvy observers thought the G.O.P. had close to a lock on the House, but the Hastert-DeLay era actually only had two more years to run. Early in 2009, some of our shrewdest political analysts basically wrote off the possibility of the Republicans retaking the House in 2010; eighteen months later, John Boehner was Speaker of the House.
These shifts were drive by big external shocks, of course, from the Iraq War to the Great Recession, but that's part of my point. The Reagan division of power proved strikingly stable because the country was experiencing a decade of sustained economic growth and enjoying a series of unexpectedly sweeping foreign policy breakthroughs, a combination that boosted public confidence in America's trajectory and persuaded the voters to stick with the incumbent parties in both the White House and the Congress. No obvious confidence booster exists today: Our limping recovery simply isn't in the same league as the Reagan boom, our much larger deficits make even basic budgeting much more contentious than the Reagan-era battles, and there's no equivalent of the end of the Cold War looming on the horizon.
That doesn't make more Beltway turnover inevitable. One can certainly imagine a scenario where good-enough growth and small-ball dealmaking are sufficient to keep the current balance of power in place into the next presidential administration and beyond. But the scenario where Republicans are feckless enough to lose the House seems plausible as well, as does the scenario where four more years of stagnation delivers the White House to Chris Christie or Marco Rubio or Bobby Jindal. The idea that the G.O.P.'s House majority is so secure that perpetual brinksmanship (today debt ceiling threats, tomorrow a government shutdown, rinse and repeat) carries no political costs has seduced some Republicans, but it's quite likely wrong, and the idea that the Obama majority can be recreated easily enough in 2016 by a lesser political talent absent much stronger economic growth isn't any more self-evident. Demographics and district lines are powerful, but so long as public satisfaction with the country's direction remains twenty points below its Reagan-era levels, it seems wiser to bet on further upheaval than to expect the status quo.

        
Sargent Shriver's Christian Politics

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (72%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (72%); IMMIGRATION (63%); GUN CONTROL (50%) House of Representatives; Reagan, Ronald Wilson; United States Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (91%); BARACK OBAMA (58%) Reagan, Ronald Wilson

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2013



528 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 469 words

HEADLINE: Incoming Members of Congress Not Exactly Average Joes

BYLINE: JONATHAN WEISMAN


HIGHLIGHT: An analysis of the incoming freshman class of the 113th Congress belies the Little Guy image. The 94 new lawmakers boast a median net worth of $1,066,515 - almost exactly $1 million more than the wealth of a typical American household. 

 BODY:
With the rise of the Tea Party movement, the image of Average Joe Citizen taking over Congress has captured the media's imagination, from rural northern Florida, which sent a large-animal veterinarian, Ted Yoho, to the House, to eastern Michigan, which elected a reindeer farmer and Santa Claus impersonator, Kerry Bentivolio. 
But an analysis of the incoming freshman class of the 113th Congress belies the Little Guy image. The 94 new lawmakers boast a median net worth of $1,066,515 - almost exactly $1 million more than the wealth of a typical American household, according to the Center for Responsive Politics.
For every gospel-singing farmer (Representative Stephen Fincher, Republican of Tennessee), there's a freshman like Representative John Delaney, Democrat of Maryland, who enters the House with an estimated net worth of $139 million, the center analysis found. 
"While America continues to claw its way back to economic stability, voters have nevertheless chosen to elect new members of Congress who have already made it big," said Sheila Krumholz, the center's executive director. "Apparently, on the whole, we don't want people who look like us, financially speaking." 
Mr. Delaney may be the richest of the freshman class, but his fortune from a commercial lending firm only puts him No. 6 on the Congressional list. According to the analysis, Congress has a new richest member, Representative Michael McCaul, Republican of Texas, whose fortune in 2011, $500.1 million, nudged out the previous champion, Representative Darrell Issa, Republican of California, who is worth an estimated $480.3 million.
Mr. McCaul, whose wife is the daughter of the chairman of Clear Channel Communications, Lowry Mays, and Mr. Issa, who made his money in the car alarm business, are followed by Representative Jared Polis, Democrat of Colorado, Senator John Kerry, Democrat of Massachusetts, and Senator Mark Warner, Democrat of Virginia.
On the other end of the spectrum is a freshman representative, David Valadao, Republican of California, whose average net worth is valued at negative $15.6 million. The congressman has a number of lines of credit out supporting his family's dairy farms. His chief of staff, Tal Eslick, told the Center for Responsive Politics the financial disclosure forms are misleading, since they require Mr. Valadao to list the total liabilities of his family farm partnerships but only his personal assets. The assets of the partnerships would change those numbers.
A total of 25 members of Congress reported an average net worth in the red.

        
Shutdown Watch: Five Days Out
        
Republican Unity Cracks as Election Nears
        
Geithner Urges Congress to Act 'as Early as Possible' on Debt Ceiling
        
Members of Congress Received Preferential Treatment on Loans From Countrywide
        
House Leaders Plan Facebook Hackathon

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (90%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); FAMILY FARMS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); VETERINARY SERVICES (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); DEBT CEILING (73%); DAIRY FARMING (72%); EXECUTIVES (66%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (65%) Delaney, John; House of Representatives; Issa, Darrell E; Kerry, John; Polis, Jared; Senate; Tea Party Movement; United States Politics and Government; Warner, Mark R; Yoho, Ted; The Caucus

COMPANY: CLEAR CHANNEL COMMUNICATIONS INC (53%); FACEBOOK INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTER FOR RESPONSIVE POLITICS (57%) House of Representatives; Senate

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541850 OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (53%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (53%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (53%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (53%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (53%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%)

PERSON: TED YOHO (93%); JOHN K DELANEY (93%); JOHN KERRY (91%); DARRELL E ISSA (89%); KERRY BENTIVOLIO (79%); DAVID VALADAO (79%); JARED POLIS (78%); MARK WARNER (78%); MICHAEL T MCCAUL (58%); STEPHEN FINCHER (58%) Delaney, John; Issa, Darrell E; Kerry, John; Polis, Jared; Warner, Mark R; Yoho, Ted

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2013



529 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 1167 words

HEADLINE: Introducing Building the Team: Flower Power

BYLINE: BRYAN BURKHART


HIGHLIGHT: I wanted the chance to build something great, something with a product that people loved and that had a chance to be a really big business. But I'm not Mark Zuckerberg. 

 BODY:
Three years ago, I knew nothing about flowers.
Today, I am chief executive of what I believe is the world's fastest growing flower delivery service, operating in five cities, with $18 million in venture capital and more than 80 employees.
My background is in business, entrepreneurship and technology. I studied entrepreneurial management at the University of Pennsylvania's Wharton School for my undergraduate degree. After college, I moved to San Francisco and joined a software start-up, Callidus Software, as one of its first business hires. Our task was to figure out whether we could sell the software to anyone. Thankfully, we did. We grew the business to more than $100 million in revenue, taking the company public in 2003. I was 28 at the time. I ultimately became senior vice president of global sales, responsible for 76 employees in offices around the world.
It was an amazing first ride, but I was feeling dissatisfied for two reasons. First, as the 800-pound gorilla in a very small market, we were as big as we were ever going to be. Plus, the product was boring. If I described it here, you would fall asleep. 
I wanted more. I wanted the chance to build something great, something with a product that people loved and that had a chance to be a really big business. However, I'm not Mark Zuckerberg. I don't know how to code, and I have no idea how to create a market that doesn't already exist. But I am willing to work really hard. So, I took a year off to come up with the next great idea. 
I left the software company in 2009. My thesis was simple: try to apply technology to a really big, existing market that was bereft of technology, preferably a market with a product people love. I considered all sorts of industries before stumbling upon flowers.
It turns out that the flower industry is a $35 billion dollar market in the United States alone. That's right, $35 billion. That was certainly enough to pique my interest. But I didn't know anything about flowers, so I did the only thing I could think of to learn more. I put an ad on Craigslist, saying that I wanted to buy a flower shop. I got dozens of responses, and spent the next two weeks at Chelsea Market in Manhattan, sitting in front of one of the city's best espresso stands, meeting with flower shop owners (and drinking inordinate amounts of coffee).
From these meetings, I learned that flower shop owners (there are approximately 22,000 of them in the United States) are extraordinary artists. They create living art every day that customers love. But they don't have a background in technology, and they don't necessarily enjoy the business side of things. Moreover, they deal with a huge economic challenge: spoilage. The average rate in the industry is anywhere from 30 to 50 percent. It's a tough way to run a business. The only way that the shop owners can make money, as a result, is to mark up the price of flowers to five times what they pay for them. This was my moment of epiphany.
I knew that there was a type of customer - hotels, restaurants, retailers, offices, buildings, spas, and affluent households - that viewed flowers as living art, something to be enjoyed continuously. But their flowers died every week. These customers were perfect candidates for a subscription model: sign up once and receive this luxurious product, hand-delivered to your door every week. For H.Bloom, my new company, the subscription model was the silver bullet. It would allow us to buy only what someone had already subscribed for, thus reducing spoilage almost completely.
I emerged from my year off ready to start what I thought would become the Tiffany of flowers - a game-changing business that would eventually be a world-recognized brand. But I'm sure a lot of people thought I was crazy. I was leaving a successful career in enterprise software to start a flower company? Thankfully, a good friend told me to keep my own counsel. I had come up with the idea; the logic was sound; just make it happen.
And the idea worked. We launched H.Bloom in April of 2010 in New York City. We signed corporate customers, impressed them with our designs, provided them with 20- to 30-percent savings off the vendors they had used previously, and most importantly, we offered world-class service thanks to the software we built to make operations run efficiently. Soon after, we opened H.Bloom in other cities - Washington, then Chicago, San Francisco and most recently, Dallas - and they have done well.
As we thought about our growth plans, we realized that to grow quickly, we would have to expand to new cities fast. While we believed that our software would enable these markets to deliver our luxury flowers in a sophisticated way, we knew that it would take great people to make everything work. If we hired the wrong people, or didn't provide them with the right training, the operation would simply not function. So, we decided to build our own farm team - a formal talent-development program - to groom future leaders and team members to run new H.Bloom markets. We call the program H.Bloom University.
Today, many of our employees - managers, future managers, sales people, operations folks and floral designers -- are participating in the program. Five people have graduated successfully from the future-leaders program (called SEED) and are now leading H.Bloom markets. We have focused on all aspects of building the team - from defining needed positions, to recruiting the right candidates, hiring them, training them, providing them with a road map for career growth and constantly communicating the strategy, successes and failures of our business. We've also had to let people go. We view all of this as integral to building the team. We're not good at it yet, but we aspire to be great.
And that brings me to why I'm writing for this blog. I love business and want to build an extraordinary one. I believe that building a team and developing talent is the foundation of any business, no matter how big or small, but it is often overlooked amid all of the other things that happen day to day. I hope to use this blog as a way to share our experiences and to get your feedback on what you've seen work and fail in your businesses. In the coming weeks, I'll be writing about the five main areas that we focus on as we try to build a team: recruiting, training, communications, career development, and leadership. I will also talk about team builders that I've met and that we try to emulate and some of the new technologies that we use to manage the process.
During new-hire training at H.Bloom, I always tell new employees that together, we have the opportunity to build a great company. With Building the Team, I am hopeful that together, we can discover how to build a great team.

        
Getting Sales Representatives to Sell
        
Hiring Outside Advisers Is as Important as Hiring Employees
        
This Week in Small Business: Meet Your Start-Up Mate
        
How to Diagnose What's Wrong With Your Business
        
Introducing Fashioning Change: Wear This, Not That

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); VENTURE CAPITAL (77%); SALES MANAGEMENT (77%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (76%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (60%) Callidus Software; Flowers and Plants; Hiring and Promotion; SEED Foundation; Small Business; Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania; Callidus Software|CALD|NASDAQ; Building the Team

COMPANY: CALLIDUS SOFTWARE INC (57%); CRAIGSLIST INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (91%) Callidus Software; SEED Foundation; Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania

TICKER: CALD (NASDAQ) (57%) Callidus Software; CALD; NASDAQ

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (57%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (52%)

PERSON: MARK ZUCKERBERG (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2013



530 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1387 words

HEADLINE: Americans Held Hostage In Algeria Gas-Field Raid

BYLINE: By ADAM NOSSITER and SCOTT SAYARE; Adam Nossiter reported from Bamako, and Scott Sayare from Paris. Reporting was contributed by Clifford Krauss from Houston, Rick Gladstone from New York, Elisabeth Bumiller from Rome, and Alan Cowell and Steven Erlanger from Paris.

 BODY:
BAMAKO, Mali -- The French military assault on Islamist extremists in Mali escalated into a potentially much broader North African conflict on Wednesday when, in retribution, armed attackers in unmarked trucks seized an internationally managed natural gas field in neighboring Algeria and took at least 20 foreign hostages, including Americans.
Algerian officials said at least two people, including a Briton, were killed in the assault, which began with a predawn ambush on a bus trying to ferry gas-field workers to an airport. Hundreds of Algerian security forces were sent to surround the gas-field compound, creating a tense standoff, and the country's interior minister said there would be no negotiations.
Algeria's official news agency said at least 20 fighters had carried out the attack and mass abduction. There were unconfirmed reports late on Wednesday that the security forces had tried to storm the compound and had retreated under gunfire from the hostage takers. 
Many details of the assault on the gas field in a barren desert site near Libya's border remained murky, including the precise number of hostages, which could be as high as 41, according to claims by the attackers quoted by regional news agencies. American, French, British, Japanese and Norwegian citizens who worked at the field were known to be among them, officials said.
Defense Secretary Leon E. Panetta called the gas-field attack a terrorist act and said the United States was weighing a response. His statement suggested that the Obama administration could be drawn into a military entanglement in North Africa that it had been seeking to keep at arm's length -- even as it has conceded that the region has become a new haven for extremists who threaten Western security and vital interests.
''I want to assure the American people that the United States will take all necessary and proper steps that are required to deal with this situation,'' Mr. Panetta said during a visit to Italy.
The gas-field attack, which seemed to take foreign governments and the British and Norwegian companies that help run the facility completely by surprise, appeared to make good on a pledge by the Islamist militants who seized northern Mali last year to sharply expand their struggle against the West in response to France's military intervention that began last week.
The hostage taking potentially broadened the conflict beyond Mali's borders and raised the possibility of drawing an increasing number of foreign countries into direct involvement, particularly if expatriates working in the vast energy extraction industries of North Africa become targets. It also doubled, at least, the number of non-African hostages that Islamist militants in northern and western Africa have been using as bargaining chips to finance themselves in recent years through ransoms that have totaled millions of dollars.
But there was no indication that the gas-field attackers wanted money, and no other demands or ultimatums were issued. In a statement sent to ANI, a Mauritanian news agency, they demanded the ''immediate halt of the aggression against our own in Mali.''
The statement, made by a group called Al Mulathameen, which has links to Al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb, the North African affiliate of Al Qaeda, claimed it was holding more than 40 ''crusaders'' -- apparently a reference to non-Muslims -- ''including seven Americans, two French, two British as well as other citizens of various European nationalities.''
Algeria's interior minister, Daho Ould Kablia, said, according to Reuters, that the raid was led by Mokhtar Belmokhtar, who fought Soviet forces in Afghanistan in the 1980s and recently set up his own group in the Sahara after falling out with other local Qaeda leaders.
Mr. Belmokhtar is known to French intelligence officials as ''the Uncatchable'' and to some locals as ''Mister Marlboro'' for his illicit cigarette-running business, the news agency said. His ties to Islamist extremists who seized towns across northern Mali last year are unclear.
The gas-field attack coincided with an escalation of the fight inside Mali, according to Western and Malian officials, as French ground troops, joined by soldiers of the Malian Army, engaged in combat with Islamist fighters. The officials said the French-Malian units had begun to beat back the Islamist militant advance southward from northern Mali, a move that had provoked the intervention ordered by President Franois Hollande of France.
The attackers seemed particularly incensed that Algeria's government had permitted the French to use Algerian airspace to fly warplanes and military equipment into Mali, according to their statement, which may explain why they chose Algeria for retaliation. Some Algerian military experts said the Algerian public also was unhappy about the government's decision.
''The setting in motion of a military machine in north Mali was going to have definite repercussions in Algeria,'' said Mohamed Chafik Mesbah, a former Algerian Army officer and political scientist, adding, . ''There are going to be much worse consequences. There will be more attacks.''
A senior Algerian official said the militants, who claimed to have come from Mali, had used three unmarked trucks to breach the gas-field compound, outside the town of In Amenas. An oil company official who had knowledge of the attack said the militants had shut down production at the site, an indication of carefully planning. But how and why they chose In Amenas, which is more than 700 miles from the Malian border and is much closer to Libya, were among the unknowns.
The facility is the fourth-largest gas development in Algeria, a major oil producer and OPEC member. The In Amenas gas compression plant is operated by BP of Britain, the Norwegian company Statoil and the Algerian national oil company Sonatrach.
Bard Glad Pedersen, a Statoil spokesman, said that of 17 Statoil employees who had been working in the field, four escaped to a nearby Algerian military camp, but he would not say how. The Sahara Media Agency of Mauritania, quoting what it described as a spokesman for the militants, said that they were holding five hostages in a production facility on the site and 36 others in a housing area, and that there were as many as 400 Algerian soldiers surrounding the operation. But that information could not be confirmed.
Islamist groups and bandits have long operated in the deserts of western and northern Africa, and a collection of Islamists have occupied the vast expanse of northern Mali since a government crisis in that country last March. Those groups, including Al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb, had pledged to strike against France's interests on the continent and abroad, as well as those of nations backing the French operations. In France, security has been reinforced at airports, train stations and other public spaces.
The militant groups are financed in large part through ransoms paid for the freeing of Western hostages, and regular kidnappings have occurred in the West African desert in recent years. At least seven French citizens are presently being held there, officials say.
Oil and gas are central to the Algerian economy, accounting for more than a third of the country's gross domestic product, over 95 percent of its export earnings and 60 percent of government financial receipts. Algeria is an important gas supplier to France, Spain, Turkey, Italy and Britain.
Algeria has also historically been known as a relatively secure place for foreign companies to work and invest. Sonatrach and the security forces had put tight security around oil and gas facilities during the struggle with Islamic militants in the 1990s, when energy infrastructure was never a major insurgent target.
Energy experts expressed concern that the Algerian raid could signal a new strategy by Islamic militants to attack the West by focusing on Western-operated oil and gas facilities in the region.
Helima Croft, a Barclays Capital senior geopolitical strategist,said if groups like Al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb ''decide as a change in tactic they go after Western energy interests, then you have to look at a threat in all these countries, including Libya, Nigeria and Morocco.''
She added: ''This type of attack had to have advanced planning. It's not an easy target of opportunity.''

GRAPHIC: MAP: Hundreds of Algerian security forces surrounded the gas field. (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOSTAGE TAKING (91%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); TERRORISM (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (77%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (77%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%); LEON E PANETTA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALGERIA (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); MALI (95%); NORTHERN AFRICA (94%); FRANCE (93%); AFRICA (93%); NORWAY (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2013



531 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 663 words

HEADLINE: At Many Top Public Universities, Intercollegiate Sports Come at an Academic Price

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN

 BODY:
Public colleges and universities that compete in N.C.A.A. Division I sports spend three to six times as much on each athlete as they do to educate each of their students, according to a new report by the Delta Cost Project at the American Institutes for Research.
''Participation in intercollegiate athletics in the United States comes with a hefty price tag, one that is usually paid in part by students and institutions,'' said Donna Desrochers, the author of the report. ''Public institutions with Division I athletic programs have continued to invest significant resources in athletics, even as academic budgets were under strain during the recent recession.'' 
Between 2005 and 2010, on a per-capita basis, the report found, athletic costs increased at least twice as fast as academic spending at institutions with top-tier athletic programs.
''The Delta report confirms what a lot of college presidents have long feared: that intercollegiate athletics has become a financial arms race,'' said Terry Hartle, a senior vice president at the American Council on Education. ''Sooner or later, the increases will be unsustainable. I thought we would reach that point a decade ago, but it shows no sign of slowing down.''
Many college presidents would like to pull back on athletic spending, he said, ''but taking significant steps in that direction would cost them their job, because the constituencies for increasing spending are numerous and powerful, and the counterpressures are few and relatively powerless.''
About one-third of athletic spending at Division I institutions goes to salaries and compensation, the report found, and about a fifth to facilities and equipment. In its tally of athletic costs, the report included recruiting, athletic scholarships, marketing costs, sports camps and spirit groups. Education costs included instruction, student services and a portion of academic and instructional support, and operations and maintenance.
Supporters of college athletics say the costs are worth it: ambitious sports programs, and, especially a winning season, can lift a college's reputation, donations, applications and school spirit.
The National Collegiate Athletic Association, asked for comment on the report, said it had no role in the matter.
''Every college and university makes its own budget decisions, both for the overall campus and for athletics,'' Erik Christianson, the N.C.A.A.'s managing director of external affairs, said in an e-mailed statement. ''Institutions are reluctant to cede authority over their budgets to the N.C.A.A.''
Football consumes much of the athletic budget. At institutions competing in the top-tier Football Bowl Subdivision, the report found, median athletic spending per athlete was $92,000 in 2010, compared with median academic spending per full-time student of less than $14,000. In the other Division I subdivisions, median athletic spending per athlete ranged from $37,000 to $39,000, compared with median academic spending per full-time student of about $11,800.
At the ''power conferences'' -- the Southeastern, Big 12, Pac-10, Atlantic Coast, Big Ten and Big East -- median athletic spending per athlete topped $100,000 in 2010, and each conference spent at least six times more on athletics than academics, per capita.
Most Division I athletic departments receive support from their institutions and students. In the Football Bowl Subdivision, the report found, student fees cover 7.6 percent of athletic budgets, while 10.1 percent comes from institution and state support. The rest comes from revenues generated through ticket sales and television agreements and other sources. In the other subdivisions, more than 70 percent of athletic budgets come from student fees and institutional and state support.
Smaller institutions rely more on student fees to cover athletic expenses than larger ones. At public institutions that do not compete in football, student fees account for 42.2 percent of athletic department revenue.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Members of the Alabama Crimson Tide celebrated their defeat of the Notre Dame Fighting Irish in the N.C.A.A. national championship game in Miami this month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS KEANE/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (94%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); SPORTS (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); STUDENT EXPENSES (78%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (78%); SPORTS CAMPS & SCHOOLS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA (59%); UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME (59%); AMERICAN INSTITUTES FOR RESEARCH IN THE BEHAVIORAL SCIENCES (58%); AMERICAN COUNCIL ON EDUCATION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2013



532 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 661 words

HEADLINE: In '79, Drivers on Strike Had Plenty of Company

BYLINE: By ANDY NEWMAN

 BODY:
The New York of 1979, much like the New York of mid-January 2013, was a city of unbused schoolchildren.
But the New York of 1979 -- the last time the city's school-bus drivers went out on strike -- was also a city of unmanned elevators and untaken bets. It was a place permeated, if metaphorically, by the scent of spoiled milk and literally by the scent of unbarged trash, where Tiny Tim picketed with Port Authority of New York and New Jersey police officers, American Ballet Theater dancers walked the line on point in toe shoes, and umpires wearing chest-protector-shaped protest signs called strikes outside Yankee Stadium instead of inside.
Which is to say, there was a dizzying amount of labor unrest in those days. 
From January, when the head of the cemetery-workers union went on a five-day hunger strike and hospital doctors ceased their rounds to protest closures, to December, when the Long Island Rail Road was stopped dead in its tracks and New-York Historical Society workers walked out (the museum's director declared himself "personally distressed" by the job action), the city and region were in a near-constant state of partial paralysis.
When the bus drivers went out on Feb. 15 - like their current counterparts, they sought job protection -- they were followed in quick succession by the milk drivers, the Off-Track Betting clerks, the tugboat operators, the Port Authority officers, the state prison guards and the apartment-building service workers. By late April, The New York Times was running a daily digest called "Updates on New York's Strikes." The bus strike lasted 12 weeks.
Josh Freeman, a labor historian at City University of New York, said that rather than wonder why strikes were so rampant then, "I would kind of flip it on its head" and note that since the 1980s, strikes "have gone down to historic low levels and stayed there."
Before that, Mr. Freeman said, "a lot of unions were still confident and strong from the long post-war period when unions were very powerful, then in the 70's they got hit by a lot of economic bad news" - inflation, stagflation, recession -- and felt confident in their ability to fight back and make the best of the circumstances.
In fact, Mr. Freeman said, there were several points in the city's history, just after World War II and during the Lindsay Administration, when New Yorkers endured multiple simultaneous strikes. "People weren't exactly casual about it," he said, "but it was part of the expected landscape."
The 1979 cascade of work stoppages led to fits of occupational overlap. Sanitation workers hauled the trash that the tugboat barges would not, except when they declined to cross the building-service workers' picket lines. Even as the state prison guards sat out on strike (their union chief took a busman's holiday to Albany County jail on a contempt charge), city correction workers, who were not, ferried children with disabilities to school in Rikers Island prisoner vans.
The 1979 strikes could be vicious. A maintenance worker was stabbed to death for daring to cross a picket line at St. John's University. School-bus drivers, some wielding bats and icepicks, smashed windows, slashed tires and surrounded vans carrying children who were emotionally disturbed, refusing to let the children get off and go to school. Someone cut a hole in the roof of a trailer full of milk at a Waldbaum's supermarket loading dock on Long Island, poured in gas or oil and set it aflame.
The year ended on a few positive notes, though. The Long Island Rail Road began running again in time for Christmas, the ballet corps ended an eight-week lockout by agreeing to a contract that doubled salaries for some dancers, and on New Year's Eve, a strike by Triborough Bridge and Tunnel Authority toll collectors was averted.
The stage was set for the transit strike of 1980, which would bring the city to a screeching halt.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: American Ballet Theater workers on strike in 1979. A least one picketed in toe shoes. More photos from 1979 strikes are at nytimes.com/nyregion. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW SAVULICH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STRIKES (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); HISTORY (89%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (89%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (78%); CHILDREN (78%); SCHOOL & EMPLOYEE BUS SERVICES (78%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (75%); DANCE COMPANIES (75%); BALLET (75%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (73%); GAMING (71%); PORT AUTHORITIES (70%); DANCERS (70%); MARINE TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (70%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (70%); EMPLOYMENT (70%); PARALYSIS (68%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (67%); RECESSION (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); NEWS BRIEFS (63%); WORLD WAR II (60%)

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (71%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (71%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2013



533 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 585 words

HEADLINE: Economy Ended the Year With Factory Output Up and Inflation Low

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
The United States economy ended 2012 on a surprisingly sound note as factory output increased and low inflation lifted the buying power of consumers, signaling that the economy may weather this year's higher taxes. 
Manufacturing output rose 0.8 percent in December, the Federal Reserve said Wednesday, a day after retail sales figures pointed to robust consumer spending last month.
''There is every indication that the improvement may be a reflection of a broader pickup in overall economic activity,'' said Millan Mulraine, an economist at TD Securities in New York.
The increase in demand for goods appears unlikely to derail the Federal Reserve's easy monetary policy soon, given the lack of inflation. The Labor Department said consumer prices were flat in December, restrained by a decline in gasoline prices.
That is good news for consumers still smarting from the 2007-9 recession. Weekly earnings rose 0.6 percent last month when adjusted for inflation, the department said.
The earnings increase means family budgets started this month on slightly better footing as payroll taxes rose for all workers and the wealthiest Americans faced higher income taxes.
The tax increases, enacted to reduce the federal budget deficit, are expected to restrain consumer spending through June. Some economists predict higher taxes will subtract a percentage point from economic growth this year.
American financial markets were little moved by the data, although the increases in factory output and real earnings beat the forecasts of analysts polled by Reuters.
Gains in manufacturing appeared broad, tempering the view that some of the growth resulted from a temporary rebound after Hurricane Sandy upset many lives on the East Coast in late October and early November.
The output of motor vehicles and parts jumped 2.6 percent, while production of machinery gained 0.6 percent. Factories made 1.5 percent more computers and electronics. Industrial production rose 0.3 percent.
Still, the data offered a reminder that the trend in factory output, like the broader economy, remains lackluster. Output of consumer goods fell 0.1 percent from November, and overall manufacturing gained by only 0.2 percent in the fourth quarter when measured at an annual rate.
''The manufacturing sector is just about keeping its head above water,'' said Paul Ashworth, an economist at Capital Economics in Toronto.
Wednesday's consumer price data reinforced the view that inflation will not reach the Fed's 2 percent threshold soon.
''This leaves Ben Bernanke and the Fed with a free hand to continue with ultra-accommodative monetary policy,'' said Michael Woolfolk, a currency strategist at Bank of New York Mellon.
The Fed has kept interest rates near zero since late 2008 and has bought about $2.5 trillion in assets to stimulate economic growth and get Americans back to work after the recession.The Fed uses a separate index of inflation that tends to run cooler than the Consumer Price Index. By either measure, annual inflation remains below the Fed's threshold..
In the 12 months to December the price index increased 1.7 percent, the smallest increase since August. A measure of core prices, which strips out volatile food and energy prices to give a better sense of inflation trends, was up 1.9 percent.
The Fed's latest beige book, a collection of anecdotal information on regional economic conditions, showed mild growth across the United States in recent weeks but it indicated no likelihood that economic expansion would accelerate.

GRAPHIC: MAPS: The Economy Continues to Grow Modestly: A roundup of regional economic conditions in the Federal Reserve's 12 districts, according to survey results released by the Fed on Wednesday. The survey is based on information collected on or before Jan. 4. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (89%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); TRENDS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); STATISTICS (77%); TAX INCREASES (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); TAX LAW (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); AVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); HURRICANE SANDY (72%); RETAIL SALES (72%); CORPORATE TAX (72%); GASOLINE PRICES (69%); CURRENCIES (69%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (69%); GASOLINE MARKETS (68%); NATIONAL DEBT (66%); INTEREST RATES (60%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2013



534 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: Bolstered by Investments, Goldman Sachs's Profit Soars

BYLINE: By SUSANNE CRAIG

 BODY:
4:19 p.m. | Updated
A persistent complaint from analysts has been that since the financial crisis, Wall Street banks have mainly relied on slashing costs - everything from people to paper cups - to increase profits and performance.
On Wednesday, Goldman Sachs released financial results that demonstrated it was not only benefiting from cost-cutting, but it also finally had a significant rebound in its core businesses. 
Goldman's fourth-quarter profit of $2.89 billion, or $5.60 a share, was not only well ahead of last year's performance, but it also handily beat analysts' expectations of $3.78 a share, according to Thomson Reuters
Goldman is one of a number of banks releasing earnings this week. On Wednesday, JPMorgan Chase also reported a strong profit of $5.7 billion for the fourth quarter, up 53 percent from the previous year.
Morgan Stanley, one of Goldman's top rivals and the smallest of the big banks, reports earnings on Friday. Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters were expecting Morgan Stanley to report earnings of 27 cents a share, up from a loss of 14 cents in the year-ago period.
Unlike many commercial banks, however, Goldman relies much more on results in areas like trading and investment banking. Goldman's fourth-quarter results also benefited from some one-time investing gains and a lower-than-expected compensation payout to its 32,400 employees.
"Oopa Goldman Style," was the title of a report written by Glenn Schorr, a Nomura analyst, carrying the sort of enthusiasm not seen from financial analysts since before the financial crisis. The quarter, Mr. Schorr said, reminded him of the "old days" and should give investors confidence of Goldman's earnings potential.
Investors also reacted positively, and the stock rose 4.1 percent to $141.09 a share Wednesday.
Still, embedded in the numbers were reminders of the continued uncertainty over the economy. It was also an indication of much harder Goldman executives have to work in today's more regulated, less-leveraged environment to produce its earnings.
The investment bank's chief financial officer, Harvey M. Schwartz, said clients "continue to struggle" with economic issues at home and abroad. That, he said, translated into less risk-taking by those clients. As a result, the global volume of completed mergers and acquisitions at Goldman fell 18 percent in 2012 and underwriting volumes were pretty much flat.
The firm's annual return on equity, a crucial financial measure, was 10.7 percent, up from 2011, when it was 5.8 percent. But even Mr. Schwartz acknowledged that there was room for improvement.
"It is not particularly aspirational. We would like to do better," he said on a conference call with analysts.
But Goldman has lost important streams of revenue because of the mortgage crisis. It is also operating with more regulatory restrictions, which has forced Goldman and its rivals to shut down certain lucrative business lines and put up capital against riskier operations, reducing profitability.
This week, Goldman employees are being notified of their bonuses for 2012, and the firm's decision to ratchet down what it pays in compensation also buoyed fourth-quarter earnings.
The company plans to pay $12.9 billion in compensation and benefits for 2012, or 37.9 percent of revenue. This is a significant decrease from 2011, when 42.4 percent of revenue went to cover compensation-related costs. The set-aside amounts to an average of $399,506 for each of Goldman's 32,400 employees, though certainly senior executives are allocated much more of the share than support staff members are.
Despite the percentage drop, per-employee pay actually went up at Goldman in 2012 because the firm's total revenue swelled 19 percent and 900 employees were cut from the payroll. For 2011, Goldman employees earned an average of $367,057 in compensation and benefits.
Over all, the firm produced $9.24 billion in revenue in the quarter that ended Dec. 31, up 53 percent from the same quarter in 2011. That also beat analysts' estimates of quarterly revenue of $7.91 billion.
In addition to strong results from its various divisions, Goldman benefited from larger-than-expected gains from various investments it holds. The firm's investing and lending division also had a stronger-than-expected quarter, posting revenue of $1.97 billion, up 126 percent from year-ago levels.
Revenue from investment banking in the quarter was $1.41 billion, up 64 percent from the year-ago period.
Net revenue in Goldman's powerful division that trades bonds, currencies and commodities was $2.04 billion, up 50 percent from the quarter a year earlier. The firm said those results reflected an increase in mortgage revenue, which was "significantly higher" when compared with 2011.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Goldman Sachs's headquarters in Lower Manhattan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARIO TAMA/GETTY IMAGES) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); MERGERS (77%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (62%); EXECUTIVES (61%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2013



535 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1007 words

HEADLINE: F.D.A. Seeks to Tighten Regulation of All-Metal Hip Implants

BYLINE: By BARRY MEIER

 BODY:
After an estimated 500,000 patients in the United States have received a type of artificial hip that is failing early in many cases, the Food and Drug Administration is proposing rules that could stop manufacturers from selling such implants.
Under the proposal, which the agency is expected to announce on Thursday, makers of artificial hips with all-metal components would have to prove the devices were safe and effective before they could continue selling existing ones or obtain approval for new all-metal designs. 
Currently, companies have to show only that their devices resemble ones already on the market, and they are not required to conduct clinical studies before selling them.
The F.D.A. action is intended to close a loophole in the 1976 federal law under which medical devices were first regulated. It is the agency's first use of powers that Congress granted to it last year to deal with medical devices, like all-metal hips, that have been in regulatory limbo for decades.
The move comes amid one of the biggest device-related failures in decades. Just a few years ago, all-metal hips -- implants in which the ball and cup component is made from a metallic alloy -- were used in one of every three joint replacement procedures performed annually in the United States.
Traditional hip replacements, which are made of materials like plastic and metal, typically last 15 years before wearing out. But the all-metal hips, which companies rarely tested in patients before aggressively marketing them, are failing at high rates not long after implantation.
As a result, thousands of patients have been forced to undergo painful and costly operations to replace the devices. In addition, tiny particles of metallic debris released as the artificial joints move have caused severe tissue and bone damage in hundreds of patients, leaving some of them disabled.
Dr. William H. Maisel, deputy director for science at the F.D.A., said the agency's proposal would require makers of all-metal hips to produce clinical data to justify their use because of the ''large number of patients who received these products and the numbers of adverse events associated with them.''
The use of all-metal implants has plummeted, with the devices now accounting for about 5 percent of hip implants. For some of those devices, which are used in a procedure called resurfacing that is an alternative to total hip replacement, the F.D.A. already requires clinical trials before granting approval.
The impact of the proposal on manufacturers of traditional all-metal hips will not be immediate, and industry lobbyists may oppose its adoption or seek to modify it. Agency officials said it would most likely take a year for the rules to be finalized; after that, producers will have 90 days to submit clinical data to support a device's safety and effectiveness.
In 2011, the F.D.A. ordered manufacturers of all-metal hips to conduct post-marketing studies to determine, among other things, whether the implants were shedding high levels of metallic debris. Dr. Maisel said he expected that device makers might try to use data from those studies to satisfy the proposed requirements.
If a company decided not to submit clinical data or if the information failed to meet agency standards, it would have to stop selling the implant.
The regulatory limbo involving all-metal hips resulted from the Medical Device Amendments of 1976. The law set differing test requirements for various devices, depending on the perceived risk of using them or the role they played in sustaining a patient's life and health.
Producers of devices considered high risk, like implanted heart defibrillators, had to perform clinical trials to obtain F.D.A. approval for new products. But makers of devices considered less risky, like hospital pumps, had to show only that a new product resembled one already on the market.
However, at the time the legislation was passed, several types of medical devices, including all-metal hips, were already on the market. So lawmakers crafted what was supposed to be a temporary solution: regulators would treat potentially high-risk products like the hips as moderate-risk products until officially determining how to classify them.
But in the case of all-metal hips, the final classification never happened. Over the years, the F.D.A. started procedures to classify the implants but never completed them. Implant companies also lobbied the agency to classify all-metal hips as moderate-risk products rather than high-risk ones.
The result was that device makers like Johnson & Johnson and Zimmer Holdings were able to start selling a new generation of all-metal hips a decade ago without running clinical tests.
Under the Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act of 2012, the agency now has a more streamlined way of classifying older devices. It no longer has to seek an economic review of a decision's impact, a process that can take years, said Nancy K. Stade, the F.D.A.'s deputy director for policy.
About 20 types of older medical devices still await reclassification.
In recent weeks, the first of thousands of patient lawsuits involving the most troubled all-metal device, an implant once sold by the DePuy division of Johnson & Johnson, have started to come to trial. Some plaintiffs' lawyers say it may cost Johnson & Johnson billions of dollars to resolve the litigation, which involves an implant called the Articular Surface Replacement.
On Thursday, the F.D.A. also expects to issue new guidance to doctors monitoring patients who have received all-metal hips.
For the first time, the agency will recommend that patients who are experiencing pain or other symptoms that indicate possible device failure undergo routine testing to detect levels of metallic ions in their blood.
Dr. Maisel said the agency was not recommending a specific ion level at which doctors should consider replacing an implant. Instead, he said physicians should monitor such tests over time and use that data, along with other information, to make such decisions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Some all-metal hip implants have failed prematurely, forcing thousands of patients to undergo operations to replace them. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA BOROUGH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROSTHETICS & ORTHOTICS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); MEDICAL DEVICES (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (90%); CLINICAL TRIALS (89%); ORTHOPEDICS (89%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (89%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (78%); APPROVALS (77%); LOBBYING (73%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2013



536 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: Germany Will Cart Home Some of Its Buried Treasure

BYLINE: By JACK EWING

 BODY:
FRANKFURT -- Nearly half of Germany's gold reserves are held in a vault at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York -- billions of dollars worth of postwar geopolitical history squirreled away for safe keeping below the streets of Lower Manhattan.
Now the German central bank wants to make a big withdrawal -- 300 tons in all. 
On Wednesday, the Bundesbank said that it would begin moving some of the reserves, the second-largest stock in the world after that of the United States. The goal is to house more than 50 percent of German gold in Bundesbank vaults in Frankfurt by 2020, up from a little less than a third today, the bank said.
Citing security reasons, Carl-Ludwig Thiele, a member of the Bundesbank, declined to say how the transfer would be accomplished or to estimate the cost. But he said the Bundesbank had plenty of experience moving large sums of money.
During the cold war, West Germany followed a policy of storing its gold as far west as possible in case of a Soviet invasion. While that worry is gone, there is still an argument for keeping some gold in financial centers like New York and London. It remains the one currency that is accepted everywhere. In the event of a currency crisis, the gold could be quickly deployed in financial markets to help restore confidence.
The New York Fed stores the German gold without cost on the theory that the presence of foreign gold supports the dollar's status as the global reserve currency. A spokesman for the New York Fed declined to comment.
The Bundesbank announcement follows a public outcry last year after a clash in Parliament about whether all the bank's gold was properly accounted for.
For the great many Germans who still rue the day they had to trade their marks for euros, there has been at least one consolation. If the common currency did not work out, Germany still had huge reserves of the hardest currency of all: gold.
Except, as many people learned for the first time last year, it did not -- at least not in the country itself.
More than two-thirds of Germany's gold reserves, valued at 137 billion euros, or $183 billion, is abroad, stored in vaults in New York, Paris and London.
The new policy will include the complete withdrawal of 374 tons of German gold stored at the Banque de France in Paris, about 11 percent of the total. Bundesbank officials were quick to note that the decision was not a reflection of French trustworthiness. Rather, because France and Germany now share the euro, there is no need for reserves as insurance against currency crises.
''The gold in Paris is in the best of hands,'' Mr. Thiele said on Wednesday. ''We are thankful to the Bank of France for storing it.''
Still, news of the planned transfer caused some clucking in financial circles after news leaked out on Tuesday. ''Central banks don't trust each other?'' William H. Gross, a founder and managing director of the investment firm Pimco, asked on Twitter.
Mr. Thiele denied there was any mistrust. ''We have no doubts about the integrity of other central banks,'' he said. ''We're not aware of any irregularities.''
After World War II, vanquished Germany had no gold reserves. The Nazis had used most of it to finance the war, and much of what was left vanished mysteriously in the postwar chaos.
But as its economy recovered and Germany became the export powerhouse it is today, the country accepted gold as well as dollars from the central banks of its trading partners to cover the financial imbalance created by German trade surpluses.
German reserves peaked in 1968 at about 4,000 tons, several years before the collapse of the so-called Bretton Woods system of fixed international exchange rates, which was underpinned by gold reserves.
The end of Bretton Woods in 1973 eliminated some, though not all, of gold's importance as a universal currency. The total has fallen to about 3,400 tons after Germany transferred some of its treasure to international institutions in which it participates, including the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund.
Mr. Thiele acknowledged that Germans could get emotional about their gold, but he insisted that the Bundesbank made its decision to repatriate the treasure independently and not because of a public outcry last year after reports suggested the gold was not properly accounted for.
The government auditing agency, the Bundesrechnungshof, called on Bundesbank officials in a report to Parliament to conduct an inventory of the thousands of bars of German gold that are stacked in foreign vaults.
Mr. Thiele said that he and other Bundesbank officials personally visited the German gold abroad and that he was satisfied that it was all there.
At a packed news conference, Bundesbank officials attended by armed security guards demonstrated on Wednesday how they tested the bars for quality and authenticity. No two bars have exactly the same weight and purity, so each must be assessed separately.
Even after Germany completes the transfer at the end of 2020, half of its gold will remain abroad -- about 37 percent in New York. The Bundesbank does not plan to move any gold out of the Bank of England, which will continue to store 13 percent of the total.
The Bank of England charges about 550,000 euros a year for storage, Bundesbank officials said.
Despite the public criticism, the Bundesbank has not let go of its gold easily. It has continually rejected periodic attempts by political leaders to convert the reserves to cash and has not sold any gold on world markets.
The central bank has, however, sold some of its holding to the public -- in the form of commemorative German marks.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Germany recently counted and tested all of the thousands of gold bars it keeps in foreign banks. (B1)
 A German central bank employee with gold bars. Germany is repatriating much of the gold it keeps in New York and Paris. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FRANK RUMPENHORST/DPA, VIA AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENTRAL BANKS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); EURO (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); MONETARY UNIONS (77%); COLD WAR (75%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (94%); BANQUE DE FRANCE (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (94%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); PARIS, FRANCE (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (87%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (93%) GERMANY (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2013



537 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; INDIA LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 860 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Hindus Hear the Call of India

BYLINE: By MANU JOSEPH

 BODY:
NEW YORK -- In a play that opened in New York last week, a Hindu god who drinks wine and uses foul language goes to Nazi Germany to reclaim the swastika from Hitler. The swastika, which for many has become a reminder of chilling human evil, is also an ancient and sacred Hindu symbol that is commonly found on doors and walls in Indian homes, and that women in southern India draw every morning on their porches.
When the play, ''Ganesh Versus the Third Reich, '' was staged in Australia in 2011, Hindus there protested, claiming to be wounded by the comic representation of the elephant-headed god, the length of whose trunk is used in one scene to allude to a vital male organ. Some Hindu groups in the United States, whose antennas often seem as if they are finely tuned to seek offense, are now contemplating how they should react to such a play in a land where complaints on religious grounds are largely subordinate to artistic freedom. 
It is possible that there are many American Hindus who are not troubled enough by their cultural displacement to get too worked up about religion, India or myths of identity. But the most visible Hindus in the United States are the online fanatics who react instantly and with conviction to news developments and personalities in India. They are a part of the middle-class South Asian settlements in the United States that are growing disenchanted, whether discreetly or overtly, with the West and thus are becoming obsessed with their roots.
In a cafe in downtown New York, Sheetal Shah, a senior director at the Hindu American Foundation, told me that there was a distinction between American Hindus who were born and raised in India and those whose formative memories are in the United States. It is those in the former group who feel compelled to react to Indian politics, she said. The latter tend to be less interested in politics, but just as passionate about Hinduism and India.
Ms. Shah, who has a master's degree from the London School of Economics, has been active in the foundation's ''Take Back Yoga'' campaign, which seeks to remind everyone that yoga has Hindu origins and believes the world should acknowledge this. Among Ms. Shah's many other activities is an attempt to nudge Americans beyond ''caste, cow and karma'' when viewing Hinduism, and to perceive it as a great antique philosophy rather than merely a pantheon of paranormal deities. She was aware of ''Ganesh Versus the Third Reich'' but had yet to see the play. ''I am not clear about our course of action'' in its regard, she said.
Not very long ago, the ''Nonresident Indian'' was revered in India through the venerated abbreviation NRI. As there is a hierarchy in everything that Indians consider important, the American NRI was the most revered of all NRIs. In the late 1980s, there was always a commotion when an NRI visited family in India. The visitor would appear to have a glow of the good life, with a fragrance of something affluent and distant. From large, top-quality suitcases would emerge extraordinary objects with famous Western names.
As India became richer and its economy opened up to consumption of the most famous global brands, and as Indians began to travel to the West, the NRI became somewhat diminished but still respectable. In the past decade, though, there has been a change in what NRIs represent in India. They have gone from being considered part of the academic elite to being seen as amusing conservatives. They are among the great swarms that fill slots on the Internet where comments are free.
One of the major focal points for these swarms is a man called Narendra Modi, who arrived in the Indian national consciousness at the turn of the millennium. He has been the chief minister of Gujarat State for more than a decade and is a possible candidate for prime minister for the Bharatiya Janata Party in 2014.
In 2002, Gujarat witnessed two horrific acts of violence. A passenger train filled with Hindu pilgrims was burned by a Muslim mob, killing at least 58 people. In the days that followed, a retaliatory attack that Mr. Modi claimed was ''a spontaneous reaction of Hindus'' resulted in the deaths of hundreds of Muslims and an unknown number of rapes. Since then, various human rights groups, journalists and public servants have accused Mr. Modi of being complicit in the riots, an accusation that he denies.
The political leaning of the majority of Hindus in the United States is liberal and Democratic, Ms. Shah said, but many of these same Hindus favor Mr. Modi. So while they are Democrats in the United States, they are also the wind beneath the right wing in India.
But there are also those, especially among younger American Hindus, who are repulsed by Mr. Modi. One young woman, who lives in New York and who once met Mr. Modi with her father, said: ''I have fights with my father over Modi. I tell my father, 'How can you? How can you love that man who did all that?'''
She is among the many daughters in this world who find it hard to understand the choices that some good men make.
Manu Joseph is editor of the Indian newsweekly Open and author of the novel ''The Illicit Happiness of Other People.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (95%); HINDUS & HINDUISM (92%); YOGA (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); SOUTH INDIA (92%) INDIA (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); GERMANY (90%); AUSTRALIA (77%); ASIA (77%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2013



538 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1796 words

HEADLINE: Sifting the Dust for Treasures While Trouble Swirls

BYLINE: By SUSANNE FOWLER

 BODY:
KARKEMISH, TURKEY -- The Syrian civil war is not the first conflict to complicate Professor Nicol Marchetti's efforts to turn Karkemish, an ancient city site on the banks of the Euphrates, on Turkey's southern border and inside a restricted military zone, into a public archaeology park.
Before his team started digging, under the watchful eyes of armed Turkish soldiers, he had to make sure that land mines planted in the 1950s had all been cleared away.
Mr. Marchetti -- a tanned and lanky version of Hollywood's Indiana Jones, who teaches Near Eastern, or pre-classical, archaeology at the University of Bologna -- has led excavations at Karkemish on and off for two years after being granted the first access allowed to anyone in decades. 
The aim is to open a first stage to tourism by October 2014. That goal remains realistic, he said during a tour of the site late last year. Still, conflict has had a way over the years of interrupting excavations here.
First identified by the British Museum archaeologist George Smith in 1876 as the kingdom of Karkemish mentioned in the Bible, the site was later explored with permission of the Ottoman sultan by a team that included David G. Hogarth, C. L. Woolley and T.E. Lawrence -- later known as Lawrence of Arabia. They found Assyrian and Hittite temples, palaces and hieroglyphics. Some of their discoveries went to the Museum of Anatolian Civilizations in Ankara, the Louvre in Paris, and the British Museum in London.
Their work was halted by World War I. The dig briefly reopened in 1920 but was then closed again by fighting between the Turks and occupying French troops.
When the dust settled, about a third of the 90-hectare, or 220-acre, ancient city of Karkemish was in Syria.
The entire settlement, on both sides of the border, is classified as an endangered cultural site by the Global Heritage Fund, a nonprofit organization based in Palo Alto, California. But war is no respecter of culture: This month, NATO is preparing to place U.S. Patriot missile batteries in Gaziantep Province, where Karkemish is located, to ward off attack from Syria -- though military officials say the deployment will be at least 40 kilometers, or 25 miles, from the site and will not affect it.
Today's Karkemish in some ways resembles other digs that dot the rural Eastern Anatolia landscape, like Gobekli Tepe and Catalhoyuk, with their own remarkable traces of early civilizations. But as members of Mr. Marchetti's team crouched recently in a clearing to clean and consolidate the surface cracks of a limestone carving from 1000 B.C., a worker could be seen checking for mines along a distant ridge.
''There are many reasons why this place is important,'' Mr. Marchetti said last autumn before sitting down to a grilled meat and eggplant banquet prepared by local villagers. ''It's a huge site, it's enormous, it's on the Euphrates: that would be enough. But there's much more of course.''
The roughly $250,000 2012 budget for the joint Turkish-Italian expedition was paid for by the Italian Ministry for Foreign Affairs, the Italian Ministry for Education and The University of Bologna, along with a $30,000 grant for conservation from the G.H.F.
The team is due to return to the site in August. Experts say every hit of the pick could add to what is known about the Iron Age residents and rulers of Karkemish, who grew wealthy by trading commodities like wine and honey, horses and slaves. Most of the finds date from the Iron Age phase between 1000 and 700 B.C., Mr. Marchetti said.
Items like pottery shards are clues to food storage methods, and ornaments including a gold earring and lapis lazuli necklaces reveal the level of craftsmanship.
The settlement, he explained, included an acropolis, an inner town walled by ramparts that are pierced by two gates, and an outer town with a double wall and two more gates, both of which now lie in Syria. A so-called Water Gate allowed entry from the Euphrates along a road that led to a palace and two temples and to a grand staircase up to the acropolis. The mound where the upper royal citadel was situated is now home to the Turkish military barracks, watchtower and helicopter landing pad.
Archaeologists have been able to reveal a group of town houses where wealthy merchants may have lived, and a Neo-Assyrian cremation burial ground outside the city. Also found were items that tell of city government and the commercial role of Karkemish, including cylinder or stamp seals used by officials and merchants, some even engraved onto semi-precious gems.
Thus far, the most significant discovery by the Marchetti team, which includes experts from Gaziantep University and Istanbul University, is a palace built near 900 B.C. by the ruler Katuwa.
The palace remained in use, Mr. Marchetti said, through the Assyrian conquest in 717 B.C. It remained in Assyrian hands until the defeat in 605 B.C. by Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon.
''We dug for more than one month,'' Mr. Marchetti said by e-mail this week. ''Then slowly the structures of the palace began to appear. However, they were badly damaged to the west and only became better preserved while we proceeded to the east.''
But time ran out as the 2012 excavation season drew to a close, setting up what he called ''the greatest expectations'' for when the team returns this summer. ''It takes sometimes years to uncover a monument and only in retrospect do you sense the full meaning of what has been achieved,'' Mr. Marchetti said. ''I think we may finish the palace in 2014 if our hypothesis on its layout is correct. And we already have another hypothesis on where a second palace may be located.''
One ''eureka'' moment came when Mr. Marchetti almost literally stumbled upon a two-meter-high stele inscribed by King Suhi I from around 975 B.C.
It was ''my first day ever at the site,'' he said. Permission from the Turkish military had just come through and he entered the area with a government inspector and a soldier. ''I noted a large, regular black stone on surface, went close, and remained breathless staring at an almost intact monolith,'' he said. ''Stanley Kubrick would have liked it.''
He said he figured it was important because a winged disk, an exclusive symbol of a great king, was clearly visible on the top.
''I had entered with a pick in one hand and a camera in the other, and this is how we discovered the stele, lying on the ground,'' he added.
To read the inscriptions, the team relies on people like David Hawkins, a professor emeritus at the School of Oriental and African Studies in London, who is an authority on Anatolian hieroglyphic writing, and ''a real living legend in our field,'' Mr. Marchetti said, along with the dig's deputy director, the philologist Hasan Peker of Istanbul University.
''Hasan is a hero,'' Mr. Marchetti said, describing another day at the dig. ''He jumped high when I passed over to him a seemingly unimportant inscribed bit in basalt, and he cried, 'Hey, we have new king of Karkemish here! See his royal title? We know of no other king whose name begins with this syllable.'''
Other finds include additional pieces from the Iron Age, the early Bronze Age, and even modern times with the discovery of a shovel thought to have been used by Lawrence himself.
The team also recovered a small bronze statue of a dog; a sculpted limestone torso that used to be attached to a head found by the Woolley team; and a 20-centimeter, or 8-inch, bronze statue of a storm god, an important deity for people who relied on rain to grow crops. (While this god often is depicted holding a thunderbolt, the statue found at Karkemish carried a silver dagger.)
''We think our main scientific duty here is reconstructing material in order to produce more a detailed historical framework,'' he said.
Karkemish ''was very important,'' he said. ''At that time, it was one of the rivals of Babylon and was making history because of its power, because of its location, because of the trading route which it controlled.''
The stele, for example, ''in one shot filled up a new page of history,'' Mr. Marchetti said, on a period about which very little was known. Its references to the great kings and more local rulers to whom the kings eventually ceded power, he said, give ''a tantalizing glimpse into some detailed power structure of which we still do not grasp the essentials. We can actually follow two lines of the power structure in later inscriptions found at Karkemish in the old days. What we know and the mass of evidence changes a little every day with our excavations.''
But Mr. Marchetti has plans beyond the scientific for developing Karkemish as a public park, despite the obstacles.
That the Turkish authorities respect Mr. Marchetti, who fluently speaks what he calls ''village Turkish,'' seems to have played an incalculable role in making the site available.
''He is very appreciated by the local authorities,'' the Italian ambassador to Turkey, Gianpaolo Scarante, said during a visit to the dig, ''because he is a serious man, has an excellent reputation with the local people. He is a friend of everyone here. For an archaeologist, it's very important. ''
''Everything is more difficult now,'' Mr. Scarante said, ''not because of politics, but because the site is in a delicate geographical position. But the Turkish authorities are trying, are doing their best, to permit us to go on.''
Thus Mr. Marchetti's second goal is a more social one: to help the locals who have welcomed him and his team by helping to create a sustainable source of income and inspiration that will last beyond the current excavations. The region around Gaziantep is primarily agricultural, and much of the economy, aside from smuggling, has been devastated by the loss of trade with Syrians who used to stream across the border to shop.
Two young Italian architects, Alessandra Giacardi and Massimo Ferrando, will help develop what Mr. Marchetti called a ''master plan'' that melds conservation and public presentation, letting visitors ''walk on ancient streets in an original environment that protects the local heritage and, in a local community that has no industries other than farming, creates some badly needed alternatives so that the younger generation isn't forced to leave the area.''
With the support of the fund in California, the project also calls for the opening of a school for restoration, the education of local guides, and development of a high-quality venue for selling local produce and rejuvenated local crafts.
''By bringing people to the site, by letting them stand on the site, creating an interest in the site, we can keep the area socially inhabited,'' Mr. Marchetti said. ''We do not think Karkemish as a laboratory. It's a journey through time, it forces new dialogues. We are trying to make a mark.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARCHAEOLOGY (91%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (78%); LANDMINES (78%); CLASSICS (78%); 2011 SYRIAN UPRISING (78%); WORLD WAR I (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%)

ORGANIZATION: BRITISH MUSEUM (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); ANKARA, TURKEY (78%); PARIS, FRANCE (71%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) TURKEY (96%); SYRIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (87%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2013



539 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1644 words

HEADLINE: An Official Tries to Put a French Stamp on the Digital World

BYLINE: By ERIC PFANNER and DAVID JOLLY

 BODY:
PARIS -- When the most prominent new face in France's effort to oversee the new economy speaks, her pronouncements may be followed almost as closely in Silicon Valley and Seoul as in Paris.
Fleur Pellerin, a deputy finance minister, is the point woman in President Franois Hollande's campaign to stimulate innovation. But in trying to put a French imprint on the digital economy, she has been drawn into a growing number of disputes with U.S. technology companies like Google, Twitter and Amazon.
In South Korea, it is Ms. Pellerin's personal story that fascinates. Abandoned on the streets of Seoul as a newborn, she was taken in by a French family who raised her in the suburbs of Paris. While more than 150,000 South Korean children have been adopted by foreign parents since the Korean War, only one, Ms. Pellerin, has risen to the top ranks of the French government.
In one of the clearest signals yet from the French Finance Ministry that the government is intent on making the Internet conform to French law and custom, Ms. Pellerin last week waded into a dispute involving Google, whose advertising had been blocked by a French Internet service provider, Free. 
The move was widely seen as an attempt by Free to force Google to pay for network access. As a preliminary step, Ms. Pellerin ordered Free to restore full service, but she made it clear that she thought the French company had a legitimate grievance.
The appointment of Ms. Pellerin last May, after Mr. Hollande's election, prompted talk of a new orientation in French technology policy, where mistrust of foreign companies has sometimes been the guiding principle.
Ms. Pellerin, 39, is the first French government minister of Asian extraction. Although she has never visited the land of her birth, in French technology circles her rise fostered a perhaps nave hope: Might Ms. Pellerin transform France into a European version of South Korea, where ultrahigh-speed broadband is ubiquitous and electronics giants like Samsung and LG have become world-beaters?
''I would like to make France one of the top nations in terms of digital innovation,'' Ms. Pellerin said during a recent interview in her office at the Finance Ministry, which juts out over the Seine in eastern Paris like a giant, modern version of a medieval river toll barrier. ''If we don't act in the next few years it will be too late.''
Yet anyone expecting a drastic break with French governing traditions might be disappointed by Ms. Pellerin. After her unusual arrival in France, her upbringing and rise through the system were largely indistinguishable from that of many native-born members of the French administration.
Raised by middle-class parents -- her father, who has a doctorate in nuclear physics, is a small-business owner -- Ms. Pellerin grew up in two Paris suburbs, gritty Montreuil and wealthier Versailles. A promising student from the start, she was educated at elite institutions, including Sciences Po and the cole Nationale d'Administration, which serve as finishing schools for the country's ruling class. Before joining Mr. Hollande's government, she was a magistrate at the Cour des Comptes, a body that audits the public finances, and worked in public relations.
Ms. Pellerin's husband, Laurent Ollon, is also in government service, as an official in the office of Marylise Lebranchu, the minister for the reform of the state and decentralization. Ms. Pellerin has an 8-year-old daughter from a previous marriage.
In her new role in government, Ms. Pellerin has become the central figure in Mr. Hollande's drive to establish ''digital sovereignty'' -- the principle that French rules should apply to international Internet companies, which sometimes hover elusively beyond the reach of the national authorities. This has prompted clashes with a growing number of American technology companies.
Overseeing investigations of these companies on taxation and other matters, even while wooing them to invest in France, is a balancing act, Ms. Pellerin acknowledged.
''It's not a crusade against Americans,'' she said. ''We are just trying to put everyone on a level playing field.''
Ms. Pellerin's appointment last year drew considerable attention in South Korea, where reactions ranged from pride in her success to soul-searching over the large number of Korean babies that have been given up by their genetic parents and sent abroad.
Ms. Pellerin said she had been surprised by the ''buzz'' in South Korea over her French government appointment. Not only has she never been to Korea, she also does not speak the language. But she is trilingual, also speaking English and German.
Any evident ethnic pride is of the more local sort. ''I was quite happy with the reaction in the French Asian community,'' said Ms. Pellerin, who brings a bit of Parisian chic to the otherwise drab government of Mr. Hollande, greeting visitors in leather trousers and a casual blazer. ''It is true that they are not very well represented.''
Ms. Pellerin has led efforts to integrate ethnic minorities into the sometimes closed establishment of France. From 2010 to 2012 she was the president of the 21st Century Club, a French group that promotes diversity in employment.
As for growing up with the knowledge that she had been abandoned and adopted, Ms. Pellerin said this was something ''I hardly speak about.''
''I really consider myself French,'' she said. ''What is important to understand about what I've done is how I was brought up by my parents.''
Far from shielding her from criticism, Ms. Pellerin's compelling personal story and the formidable rsum she has assembled before age 40 sometimes seem to draw special scrutiny.
During a radio interview last year, shortly after she had been named to her post, the host, Daniel Schick, led off this way: ''Do you really know why you were chosen? Is it because you are a beautiful woman from a background of diversity? Is it because you are a member of a quiet minority? Because you are evidence of a successful adoption? Because you are a strong signal to the Asian markets? Perhaps also because you are competent?''
Ms. Pellerin parried the provocation deftly, laughing sarcastically and adding, ''This is starting very badly.''
As a de facto economics ambassador for France, Ms. Pellerin has also been thrust into uncomfortable situations. Talking up the country as an investment destination late last year in Boston and New York, she found herself facing skeptical audiences after her boss, Arnaud Montebourg, the industry minister, publicly castigated the steel maker ArcelorMittal over plans to close unprofitable blast furnaces.
''It was a bit difficult to explain what was going on in France,'' she acknowledged, hinting that at a personal level she had misgivings about Mr. Montebourg's approach. ''The government is diverse. You can have different sensibilities in the government.''
Ms. Pellerin said she wanted to encourage a culture of entrepreneurship in France, where the creation of private wealth is often viewed with suspicion.
''When you look at the ranking of the most popular people in France, you have actors, you have engineers,'' she said. ''But you never have entrepreneurs. We have to change that.''
Mr. Hollande late last week secured a compromise with unions that is aimed at reducing barriers to hiring. Yet French entrepreneurs complain that the Hollande government has made life more difficult for would-be job creators by sharply increasing the capital gains tax, something that falls particularly hard on entrepreneurs when they seek to sell start-up businesses.
Frdric Montagnon, a co-founder of Overblog, a French blogging platform, said Ms. Pellerin had missed an opportunity to use her high profile to positive effect.
''I want her to be more enthusiastic,'' Mr. Montagnon said. ''Unfortunately, Fleur Pellerin and the other members of the government speak only when there is a crisis.''
For Ms. Pellerin, there have been plenty of these. One is a clash with American technology companies, including Google and Amazon, over the strategies they use to minimize European taxes. By routing their French sales through low-cost jurisdictions -- Ireland and Luxembourg, respectively -- these companies largely avoid paying taxes in France. The companies insist that this complies with European Union law, and Ms. Pellerin acknowledged that getting them to contribute to the French Treasury might take time.
And though the resolution of the face-off between Free and Google fell in Google's favor, she made it clear that she sympathized with Free, which says its network is burdened by high traffic volume from videos on YouTube, which is owned by Google.
''Google takes advantage of the bandwidth and the creative content of the Internet,'' she said, ''but never contributes to the financing of the infrastructure or the content.''
Ms. Pellerin is still monitoring a separate standoff, this one between Google and French online publishers who want to be compensated for Google's search engine links to their content. Mr. Hollande has threatened legislation if a solution is not found soon.
And then there is Twitter, a forum Ms. Pellerin herself is fond of using, but one whose largely untethered expression sometimes clashes with French sensibilities.
A French court is investigating whether the company should hand over the account details of users who posted anti-Semitic comments last October.
The company removed some of the postings after complaints that they violated French laws against hate speech but says it will not divulge user information without a court order in the United States, where Twitter is based.
Ms. Pellerin's take? ''We really would like to welcome Twitter in France,'' she said. ''But the question is, How can you let people on social networks violate local laws?''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Fleur Pellerin, a deputy minister, is a central figure in President Franois Hollande's drive for French ''digital sovereignty.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY THIBAULT CAMUS/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
Left to right, Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault
Ms. Pellerin
Louis Gallois, commissioner of investment
 and Genevive Fioraso, higher education minister, in Bouguenais in October. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHANE MAHE/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW ECONOMY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); ELECTRONICS (76%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (75%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (74%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (70%); KOREAN WAR (70%); SUBURBS (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (68%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (51%); NUCLEAR PHYSICS (50%); PHYSICS (50%)

COMPANY: FREE SAS (92%); GOOGLE INC (92%); LG CORP (84%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (92%); 003550 (KSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (92%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (92%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (92%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS334419 OTHER ELECTRONIC COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (84%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (84%)

PERSON: FRANCOIS HOLLANDE (90%); LOUIS GALLOIS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (94%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (79%) FRANCE (98%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); UNITED STATES (90%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2013



540 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 557 words

HEADLINE: Investment Into China Declined During 2012

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
BEIJING -- China's foreign investment inflows fell last year for the first time since the global financial crisis, government data showed Wednesday, slipping 4 percent as a troubled world economy reduced investors' enthusiasm for deals in emerging markets.
But the nation, with the world's second-largest economy, after that of the United States, still drew $111.7 billion in foreign direct investment in 2012 after a record $116 billion in 2011 and maintaining the country as one of the top destinations for corporate expansion. 
Foreign investment is an important gauge of the health of the global economy and of demand for the output of China's huge manufacturing sector -- though such investment is a small contributor to China's overall capital flows when compared with exports, which were worth about $2 trillion in 2012.
Analysts said cooling growth in China's foreign direct investment, or F.D.I., did not suggest that investors' confidence in the country was waning. Rather, it shows China needs another catalyst to drive inflows after the increase from joining the World Trade Organization hit a natural plateau.
''We will see F.D.I. bouncing around $110 billion to $120 billion for some years,'' said Tim Condon, an economist with ING in Singapore. ''Hopefully, the current administration is going to intensify reform efforts, such as opening of the capital account. That could be momentous, in terms of attracting more F.D.I.''
A new government led by Xi Jinping, the incoming president, is set to take over in March, and investors are hoping that Beijing will pursue changes it had delayed, including the relaxing of capital account controls, to drive China into the next stage of growth.
Analysts forecast that data to be released on Friday would show China's annual economic growth had rebounded to 7.8 percent in the fourth quarter of 2012 from 7.4 percent in the third -- the weakest pace of expansion since the depths of the financial crisis in early 2009.
In December, F.D.I. in China fell 4.5 percent from a year earlier to $11.7 billion, the Commerce Ministry said at a briefing Wednesday.
China joined the W.T.O. in 2001, and foreign direct investment inflows have more than doubled since. Figures from the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development show China now takes turns with the United States as the world's top F.D.I. destination, with the United States pulling ahead of China by a slim margin in 2011.
Shen Danyang, a spokesman from the Commerce Ministry, acknowledged that China had to try harder to attract foreign investors, without elaborating. But he stressed that foreign funds were not leaving in a big way.
''It is true that some manufacturing companies are moving out of China,'' Mr. Shen said. ''But one point I want to remind you is that, so far, there is no big-scale pullout of foreign investment.''
Data showed European and Asian firms had cut their Chinese investment the most, even though Asian firms remained by far the biggest foreign investors in China.
Inflows from the European Union dropped 3.8 percent in 2012 from a year earlier to $6.1 billion, while F.D.I. from the top 10 Asian economies -- including Hong Kong, Japan and Singapore -- fell 4.8 percent last year to $95.7 billion.
That contrasted with investment from the United States, which rose 4.5 percent on the year to $3.1 billion.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENT (92%); INWARD INVESTMENT (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (77%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (70%); BUSINESS EXPANSION (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (63%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%)

PERSON: XI JINPING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (89%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (89%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); SINGAPORE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2013



541 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 513 words

HEADLINE: Segregation Linked in Study With Lung Cancer Deaths

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE

 BODY:
African-Americans who live in highly segregated counties are considerably more likely to die from lung cancer than those in counties that are less segregated, a new study has found. 
The study was the first to look at segregation as a factor in lung cancer mortality. Its authors said they could not fully explain why it worsens the odds of survival for African-Americans, but hypothesized that blacks in more segregated areas may be less likely to have health insurance or access to health care and specialty doctors. It is also possible that lower levels of education mean they are less likely to seek care early, when medical treatment could make a big difference. Racial bias in the health care system might also be a factor.
''If you want to learn about someone's health, follow him home,'' said Dr. Awori J. Hayanga, a heart and lung surgeon at the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, who was the lead author of the study.
The study, published in JAMA Surgery on Wednesday, divided all counties in the country into three levels of segregation: high, medium and low. It found that lung cancer mortality rates, a ratio of deaths to a population, were about 20 percent higher for blacks who lived in the most segregated counties, than for blacks living in the least segregated counties.
Lung cancer is the top cause of preventable death in the United States. Blacks have the highest incidence of it and are also more likely to die from it. For every million black males, 860 will die from lung cancer, compared with 620 among every million white males. The rates were calculated over the period of the study, from 2003 to 2007.
The study drew on federal mortality data from that period, and segregation data from about a third of United States counties that had African-American populations large enough to measure. About 28 percent of Americans live in counties with low segregation, 40 percent in counties with moderate segregation and 32 percent in counties with high segregation.
The gap in outcomes persisted even after accounting for differences in smoking rates and socio-economic status, Dr. Hayanga said.
For whites, high levels of segregation had the opposite effect, a finding that surprised the authors. Whites who lived in highly segregated counties had about 6 percent lower mortality rates from lung cancer than those who lived in the least segregated counties, though researchers pointed out that the difference was slight enough that it was not clear whether it was meaningful.
Dr. David Chang, director of outcomes research at the University of California San Diego Department of Surgery, who wrote an accompanying editorial, said he hoped that the study would focus attention on the environmental factors involved in the stark disparities in health outcomes in the United States because they lend themselves to change through policy. Medical researchers tend to focus on factors that are harder to change, like the genetics and the behaviors of individuals.
''We don't need drugs or genetic explanations to fix a lot of the health care problems we have,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LUNG CANCER (93%); CANCER (93%); RESEARCH REPORTS (91%); HEALTH CARE (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (89%); WRITERS (89%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (87%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (75%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (75%); SMOKING (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (70%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2013



542 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 618 words

HEADLINE: Problems at Boeing Lead Dow Lower

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
More problems for Boeing's new 787 Dreamliner sent the aircraft maker's stock down sharply on Wednesday, dragging the Dow Jones industrial average lower.
Japan's two biggest airlines grounded all their 787s for safety checks on Wednesday after one was forced to make an emergency landing. The plane has been plagued by a series of problems this year, including a battery fire and fuel leaks. Boeing's stock sank $2.60 to $74.34, a loss of 3 percent.
The Dow lost 23.66 points to close at 13,511.23. Without Boeing's drop, the Dow would have ended the day nearly flat. 
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index inched up 0.29 to 1,472.63. A gain for Apple helped pull the Nasdaq composite up 6.77 points to 3,117.54.
Apple rose $20.17 to $506.09, ending a three-day slide. Apple, the world's largest publicly traded company, closed below $500 on Tuesday for the first time in nearly a year. Concern that the popularity of its iPhone is waning has pushed Apple's stock down 5 percent this month.
Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan Chase, the country's largest bank, rose after both posted quarterly results that trounced analysts' estimates.
Harry Clark, chairman of Clark Capital Management Group in Philadelphia, described JPMorgan's numbers as staggering. The bank's quarterly earnings jumped 55 percent and total revenue for the year hit $100 billion.
''Their earnings are just ridiculously good,'' Mr. Clark said. ''It shows you that these giants can make money in any type of environment.''
Slightly smaller financial firms, like Northern Trust and Bank of New York Mellon, reported weaker earnings and their stocks sank.
JPMorgan Chase gained 47 cents to $46.82. Its results were offset by an internal review of a $6 billion trading loss on credit derivatives. JPMorgan's board criticized executives for failing to keep it informed of potential problems and using unapproved models for measuring trading risks.
Goldman Sachs gained $5.50 to $141.09, a 4 percent jump. Its profits nearly tripled in the fourth quarter of last year. Goldman's bond underwriting business had its best year since the financial crisis, thanks to strong demand for fixed-income investments and companies lining up to borrow at historically cheap rates.
Genworth Financial jumped 9 percent, the largest gain in the S.& P. 500. Genworth, a financial services company, laid out a plan to reorganize its business, including putting its mortgage unit under a new company. Genworth's stock gained 72 cents to $8.85.
Analysts forecast that companies in the S.& P. 500 will report a 3.2 percent increase in fourth-quarter earnings. Financial firms and consumer-discretionary companies are expected to post the biggest growth, according to S&P Capital IQ.
The Labor Department said consumer prices were flat last month as gas prices sank. The December reading of the Consumer Price Index capped a year of tame inflation. Consumer prices increased just 1.7 percent in 2012, down from 3 percent in 2011.
The report led traders to push up prices for Treasurys, knocking yields down. The 10-year Treasury note rose 5/32 to 98 9/32 and the yield slipped to 1.82 percent. The yield, used to set mortgages and a wide variety of other loans, ended Tuesday at 1.84 percent.
Wendy's rose 4 percent, or 18 cents, to $5.08. The hamburger chain, known for its Frosty shakes and square burgers, posted earnings that topped Wall Street's estimates, even as a critical indicator of sales at North American restaurants dipped slightly.
Chipotle Mexican Grill dropped 6 percent. The burrito chain warned that its quarterly earnings would fall short of previous forecasts because it underestimated the hit it would take from higher food costs. Chipotle's stock lost $16.38 to $280.94.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AIRCRAFT MFG (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); AIR TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (78%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (78%); AIRLINES (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); BONDS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (68%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (65%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (60%)

COMPANY: BOEING CO (92%); APPLE INC (84%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (65%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); NORTHERN TRUST CORP (55%); CLARK CAPITAL MANAGEMENT GROUP (54%); GENWORTH FINANCIAL INC (51%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (92%); BAB (BRU) (92%); BA (NYSE) (92%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (84%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); BK (NYSE) (65%); GS (NYSE) (58%); NTRS (NASDAQ) (55%); GNW (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (92%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (84%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (84%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (84%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (65%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (51%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (51%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (51%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (51%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (51%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (51%)

PERSON: RICHARD T CLARK (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (69%) JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2013



543 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 647 words

HEADLINE: Moody's Gives Colleges a Negative Grade

BYLINE: By ANDREW MARTIN

 BODY:
The credit reporting agency Moody's said on Wednesday that it had revised its financial outlook for colleges and universities, giving a negative grade to the entire field.
For the last two years, Moody's Investors Service gave the nation's most elite public and private colleges a stable forecast while assigning a negative outlook to the rest of higher education. (Moody's assigned a negative outlook for the sector in 2009, but it upgraded the most elite ones to stable in 2011-2012.)
On Wednesday, Moody's explained the change by saying that even the best colleges and universities faced diminished prospects for revenue growth, given mounting public pressure to keep tuition down, a weak economy and the prospect that a penny-pinching Congress could cut financing for research grants and student aid. 
The report advocates ''bolder actions by university leaders to reduce costs and increase operational efficiency.''
''The sector will need to adjust to the prospect of muted revenue growth,'' the report says. ''Strong governance and management leadership will be needed by most universities as they navigate through this period of intensified change and challenge.''
While Moody's gave a negative outlook for the overall industry, most of the nation's top colleges and universities still carry the top credit rankings.
Nonetheless, the Moody's report reflects a time of rapid and disruptive change in higher education. Before the financial crisis, colleges and universities routinely raised tuition and fees as administrators sought to burnish their reputations -- and the school's rankings -- with new buildings and more student services.
That golden era was upended by the financial crisis. As household income dropped and jobs became scarce for college graduates, families became increasingly vulnerable to college costs and the prospect of students taking on onerous debt. At the same time, institutions could no longer count on an annual windfall from endowment returns, alumni gifts and state financing. All shriveled as the economy soured, and they have not fully recovered.
In the 2011-2012 academic year, for instance, American families spent, on average, 5 percent less on higher education than in the previous year, Moody's said. As a result, 25 percent of the private colleges that Moody's rated did not raise tuition in fiscal 2011 at or beyond the rate of inflation; 21 percent of rated public universities did not do so.
Students have become more dependent on federal grants and loans since the financial crisis. Any curtailment of federal aid could put further budget pressures on schools. Pell Grants for low-income students provided $36.5 billion to colleges and universities in fiscal 2011. That represented a median 21 percent of net tuition revenue for regional public universities.
The rapid emergence of online learning provides both opportunities and challenges for higher education, Moody's said. While online classes could threaten to undermine the residential college model, they could also provide new ways to make money and provide schools with broader audiences.
Moody's said the average debt burden for full-time students grew 55 percent in the 10 years that ended in 2012. But it maintained that the average debt load was manageable for most students, since 72 percent of student loans were held by borrowers with less than $25,000 in debt. Nonetheless, the report noted that the increasing focus on student debt and college affordability by the media and politicians puts additional pressure on college administrators to rein in costs.
''Until universities demonstrate better ability to lower their cost of operations, perhaps through more intensive use of online classes and elimination or reduction of tenure, we expect government officials to produce bolder solutions in response to the public outcry against the cost of higher education,'' the report said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (92%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); RANKINGS (90%); TUITION FEES (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); GRANTS & GIFTS (88%); FAMILY (88%); STUDENT EXPENSES (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); INFLATION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); ALUMNI (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (68%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (63%)

COMPANY: MOODY'S CORP (92%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (91%)

TICKER: MCO (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (92%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2013



544 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; CONVERSATION; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1180 words

HEADLINE: A Soap Maker Sought Compatibility In a Merger Partner

BYLINE: By ROD KURTZ

 BODY:
For Eric Ryan and Adam Lowry, the quest began in 2001 in what they call a ''dirty little flat'' in San Francisco, where the two childhood buddies from Detroit first plotted to disrupt the all-but-impenetrable cleaning products industry long dominated by giants like SC Johnson and Procter & Gamble.
They started by mixing soap formulas in beer pitchers labeled ''Do Not Drink'' and wound up creating Method, an irreverent, design-driven, environmentally minded company that outsourced manufacturing. The company grew to $34 million in revenue and 39 employees in 2005, and more than $100 million and 100 employees in 2012. Those numbers remain modest compared to those of Big Soap, but a walk down the cleaning aisle in almost any supermarket reveals not just Method's reach (Ginger Yuzu dish soap, Pink Grapefruit hand wash) but its impact on competitors (Clorox Green Works).
''We showed up at the party with a very different proposition,'' Mr. Ryan said. ''We're superproud that we've had an influence.'' 
That influence will continue, Mr. Ryan and Mr. Lowry suggest, even though Method was acquired for an undisclosed price in September by the Belgian company Ecover, creating what they claim is now the largest green cleaning company in the world, with revenue ''north of $200 million.''
In a conversation that has been edited and condensed, we recently asked Mr. Ryan why he and Mr. Lowry chose to sell, how they identified the right suitor, and what will happen to the Method brand.
Q. Was selling the company always a primary goal?
A. When we started the company, we knew we had two choices. One was to grow organically, which a lot of businesses do, and you control the business and grow slowly and steadily. We fundamentally believed that we would not have success in this competitive space unless we went after it fast and aggressively. So we had to take outside capital. And when we took that outside capital -- at some point, you have to give it back with a return.
Q. You make soap, you sell it, you make more soap, you sell more of it. Why couldn't you grow without being acquired?
A. Two primary reasons. One is just economies of scale. In the early years, we lost money on every product we sold. We were competing against companies that not only have a 100-year head start but have just built incredible efficiencies. They own their own plants. When you walk in a grocery store and that bottle of dish soap sells for $1.99, we could not make it for $1.99 in the beginning. We needed capital to accelerate growth, to get our volume to a place where the business would be profitable. Two is that the cost of doing business in the mass channel is really expensive. When you sell in a grocery store, you have to pay an upfront fee called slotting charges. And that takes a fair amount of capital. So growing organically is possible, but it's really, really tough.
Q. You've built a brand that seems to resonate with consumers. Are you concerned about their reaction to the sale?
A. It was something that was heavy in our minds for a lot of years. The typical script for a socially driven company like ours is you get acquired by a major strategic. So look at Honest Tea, acquired by Coke. Kashi by Kellogg. Burt's Bees by Clorox. Even Mrs. Meyer's, in our space, by SC Johnson. I always justified it by saying, ''Well, if that happens, it'll give us the chance to work from a bigger, global stage, and we'll try to change those companies from the inside out.'' And once we did this deal, I was just so thankful we never had to go down that path. We recognized we had a partner at the table with identical mission statements, identical values and a real long-term commitment. It was just an opportunity too good to pass up.
Q. Did you say no to other offers because you didn't see that cultural fit?
A. We can't name names, but we did have, over the years, conversations with those usual suspects. And the movie looked pretty similar -- full integration, we go from being a company to being an operating unit within a larger organization. The culture, the team, ''the Method Method'' that we spent the last 10 years building could have been nonexistent within 12 months.
Q. Will the Method brand continue to exist?
A. Very much so. We now have our own manufacturing. We're turning on TV advertising for the first time in our history. We're expanding more aggressively in Europe and Asia than we would have done otherwise. We're creating a company with a long-term focus on the future. When you're private equity-backed, it's a much more short-term focus in how you invest and build the organization. The big thing that's changing now, we're a house of brands, which is Method and Ecover. And we have to set up a business where they coexist in a way that they don't cannibalize each other and reach a broader audience collectively.
Q. Obviously, you're in the honeymoon phase. How do you protect against something going wrong?
A. At the end of the day, it's like a marriage -- there is a leap of faith. And the way that you can protect yourself the most is just really trusting your instincts of who you're jumping in bed with. It's just like a job interview or any other relationship. If you're getting to a point where you're having to lean on a lot of legalities or other ways to try to protect yourself, it's probably not the right relationship. It just comes back again to, are these people you trust, who share the same vision?
Q. While this was developing, how open were you with your employees?
A. You just can't talk openly. It can do damage to the deal, but also, it's a roller coaster, and you don't want everyone riding the roller coaster with you. It's incredibly distracting. There was a very small group that was in the know, and those were only the ones that were needed for due diligence. People knew we were looking and we were upfront about that, but they didn't know to what extent, because we didn't know to what extent. So when we did the announcement, there was initial shock, but over all it went well. And then for the next week, it was really challenging because what happened -- what we were completely blindsided by -- was how many people in their careers had been through a bad M.& A. transaction. There were a lot of bad movies that started being replayed. What I told everybody was, ''Look, I've never been through a bad merger in my life, and I'm not about to start now.''
Q. Things have been tough in Europe. Any concerns about partnering with a European company and expanding there?
A. I like the idea of investing when something is at its lowest. [Laughs.] No, we have not had too many concerns about it. This business is firing on all cylinders. I was definitely, in the back of my head, concerned that things would get derailed by the European crisis, but who we're dealing with is very long-term focused and they're also very globally minded. Europe is a big part of their business, but they're also expanding aggressively in Asia -- we are as well -- and North America.
Q. And everyone needs soap.
A. And everybody needs soap. It's a dirty world out there.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Eric Ryan, a founder of Method, said that its acquisition by Ecover of Belgium ''was just an opportunity too good to pass up.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER DASILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOAPS & DETERGENTS (90%); SOAPS & DETERGENTS MFG (90%); MERGERS (90%); POLISHES & SANITATION GOODS (78%); CLEANERS (77%); JANITORIAL SERVICES (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (75%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (75%)

COMPANY: S C JOHNSON BENELUX SA (72%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (58%)

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (58%); PG (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (58%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (58%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%); BELGIUM (55%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2013



545 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; FIVETHIRTYEIGHT; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 2286 words

HEADLINE: Health Care Drives Increase in Government Spending

BYLINE: By NATE SILVER

 BODY:
It's one of the most fundamental political questions of our time: What's driving the growth in government spending? And it has a relatively straightforward answer: first and foremost, spending on health care through Medicare and Medicaid, and other major social insurance and entitlement programs.
But I thought it was worth reviewing the evidence in a bit more detail. There are a few surprises along the way, some of which liberal readers might like and others of which will please conservative readers.
The Web site usgovernmentspending.com has an abundance of data on federal, state and local spending at different points in time. My focus will be on how government has been spending its money in the present and the past, rather than evaluating any future budgets or projections. 
I'll be looking principally at government spending as a share of the overall economy, specifically as compared to the gross domestic product. In the long run, the overall economic health of the country is the most important constraint on fiscal policy. A growing economy gives us a lot of good choices: maintaining or expanding government programs, cutting taxes or holding them at a moderate level, reducing or managing the national debt. A stagnant economy means that everything gets squeezed.
The first chart, below, documents the growth in federal government spending over the past hundred years as a share of gross domestic product spending is broken down into four major categories:1. Entitlement programs, under which I classify government expenditures on health care programs; pensions and retirement programs like Social Security; and welfare or social insurance programs like food stamps and unemployment compensation.2. Military spending3. Interest on the national debt4. Infrastructure and services, under which I include everything else -- the pot that is often referred to as discretionary spending: education spending; fire services, police and the criminal justice system; spending on physical infrastructure including transportation; spending on science, technology, and research and development; and the category called "general government," which largely refers to the cost of maintaining the political system (like salaries for public officials).
The most striking feature of the chart is the extraordinary amount of military spending during World War II (and to a lesser extent, during World War I). Even after World War II, however, military spending constituted the outright majority of federal government spending until 1969.
Military spending makes up closer to 24 percent of federal expenditures today. That's up from the near-term low from 1998 to 2001, when it made up about 20 percent of federal spending. (One contributor to the budget surpluses achieved briefly during the Clinton administration was a peace dividend in the interim between the cold war and the Sept. 11 attacks.) And military spending in the United States has generally been rising relative to inflation and remains very high relative to most other nations. But over the longer term, it has fallen slightly relative to the gross domestic product, and substantially relative to other types of government spending.
Another surprise is how little we are paying in interest on the federal debt, even though the debt is growing larger and larger. Right now, interest payments make up only about 6 percent of the federal budget. In addition, they have been decreasing as a share of the gross domestic product: the federal government spent about 1.5 percent of gross domestic product in paying interest on its debt on 2011, down from a peak of 3.3 percent in 1991.
How is this possible? The reason is that although the government is borrowing a lot of money, it is doing so very cheaply because interest rates are low both over all and on government debt specifically. We're now spending less than 2 percent of the principal annually to service our debt, down from a peak of close to 7 percent in the early 1980s. Borrowing costs aren't expected to remain this low forever, so this ratio is bound to increase some. Fortunately, much of the debt we have issued has relatively long maturities, meaning that we have locked in low rates. (This won't necessarily apply to future deficit spending: one of the consequences of failing to raise the debt ceiling would be a significant rise in borrowing costs, which would compound our debt problems later on.)
The growth in federal spending on physical infrastructure and on services provided directly by the government like policing and education, has been modest. In fact, federal spending on these categories has declined somewhat as a share of the gross domestic product over the past 40 years.
It might also be surprising that spending in this category is relatively quite small -- federal expenditures in these areas totaled only about 2.5 percent of gross domestic product in 2011 -- considering that they make up some of the most traditional functions of government (along with defense).
But part of this is because many of these services are financed and provided for by state and local governments, which spend most of their money in these areas.
That means most of the growth in federal government spending relative to inflation -- and essentially all the growth as a share of the gross domestic product -- has been because of the increased expense of entitlement programs.
We'll return to this theme in a moment, but let's first consider the role played by state and local governments.
While most discussions of government spending focus on what the federal government spends, state and local governments are a bigger part of the picture than you might think. Their collective spending is now the equivalent of about 15 percent of the gross domestic product, not counting money which is granted to them by the federal government for programs administered by states and localities. (By comparison, federal government spending, including grants to the states and interest on the national debt, has recently been about 24 percent of the gross domestic product.)
The states also spend their money much differently than the federal government: principally, as I mentioned, on infrastructure and on services like policing and education. States and localities do spend some on entitlement programs, and their expenditures in this area have been increasing, but federal expenditures have accounted for most of the growth.
However, states and localities pay for essentially nothing that would be classified as military spending. They also accumulate relatively little debt, so they don't pay much in the way of interest; many states are required by law to balance their budgets, or routinely do so as a matter of custom.
The flip side is that states and localities have very limited ability to engage in stimulative spending during economic downturns. Instead just the opposite is true: recessions reduce their tax base, so they either have to increase tax rates or cut services to keep their budgets balanced. The federal government provided various grants to the states in the stimulus package it passed in 2009, offsetting some of the states' expenses, but these programs have since largely expired, and many states and municipalities have had to cut their budgets or raise taxes since then. Partly as a result, about 500,000 local and state government jobs have been lost since 2009, even as private-sector employment has (somewhat) recovered.
Although accounting for state and municipal expenditures alongside federal ones increases the share of government expenditures that are spent on infrastructure programs, it does not change our conclusionabout what is driving the increase in spending relative to gross domestic product entitlement programs, which account for the vast bulk of it.
The usgovernmentspending.com data classifies three subcategories of entitlement programs. Spending on welfare programs like food stamps and unemployment insurance is the most cyclical - or technically the most countercyclical, since much of it kicks in automatically during an economic downturn. Spending on retirement programs, principally Social Security, is the steadiest, but it has been increasing faster than the rate of gross domestic product growth and considerably faster than inflation. And health care spending has been increasing at the fastest rate.
Specifically, overall government spending on entitlement programs increased at a 4.8 annual rate in the 40 years between 1972 and 2011, net of inflation. Health care spending increased at 5.7 percent per year (and federal government spending on health care increased at a 6.7 percent pace). In contrast, the gross domestic product grew at a rate of 2.7 percent over this period, with tax revenues increasing at about the same rate as the G.D.P.
Spending on infrastructure and government services, excluding defense, has kept pace with gross domestic product growth. (Spending on infrastructure and services by the federal government specifically has lagged gross domestic product growth somewhat, growing at 1.8 percent per year.) Also, most of the subcategories of infrastructure and services spending that usgovernmentspending.com tracks have decreased slightly as a share of the gross domestic product, including spending on transportation, education, science and technology. The major exception is spending on the category they describe as "protection," reflecting the increase in the criminal justice apparatus, which has grown at 4.8 percent per year.
Another way to view these data is to allocate the increase in spending-to-G.D.P. between the different categories of expenditures. Total government spending - including federal, state and local spending - rose to about 39 percent of the gross domestic product in 2011 from about 30 percent in 1972. So we have a 9 percent increase to account for, which is equal to about $1.3 trillion per year in current dollars.
Spending on entitlement programs was about $500 billion per year in 1972 in today's dollars. If it had increased at the same rate as the gross domestic product, it would now be about $1.4 trillion. Instead, it is now about $2.9 trillion per year. What this means is that there has been about a $1.5 trillion increase in entitlement spending above and beyond gross domestic product growth. This is actually slightly larger than the overall increase in government spending relative to gross domestic product. This results from the fact that spending on the other categories has been essentially flat relative to the gross domestic product (infrastructure and services), or constitutes a negligible part of the budget for the time being (interest), or actually decreased relative to gross domestic product over the 40-year period (defense).
To clarify: all of the major categories of government spending have been increasing relative to inflation. But essentially all of the increase in spending relative to economic growth, and the potential tax base, has come from entitlement programs, and about half of that has come from health care entitlements specifically.
The growth in health care expenditures, for better or worse, is not just a government problem: private spending on health care is increasing at broadly the same rates and is eating up a larger and larger share of economic activity. It's an immensely complicated problem, but the arithmetic is simple: if we can't slow the rate of growth in health care expenditures, we'll either have to raise taxes, cut other government spending or continue to run huge deficits. Or we could hope to grow our way out of the problem, but health care expenditures may be impeding private-sector growth as well.
And soon, we may cross an important symbolic threshold: when the overall majority of government expenditures are spent on, essentially, insurance programs. (Another way to conceive of the major categories of entitlement programs are as health insurance, retirement insurance, unemployment insurance and so forth). Already, this is true of federal government spending (and it has been true since the early-to-mid-1990s). It is very close to being true even if one also accounts for state and local spending, and may well become true as soon as this year.
Slowing the growth of entitlement spending will not be easy. Particularly in the case of health care, it has become substantially more expensive for individuals with both public and private insurance to purchase the same level of care.
And on a political level, cuts to entitlement programs are liable to be more noticeable to individual voters than cuts to things like infrastructure spending. A 10 percent cut to Social Security or Medicare benefits will surely draw the ire of voters. A 10 percent reduction in the amount allocated to bridge repair, or in the amount of government-sponsored energy research, will affect individual citizens less directly (even if they are perhaps ultimately more economically damaging: most of the academic literature is supportive of high long-run returns to infrastructure and research and development spending on private-sector productivity and economic growth).
Nevertheless, the declining level of trust in government since the 1970s is a fairly close mirror for the growth in spending on social insurance as a share of the gross domestic product and of overall government expenditures. We may have gone from conceiving of government as an entity that builds roads, dams and airports, provides shared services like schooling, policing and national parks, and wages wars, into the world's largest insurance broker.
Most of us don't much care for our insurance broker.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); DEFENSE SPENDING (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); COLD WAR (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); MEDICARE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); MEDICAID (73%); EDUCATION FUNDING (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (72%); NATIONAL DEBT (71%); WORLD WAR II (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); ECONOMIC POLICY (67%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (64%); WORLD WAR I (63%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (61%); EVIDENCE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2013



546 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1137 words

HEADLINE: Gun Reform for a Generation

 BODY:
We usually cringe when politicians drag ordinary people onstage for their events. But the four children who appeared with their parents and President Obama in the White House on Wednesday at his announcement on gun control proposals drove home the nature of the crisis facing the country. While guns and gun control have been a subject of debate among politicians and lawyers and lobbyists and pollsters and political groups in the center and on the fringes, our children have been living in a free-fire zone for sociopaths with virtually unfettered access to instruments of mass murder.
It is past time that elected leaders did something about it without worrying, as Mr. Obama said on Wednesday, about getting ''an A grade from the gun lobby.'' It has been a bipartisan betrayal of the public's safety, the fault of Democrats and Republicans, and of a string of presidents who have said mournful things after the mass murders at Columbine and Virginia Tech and Aurora and Newtown but did not act. 
Wednesday was the exception. One month after the Newtown, Conn., murders, Mr. Obama presented a comprehensive set of initiatives that was, for a change, structured around what needs to be done and not what political tacticians think the president could get a dysfunctional Congress to pass. Mr. Obama can be frustrating at moments like this, and his delivery today was as professorial as ever. But he stepped up to the broader issue before the nation in remembering the tragedy at Newtown.
''While there is no law or set of laws that can prevent every senseless act of violence completely, no piece of legislation that will prevent every tragedy, every act of evil,'' he said, ''if there is even one thing we can do to reduce this violence, if there's even one life that can be saved, then we've got an obligation to try.''
Mr. Obama said he believes the Second Amendment bestows an individual right to own guns. We have disagreed with that position, but it is now the law as judged by the Supreme Court, and as Mr. Obama said so passionately, it should be no impediment to gun regulation.
''Along with our freedom to live our lives as we will comes an obligation to allow others to do the same,'' Mr. Obama said, noting that 900 people have died in gun violence since Newtown, a vast majority of them on the streets of ''big cities and small towns.''
We have ''the right to worship freely and safely; that right was denied to Sikhs in Oak Creek, Wis.,'' Mr. Obama said. ''The right to assemble peaceably; that right was denied shoppers in Clackamas, Ore., and moviegoers in Aurora, Colo. That most fundamental set of rights to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness, fundamental rights that were denied to college students at Virginia Tech and high school students at Columbine and elementary school students in Newtown; and kids on street corners in Chicago on too frequent a basis to tolerate.''
Mr. Obama's announcement was preceded by a blast of propaganda from the far right that his proposals would be confiscatory and tyrannical. Anyone who was paying attention to the news in the last couple of weeks knew that this was nonsense, and the proposals announced on Wednesday were not remotely similar to what the gun lobby wanted Americans to believe they would be. They will not limit any law-abiding American's right to own guns for hunting, or sport, or collection, or self-protection.
The package is a mix of executive orders intended to tighten and heighten enforcement of existing gun laws and sweep away ideologically motivated restrictions on government action against gun violence, and new laws that will have to be passed by Congress.
Mr. Obama's bills would require universal criminal background checks for all gun sales, doing away with the loopholes for gun shows, private sales and Internet sales that have exempted 40 percent of all gun sales from those checks. He called on Congress to reinstate and toughen the ban on assault weapons that was allowed to expire in 2004. He wants to restore a 10-round limit on ammunition magazines and to ban armor-piercing bullets that are used by criminals to kill police officers. The president asked Congress to pass a $4 billion measure intended to retain 15,000 police officers who are being laid off as states and localities react to the recent recession and to budget cuts from Washington.
Mr. Obama also issued executive orders to make the background checks system more comprehensive and strengthen enforcement of existing gun laws. He is ending a freeze on research into gun violence at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention that was imposed by lawmakers at the behest of a gun lobby that is terrified by the prospect that gun violence could be viewed, as it should be, as a public health issue. He also signed an order making it clear that doctors and other health care providers are not prohibited by any federal law from reporting their patients' threats of violence and that the health care reform law ''does not prevent doctors from talking to patients about gun safety.''
Mr. Obama and Vice President Joseph Biden Jr. acknowledged that getting any of the president's proposals through Congress was going to be a herculean task. Mr. Biden said, ''I also have never seen the nation's conscience so shaken by what happened'' in Newtown. We have hoped, too, that the murders last month would finally inspire action, especially if Americans pressured their representatives in Congress to do something about this crisis.
Mr. Obama and Mr. Biden will have to make good on Mr. Obama's promise to do everything they can to fight for these proposals in Congress -- and that will mean twisting arms and making threats to members of his own party as well as to Republicans.
The gun lobby is focused within the Republican Party, but Democratic lawmakers have also been to blame for failing to pass meaningful gun regulations. Already, some Democrats who should be strongest on gun controls are showing familiar signs of weakness.
Senator Pat Leahy, the chairman of the Judiciary Committee, will be needed as a leader in this effort but has been mumbling about the need to hold extensive hearings. And Senator Harry Reid, the majority leader, was making ominous, cowardly remarks over the weekend about tailoring whatever the Senate does to what he thinks could get through a House dominated by the far-right fringe of the Republican Party. He has started to wriggle away from the idea of an assault weapons ban, for example.
This is not a time for lawmakers to do the politically safe thing or the N.R.A.-approved thing, even if they know it is less than needed. It is time to reach for big ideas and strong laws on gun violence.
This is part of a continuing series on the epidemic of gun violence and possible solutions. Other editorials are at nytimes.com/gunchallenge.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); FIREARMS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); GUN CONTROL (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RIGHT TO BEAR ARMS (89%); LOBBYING (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); SANDY HOOK ELEMENTARY SCHOOL SHOOTINGS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); VIOLENT CRIME (77%); SHOOTINGS (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (64%); SIKHS & SIKHISM (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2013



547 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 541 words

HEADLINE: Another Face-Off for Nuclear-Armed Rivals

 BODY:
One of the likeliest flash points for a nuclear war is the enduring conflict between India and Pakistan, which have scores of nuclear weapons. In recent weeks, several fatal incidents across the disputed Kashmir border have stoked new fears that the firing of bullets could escalate into something even worse. 
The latest conflict began on Jan. 6 when Pakistani and Indian troops exchanged gunfire across the Kashmir border, leaving one Pakistani soldier dead. Two days later, another confrontation resulted in the deaths of two Indian soldiers, one of whom was beheaded. A third incident occurred on Jan. 10 when the Pakistani Army said that Indian soldiers shot and killed a Pakistani soldier. On Wednesday, Pakistan accused India of killing another of its soldiers, making the past two weeks the worst for violence in the Kashmir region since a cease-fire was reached in 2003.
Prime Minister Manmohan Singh of India, who has advocated rapprochement with Pakistan, said this week that the recent hostilities had made a continued thaw in relations impossible. And India's new army chief, Gen. Bikram Singh, has threatened to retaliate for the killings of the Indian soldiers. He said at a news conference on Monday that he had directed his military commanders to be ''aggressive'' in the face of provocations. For its part, Pakistan has dismissed India's charges and accused it of violating the line of control in Kashmir.
The confrontations are especially disturbing because India and Pakistan, which have fought three wars, have made some progress in their relationship over the past year, allowing more travel across the border and better trade ties. Both countries face huge challenges, including the need for economic growth, and neither can afford another war.
Pakistan's internal crisis makes the volatile situation worse. Barely one year after fears of a possible military coup plunged the country's politics into chaos, the civilian government is besieged on multiple fronts just a few months ahead of elections.
On Tuesday, the country's supreme court ordered the arrest of Prime Minister Raja Pervez Ashraf in a corruption case. The court forced the resignation of another prime minster in June, and the current move has stoked speculation that the powerful army is the unseen hand, trying to delay general elections set for the spring and to reimpose a military-backed government. Adding to the turmoil, a preacher turned politician has suddenly begun leading huge protests and calling for the government's ouster while a vicious insurgency continues its violent campaign to try to bring down the state.
Since the border skirmishes, local Indian and Pakistani military commanders in Kashmir have held at least one meeting on the incidents. There were news reports on Wednesday that senior commanders from the two sides had agreed to calm the situation. Speaking in New York City, also on Wednesday, Pakistan's foreign minister, Hina Rabbani Khar, proposed a meeting with her Indian counterpart to recommit to the cease-fire. That makes good sense.
Difficult politics in both countries make new confidence-building measures unlikely at this time. Still, neither side would gain if the nuclear-armed rivals stumbled into a full-blown conflict.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (91%); SHOOTINGS (90%); ARMIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); ELECTIONS (88%); FIREARMS (78%); COUPS (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); CORRUPTION (74%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); POLITICS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (68%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (67%); PRESS CONFERENCES (66%); ARREST WARRANTS (65%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (61%); SUPREME COURTS (61%)

PERSON: MANMOHAN SINGH (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) KASHMIR (96%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) ASIA (96%); INDIA (95%); PAKISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2013



548 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE EDUCATION REVOLUTION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3673 words

HEADLINE: Next Made-in-China Boom: College Graduates

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

 BODY:
SANYA, China -- Zhang Xiaoping's mother dropped out of school after sixth grade. Her father, one of 10 children, never attended.
But Ms. Zhang, 20, is part of a new generation of Chinese taking advantage of a national effort to produce college graduates in numbers the world has never seen before.
A pony-tailed junior at a new university here in southern China, Ms. Zhang has a major in English. But her unofficial minor is American pop culture, which she absorbs by watching episodes of television shows like ''The Vampire Diaries'' and ''America's Next Top Model'' on the Internet.
It is all part of her highly specific ambition: to work some day for a Chinese automaker and provide the cultural insights and English fluency the company needs to supply the next generation of fuel-efficient taxis that New York City plans to choose in 2021. ''It is my dream,'' she said, ''and I will devote myself wholeheartedly to it.'' 
Even if her dream is only dorm-room reverie, China has tens of millions of Ms. Zhangs -- bright young people whose aspirations and sheer numbers could become potent economic competition for the West in decades to come.
China is making a $250 billion-a-year investment in what economists call human capital. Just as the United States helped build a white-collar middle class in the late 1940s and early 1950s by using the G.I. Bill to help educate millions of World War II veterans, the Chinese government is using large subsidies to educate tens of millions of young people as they move from farms to cities.
The aim is to change the current system, in which a tiny, highly educated elite oversees vast armies of semi-trained factory workers and rural laborers. China wants to move up the development curve by fostering a much more broadly educated public, one that more closely resembles the multifaceted labor forces of the United States and Europe.
It is too early to know how well the effort will pay off.
While potentially enhancing China's future as a global industrial power, an increasingly educated population poses daunting challenges for its leaders. With the Chinese economy downshifting in the past year to a slower growth rate, the country faces a glut of college graduates with high expectations and limited opportunities.
Much depends on whether China's authoritarian political system can create an educational system that encourages the world-class creativity and innovation that modern economies require, and that can help generate enough quality jobs.
China also faces formidable difficulties in dealing with widespread corruption, a sclerotic political system, severe environmental damage, inefficient state-owned monopolies and other problems. But if these issues can be surmounted, a better educated labor force could help China become an ever more formidable rival to the West.
''It will move China forward in its economy, in scientific innovation and politically, but the new rising middle class will also put a lot of pressure on the government to change,'' said Wang Huiyao, the director general of the Center for China and Globalization, a Beijing-based research group.
To the extent that China succeeds, its educational leap forward could have profound implications in a globalized economy in which a growing share of goods and services is traded across international borders. Increasingly, college graduates all over the world compete for similar work, and the boom in higher education in China is starting to put pressure on employment opportunities for college graduates elsewhere -- including in the United States.
China's current five-year plan, through 2015, focuses on seven national development priorities, many of them new industries that are in fashion among young college graduates in the West. They are alternative energy, energy efficiency, environmental protection, biotechnology, advanced information technologies, high-end equipment manufacturing and so-called new energy vehicles, like hybrid and all-electric cars.
China's goal is to invest up to 10 trillion renminbi, or $1.6 trillion, to expand those industries to represent 8 percent of economic output by 2015, up from 3 percent in 2010.
At the same time, many big universities are focusing on existing technologies in industries where China poses a growing challenge to the West.
Beijing Geely University, a private institution founded in 2000 by Li Shufu, the chairman of the automaker Geely, already has 20,000 students studying a range of subjects, but with an emphasis on engineering and science, particularly auto engineering.
Mr. Li also endowed and built Sanya University, a liberal arts institution with 20,000 students where Ms. Zhang is a student, and opened a 5,000-student vocational community college in his hometown, Taizhou, to train skilled blue-collar workers.
China's growing supply of university graduates is a talent pool that global corporations are eager to tap.
''If they went to China for brawn, now they are going to China for brains,'' said Denis F. Simon, one of the best-known management consultants specializing in Chinese business.
Multinationals including I.B.M., General Electric, Intel and General Motors have each hired thousands of graduates from Chinese universities.
''We're starting to see leaders coming out of China, and the talent to lead,'' said Kevin Taylor, the president of Asia, Mideast and Africa operations at BT, formerly British Telecom.
Sheer numbers make the educational push by China, a nation of more than 1.3 billion people, potentially breathtaking. In the last decade, China doubled the number of colleges and universities, to 2,409.
As recently as 1996, only one in six Chinese 17-year-olds graduated from high school. That was the same proportion as in the United States in 1919. Now, three in five young Chinese graduate from high school, matching the United States in the mid-1950s.
China is on track to match within seven years the United States' current high school graduation rate for 18-year-olds of 75 percent -- although a higher proportion of Americans than Chinese later go back and finish high school.
By quadrupling its output of college graduates in the past decade, China now produces eight million graduates a year from universities and community colleges. That is already far ahead of the United States in number -- but not as a percentage. With only about one-fourth the number of China's citizens, the United States each year produces three million college and junior college graduates.
By the end of the decade, China expects to have nearly 195 million community college and university graduates -- compared with no more than 120 million in the United States then.
Volume is not the same as quality, of course. And some experts in China contend that the growth of classroom slots in higher education has outstripped the supply of qualified professors and instructors.
Xu Qingshan, the director of the Institute for Higher Education Research at Wuhan University, said that many university administrators seek the fastest possible growth in enrollments to maximize the size and revenue of their institutions, even though this may overstretch a limited number of talented professors.
China's president, Hu Jintao, in a speech in 2011 acknowledged shortfalls in the country's higher education system. ''While people receive a good education,'' he said, ''there are significant gaps compared with the advanced international level.''
Giles Chance, a longtime consultant in China who is now a visiting professor at Peking University, said that many of the tens of millions of new Chinese college graduates might find jobs at manufacturers but did not have the skills to compete in big swaths of the American economy -- particularly in services like health care, sales or consumer banking.
''A Chinese graduate from a second-tier university is not the equal of an American in language skills and cultural familiarity,'' he said.
The overarching question for China's colleges is whether they can cultivate innovation on a wide scale -- vying with America's best and brightest in multimedia hardware and software applications, or outdesigning and outengineering Germans in making muscular cars and automated factory equipment.
Indeed, Japan's experience shows that having more graduates does not guarantee entrepreneurial creativity.
In the decades after World War II, Japan mounted an educational effort similar to the one in China now. Japan's version led to a huge middle class and helped turn that nation into one of the world's largest economies. But partly because of a culture where fitting in is often more prized than standing out, Japan hit an economic plateau.
If China's universities cannot help solve the innovation riddle, the country may also have a hard time moving forward once its advantages of low-cost labor and cheap capital disappear, which economists say could happen within 10 to 15 years, and possibly much sooner.
Still, with 10 times Japan's population, China has the capability to compete with white-collar Americans and Europeans in a wide range of industries.
So Far, So Fast
To see how far China has come, so fast, look no farther than Ms. Zhang's own family. For her parents, education was barely an option.
Her father, the eighth of 10 children, was born to rice farmers in 1968 in a small village near Nanchang in one of China's poorest provinces, Jiangxi, halfway between Shanghai and Hong Kong. The family survived on one meager meal a day. Most of the children, including Ms. Zhang's father, did not attend school. At age 12, he followed his brother to a construction job in neighboring Fujian Province.
Ms. Zhang's mother was born two years after her father and was the daughter of the local Communist Party official who ran the village until 1990. She belatedly started school at age 7, in 1977, a year after the end of the Cultural Revolution, Mao's longest anti-intellectual purge. She dropped out after primary school, six years later, following a pattern then common in rural areas.
Ms. Zhang's father moved back to the village and married Ms. Zhang's mother over her parents' initial objections. He started a construction business with his brothers. The enterprise has done moderately well, enabling Ms. Zhang's father to buy, six years ago, the family's first car, a black Ford Focus that was already nine years old.
Rather than pursuing material comforts, the Zhangs, like hundreds of millions of families across China, have focused their money and effort on getting their children through high school and into universities.
One of Ms. Zhang's two younger brothers -- China's one-child policy is less rigorously enforced in rural areas -- is a sophomore studying international trade at Tongji University, a 105-year-old institution in Shanghai considered among the top two dozen or so in China. The other brother is now a freshman at highly regarded Nanchang University, having skipped a grade in middle school and another in high school.
When Ms. Zhang did not get into a top Chinese university despite attending a magnet high school, she recalled, ''my parents were very disappointed.''
Nor did she initially win a government scholarship. Her parents had to pay the full annual tuition of $2,000 at Sanya University, which as a private institution does not receive subsidies as generous as those given to public universities. Room and board are an additional $1,800 a year.
At top public institutions, annual tuition is a little less than $1,000 -- equal to about two months' wages for a skilled factory worker.
But as a reward for top grades, Ms. Zhang has won government scholarships for her sophomore and junior years at Sanya that cover three-quarters of the tuition.
Even as students like Ms. Zhang flock to Chinese universities, rising numbers of China's students attend foreign universities. Chinese undergraduate or graduate students at American universities reached a record high of 194,000 in the last academic year, according to the Institute of International Education in New York. That was almost triple the 67,000 five years earlier.
In part, this reflects the prestige of studying abroad, and that more Chinese families can afford the cost and are looking for ways to get their money and their children out of the country as a way to hedge their risk against internal political or economic turbulence. But it is also because a Western college education is better, and Western universities do not require the same high marks as Chinese ones do on China's famously difficult college entrance exams.
Chinese undergraduates who study in the West tend to be from wealthy families and show a wide range of academic ability, from mediocre to outstanding. But Chinese graduate students studying abroad typically have bachelor's degrees from top-tier universities either at home or in the West, and they almost always excel academically while overseas, said Doug Guthrie, a professor of Chinese business strategies who is the dean of George Washington University's School of Business.
Graduate students from China often have government scholarships to study abroad. The scholarships are a tacit acknowledgment by Beijing that a superior graduate education, particularly in fields like engineering and science, often is still to be found in the West.
Quantity, but Quality?
Walk around some of the hundreds of newly built Chinese universities these days and at first glance they look a lot like big state universities in America.
Just as China has built national grids of high-speed rail lines and superhighways in the past decade, it has built campuses full of modern classroom buildings, dormitories, libraries and administration buildings.
Peek inside the classrooms and virtually every seat is filled.
One of the biggest questions about the quality of Chinese universities involves who is teaching, and what and how. Chinese administrators struggle to find seasoned professors. Because few Chinese went to college until the last decade, much less to graduate school, most universities find themselves in hiring competitions -- with one another and with companies all over China that are struggling to find middle managers and executives.
''The biggest problem is finding good professors, especially good professors of around 40 years old with good experience -- they are the most sought-after teachers in China,'' said Nathan Jiang, the vice president of Geely University.
All but the best universities must find teachers among recent graduates, who may lack experience, or retirees, whose knowledge may be out of date.
China was producing fewer than 10,000 doctoral degrees a year until 1999, according to education ministry data. So for every person in China who received a doctorate during the 1990s and might now be in the prime of a teaching career, there are 3,000 undergraduates.
Especially in fields like engineering, the most popular undergraduate major by far in China, corporations can easily outbid universities. The basic pay of a professor is typically under $300 a month -- less than an assembly line worker makes.
Professors can earn considerably more by winning promotion to university administration positions, but these posts are often based on activism within the Communist Party instead of research excellence. Those who stay as professors frequently line up multiple grants to conduct several research projects simultaneously, which almost inevitably places quantity of research ahead of quality.
Or, dissatisfied with their pay, many senior professors start companies on the side, said Weng Cuifen, a National University of Singapore researcher who studies Chinese university education. ''They spend their time on second jobs, making money.''
Teaching methods in China also tend to be outdated by Western standards, and seem ill suited to producing either the entrepreneurs or the socially adept managers that multinationals covet.
A few newer colleges and universities have begun experimenting with seminars and workshops. But the prevailing pattern remains for professors to lecture in large halls, with students expected to be quiet and listen.
''Some younger teachers like to communicate with the students, but older teachers just stand in front of the students and speak alone,'' said Long Luting, a 2010 chemical engineering graduate of Tianjin University, one of China's best schools. She just finished a two-year trainee program and has moved into management at the Beijing offices of BASF, a German chemicals multinational.
As in Japan, students in China tend to do their most strenuous studying in high school. In college, they can slow down, whether to pursue more diverse interests -- or, like many students around the world, to spend a lot of time at parties.
Growing up as the only child of a municipal civil servant in Zigong, a medium-size city in western Sichuan Province, Ms. Long said that she studied practically every waking hour in high school and had little chance to socialize.
''In high school, it's a tragedy,'' she said, recalling her father's exhortations to succeed. ''Most of my classmates were also only children; we have a lot of pressure from our parents.''
But when she reached Tianjin University, Ms. Long said, she could take her classes and do all her homework during the mornings. She spent her afternoons at an English language club, honing her considerable ability to banter in the language despite never having traveled overseas.
Some Chinese universities offer as many as 1,000 clubs. They cover everything from languages to karaoke.
Many academics inside and outside China question whether the growing number of clubs is enough to foster creativity because the Chinese system still requires students to specialize from an early age. Most students choose their major before going to a university, and then enter highly focused academic programs in which they have only a handful of electives.
Chinese employers tend to look for specialized students who can fill specific roles immediately. They have shown less interest in the long-term training of other types of students, like humanities majors.
Foreign-owned corporations in China often use Chinese graduates differently, putting more emphasis on long-term career development through a variety of assignments to build a trainee's ability to understand complex issues, work in teams and lead.
Ms. Long, for example, spent her first two years as a trainee at BASF rotating through marketing, the performance management division and the business operations department, before settling in business operations, tracking sales and other reports from BASF units around China.
Graduates like Ms. Long from the country's top 20 universities are among the best in the world, but multinationals are more able to make use of them than hierarchical Chinese companies, said Joerg Wuttke, BASF's chief representative in China.
''Where does the seed land -- on a rock or on fertile ground?'' he said. ''We benefit by being able to hire all these talented graduates.''
Ready to Take On America
China already has the world's largest auto industry, producing twice as many cars and trucks last year as the United States or Japan. But it exports virtually none of those cars to the West -- yet.
Chinese automakers and policy makers have been preparing for years to follow the example of Japan and South Korea. But reaching that goal will require at least four big advances: designing more attractive cars and engines, improving reliability, developing local technologies that do not depend on patents leased from foreign automakers, and understanding overseas buyers and how to market to them.
Chinese officials say that a big reason they are pouring billions of dollars into the development of electric and hybrid cars is that they hope to leapfrog the West and develop indigenous technologies before other countries do.
Progress on energy-saving and less polluting technologies could give Chinese companies an advantage, for example, when the New York City Taxi and Limousine Commission decides in 2021 what model or models the city's fleets will be required to buy next. The city has been asking for improved fuel efficiency in taxis.
But while China's lavish investments on next-generation automotive technologies have drawn international attention, the country is also trying to develop the soft side of international business: marketers, advertising specialists and others who can intuit what overseas customers really want.
Mr. Li, the Geely chairman, grew up as a son of peasant farmers in east-central China. But he has become one of his country's wealthiest auto tycoons by building inexpensive cars that have just enough pizazz to be appealing. His holding company, Geely Group, bought Volvo Cars of Sweden from Ford in 2010, and he now wants to take on the West.
Geely is starting elaborate market research in Britain to determine which of its models will be popular there. That is the leading edge of what is likely to be a full-fledged assault by Chinese automakers on Western markets by 2015.
Mr. Li is also far along on another goal, training his own managers. His companies hire the best graduates from the three campuses he has founded.
Sanya University is ramping up international business education. Students there, like Ms. Zhang, try to learn as much as possible about foreign markets: their languages, cultural touchstones and more.
She is majoring in English, but her favorite courses have been in marketing. She works in her spare time as a guide for international conferences and sporting events here, to gain more exposure to native English speakers. She reads actively about automotive trends. And she brims with confidence about her ability to persuade New York City to buy Geely cars for taxis.
''The status of China is growing all the time; we've got a really important role in international markets,'' she said in fluent English. ''We need the capability to communicate with foreigners.''
The Education Revolution: Articles in this series are examining the promises and challenges that China faces as it tries to educate its citizens more broadly.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Zhang Xiaoping at Sanya University. Eight million Chinese graduate from college every year. (A1)
Between classes at Sanya University. China has doubled its number of universities over the past 10 years and wants to produce 195 million college graduates by 2020. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SIM CHI YIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Li Shufu, chairman of the car company Geely. In 2000, he founded Beijing Geely University, which already has thousands of students. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RYAN PYLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B12)
A leafy path on the Sanya University campus and, right, the library. About three of every five Chinese graduate from high school, about the rate in the United States in the mid-1950s. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SIM CHI YIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B13) CHARTS: In Education, China Takes the Lead: China has invested heavily in a huge expansion of higher education, although questions persist about the quality of Chinese university educations and the extent to which China's manufacturing-intensive economy can create jobs for so many graduates. (Sources: UNESCO (degrees, enrollment)
 China finance ministry, via CEIC Data (spending)) (B12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR FORCE (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); STUDENT HOUSING (78%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (78%); ARMIES (72%); WAR & CONFLICT (70%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (70%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (69%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (69%); WORLD WAR II (69%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (69%); FACTORY WORKERS (67%); LEGAL MONOPOLIZATION (65%); AUTOMAKERS (54%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (50%); VETERANS (50%); CORRUPTION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS EDUCATIONAL SCIENTIFIC & CULTURAL ORGANIZATION (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%) SOUTH CHINA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2013



549 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 877 words

HEADLINE: I Went After Guns. Obama Can, Too.

BYLINE: By JOHN HOWARD. 
John Howard was prime minister of Australia from 1996 to 2007.

 BODY:
SYDNEY, Australia
IT is for Americans and their elected representatives to determine the right response to President Obama's proposals on gun control. I wouldn't presume to lecture Americans on the subject. I can, however, describe what I, as prime minister of Australia, did to curb gun violence following a horrific massacre 17 years ago in the hope that it will contribute constructively to the debate in the United States.
I was elected prime minister in early 1996, leading a center-right coalition. Virtually every nonurban electoral district in the country -- where gun ownership was higher than elsewhere -- sent a member of my coalition to Parliament. 
Six weeks later, on April 28, 1996, Martin Bryant, a psychologically disturbed man, used a semiautomatic Armalite rifle and a semiautomatic SKS assault weapon to kill 35 people in a murderous rampage in Port Arthur, Tasmania.
After this wanton slaughter, I knew that I had to use the authority of my office to curb the possession and use of the type of weapons that killed 35 innocent people. I also knew it wouldn't be easy.
Our challenges were different from America's. Australia is an even more intensely urban society, with close to 60 percent of our people living in large cities. Our gun lobby isn't as powerful or well-financed as the National Rifle Association in the United States. Australia, correctly in my view, does not have a Bill of Rights, so our legislatures have more say than America's over many issues of individual rights, and our courts have less control. Also, we have no constitutional right to bear arms. (After all, the British granted us nationhood peacefully; the United States had to fight for it.)
Because Australia is a federation of states, the national government has no control over gun ownership, sale or use, beyond controlling imports. Given our decentralized system of government, I could reduce the number of dangerous firearms only by persuading the states to enact uniform laws totally prohibiting the ownership, possession and sale of all automatic and semiautomatic weapons while the national government banned the importation of such weapons.
To make this plan work, there had to be a federally financed gun buyback scheme. Ultimately, the cost of the buyback was met by a special one-off tax imposed on all Australians. This required new legislation and was widely accepted across the political spectrum. Almost 700,000 guns were bought back and destroyed -- the equivalent of 40 million guns in the United States.
City dwellers supported our plan, but there was strong resistance by some in rural Australia. Many farmers resented being told to surrender weapons they had used safely all of their lives. Penalizing decent, law-abiding citizens because of the criminal behavior of others seemed unfair. Many of them had been lifelong supporters of my coalition and felt bewildered and betrayed by these new laws. I understood their misgivings. Yet I felt there was no alternative.
The fundamental problem was the ready availability of high-powered weapons, which enabled people to convert their murderous impulses into mass killing. Certainly, shortcomings in treating mental illness and the harmful influence of violent video games and movies may have played a role. But nothing trumps easy access to a gun. It is easier to kill 10 people with a gun than with a knife.
Passing gun-control laws was a major challenge for my coalition partner: the rural, conservative National Party. All of its members held seats in nonurban areas. It was also very hard for the state government of Queensland, in Australia's northeast, where the National Party was dominant, and where the majority of the population was rural.
The leaders of the National Party, as well as the premier of Queensland, courageously supported my government's decision, despite the electoral pain it caused them. Within a year, a new populist and conservative political party, the One Nation Party, emerged and took many votes from our coalition in subsequent state and federal elections; one of its key policies was the reversal of the gun laws.
For a time, it seemed that certain states might refuse to enact the ban. But I made clear that my government was willing to hold a nationwide referendum to alter the Australian Constitution and give the federal government constitutional power over guns. Such a referendum would have been expensive and divisive, but it would have passed. And all state governments knew this.
In the end, we won the battle to change gun laws because there was majority support across Australia for banning certain weapons. And today, there is a wide consensus that our 1996 reforms not only reduced the gun-related homicide rate, but also the suicide rate. The Australian Institute of Criminology found that gun-related murders and suicides fell sharply after 1996. The American Law and Economics Review found that our gun buyback scheme cut firearm suicides by 74 percent. In the 18 years before the 1996 reforms, Australia suffered 13 gun massacres -- each with more than four victims -- causing a total of 102 deaths. There has not been a single massacre in that category since 1996.
Few Australians would deny that their country is safer today as a consequence of gun control.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FIREARMS (92%); GUN CONTROL (91%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); LOBBYING (78%); VIOLENT CRIME (78%); SHOOTINGS (78%); RIGHT TO BEAR ARMS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (73%); IMPORT CONTROLS (67%); CITY LIFE (66%); CITIES (66%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (62%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL RIFLE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (90%) NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (92%); TASMANIA, AUSTRALIA (79%) AUSTRALIA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2013



550 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2013
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; ON LOCATION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: A Spirited Game Of Musical Rooms

BYLINE: By MARC KRISTAL

 BODY:
AS anyone who has ever been disappointed by the New York housing market knows, the experience can be something like a bad date: Drawn in by the promise of a handsome exterior, you make your way hopefully down a featureless corridor and persevere up a sagging stair, only to find a ''duplex'' of spaces that are sloppily renovated, bizarrely configured and so small as to be almost uninhabitable.
Huxley Somerville had his expectations crushed in 1994, on the Upper West Side -- and yet the ugly duckling touched his heart. ''At the time, I was doing property inspections,'' said Mr. Somerville, who is now 52 and a managing director at Fitch Ratings, where he is head of the commercial mortgage-backed securities division. ''I saw a lot of condos, and there was little to differentiate one from another.'' 
To Mr. Somerville, a New Zealand native who once considered studying architecture, the 425-square-foot brownstone apartment, which had a kitchen and dining area packed into the vestibule, a small living room up a few steps, and a bedroom and bath on top, ''was more interesting than just the normal four walls.''
The drawbacks were evident -- in particular, the minuscule sleeping zone. ''It was very odd-shaped, so you couldn't get a proper bed in,'' he said. ''And the apartment was a walk-up, on the fourth and fifth floors.''
Still, there was a roof terrace, up another set of stairs off the bedroom. ''And there was nobody above me,'' he added.
Best of all were the high ceilings, which rose to more than 11 feet in the living room and just over 12 in the bedroom. ''What I lacked in square footage, I made up in cubic space,'' Mr. Somerville said, joking.
He bought the place for $95,000 and did his best to adapt to its idiosyncrasies. But when he married, in 1997, he and his wife, Rosanne, sublet it and decamped, first to Sydney, Australia, and then London.
By late 2009, the couple were making plans to move into an 18th-century farmhouse in Armonk, N.Y., with their daughter, Charlotte, now 13. And with the apartment's longtime tenant departing, Mr. Somerville's impulse was to sell it. But over the years, he had pondered how to make the apartment more livable, and he remained intrigued by the architectural possibilities of its nearly 25-foot vertical dimension.
''The place had a lot of potential,'' Mr. Somerville said. ''So I thought, why not renovate and use it as a pied--terre?''
He enlisted the help of Scott Specht and Louise Harpman, architects he had collaborated with in the past. Their firm, Specht Harpman, came up with a solution to create what Mr. Specht called ''four separate living platforms'' that would ''provide room for all the essentials and allow the apartment to feel open and light-filled,'' he said.
As Ms. Harpman explained, ''All the spaces flow into one another, and the idea of distinct rooms is dissolved.''
The architects moved the bathroom into the space where the kitchen was, migrating the latter into what had been the dining area. The new kitchen, as elegantly compact as a ship's cabin, has two burners and a convection oven, crisp glass backsplashes and a combination countertop-and-breakfast bar. (For formal meals, the coffee table can be elevated to dining height.)
In the living room, Mr. Specht and Ms. Harpman demolished the imposing, drywall-enclosed stairway on the eastern wall; the stair they substituted on the west side is lightly screened by vertical cables and resembles a Japanese tansu cabinet with multiple drawers and closets.
On the third level, the enlarged bedroom contains a queen-size cantilevered bed platform that projects out over the living room. By leaving the space above the bed open to the living area, the architects were able to preserve views and bring in daylight from the roof terrace.
Where once the bedroom space felt toxic, Ms. Somerville said, ''It's very soothing and comforting to be up there now.''
The renovation cost about $400,000, but a good part of that, Mr. Somerville said, was ''from being on the top floor: hauling things up, taking things down.''
With its alternating solids and voids, and artfully layered horizontal and vertical planes, the new space pleases even Ms. Somerville, who is the more traditional of the two. ''I like how clean and contemporary it feels,'' she said.
As her husband put it: ''Two people could live here full time quite comfortably -- almost.''

 CORRECTION:
The On Location column last Thursday, about a renovated brownstone apartment on the Upper West Side, misspelled the name of a form of Japanese cabinetry that storage units in the apartment resemble, and the error was repeated in two picture captions. It is tansu, not tonsu.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ABOUT-FACE: A 425-square-foot brownstone apartment with packed quarters and a tiny bedroom was transformed into an airy multilevel pied--terre. (D1)
1. The living room in Rosanne and Huxley Sommerville's Upper West Side pied--terre is furnished with a Gus* Modern Jane Bi-Sectional sofa (about $3,200 at Bobby Berk Home) and a Ligne Roset Pagnon & Pelhatre Crescendo table ($2,270). The baby alpaca throw is from Jonathan Adler ($295), and the Fillsta pendant lamp is from Ikea (about $30).
2. Despite its odd configuration, the Somervilles felt the 425-square-foot apartment had potential.
3. The staircase was moved to the other side of the living room. The new white lacquer stair, which is filled with storage, resembles a Japanese tonsu cabinet. The exposed brick throughout the apartment was painted a light-reflecting white.
4. The sunken kitchen is in what was once the dining area. The backsplash is painted with Benjamin Moore's Harbor Fog and covered in glass. The Julien UrbanEdge 3647 undermounted stainless steel sink is from AF Supply (about $700). The blue glass candleholders are from C. Wonder.
5. The bathroom is in the space formerly occupied by the kitchen. The walls are covered in Savoy Ricepaper and Crystal Glass Dew tiles from Ann Sacks.
6. The architect Scott Specht describes the apartment's principal design element, the queen-size bed platform that cantilevers out over the living room, as the ''object around which everything revolves.''
7. The bedroom remains open to the living area, to let in natural light from the windows facing the rooftop terrace.
 8. A second tonsu-style stair leads up to the terrace, on the apartment's fourth level. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TREVOR TONDRO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (76%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (69%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (69%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (54%)

COMPANY: FITCH RATINGS LTD (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (56%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (56%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (72%) UNITED STATES (90%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); AUSTRALIA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2013



551 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2013

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 841 words

HEADLINE: Is Something Toxic Buried in China's Financial System?

BYLINE: DIDI KIRSTEN TATLOW


HIGHLIGHT: As China's economy looks to strengthen again this year, some are concerned that exotic investment vehicles may pose hidden risks that could cause real problems in a few years. 

 BODY:
BEIJING - China's economy, whizzing ahead as the West struggles, seems quite remarkable. Perhaps a little too remarkable? Like many things too good to be true, is it all a little, well, too good to be true?
There will be the yea- and nay-sayers in any debate, and China's economy provokes plenty of both. So here's the "yea" side: the forces of urbanization and industrialization unleashed here in the 1970s after the death of Mao Zedong represent a historically singular phase that still has a way to go.
Here's the "nay" side: that's true, but we need to look at what's actually happening in China's financial system - is it safe? The trouble is, that system is mostly hidden from the outside world by a combination of language difficulty and the pitch-dark opacity that envelops much important business here. What's interesting about the "nay" argument is that increasingly, it's Chinese media and some prominent Chinese economists who are making it. 
And of course all of this matters to the world because China is by now deeply part of the global economy, so what happens here affects everyone.
A Hong Kong online magazine that follows the Chinese-language debate closely recently presented a clear argument: among key concerns about China's financial system are wealth management products offered by "trust companies," part of the shadow banking system that operates outside the official banking sector but is entwined with it.
As Week in China wrote recently: "Analysts worry that the trust firms (and their wealth management products) could provide an explosive element to China's financial landscape - much as toxic CDO's made the American system vulnerable."
CDO's, of course, are collateralized debt obligations, those complicated financial tools that spurred unhealthy debt and lending in the United States, causing shocks that spread around the world when the system collapsed in 2007. (This graphic makes them as simple as possible.)
For some time, Chinese-language media have been looking at the scene, with outlets such as the 21st Century Business Herald and the National Business Daily leading the way.
Spurring concern was a recent remark by Xiao Gang, the chairman of the Bank of China, that the way trust companies were run was, potentially, "fundamentally a Ponzi scheme." (The report is in English.)
It is difficult to measure the amount and value of wealth management products in circulation in China, wrote Mr. Xiao. (Mr. Xiao has been a proponent of Chinese banks vigorously investing overseas.)
"KPMG reports that trust companies will soon overtake insurance to become the second-largest sector in the Chinese financial industry. According to a report by CN Benefit, a Chinese wealth-management consultancy, sales of WMP's soared 43 percent in the first half of 2012 to 12.14 trillion yuan," or $1.9 trillion, he wrote.
Either way, there are now "more than 20,000" wealth management products in circulation, "a dramatic increase from only a few hundred just five years ago."
"Given that the number is so big and hard to manage, China's shadow banking sector has become a potential source of systemic financial risk over the next few years," wrote Mr. Xiao. "Particularly worrisome is the quality and transparency of WMP's. Many assets underlying the products are dependent on some empty real estate property or long-term infrastructure, and are sometimes even linked to high-risk projects, which may find it impossible to generate sufficient cash flow to meet repayment obligations."
The details are complex. But Week in China's conclusion is this: "WiC suspects - along with swathes of the Chinese press - that the trusts and their wealth management products have now intertwined to become the weakest link in the Chinese financial system. In recent weeks it's become clearer that these obscure institutions have waded into some wayward financial positions," with certain companies, such as Zhongrong Trust and Shangdong International Trust, particularly involved.
"The question now is whether this might lead to a broader crisis," the magazine wrote.
"On balance that may still be a way off," it wrote.
As long as the economy expands at close to 8 percent a year, "the trusts may be able to 'grow' out of their bad assets. But if one of the major players collapses, the dynamic may be much more explosive. As Charles Ponzi well understood, confidence is everything," it concluded.
Last week, several Chinese-language media reported the big four state banks had stopped selling trust company products to clients in Beijing and were scaling back in Guangzhou. "The official clampdown on the trusts might already have begun," wrote Week in China.
Read the story and see what you think: Is China veering towards a U.S.-style financial crisis, or will it take action and avoid one? Or is the concern overblown?

        
Chinese Students Paying U.S. Tuitions - How? And Why?
        
As Taiwan's Links With Mainland Grow, So Do Concerns
        
What Will Asia's Ascendance Bring?
        
Making Mandarin Mandatory - in U.S. Kindergartens
        
Language and China's 'Practical Creativity'

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING IN CHINA (91%); PONZI SCHEMES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (88%); COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); URBANIZATION (71%); TRENDS (71%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (71%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (70%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (69%); PYRAMID SCHEMES (60%) Mao Zedong; Ponzi, Charles; Chinese Language; Collateralized Debt Obligations; E-Commerce; Economic Conditions and Trends; Ponzi and Pyramid Schemes; 21st Century Business Herald; Bank of China; KPMG; Beijing (China); China; Guangzhou (China); View From Asia

COMPANY: BANK OF CHINA LTD (55%)

ORGANIZATION: 21st Century Business Herald; Bank of China; KPMG

TICKER: 3988 (HKSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%)

PERSON: Mao Zedong; Ponzi, Charles

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); GUANGZHOU, CHINA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (73%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); HONG KONG (79%); ASIA (73%) Beijing (China); China; Guangzhou (China)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2013



552 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2013

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 524 words

HEADLINE: IHT Quick Read: Jan. 17

BYLINE: THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE


HIGHLIGHT: Hostages taken in Algeria; German gold to return home; 787s grounded; Art Basel expands to Hong Kong; a determined archaeologist in Turkey; basketball goes to London. 

 BODY:
 NEWS The U.S. State Department said Americans were among hostages captured by Islamist extremists in Algeria on Wednesday, in what the attackers called retaliation for France's intervention in Mali. Adam Nossiter and Scott Sayare report. 
Nearly half of Germany's gold reserves are held in a vault at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York - billions of dollars worth of postwar geopolitical history squirreled away for safe keeping. Now the German central bank wants to make a big withdrawal - 300 tons in all. Jack Ewing reports from Frankfurt.
 The Federal Aviation Administration said Wednesday that it was grounding all Boeing 787s operated by United States carriers until it can determine what caused a new type of battery to catch fire on two planes in nine days. Other regulators around the globe followed suit. Christopher Drew, Jad Mouwad and Matthew L. Wald report.
China is hoping a huge investment in its universities can help leverage its population into 195 million college graduates by the end of the decade. Keith Bradsher reports from Sanya, China.
Fleur Pellerin, a deputy finance minister in France, is the point woman in President Franois Hollande's campaign to stimulate innovation. But in trying to put a French imprint on the digital economy, she has been drawn into a growing number of disputes with U.S. technology companies like Google, Twitter and Amazon. Eric Pfanner and David Jolly report from Paris.
The dark, double-breasted suits have long been a mainstay, but now Silvio Berlusconi, the former prime minister of Italy, has taken to wearing the occasional fedora. It lends him a rakish, retro air as he embarks on what many Italians, foreign investors and no doubt Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany hoped would never happen: another election campaign. Rachel Donadio reports from Rome.
A judge in Siberia on Wednesday rejected an appeal by a member of the punk protest band Pussy Riot to be released temporarily so that she could be with her 5-year-old son while he was growing up, telling the courtroom that having a small child "did not prevent her from committing a serious crime." Ellen Barry reports from Moscow.
 ARTS Art Basel, the Switzerland-based grandfather of international art fairs, has announced the lineup of its first Asian fair. Joyce Lau reports from Hong Kong.
An Italian professor is attempting to turn Karkemish, an ancient city site on the banks of the Euphrates, on Turkey's southern border and inside a restricted military zone, into a public archaeology park. The war in Syria is not the first conflict to disrupt his plans. Susanne Fowler reports from Karmemish, Turkey.
 FASHION Two fashion behemoths - LVMH Mot Hennessy Louis Vuitton and PPR - have turned to a new, young generation of designers. Suzy Menkes writes from Paris.
 SPORTS Pep Guardiola, the world's most sought-after soccer coach, will take over as head coach of the German powerhouse Bayern Munich at the conclusion of the season. Andrew Keh reports.
The Knicks will play the Pistons on Thursday before a capacity crowd in London, but that doesn't mean interest in basketball is intense. Steven Cotton writes from London.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HOSTAGE TAKING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ARCHAEOLOGY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (84%); ELECTIONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (73%); CIVIL AVIATION (71%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); BASKETBALL (71%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); JUDGES (68%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (66%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (65%); PRIME MINISTERS (64%); SOCCER (60%) IHT Rendezvous

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (72%); LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (60%); BOEING CO (57%); GOOGLE INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF STATE (91%)

TICKER: MC (PAR) (60%); LVMH (BIT) (60%); BOE (LSE) (57%); BAB (BRU) (57%); BA (NYSE) (57%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (72%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (72%); NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (60%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (60%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%)

PERSON: FRANCOIS HOLLANDE (65%); ANGELA MERKEL (57%); SILVIO BERLUSCONI (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (91%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) GERMANY (96%); ALGERIA (94%); TURKEY (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (93%); HONG KONG (93%); MALI (92%); CHINA (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); SYRIA (79%); ITALY (78%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2013



553 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1505 words

HEADLINE: The Legacy of Timothy Geithner

BYLINE: SIMON JOHNSON


HIGHLIGHT: Acting in the interest of the biggest banks, rather than the public, is a major part of the Treasury secretary's legacy, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Simon Johnson, former chief economist of the International Monetary Fund, is the Ronald A. Kurtz Professor of Entrepreneurship at the M.I.T. Sloan School of Management and co-author of "White House Burning: The Founding Fathers, Our National Debt, and Why It Matters to You." 
"Too big to fail is too big to continue. The megabanks have too much power in Washington and too much weight within the financial system." Who said this and when? 
The answer is Peggy Noonan, the prominent conservative commentator, writing recently in The Wall Street Journal. 
As Timothy F. Geithner prepares to leave the Treasury Department, most assessments focus on how his policies affected the economy. But his lasting legacy may be more political, contributing to the creation of an issue that can now be seized either by the right or the left. What should be done about the too-big-to-fail category of financial institutions?
Mr. Geithner came to Treasury in the middle of a severe financial crisis, a set of problems that he helped to create and then worked hard to prevent from worsening. As president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, starting in 2003, he watched over - and failed to defuse - the buildup of systemic risk. In fact, the New York Fed was relatively on the side of allowing large, seemingly sophisticated financial institutions to fund themselves with more debt relative to their thin levels of equity. 
This was a major conceptual mistake for which there still has not been a full accounting. In fact, blank denial continues to be the reaction from the relevant officials.

Mr. Geithner was also in the hot seat as more explicit government support for large financial institutions began in earnest in early 2008. The New York Fed brokered the sale of failing Bear Stearns to relatively healthy JPMorgan Chase, with the Fed providing substantial downside insurance to JPMorgan, against potential losses from assets they were acquiring.
Mr. Geithner also acquiesced to Jamie Dimon, the chief executive of JPMorgan Chase, allowing him to remain on the board of the New York Fed even as his bank was suddenly the recipient of very large additional subsidies (the insurance for his acquisition of Bear Stearns). This was the beginning of a deeper public realization that there had come to be too little distance between some parts of the Federal Reserve and the big banks. 
For some senior officials within the Federal Reserve System, the appearance of this potential conflict of interest was a cause for grave concern. Unfortunately, their concerns were ignored by the New York Fed and by leadership at the Board of Governors in Washington. The result has been damage to the Fed's reputation and an unnecessary slip toward undermining its political independence.
From March 2008, when Bear Stearns almost failed, through September 2008, very little was done to reduce the level of risk in the financial system. Again, Mr. Geithner must bear some responsibility.
In fall 2008, Mr. Geithner worked closely with Henry Paulson - Treasury secretary at the time - in an attempt to prevent the problems at Lehman Brothers from spreading. They were unsuccessful, in fairly spectacular fashion. The failure to anticipate the difficulties at American International Group must stand out as one of the biggest lapses ever of financial intelligence - again, a responsibility in part of the New York Fed (although surely other government officials share some blame).
As the problems escalated, Mr. Geithner came to stand for providing large amounts of unconditional support for very big banks - including Citigroup, where Robert Rubin, his mentor, had overseen the dubious hiring of a chief executive and more general mismanagement of risk. (While a director of Citigroup, Mr. Rubin denied responsibility for what went wrong.)
Rather than moving to change management, directors or anything about the big banks' practices, Mr. Geithner favored more financial assistance - both from the budget (through various versions of the Troubled Asset Relief Program), from the Federal Reserve (through various kinds of cheap loans) and from all other available means, including insurance for private debt issues provided by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. 
In official discussions, Mr. Geithner consistently stood for more support with weaker (or no) conditions. (See "Bull by the Horns," by Sheila Bair, former chairwoman of the F.D.I.C., for the most credible account of what happened.)
Mr. Geithner's appointment as Treasury secretary in January 2009 allowed him to continue to scale up these efforts.
In retrospect, what helped stem the panic was the joint statement of Feb. 23, 2009, issued by the Treasury, the F.D.I.C., the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Office of Thrift Supervision and the Federal Reserve, that included this statement of principle:
The U.S. government stands firmly behind the banking system during this period of financial strain to ensure it will be able to perform its key function of providing credit to households and businesses. The government will ensure that banks have the capital and liquidity they need to provide the credit necessary to restore economic growth. Moreover, we reiterate our determination to preserve the viability of systemically important financial institutions so that they are able to meet their commitments.
Mr. Geithner is often given credit for pushing bank stress tests in spring 2009 as a way to back up this statement, so officials could assess the extent to which particular financial institutions needed more loss-absorbing equity. But such stress tests are standard practice in any financial crisis. 
Much less standard is unconditional government support for troubled banks. Usually such banks are "cleaned up" as a condition of official assistance, either by being forced to make management changes or being forced to deal with their bad assets. (This was the approach favored by Ms. Bair when she was at the F.D.I.C.; her book lays out realistic alternatives that were on the table at critical moments. The idea that there was no alternative to Mr. Geithner's approach simply does not hold water.)
Any fiscally solvent government can stand behind its banks, but providing such guarantees is a recipe for repeated trouble. When Mr. Geithner was at Treasury in the 1990s and Mr. Rubin was Treasury secretary, the advice conveyed to troubled Asian countries - both directly and through American influence at the International Monetary Fund - was quite different: clean up the banks and rein in the powerful people who overborrowed and brought the corporate sector to the brink of financial meltdown.
In Mr. Geithner's view of the world, the 2010 Dodd-Frank financial reform legislation fixed the problem of too-big-to-fail banks. Outside of Treasury, it's hard to find informed observers who share this position. Both Daniel Tarullo (the lead Fed governor for financial regulation) and William Dudley (the current president of the New York Fed) said in recent speeches that the problems of distorted incentives associated with too big to fail were unfortunately alive and well.
Ironically, despite the fact that the Obama administration failed to rein in the megabanks and allowed them to become larger and arguably more powerful, this has not helped the Republicans in electoral terms.
As Ms. Noonan puts it bluntly: "People think the G.O.P. is for the bankers. The G.O.P. should upend this assumption."
This is a significant opportunity for anyone with clear thinking on the right - someone looking for a Teddy Roosevelt trustbusting or Nixon-goes-to-China moment. Again, Ms. Noonan gets it right: "In this case good policy is good politics. If you are a conservative you're supposed to be for just treatment of the individual over the demands of concentrated elites."
Recall that some grass roots conservatives are already there: House Republicans initially voted down TARP, the former presidential candidate Jon Huntsman's plan to end too big to fail received widespread applause from many Republicans and a number of influential commentators, including George Will and Ms. Noonan, have advocated ending too big to fail.
This would play well in the Republican presidential primaries - and even better in the general election. Watch PBS "Frontline" on Jan. 22 for an articulate presentation of why serious potential financial crimes were not prosecuted during the first Obama administration, and think about how to turn these facts into political messages.
A smart candidate could even mobilize plenty of financial-sector support in favor of breaking up or otherwise restricting the too-big-to-fail financial entities. The megabanks have very few genuine friends.
The lasting legacy of Timothy Geithner is to create the perfect electoral issue for Republicans. Will they seize it?

        
Why Does Wall Street Always Win?
        
An Institutional Flaw at the Heart of the Federal Reserve
        
No One Is Above the Law
        
The Problem With the F.D.I.C.'s Powers
        
Tunnel Vision, or Worse, From Banking Regulators

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (93%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); WRITERS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (76%); DEREGULATION (76%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (71%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (55%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (50%) Banking and Financial Institutions; Geithner, Timothy F; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Treasury Department; Today's Economist

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (86%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (83%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (57%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%) Treasury Department

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (86%); JPM (LSE) (86%); 8634 (TSE) (86%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (86%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (86%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (86%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (86%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (83%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (83%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (91%); JAMES DIMON (58%) Geithner, Timothy F

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2013



554 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2013

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 794 words

HEADLINE: Measuring the Success of Online Education

BYLINE: JOHN MARKOFF


HIGHLIGHT: Massive open online courses, or MOOCs, tend to have low completion rates, some with 10 percent or fewer students actually finishing. But because they are computerized, the courses offer an ideal medium for quantifying what works and what doesn't, and researchers are paying attention. 

 BODY:
One of the dirty secrets about MOOCs - massive open online courses - is that they are not very effective, at least if you measure effectiveness in terms of completion rates. 
If as few as 20 percent of students finishing an online course is considered a wild success and 10 percent and lower is standard, then it would appear that MOOCs are still more of a hobby than a viable alternative to traditional classroom education. 
Backers reason that the law of large numbers argues in favor of the online courses that have rapidly come to be seen as the vehicle for the Internet's next big disruption - colleges. If 100,000 students take a free online course and only 5,000 complete it, that is still a significant number. 
However, MOOCs are a moving target. Because they are computerized and networked they offer an ideal medium for quantifying what works and what doesn't. Earlier this week, whenSan Jose State University in California announced that it was contracting with MOOC-developer Udacity to create three pilot classes, they noted that the National Science Foundation had agreed to fund research to study the impact of the classes. 
Udacity, along with other MOOC designers, is moving rapidly away from the video lecture model of teaching toward an approach that is highly interactive and based on frequent quizzes and human "mentors" to provide active online support for students.
Moreover, there are early indications that the high interactivity and personalized feedback of online education might ultimately offer a learning structure that can't be matched by the traditional classroom. 
Duolingo, a free Web-based language learning system that grew out of a Carnegie Mellon University research project, is not an example of a traditional MOOC. However, the system, which now teaches German, French, Portuguese, Italian, Spanish and English, has roughly one million users and about 100,000 people spend time on the site daily. The firm's business is based on the possibility of using students to translate documents in a crowd-sourced fashion.
Seventy-five percent of the students are outside of United States, and Carnegie Mellon computer scientist Luis von Ahn notes that the foreign students are significantly more motivated and have a higher completion rate than their American counterparts.
The firm, which was founded by Dr. von Ahn and his students, commissioned a study of the effectiveness of the language training system that indicates that students may learn languages more quickly online. Conducted this fall by Roumen Vesselinov, a visiting assistant professor of economics at Queens College, City University of New York, and John Grego, chairman of the statistics department at the University of South Carolina, the study compared Duolingo to offline learners and found that on average a person with no knowledge of Spanish would need an average of 34 hours to cover the material for the equivalent of a first college semester. Although, the number of class hours for a college language class vary for a semester, Dr. von Ahn said that a course at Carnegie Mellon might require roughly 135 hours of course time.
The researchers reported: "The main factor for higher effectiveness was the motivation of the participants with people studying for travel gaining the most and people studying for personal interest gaining the least. Another factor for higher effectiveness was the initial level of knowledge of Spanish with beginners gaining the most and more advanced learners gaining the least."
The researchers have previously conducted studies of the effectiveness of other commercial learning programs such as Rosetta Stone, Auralog and Berlitz, and in this case they began with a sample of 556 students who were using the Duolingo service.
Dr. von Ahn acknowledged that the results are preliminary, and the researchers noted that it was not possible to generalize beyond the study of Spanish based on their sample. However, he noted that with other researchers he has started a longer, more general study. In the meantime, Duolingo has continued to grow at a MOOC pace - the service is picking up between 15,000 and 20,000 new users daily and Dr. von Ahn said that it might expand by as much as five times in the coming year.
The company is now working to add Chinese to its list of languages, with a particular focus on teaching English to Chinese speakers. "It turns out that there are 1.2 billion people in the world who want to learn a foreign language, and 400 million of them are in China," he said.

        
Daily Report: College of the Future May Be on the Internet
        
Daily Report: Online Learning, Through the Khan Academy
        
Want Success in Silicon Valley? Drop Out of School
        
Second Thoughts on Online Education
        
G.M. Tinkers With Augmented Reality System for Cars

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); ONLINE SCHOOLS (90%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); COMPUTER BASED TRAINING (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (74%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (73%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (73%); CROWDSOURCING (73%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (72%); WEB BASED TRAINING (68%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (68%) Education; moocs; online education; E-Learning; Carnegie Mellon University; Duolingo; Udacity; Policy

ORGANIZATION: SAN JOSE STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (55%) Carnegie Mellon University; Duolingo; Udacity

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (75%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2013



555 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 461 words

HEADLINE: Few Silver Linings in Gloomy Bank Reports

BYLINE: ANTONY CURRIE and AGNES T. CRANE


HIGHLIGHT: Bank of America and Citigroup are giving investors nothing but reasons to fret, the authors write. 

 BODY:
Bank of America and Citigroup are giving investors nothing but reasons to fret.
The stocks of the two American banks were among the best performers last year. Bank of America's doubled, while Citigroup's jumped by 50 percent. But their fourth-quarter earnings, which both announced on Thursday, offer little to support further optimism. 
Both of them had a messy final three months of the year, full of litigation costs and other charges. Bank of America's chief executive, Brian Moynihan, had to book $5 billion of charges stemming from an attempt by his predecessor, Ken Lewis, to build the nation's largest mortgage lender and servicer with purchases like the disastrous Countrywide Financial. It also took a $700 million accounting hit because improving credit made its own liabilities go up in value.
There were some offsets, like a $2.4 billion tax break. Stripping out all the one-offs bumps Bank of America's fourth-quarter net income to around $2.2 billion, about triple the reported figure. But even that equates to a dismal 4 percent annualized return on equity.
Citigroup's new boss, Michael L. Corbat, has done better. The bank set aside $1.3 billion for mortgage litigation and $1 billion to help pay for the restructuring Mr. Corbat announced last month. Back those out, as well as a $485 million accounting loss as Citigroup's creditworthiness improved, and the bank earned $3 billion --- also almost triple the official showing.
Yet even on that basis, Citigroup's annualized return on equity was only 6.4 percent, way below the rule of thumb of 10 percent needed to beat the cost of capital. JPMorgan Chase has been running above that level for a while, and Goldman Sachs nudged its full-year 2012 return to 10.7 percent largely by setting much less aside for pay in the last quarter.
With their rivals more solid, Mr. Moynihan and Mr. Corbat are under even more pressure to perform. Their costs are still way too high. Bank of America's ratio of expenses to revenue, for example, was 86 percent last year, more than 25 percentage points higher than the average for institutions with government-insured deposits, according to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. U.S. Bancorp, meanwhile, is at 51 percent.
There are brighter spots. Bank of America's deposits increased 4 percent to $1.1 trillion. When interest rates finally move higher, lending them out should increase margins. But that - and the end of both banks' post-crisis hangover - could be a long way off.
 Antony Currie is an associate editor and Agnes T. Crane is a columnist for Reuters Breakingviews. For more independent commentary and analysis, visit breakingviews.com. 

        
Facing Legal Costs, Citigroup Disappoints in 4th Quarter
        
Profit Drops 63% at Bank of America After Mortgage Settlements

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); WRITERS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (79%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (79%); MORTGAGE BANKING (79%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (77%); INCOME TAX (77%); LITIGATION (76%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); MORTGAGE SERVICING (69%); EXECUTIVES (56%) Bank of America Corporation; Banking and Financial Institutions; Citigroup Inc; Company Reports; Bank of America Corporation|BAC|NYSE; Citigroup Inc|C|NYSE; Breakingviews; Wall Street Earnings

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); CITIGROUP INC (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); U S BANCORP (63%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (63%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Bank of America Corporation; Citigroup Inc

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%); C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); USB (NYSE) (63%); GS (NYSE) (58%) Bank of America Corporation; BAC; NYSE; Bank of America Corporation; BAC; NYSE; Citigroup Inc; C; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (63%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (63%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: BRIAN MOYNIHAN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2013



556 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2013

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 556 words

HEADLINE: Young People Paying Off Card Debt More Slowly

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS


HIGHLIGHT: Younger Americans are taking on debt at a higher rate, and paying it off more slowly, than previous generations, a study finds. 

 BODY:
Younger Americans not only borrow heavily on their credit cards, but they repay the debt at slower rates than previous generations, new research from Ohio State University finds.
The findings suggest this bleak situation: the typical young credit card holder who keeps a balance on the card will die in debt to credit card companies, said Lucia Dunn, an economics professor at Ohio State who was a co-author of the study with Sarah Jiang, manager of credit and business strategy at Capital One Financial in McLean, Va. 
If such behavior persists, Professor Dunn said, the country may eventually be faced with a financial crisis among elderly people who can't pay off their credit cards. "They're paying it back at much slower rate than previous generations," she said in a telephone interview.
The study, published in the January issue of the journal Economic Inquiry, is based on two large, long-term monthly surveys conducted by Ohio State University, including one that includes not only borrowing data but also payoff data, which hasn't previously been available to most researchers. The data allowed the researchers to more precisely estimate when Americans will be able to pay off their credit card debts.
The researchers combined the data to obtain information for 13 years, from 1997 to 2009. They examined respondents from 18 to 85 years of age, and had a final sample size of 32,542 people.
The findings suggest that someone born from 1980 to 1984 has credit card debt substantially higher than debt held by the previous two generations: on average, about $5,000 more than his or her parents at the same stage of life, and about $8,000 more than his or her grandparents.
Professor Dunn said there were several reasons why younger generations have higher credit card debt. Credit is more readily available, for one thing, and attitudes toward debt have changed. "It's a lot more socially acceptable to have debt and go into bankruptcy," she said.
The results also suggest that younger people are paying off their debt more slowly. The study estimates that the younger borrowers' payoff rate is 24 percentage points lower than their parents' and about 77 percentage points lower than their grandparents' rate.
Younger people now also have much higher levels of student loan debt than previous generations, she noted, which makes it harder to pay off card debt.
But the study also offered some hope, in that it found that increasing the minimum required monthly payment on credit cards spurs borrowers to not only meet the minimum, but to pay off substantially more, possibly eliminating their debt years earlier.
Professor Dunn said higher minimum payments may provide a sort of "jolt" to card holders, spurring them to pay off their debt. Legislative action, like the 2005 Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act, has led to an increase in minimum payments for cardholders But Professor Dunn said the findings suggest regulators should press card companies further on minimum payments.
Would higher minimum payments motivate you to pay off your credit card debt? Or would they force you into default?

        
More Middle-Income Borrowers Seek Debt Help
        
New Credit Card Fees Possible but Unlikely
        
Late Credit Card Payments Low and Expected to Stay There
        
Nordstrom and GE Capital Block Mint.com Users
        
Citi Offers Price Protection Service

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RESEARCH REPORTS (93%); CREDIT CARDS (90%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (90%); PERSONAL DEBT (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); STATISTICS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); STUDENT LOANS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (73%); WRITERS (71%); COMPANY STRATEGY (71%); SENIOR CITIZENS (69%); CONSUMER LAW (50%) Credit and Debt; Credit Cards; Ohio State University; Personal Bankruptcies

COMPANY: CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORP (84%)

ORGANIZATION: OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY (94%) Ohio State University

TICKER: COF (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2013



557 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Diner's Journal)

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2013

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 427 words

HEADLINE: What We're Reading

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: A collection of links from the reporters and editors of the Dining section. 

 BODY:
The Boston Globe: How to cook in your fireplace: roast peppers or rest a heavy pot of beans in the embers. -- Julia Moskin
: Repurposing road kill is nothing new. But an entire bear? And then dry-aging it? - Patrick Farrell 
Tasting Table: Is New Jersey the true center of great ramen in America? -- Jeff Gordinier 
The New York Post: After an Australian tourist posts a photo of an 11-inch sandwich he got at a Subway on the company's Facebook page, and it goes viral, The Post shops around New York and finds several Subway locations serving sandwiches under their footlong advertised length. -- Maria Newman
Business Week: The decline in the allure of restaurant coupons and discounted wine-tasting classes has helped squeeze $13 billion from Groupon's market value in 14 months and put the tenure of its chief executive, Andrew Mason, in jeopardy. - Glenn Collins
The Jewish Daily Forward: The Philadelphia chef Michael Solomonov -- a master of doughnuts, barbecue and hummus -- just opened the most ambitious kosher restaurant in the country, Citron and Rose. -- Julia Moskin
Travel + Leisure: Has London become the world's gastronomic utopia? Peter Jon Lindberg explores. -- Jeff Gordinier 
: The topic is tacos, and the place is Los Angeles, so it's little wonder that the list of top tacos runs beyond 5 or 10, to 25. And first place goes to a world-class chef, Jos Andrs. -- Patrick Farrell
: These days, for sought-after chefs in Chicago, it's all about bottling (and marketing) the special sauce. -- Jeff Gordinier 
The Village Voice: Their prayers have been answered: Dunkin' Donuts is finally going to California. But not until 2015. -- Maria Newman
New York magazine: You're feeling under the weather. Here are 30 things to eat or drink if you are stricken by the flu. -- Maria Newman
: The deliciousness of sweet, gamey, low-fat horsemeat! Oops - it's not politically correct, and a red flag to animal-rights advocates. But having Dobbin for dinner is gaining ground with Japanese sushi chefs, Gordon Ramsay and increasing numbers of haute chefs. - Glenn Collins
Culture: Can a cheese be cinematic? Roquefort has a cool back story. -- Jeff Gordinier 
The Wall Street Journal: Galette des Rois, that French-bakery Epiphany cake, is popping from ovens all around town. Puff pastry. Egg wash. Almond filling. And you're King for a Day if you find the baked-in lucky charm! - Glenn Collins
CNN: A food shortage in Venezuela grows more dire as inflation worsens, while President Hugo Chvez remains in Cuba, being treated for cancer. Via Politic365. -- Maria Newman

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); BAKED GOODS (87%); DAILY DEAL WEBSITES (75%); INFLUENZA (70%); EXECUTIVES (68%); BAKERIES (67%); HORSE MEAT (50%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (50%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (50%)

COMPANY: DUNKIN' BRANDS GROUP INC (65%); FACEBOOK INC (57%); GROUPON INC (56%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (51%)

TICKER: DNKN (NASDAQ) (65%); FB (NASDAQ) (57%); GRPN (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (65%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (65%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS541860 DIRECT MAIL ADVERTISING (56%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (76%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); CUBA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2013



558 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2013

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 328 words

HEADLINE: Wheelies: The Booming Business Edition

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: General Motors is planning to spend about $1.5 billion to expand its operations in North America this year. 

 BODY:
In which we bring you motoring news from around the Web:
 General Motors is planning to spend about $1.5 billion to expand its operations in North America this year, Mark Reuss, president of G.M. North America, said Wednesday. Speaking at the Automotive News World Congress in Detroit, Mr. Reuss did not offer details on where the money will be spent or on how many jobs will be created. He said those details will be made public soon. Mr. Reuss said, "We will see the day when we have an affordable electric car that offers 300 miles of range with all the comfort and utility of a conventional vehicle." (The Detroit Free Press) 
 When you think Saab, you think Sweden, right? Well, that is about to change. Production of the Saab 9-3 will be restarted this year in Qindao, China, the British Web site Autocar reported Thursday. National Electric Vehicles Sweden, the company that owns the Saab brand, plans to add an electric version of the car in 2014. (Autocar)
 The resurgence in the auto industry in the United States could strain the capacity of auto parts suppliers, Bloomberg News says. Sixty-one new or redesigned models will be introduced in the United States this year, which is 50 percent more than any year since 2006. "As the demand continues to heat up, we are potentially looking at some areas of the market that could be running short in terms of supply" and delay the introduction of new models, Jeff Schuster, senior vice president of forecasting at LMC, told Bloomberg. "That really is where the risk is. The buyer who wants to come in, they want a vehicle now." Many auto parts suppliers cut jobs and closed factories in the recession, and some may be hesitant to immediately expand capacity, Mr. Schuster said. (Bloomberg News)

        
After Saab Bankruptcy, Boston-Power Finds a Foothold in China
        
Wheelies: The General Store Edition
        
Wheelies: The Supercar Edition
        
Wheelies: The $3 Billion Blockage Edition
        
For Bankrupt Saab, a Wrenching Farewell to Its Heritage

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (90%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (89%); NEW CAR MODELS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); NEW PRODUCTS (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (75%); HYBRID VEHICLES (72%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); JOB CREATION (71%); PLANT CLOSINGS (63%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (62%); BRANDING (53%) G.M.; General Motors; Mark Reuss; NEVS; saab; Automobiles; Electric and Hybrid Vehicles; Automotive News; Saab Automobile AB; General Motors|GM|NYSE; Industry News

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); BLOOMBERG LP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Automotive News; General Motors; Saab Automobile AB

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%) General Motors; GM; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%) NORTH AMERICA (95%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2013



559 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(At War)

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2013

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 957 words

HEADLINE: The Road to Bamian

BYLINE: ALI M. LATIFI


HIGHLIGHT: Ali M. Latifi, an online producer for Al Jazeera English, recounts his journey to Bamian, Afghanistan, from Kabul. 

 BODY:
For the people of Bamian, the roads, paved for the first time in the Afghan province's history, have brought both opportunity and peril.
Merchants and shoppers in the markets of the provincial capital, also named Bamian, consider the improved roads between Kabul and Bamian a sign of progress in what has been called Afghanistan's safest province but also one of its most isolated, hidden behind the Hindu Kush.
Yet for those who make the daily journey from the Afghan capital to the province and from the city of Bamian to the six lakes of Band-e-Amir, Afghanistan's first national park, the improved roads can also present unique challenges. 
Five years ago, Mir Afghan moved to Bamian from Baghlan, the adjacent province to the northeast, in search of economic opportunity. He had moved to help his uncle run a pharmacy in the provincial capital. But the pharmacy alone is not enough to sustain them and their family in Baghlan. So both uncle and nephew still have to work as drivers several times a week.
"Bamian is much more developed" than Baghlan, Mir Afghan said while perched atop a bench overlooking the half-frozen waters of Band-e-Amir. "Its roads are better. The streets are cleaner." 
But even in the "safest" province, there are dangers.
In recent months there have been reports of Taliban elements' erecting checkpoints after darkness descends over the valley. In the last year, the group has made inroads into the province's northeast corner, near the border with Parwan Province. Last summer, 14 coalition and Afghan service members were killed in Bamian, mostly by roadside bombs. After the deaths in August of five members of New Zealand's provincial reconstruction team, Prime Minister John Key announced the early withdrawal of his nation's 140 remaining troops in Bamian.
Like other drivers, Mir Afghan knows he puts himself in "God's hands" with each journey. In what remains one of the nation's poorest regions, the fare is a valuable source of income for the drivers.
Though I had followed the reports of increasing violence in the province, I also knew I wanted to see the site of the ancient cliff-side Buddhas, the blue waters of Band-e-Amir and the red stone of the citadel city of Zohak.
So in December, three friends and I made the nearly eight-hour drive to the city of Bamian from Kabul in a car driven by Mir Afghan's uncle. Once we made that trip, we assumed the worst was behind us.
But we had perhaps misjudged the potential dangers of the road ahead. 
Though many of Bamian's roads were paved in the last two years, there are still stretches of road that are khameh, rock and gravel. In the cold winter, those roads are covered in snow.
We hired Mir Afghan to drive us from the city of Bamian to the lake region, an approximately two-hour trip. He headed up a series of inclines on his way to Band-e-Amir when his white Toyota Corolla got stuck fighting against rock and gravel buried underneath the snow. 
As Mir Afghan was contemplating a plan of action, my friends got out and headed downhill toward Band-e-Amir on foot.
They had been out of sight for nearly half an hour when Mir Afghan told me, "Even if I can get down to meet them, the car will never be able to make it back up." With spotty cellphone reception and few cars on the winding road, Mir Afghan knew all we could do was wait. And the waiting made him nervous. 
Like many in Bamian, he points to nature and neighboring provinces as the biggest threats. In the dark, we were all susceptible to bandits and wolves. The wolves stalk the province in search of sheep fields. "They even make it to the city," he said. "The bandits are podaris," heroin addicts. "They won't show you any mercy, they will take whatever they can." 
As we waited, a local family slowly trudged up the mountains. 
Mir Afghan described the bandits this way: "They're not from here. The people of this area are good people." The bandits, he asserted, came from other mountainous areas. The podaris, he says, get their drugs from Parwan or Kabul.
"They're desperate too," he said. "They're stuck with few prospects, so they search for any escape."
And then there were the Taliban. 
Tourists in Bamian are still a relatively rare breed: last year, only 2,500 Afghans visited the province. So my friends and I - two of us Afghan-Americans and two Afghan citizens - presented a potential danger to Mir Afghan. Local informants often alert the Taliban and other armed groups when "foreigners" travel into the province. For such small villages, "foreign" could include Afghans from Kabul as well as non-Afghans. 
Time passed. 
What few cars there were when we arrived had already turned back without risking the trip down to the lake itself. The three four-by-fours that zoomed along the curves of the mountains were also gone.
Finally, two hours after they had playfully dug sideways paths in the snow, my friends appeared. Reeling from the cold, they got into the Corolla one by one, hoping to speed off into the distance. But it was not that simple. The car continued to struggle uphill. My friends got out and pushed, but it moved only a few kilometers before stopping again. Once again they got out to push.
This time, Mir Afghan was able to race past several steep inclines, saying: "If I stop now, we will be stuck again. I have to keep going."
We drove off toward the city.
For all that, he earned 4,000 afghanis, or $78.
 Ali M. Latifi is an online producer for Al Jazeera English. He received a master's degree in international media from American University in Washington, D.C. 

        
Navy SEAL Team Member Dies Saving Kidnapped Doctor
        
Taliban Gun Locker: The Frankengun of Wardak Province
        
The Taliban, in Their Own Verse
        
Fears Lurk in a Post-Transition Afghanistan
        
Fallout From Urination Video Spreads

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); TALIBAN (90%); HISTORIC SITES (78%); NATIONAL PARKS (70%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (69%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (69%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (64%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (63%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%) Afghan-Americans; Afghanistan; Afghanistan War (2001- ); Key, John P; Parwan Province (Afghanistan); Roads and Traffic; Taliban; Af-Pak; At War; Economy

ORGANIZATION: Taliban

PERSON: JOHN KEY (75%) Key, John P

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (94%) AFGHANISTAN (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%) Afghanistan; Parwan Province (Afghanistan)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2013



560 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 458 words

HEADLINE: At Republican Retreat, Ryan Urges Unity on Fiscal Issues

BYLINE: ASHLEY PARKER


HIGHLIGHT: At House Republicans' retreat to discuss the future of their conference, Representative Paul D. Ryan warned members that they have to "recognize the realities of the divided government that we have." 

 BODY:
WILLIAMSBURG, Va. - As House Republicans hunkered down here for a two-day retreat to discuss the future of their conference, Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin warned members that they had to "recognize the realities of the divided government that we have" and urged members to unite behind leadership on the coming fiscal debates. 
Mr. Ryan, the chairman of the budget committee, told reporters that he thought some of the divisiveness that had plagued House Republicans under the leadership of Speaker John A. Boehner would most likely subside once members understand the coming battles and challenges.
"I think what matters most is people have a very clear view of what's coming so that there are no surprises, and that means setting expectations accordingly, so that we can proceed in a unified basis," Mr. Ryan said. "And the reason we're doing this kind of facilitation right now is we want every member to understand all of the issues and all of the consequences, so that we can come together with consensus on a plan and move forward and proceed." 
Referring to the end of the previous Congress, which left the House, the Senate and the White House racing against a deadline to pass legislation to offset across-the-board tax increases and spending cuts needed to avert a financial crisis, he added, "We have the time to do that, whereas before it was a little more rushed, and we didn't have the time."
The former vice presidential candidate has maintained a low profile since returning to Congress, but he surprised some when he voted with Mr. Boehner on the tax deal devised by the White House and Senate Republicans to avert the so-called fiscal cliff.
Mr. Ryan also signaled that his conference might be flexible when it comes to the coming debate about the debt limit.
"We're discussing the possible virtue of a short-term debt limit extension so that we have a better chance of getting the Senate and White House involved in discussions in March," he said.
But reining in outsize spending and a soaring deficit still remains a top Republican priority, Mr. Ryan emphasized.
"We think the worst thing for the economy for this Congress and this administration would be to do nothing to get our debt and deficits under control," he said. "We think the worst thing for the economy is to move past these events that are occurring with no progress made on the debt and deficits."
He added: "We know we have a debt crisis coming. This is not an 'if' question, it's a 'when' question."

        
Prominent Republicans Criticize Obama's Executive Actions
        
Incoming Members of Congress Not Exactly Average Joes
        
Geithner Urges Congress to Act 'as Early as Possible' on Debt Ceiling
        
Primaries to Watch in Florida and Wisconsin
        
Republican Unity Cracks as Election Nears

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); DEBT CEILING (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (86%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (76%); DEBT CRISIS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); POLITICS (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); TAX LAW (71%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%) House of Representatives; Republican Party; Ryan, Paul D Jr; United States Politics and Government; Congress

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives; Republican Party

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (94%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%) Ryan, Paul D Jr

GEOGRAPHIC: WILLIAMSBURG, VA, USA (74%) VIRGINIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2013



561 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 612 words

HEADLINE: Facing Legal Costs, Citigroup Disappoints in 4th Quarter

BYLINE: JESSICA SILVER-GREENBERG


HIGHLIGHT: As the bank works to clean up its mortgage mess, it reported fourth-quarter profit of $1.2 billion, or 38 cents a share, significantly below analysts' estimates. 

 BODY:
Citigroup, which has been working to cut costs and unload troubled assets, continues to struggle under the weight of its mortgage woes.
The bank reported fourth-quarter profit of $1.2 billion, or 38 cents a share, significantly below analysts' estimates. Excluding one-time items, earnings amounted to 69 cents a share. 
Ahead of the bank's quarterly earnings, analysts estimated earnings at 96 cents a share, according to a survey by Thomson Reuters. In the period a year earlier, the bank posted profit of $956 million, or 31 cents a share. 
 The disappointing quarter relates to continuing legal problems, as the bank works to clean up the mortgage mess stemming from the financial crisis. In the fourth quarter, Citigroup had $1.3 billion of legal costs and related expenses. 
Citigroup has also faced increasing pressure from shareholders to buoy its returns. As part of that effort, the bank has been working through a glut of soured loans and unloading less-profitable business lines while systematically reducing costs. In December, the bank announced that it would eliminate 11,000 jobs worldwide, part of a much larger contraction. 
"Our bottom line earnings reflect an environment that remains challenging," Michael L. Corbat, the bank's chief executive, said in a statement. "It will take some time to work through the challenges of the current environment but realizing our core earnings potential, as well as improving our returns on assets and tangible equity, are critical goals going forward." 
Beneath the headline numbers, Citigroup did experience gains in some of its businesses.
The bank has been focusing on developing countries, where there are comparatively more growth opportunities than in the United States. Within the global consumer banking group, revenue increased 4 percent, to $4.9 billion, in the fourth quarter. Revenue in North America rose 3 percent, to $5.3 billion.
Citigroup's securities and banking group also improved, on the strength of investment banking, equities and fixed income. The unit reported net income of $629 million for the quarter, compared with a $158 million loss in the period a year earlier. 
Emphasizing improvements in the bank, John C. Gerspach, the bank's chief financial officer, said on a conference call on Thursday that the bank had gained "client wallet share" in its investment banking business. 
The fourth-quarter earnings are the first under Mr. Corbat's leadership.
In October, the bank's powerful chairman, Michael E. O'Neill, abruptly ousted Vikram S. Pandit as chief executive. Since taking the reins of the bank, Mr. Corbat has vowed to continue to revamp the bank, focusing on its core businesses and exiting less profitable areas. 
Such efforts have weighed on the bank's bottom line in the short term. In the fourth quarter, Citigroup's operating expenses rose 5 percent, to $13.8 billion. 
Along with its strategic moves, Citigroup also paid for its legal problems. Like rivals, the bank faces claims that it used shoddy documents in foreclosure proceedings that might have led to wrongful evictions. 
Citigroup, along with nine other banks, agreed this month to sign on to an $8.5 billion settlement with the Federal Reserve and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. The settlement will allow Citigroup to move beyond an expensive review of loans mandated by regulators in 2011. 
On the earnings call, Mr. Gerspach hinted that the banking industry's legal woes were not over. "I think that the entire industry is still looking at some additional settlements that are still yet to appear," he said. 

        
Mortgage Crisis Lingers On at Citigroup and Bank of America
        
Few Silver Linings in Gloomy Bank Reports

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (92%); COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EXECUTIVES (87%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); RETAIL BANKING (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%) Banking and Financial Institutions; Citigroup Inc; Company Reports; Corbat, Michael L; Citigroup Inc|C|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Wall Street Earnings

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Citigroup Inc

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%) Citigroup Inc; C; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%)

PERSON: VIKRAM PANDIT (59%) Corbat, Michael L

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2013



562 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2013

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 498 words

HEADLINE: City Jobs Lost in Storm Are Returning, but Unemployment Rate Is Flat

BYLINE: PATRICK MCGEEHAN


HIGHLIGHT: The State Labor Department reported that more than half of the jobs lost in November were added back in New York City, and unemployment remained at 8.8 percent. 

 BODY:
New York City's job market started to shrug off the effects of Hurricane Sandy at the end of the year, new employment statistics showed on Thursday.
The city added back more than half of the jobs it lost in November after the storm blew through, but not enough to reduce the unemployment rate. The rate held at 8.8 percent in December, still a full percentage point higher than the national rate, according to a report from the state's Department of Labor. 
Hiring picked up in retail stores, theaters and fast-food restaurants after a sluggish start to the holiday season in tourist-attracting businesses, said James Brown, principal economist for the Labor Department. But Wall Street ended the year without gaining any jobs, and a spate of layoff announcements from some of the biggest banks signals continued weakness in the industry, he said. 
"One of the fundamental features of this recovery has been that there hasn't been a particularly strong securities rebound," Mr. Brown said. "Usually, when we have several years of strong growth, it's securities right out front leading."
Two big banks, Morgan Stanley and JPMorgan Chase, filed notices with the Labor Department this week for layoffs of a total of 889 jobs. Since November, one of their competitors, Credit Suisse, has said it will cut more than 385 jobs.
Most of the hiring in the city last month was to replace workers whose jobs were eliminated in November, said Barbara Byrne Denham, an economist with Eastern Consolidated, a real estate services firm in Manhattan.
Because the Labor Department makes seasonal adjustments to its monthly statewide data but not its numbers for the city, Ms. Denham performs her own calculations. After adjusting for the usual seasonal fluctuations in hiring and firing, Ms. Denham estimated the city added 10,100 jobs in December after losing a revised total of 18,500 jobs in November.
Still, Ms. Denham said she was puzzled that construction employment declined slightly in December, despite all of the rebuilding that had to be done after the storm. But she said she expected construction hiring to pick up as soon as insurance companies paid claims to owners of damaged homes and businesses.
"We could see a significant jump in the January data because of these recouped jobs," Ms. Denham said.
For all of 2012, private-sector employers in New York City added about 80,000 jobs, or two-thirds of all of the jobs gained in the state, according to the Labor Department. The city's job-growth rate, about 2.4 percent, was significantly higher than the growth rates for either the state (1.6 percent) or the nation (1.7 percent) in 2012.
Statewide, the unemployment rate was 8.2 percent in December, down from 8.3 percent in November.

        
City's Unemployment Rate Dipped in October
        
New York State Creating 5,000 Temporary Jobs in Storm-Stricken Areas
        
New York State Registers Dip in Jobless Rate
        
City's Jobless Rate Dips for First Time in Months
        
Christie Talks of a Comeback, but Jobs Data May Say Otherwise

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (91%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HURRICANE SANDY (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); HURRICANES (89%); STATISTICS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); TROPICAL STORMS (78%); INSURANCE (73%); RESTAURANTS (70%); FAST FOOD (70%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (64%); RETAILERS (55%) Hurricane Sandy (2012); Labor and Jobs; Unemployment; Housing & Economy; Labor

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (83%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (56%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (83%); JPM (LSE) (83%); 8634 (TSE) (83%); CSGN (SWX) (56%); CS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2013



563 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: A Rumble in the Jungle

BYLINE: By NATHAN K. LUJAN, DEVIN D. BLOOM and L. CYNTHIA WATSON. 
Nathan K. Lujan is a National Science Foundation fellow at the Royal Ontario Museum and the University of Toronto. Devin D. Bloom is a postdoctoral researcher in ecology and evolutionary biology at the University of Kansas. L. Cynthia Watson is a fisheries biologist and an adjunct assistant professor at the University of Cincinnati.

 BODY:
THE new reality TV series ''Bamazon,'' on the History Channel, along with already established shows like ''Gold Rush'' and ''Jungle Gold,'' have elevated the global mining bonanza into living-room entertainment. Each focuses on a different group of Americans seeking their fortune in distant, ostensibly dangerous locales: ''Bamazon'' in Guyana, ''Gold Rush'' in Alaska and Guyana, and ''Jungle Gold'' in Ghana. But while these shows claim to depict ''reality,'' they gloss over the most awful truths of gold mining, particularly as it is practiced in the tropics.
It is estimated that up to a fourth of global gold production now originates not from licensed, regulated and monitored mines, but from often illegal, unregulated artisanal, or informal, mines -- much like those dramatized in these series. In South America, artisanal gold production, which churns out nearly 450,000 pounds of gold a year, involves millions of people -- about four miners and support labor per pound. 
Artisanal miners succeed where large, centralized operations fail by evading regulations and targeting gold that has eroded over eons into river sediments, known as placer deposits, that are broadly distributed over vast landscapes.
But to get even an ounce of that gold, miners have to upend tons of river sediment. They pump a continuous slurry of sediment and river water over mats that trap minute fractions of gold-enriched dust, discharging their tailings back into the river.
Periodically, the accumulated gold dust is separated, and the gold isolated by amalgamating it with mercury. Invariably, the mercury is burned off into the atmosphere or, like the tailings, poured into waterways. Over 1,000 tons of mercury is dumped or burned off annually, and several large rivers have been so exhaustively mined that they simply disappear into vast mud pits that make parts of the Amazon look like the Somme.
Much of the gold being sought by the stars of these shows -- and by millions of poorer artisanal miners throughout the tropics -- is buried beneath remote and biodiverse pockets of primary rain forest. In some places, like the boomtown of Puerto Maldonado, Peru, regional gold rushes are fueling mass demographic shifts and unchecked urbanization.
In myriad other areas, miners are penetrating deep into poorly monitored headwaters, often crossing national boundaries to create intense pockets of pollution far from any town or airstrip. Many of the indigenous people affected live traditionally in remote corners and are especially susceptible to the disease, violence and promiscuity that accompany miners.
Mercury naturally concentrates in fish, a main staple in the diet of many indigenous people. Throughout South America, hundreds of remote and previously pristine rivers have been contaminated, and researchers are finding increasing levels of mercury in many indigenous people, which over time could cause cancer and severe birth defects.
And the situation is getting worse. Historically low-tech and dependent on manual labor, artisanal mining is rapidly shifting to heavy machinery and is increasingly plugged into the global economy. Satellite images taken over the last decade show that mining's environmental impacts have surged in direct proportion to international gold prices.
It is particularly unfortunate that these shows run on channels like History and Discovery -- outlets that once capitalized on the images and stories of nature's bounty. Tropical rivers and forests are marvelously diverse and intricate ecosystems, but the default tendency of these channels is to eschew nuanced portrayals in favor of sensationalist accounts of man-eating fish and reptiles. In this respect, it is perhaps consistent that they now exploit these habitats as a backdrop for glorified plunder.
In a promotional clip for ''Bamazon,'' one cast member and heavy machinery operator, Clate McDaniel -- described as a nature-loving ''California hippie'' -- expresses a mystic's anticipation of finding ''plants that can heal'' and the ''cure for cancer'' in the jungles of Guyana. ''You never know what you can find in the jungle, it's untouched in so many places,'' he says, and suggests that his mining team might ''discover something new.''
We agree. Tropical rain forests and rivers hold an incalculable wealth of undiscovered treasures, each incomparable to gold in its aesthetic beauty. Unfortunately, miners' fingers are not touching but tearing the fabric of the rain forest, and the potential for scientific discovery decreases with every ounce of gold harvested and every river channel annihilated.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY KRISTIAN HAMMERSTAD) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLD MINING (91%); REALITY TELEVISION (90%); RIVERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (83%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); SURFACE MINING (77%); HEAVY METALS & TOXIC MINERALS (77%); MINE WORKERS (77%); WATER POLLUTION (71%); EROSION (71%); BIODIVERSITY (66%); RAIN FORESTS (66%); URBANIZATION (64%); CANCER (62%); CONGENITAL DISORDERS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GUYANA (93%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GHANA (79%); PERU (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2013



564 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 818 words

HEADLINE: The Next Four Years

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
President Obama's second inaugural comes at an interesting moment, what you might call the end of the era of the Grand Bargain. Throughout his first term, Democrats and Republicans didn't achieve a Grand Bargain on spending and taxes, but there was a sense that history was moving in that direction.
The Simpson-Bowles commission sketched out a vision of what a Grand Bargain might look like. Obama and John Boehner tried to craft some semi-Grand Bargains. There was a lot of talk at think tanks of what the best combination of tax reform and entitlement reform might be. 
The ''fiscal-cliff'' fiasco has persuaded many smart people that a Grand Bargain is not going to happen any time soon. A political class that botched the fiscal cliff so badly are not going to be capable of a gigantic deal on complex issues. It's like going into a day care center and asking a bunch of infants to perform ''Swan Lake.''
Polarization is too deep. Special interests are too strong. The negotiators are too rusty. Republicans are not going to give up their vision of a low-tax America. Democrats are not willing to change the current entitlement programs.
So as the president enters his second term, there has to be a new controlling narrative, a new strategy for how to spend the next four years.
As you know, I am an earnest, good-government type, so the strategy I'd prefer might be called Learning to Crawl. It would be based on the notion that you have to learn to crawl before you can run. So over the next four years, legislators should work on a series of realistic, incremental laws that would rebuild the habits of compromise, competence and trust.
We could do some education reform, expand visa laws to admit more high-skill workers, encourage responsible drilling for natural gas, maybe establish an infrastructure bank. Political leaders would erode partisan orthodoxies and get back into the habit of passing laws together. Then, down the road, their successors could do the big things.
I may be earnest, but I'm not an idiot. I know there is little chance that today's partisan players are going to adopt this kind of incremental goo-goo approach. It's more likely that today's majority party is going to adopt a different strategy, which you might call Kill the Wounded. It's more likely that today's Democrats are going to tell themselves something like this:
''We live at a unique moment. Our opponents, the Republicans, are divided, confused and bleeding. This is not the time to allow them to rebuild their reputation with a series of modest accomplishments. This is the time to kick them when they are down, to win back the House and end the current version of the Republican Party.
''First, we change the narrative. The president ran in 2008 against Washington dysfunction, casting blame on both parties. Over the years, he has migrated to a different narrative: The Republicans are crazy. Washington could be working fine, but the Republicans are crazy.
''At every public appearance, the president should double-down on that theme. The Democratic base already believes it. The media is sympathetic. Independents could be persuaded.
''Then, wedge issues. The president should propose no new measures that might unite Republicans, the way health care did in the first term. Instead, he should raise a series of wedge issues meant to divide Southerners from Midwesterners, the Tea Party/Talk Radio base from the less ideological corporate and managerial class.
''He's already started with a perfectly designed gun control package, inviting a long battle with the N.R.A. over background checks and magazine clips. That will divide the gun lobby from suburbanites. Then he can re-introduce Bush's comprehensive immigration reform. That will divide the anti-immigration groups from the business groups (conventional wisdom underestimates how hard it is going to be for Republicans to back comprehensive reforms).
''Then he could invite a series of confrontations with Republicans over things like the debt ceiling -- make them look like wackos willing to endanger the entire global economy. Along the way, he could highlight women's issues, social mobility issues (student loans, community college funding) and pick fights on compassion issues, (hurricane relief) -- promoting any small, popular spending programs that Republicans will oppose.
''Twice a month, Democrats should force Republicans to cast an awful vote: either offend mainstream supporters or risk a primary challenge from the right.''
Just as Senator Mitch McConnell made defeating President Obama his main political objective, Democrats seem likely to make winning back the House their primary political objective. Experts are divided on how plausible this is, but the G.O.P. is unpopular and the opportunity is there.
This isn't the Washington I want to cover, but it's the most likely one. How will Republicans respond to this onslaught? I have no idea.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); TAX LAW (77%); TAX REFORM (74%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (70%); EDUCATION REFORM (70%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (62%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN BOEHNER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2013



565 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; DANCE REVIEW; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 859 words

HEADLINE: Maybe Naked, Curvy or Clumsy, And Probably Socially Unorthodox

BYLINE: By ALASTAIR MACAULAY

 BODY:
By presenting a theatrical account of human energy, each choreographer offers us a distinct view of human potential. So does each dance company and each dance festival. This week presents us with an exercise in compare-and-contrast: the American Realness festival (through Sunday) continues, just as New York City Ballet has commenced its winter season (through Feb. 24); there are days when you can go from one to the other.
In one respect American Realness, which focuses on experimental dance, has something in common with City Ballet: an aesthetic shaped by economy. Few productions at City Ballet have the expensive scenery and costumes that characterize much European ballet. 
The societies that City Ballet and American Realness offer in performances, however, are diametrically opposed. The ballets of George Balanchine, with which City Ballet has opened its season, are exclusively heterosexual and often pointedly hierarchical: we're shown this not as a realistic but as an ideal picture of the world. The body look is streamlined, athletic, virtuoso, fast.
The 11 productions I have seen at American Realness 2013 have included multiple examples of same-sex coupling, drag and camp. Performers often sing and talk as well as move. Dancing is often barefoot. Complete nakedness is not unusual. Body types vary from skinny to rotund. Technique ranges from virtuoso to clumsy (with some interesting overlaps). Although it would be misleading to generalize too much -- this festival presents the works of diverse auteurs -- the atmosphere is certainly both permissive and alternative.
At least as important as the above social characteristics are the ways music and space are used. Music at American Realness, where it is heard at all, is not from any classical canon. The space between performers and audience is often blurred or eroded.
On Monday evening in the Abrons Arts Center the seven dancers of the BodyCartography Project and a ''chorus'' of nine performers exhibited a kind of behavior that at first suggested neurological disturbance. This was ''Super Nature,'' 75 minutes long, with music by Zeena Parkins. At the beginning 13 performers waited onstage; then another one came up a theater aisle, dancing in a way that looked uncontrollable and convulsed, full of spasms and tics, lurching violently this way and that, brushing members of the audience on her way, as if helpless. She continued that way once onstage.
Gradually the body language of the others altered. Much of what followed showed signs of the involuntary, with sudden or slow tiltings, strange invasions of other people's body space, and a few movements that suggested the obsessive-compulsive. One dancer pulled at her eyelids as if trying to remove her eyeball; one dancer poked at a tooth; one groped another's face and torso.
Just as this driven, socially unorthodox look seemed the norm here, two women -- one on each side of the group -- extended their stretched legs behind them in arabesque. The other five dancers also now fell into patterns of spatial harmony. Some of what followed showed harmony with the harp playing in Ms. Parkins's music, but there was no close affiliation of sound and dance.
The work later moved into a strange dream world. A long sequence with most of the cast members -- one naked and the rest in underwear -- holding leafy branches upright recalled the way Birnam Wood comes to Dunsinane Hill in ''Macbeth.'' Much of the movement had the quality of sleepwalking, some of it with eyes closed.
Two same-sex duets echoed each other, with partnering that suggested now affection and intimacy, now a more objective or formal approach. All this was neither dull nor riveting. The dancers, however free in their eccentricity, showed none of the special distinction that can make dance theater compelling.
Later the same evening four performers -- Chris Cochrane, Jassem Hindi, Jen Rosenblit and Enrico D. Wey -- presented the 50-minute ''... or an animal ...'' in the Abrons Underground Theater. Mr. Cochrane and Mr. Hindi provided most of the music (all unconventional, some of it involving amplified guitar and percussion, with extensive and loud cacophony), while Ms. Rosenblit and Mr. Wey moved.
Though little here was even remotely appealing, it's worth noting that Mr. Wey can be an extraordinary mover, the kind with whom the bizarre becomes haunting and even beautiful. In one sequence -- he had stripped to wear only a vest and underpants -- he progressed slowly across the back of the space, his torso leaning forward. Each advancing step began on the ball of his foot, then fell onto his sole; the rhythm and physical pressure of this simple phrase had an astonishingly rich texture and precision.
These two offerings are group creations. Several other American Realness presentations (I mentioned ones by Jack Ferver, Trajal Harrell, Maria Hassabi, Jennifer Monson and Tere O'Connor in a previous review) are very much auteur works. Some are slight, and some objectionable, but the realness involved is, on several levels, beyond question.
The American Realness festival continues through Sunday at the Abrons Arts Center; abronsartscenter.org.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: American Realness: Jen Rosenblit and Enrico D. Wey in '' or an animal ,'' part of this festival at the Abrons Underground Theater. American Realness Jen Rosenblit and Enrico D. Wey in '' or an animal ,'' part of this festival at the Abrons Underground Theater. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREA MOHIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DANCE (93%); DANCE COMPANIES (92%); BALLET (92%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); CHOREOGRAPHY (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); DANCERS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); THEATER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2013



566 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 789 words

HEADLINE: Robert Citron, 87, Culprit in California Fraud

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
Robert L. Citron, who as treasurer of Orange County, Calif., engaged in financial actions that astounded bankers and bureaucrats until his bold bets put the county in bankruptcy in 1994 and himself in prison the next year, died on Wednesday in Orange, Calif. He was 87.
The cause was a heart attack, his friend and neighbor Eric Rosenberg said. 
Mr. Citron was not a stereotypical financial wizard. He drove a Chrysler, ate lunch at the Elks Lodge (ordering the soup and salad), wore discount suits and almost never visited New York to see the investment bankers with whom he invested billions. He hated weekends because he could not go to the office. He invested all his own money in savings accounts and tax-free funds.
But in early 1994, after the Federal Reserve increased interest rates and obliterated Mr. Citron's bulldozer financial strategy, the county's investment pool began hemorrhaging hundreds of millions of dollars.
The county declared bankruptcy on Dec. 6, 1994, citing paper losses of $1.64 billion, and the debacle, in one of the nation's wealthiest, most conservative and most populous counties -- the home of Disneyland and John Wayne Airport -- attracted national attention.
After a grand jury investigation found that Mr. Citron had consulted a psychic and an astrologer as his investments shriveled, he pleaded guilty to six felony counts of financial fraud, all related to his frenzied activities to borrow ever more money and inappropriately shift it from account to account. (He was never accused of acting for personal financial gain.) He spent a year behind bars.
Mr. Citron blamed his Merrill Lynch broker for leading him astray. In testimony before the California Senate in 1995, he called himself ''an inexperienced investor.'' The broker, Michael G. Stamenson, responded that Mr. Citron was ''highly sophisticated.''
''I learned a lot from him,'' Mr. Stamenson said.
Pressing Mr. Citron's argument, Orange County sued Merrill. In 1998, Merrill Lynch settled the case by paying the county $400 million without admitting wrongdoing.
Orange County's bankruptcy, the largest municipal bankruptcy of its kind at the time, resulted in part from the clash between a fierce antitax sentiment among voters and a public clamor for services. It put the county in a cash crisis.
For years Mr. Citron tried to bridge the gap by borrowing money at low short-term rates and investing it at higher long-term rates. He used the borrowed money as collateral to borrow more, a strategy made legal by a state law he drafted in 1979.
He further raised the ante by investing in derivatives -- investments that are tied to, or derived from, the performance of a financial market, like that for interest rates. Prices of derivatives swing much faster than the underlying securities, permitting much greater gains or losses when markets rise or fall.
His strategy worked for a long time. In 1993, the investment pool Mr. Citron managed returned 8.5 percent, compared with the state's 4.7 percent. Thomas F. Riley, chairman of the Orange County board of supervisors, wrote that year to compliment him ''for the outstanding job you have done in guiding our financial ship through such turbulent times.''
But the next year interest rates rose, and the price of county bonds declined. Wall Street firms holding the bonds began selling them, ignoring Mr. Citron's pleas for delay. With $2 borrowed for every dollar in the $20 billion fund, and the value of the portfolio down 20 percent, Mr. Citron resigned in December 1994.
Robert Lafee Citron was born in Los Angeles on April 14, 1925, and grew up in Burbank and Hemet, Calif. His father was a homeopathic physician who had treated W. C. Fields for alcoholism and later successfully sued Fields for nonpayment.
Mr. Citron attended the University of Southern California, where he took graduate-level business courses, but did not graduate. He nonetheless had a car horn that played the university's fight song.
Orange County hired him as a deputy tax collector in 1960, and in 1970 he was elected treasurer. He became treasurer and tax collector when the posts were combined in 1973.
As a Democrat, he was a rarity in heavily Republican Orange County, but he was re-elected six times. He received 61 percent of the vote in his last victory, in 1994.
An aggressive self-promoter, he required taxpayers to make their checks payable to ''Robert L. 'Bob' Citron,'' rather than ''Orange County Treasurer.''
Mr. Citron, who lived in Santa Ana, Calif., is survived by his wife, the former Terry Leuck.
At the California Senate hearing, Mr. Citron, who was often called arrogant, admitted that he had made mistakes.
''I must humbly say,'' he said, ''I was not as sophisticated a treasurer as I thought I was.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Robert Citron at a 1995 California Senate hearing. He spent a year in prison and pleaded guilty to six counts of financial fraud. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT GALBRAITH/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (78%); LITIGATION (77%); FELONIES (77%); JAIL SENTENCING (77%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); GUILTY PLEAS (72%); TESTIMONY (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (70%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (68%); GRAND JURY (66%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (65%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (65%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2013



567 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1116 words

HEADLINE: Difficult Choices on Debt if the U.S. Hits the Ceiling

BYLINE: By ANNIE LOWREY

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- By mid-February or early March, the United States could face an unprecedented default unless it raises its debt ceiling, the Treasury Department said this week.
Some legislators have theorized that a quick breach in the debt ceiling might cause only a minor disruption to government finances. And some commentators have suggested that the United States could pass legislation to prioritize or guarantee payments to bondholders, thus erasing what they describe as the worst of the financial market reaction and removing the threat of technical default.
But experts in government finance and markets described running up against the debt ceiling as an event that might quickly precipitate a financial crisis and eventually lead to a recession -- an event with far greater disruptive potential than the ''fiscal cliff'' package of tax increases and spending cuts, a government shutdown or even the collapse of Lehman Brothers. 
A debt-ceiling crisis would be at its heart a cash-management problem. Every day the government receives millions of bills to pay, to its employees, older Americans, soldiers, bondholders and contractors, among others. Under normal circumstances, it makes payments with new revenue as well as with the proceeds from bond sales. But the country has already run out of authority to issue new debt, as of Dec. 31, and Congress has not yet raised the statutory debt ceiling, currently around $16.4 trillion.
The Treasury Department is undertaking ''extraordinary measures,'' like suspending the reinvestment of certain government retirement funds, to leave it with more cash on hand. But such measures buy the country only so much time, and in a matter of weeks outflows will overwhelm inflows.
That day might be Feb. 15, for instance. According to a Bipartisan Policy Center analysis, the government expects about $9 billion in revenue to arrive in its coffers that day. But it has $52 billion in committed spending on that day: $30 billion in interest payments, $6.8 billion in tax refunds, $3.5 billion in federal salaries, $2.7 billion in military pay, $2.3 billion in Medicaid and Medicare payments, $1.5 billion owed to military contractors and a smattering of other commitments.
The Treasury would be confronted with paying doctors but not soldiers, Chinese bondholders but not defense companies. Worse, it is not clear whether the Treasury secretary would have the legal latitude or even the technical ability to prioritize some payments over others. Every day the country remained in breach of the ceiling, the problems would be compounded.
The Treasury Department has shed little light on what actions it would take if the country breached the ceiling.
But there are a few clues as to how the Obama administration might react. A Treasury inspector general's report from last year described some of the planning for the debt ceiling standoff in 2011, which caused a broad slump in the market and raised the country's borrowing costs by about $1.3 billion in that fiscal year. ''Treasury considered asset sales; imposing across-the-board payment reductions; various ways of attempting to prioritize payments; and various ways of delaying payments,'' the report said.
It determined that delaying payments might be the least harmful option, but made no decisions about the best route forward. Moreover, ''Treasury reached the same conclusion that other administrations had reached about these options -- none of them could reasonably protect the full faith and credit of the U.S., the American economy, or individual citizens from very serious harm,'' the report said.
Some Republican lawmakers have suggested giving the Treasury more guidance. For instance, Representative Daniel Webster of Florida has put forward a bill ordering the Treasury to pay obligations to bondholders, followed by troops, national security ''priorities,'' Social Security and then Medicare.
But organized chaos would still be chaos, analysts said. Consider again the day of Feb. 15. The country would not have enough money to pay its bondholders, let alone anyone else. Moreover, analysts have raised questions about whether the Treasury would be able to reprogram its automated payment systems to prioritize some payments over others. With bills stacking up day by day, the government would be able to make only about 60 percent of its payments over time.
Businesses and individuals would be left without expected funds from the government, and a tremendous financial crisis might ensue. ''We're the reserve currency of the entire world,'' said Steve Bell of the Bipartisan Policy Center, in Washington. ''There's trillions of dollars of our debt sliced and diced into all sorts of financial instruments around the world. If you're a 28-year-old bond trader for Nomura in Tokyo, and someone says, 'Hey, we just heard a rumor Treasury isn't making all its payments,' what do you do? You panic and you sell.''
For that reason, 84 percent of the top economists surveyed by the University of Chicago's Booth School of Business this week said the debt ceiling ''periodically creates unneeded uncertainty and can potentially lead to worse fiscal outcomes'' for the country.
''Deciding whether or not to pay the debts incurred to fund the previously approved tax and spending is nuts,'' responded Anil K. Kashyap of the University of Chicago.
Richard H. Thaler, also of Chicago, said, ''The debt ceiling is a dumb idea with no benefits and potentially catastrophic costs if ever used.''
A standoff in the debt ceiling -- even a brief one, with bondholders paid on time -- might also raise the country's borrowing costs permanently. ''It is not assured that the Treasury would or legally could prioritize debt service over its myriad other obligations, including Social Security payments, tax rebates and payments to contractors and employees,'' Fitch, the major ratings agency, said on Tuesday. ''Arrears on such obligations would not constitute a default event from a sovereign rating perspective but very likely prompt a downgrade even as debt obligations continued to be met.''
For that reason, some Republicans are shying away from using the debt ceiling as leverage -- with some quietly suggesting that a forthcoming debate over the continuing spending resolution necessary to finance the government might be a better time to wrangle for budget cuts.
In an interview with The Wall Street Journal, Speaker John A. Boehner described the debt ceiling as ''one point of leverage'' but ''not the ultimate leverage.'' The White House has refused to negotiate any budget cuts as part of talks over the ceiling, and has suggested that Congress give up most its authority over the debt ceiling to begin with.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: John A. Boehner has said Republicans will not use the debt ceiling as ''the ultimate leverage.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETE MAROVICH/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEBT CEILING (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BONDS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (87%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (87%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); MEDICARE (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); TAX LAW (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); BOND MARKETS (76%); DEFENSE SPENDING (73%); ARMED FORCES (72%); MILITARY COMPENSATION (72%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (71%); SENIOR CITIZENS (67%); MEDICAID (58%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (53%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2013



568 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: Audit, Citing Mismanagement, Finds SUNY Downstate in Dire Fiscal Straits

BYLINE: By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS

 BODY:
As SUNY Downstate Medical Center bled money over the past few years, 15 of the hospital's top administrators were paid taxpayer-financed salaries over $200,000, while nearly 500 lower-paid employees were sent layoff notices, according to a state comptroller's audit released on Thursday.
The medical center was so underused that about 100 beds were empty every day in 2010, the audit said. A series of ''poor financial decisions'' has put it on a path toward insolvency, which could lead to bankruptcy, Thomas P. DiNapoli, the comptroller, said in his audit. 
The medical center comprises three hospital locations and a major public university. It serves more than 2 million New Yorkers and is the fourth largest employer in Brooklyn.
''SUNY Downstate's fiscal condition is dire, and it needs all hands on deck if it is going to survive,'' Mr. DiNapoli said in a statement released with the audit. As a result of bad management, he said, ''the hospital is hemorrhaging millions of dollars every week.''
The audit puts SUNY Downstate in the company of several other Brooklyn hospitals that state officials have said are barely able to survive, but that have been propped up by politicians and infusions of cash from state government over the years because they are major employers and providers of health care to largely poor and vulnerable people in Brooklyn.
A much smaller Brooklyn hospital, Interfaith Medical Center, serving Bedford-Stuyvesant and Crown Heights, recently filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy reorganization, and a panel created by Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo has recommended improving the solvency and efficiency of it and several other hospitals through mergers.
Nancy L. Zimpher, SUNY's chancellor, released a statement Thursday that did not dispute the audit's findings, but attributed the financial problems to ''the systemic changes facing health care facilities across the country.'' She said the administration had new leadership, which was developing a ''fiscally responsible plan'' to keep the hospital and its teaching facilities open.
The audit said the hospital consistently lost money from 2007 through 2011. It portrayed a hospital that, like much of the health care industry, did not respond nimbly to economic forces. It faulted the medical center for not considering whether administrative salaries could be cut and for negotiating costly salary increases and fringe benefits in union contracts. Meanwhile, layoff notices were sent to 469 employees whose average salaries were $63,000 at Downstate and $41,500 at Long Island College Hospital.
The highest-paid hospital administrators at the time of the audit were Debra D. Carey, vice president of hospital affairs, with a taxpayer-financed salary of $552,556; Dr. John C. LaRosa, president, $382,311; and Ivan Lisnitzer, vice president for administration, $334,072, according to the comptroller.
Mr. Lisnitzer has since retired, and Dr. LaRosa and Ms. Carey have stepped down.
Mr. DiNapoli also blamed competition for patients, over-reliance on Medicaid revenues despite cuts in financing and the ill-advised acquisition of two hospitals, Victory Memorial Hospital in July 2008 and Long Island College Hospital, known as LICH, in May 2011. ''Consultant studies used as justification for the purchase were based on flawed, unrealistic business assumptions,'' according to Mr. DiNapoli.
LICH was once part of Continuum Health Partners, which runs several hospitals, including Beth Israel Medical Center and St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. The head of Continuum, Stan Brezenoff, had warned before 2011 that LICH was in precarious financial condition. But doctors, with the support of local politicians, fought to keep it open, and it merged with SUNY Downstate, in a deal brokered by then-Gov. David A. Paterson.
LICH had operating losses for 17 consecutive years before it was acquired and more than half of its beds, excluding those for newborns, were empty in 2010, the report said.
SUNY Downstate lost nearly $276 million in 2011 and its losses for last year could be over $200 million, the comptroller said.
A major medical teaching center, it employs about 8,000 faculty and staff members. If not for some shifting of money internally and additional payments from the state for treating a high number of poor, uninsured patients, ''the hospital would likely be insolvent today,'' the report said.
In addition to LICH, now officially University Hospital at Long Island College Hospital, and Victory Memorial, now known as SUNY Downstate at Bay Ridge, the medical center provides services at University Hospital of Brooklyn in East Flatbush.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); AUDITS (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); HOSPITALS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); VULNERABLE HEALTH POPULATIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (73%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (70%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%); RELIGION (50%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2013



569 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 504 words

HEADLINE: Reports on Unemployment and Housing Show Resilience in Economic Recovery

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
The number of Americans filing new claims for unemployment benefits hit a five-year low last week and residential construction surged in December, the latest signs that the American economic recovery remains on track. 
The reports on Thursday showed the economy was weathering an uncertain fiscal environment surprisingly well. Still, growth in the fourth quarter was most likely subdued, and only a modest pickup was expected in the first three months of this year.
''While growth has been slow, the damage done from the uncertainty surrounding the fiscal cliff was not sufficient to topple the recovery,'' said Millan Mulraine, a senior economist at TD Securities in New York.
The fiscal cliff refers to deep government spending cuts and tax increases, many of which were avoided after a last-minute agreement in Congress. A fight over raising the government's borrowing limit looms.
Initial claims for state unemployment benefits fell 37,000 to a seasonally adjusted 335,000, the lowest level since January 2008, the Labor Department said on Thursday. It was the largest weekly drop since February 2010, ending four straight weeks of increases.
While problems adjusting the data for seasonal fluctuations might have exaggerated the size of the decline, economists said the report still suggested an improvement in the labor market and the economy as a whole.
''Having taken a pinch of salt, however, we would suggest that the trend in claims generally show no pickup in layoff activity around the turn of the year,'' said John Ryding, chief economist at RDQ Economics in New York.
A separate report from the Commerce Department showed housing starts jumped 12.1 percent last month to their highest level since June 2008. Permits for home construction were also the highest in about 4 1/2 years.
The data was confirmation that the housing market was improving, aided in part by favorable weather, with gains in home building across all four regions in the survey. Groundbreaking increased for both single-family homes and multifamily units.
Housing appeared to no longer be a drag on the economy and residential construction was expected to have contributed to growth last year for the first time since 2005.
The jobs and housing data helped United States stocks surge. The reports came on the heels of data this week showing solid retail sales and manufacturing growth in December.
Still, the outlook for the economy remains shaky. A report showed that factory activity in the mid-Atlantic region had contracted this month as new orders tumbled, pointing to a cooling in manufacturing activity.
The Philadelphia Federal Reserve Bank said its business activity index fell to minus 5.8 from minus 4.6 in December. A reading below zero indicates contraction in manufacturing in eastern Pennsylvania, southern New Jersey and Delaware.
''Manufacturing has slowed but it's still growing,'' said Gus Faucher, a senior economist at PNC Financial Services in Pittsburgh. ''I'm not going to read too much into this until I see other regional surveys.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A job fair in Manhattan. In December, new jobless claims were down and housing starts were up. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARIO TAMA/GETTY IMAGES) CHART: Jobless Claims: Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time. (Source: Labor Department, via Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC RECOVERY (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); HOUSING STARTS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); TRENDS (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); BUILDING PERMITS (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (72%); TAX LAW (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (60%); RETAIL SALES (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (61%); PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (50%)

TICKER: PNC (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (61%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (61%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2013



570 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL OBSERVER; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 629 words

HEADLINE: Long Island's Future, Stuck in Transit

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE DOWNES

 BODY:
Long Island, that strange place jutting east from New York City for 100 miles, was once the very symbol of America's postwar future, of youth and growth, and is now the opposite of that. It is an old suburb that ran out of places to sprawl, was badly hit by recession a decade ago and again in the latest downturn, and is feeling its age.
Many of Long Island's leaders have warned that it is heading steadily down a long, slow road to ruin. It needs more jobs, cheaper housing, better transit, economic engines to replace the ones that sputtered out. It needs its vitality back. 
These were the heavy bass notes of what was generally an upbeat meeting of influential Long Islanders on Tuesday at Molloy College in Rockville Centre. It was sponsored by the Long Island Index, a nonprofit organization that issues annual reports on ways the Island can better itself. This year's report was on mass transit, specifically increasing the capacity and usefulness of the Long Island Rail Road, the sprawling passenger network that hasn't grown significantly in, oh, a century and a half.
Walt Whitman, Long Island's most famous son, was still a nobody in Brooklyn when the L.I.R.R. completed its main line across the Island in 1844. The village at the eastern end, Greenport, was heavily into shipbuilding and whaling. A lot has changed since then, notably the growth of the island's population to 2.8 million. But one part of the island -- a troublesome, 10-mile section of the L.I.R.R. between Floral Park and Hicksville in Nassau County -- still lives in the 19th century. It has two tracks, and only two, making it a perennial cause of congestion and delays. Five of the railroad's branch lines -- and 41 percent of its ridership -- converge there. This bottleneck can be a disaster in bad weather; it also keeps the railroad from sending more trains east from Penn Station, against the regular commuter flow, out to where many jobs are, or could be.
The L.I.R.R. wants to add a third track along this 10-mile stretch to shorten commutes, reduce car traffic and take a significant step toward a transit-oriented renaissance. It's an incredibly simple solution, in theory. But in Nassau, the third track is a third rail, stymied by ferocious not-in-my-backyard protesters who have frightened lawmakers into mumbling inaction.
It's an old story on Long Island: When an ambitious project seeks to alter the status quo for the greater good, the Nimby beast rises to kill it. At a workshop on Tuesday, various participants -- including a village mayor, a city manager, town planners and academics -- agreed that Long Island has plenty going for it: proximity to the city, world-class research laboratories, an educated work force, great schools and excellent beaches.
But they seemed close to despair about defeating the Nimby crowd. Jim Morgo, a former deputy county executive of Suffolk, said advocates could ''infiltrate'' civic and neighborhood groups, but what the project most needed was ''really strong leadership from the top. You need courage from the executive and the Legislature.'' You need, as one participant -- a mayor himself -- put it, the willingness to lose an election.
So far we haven't seen any elected leaders go to the mat for the third track. It would be great if Gov. Andrew Cuomo did. One voice I missed Tuesday was that of a former Nassau County executive, Thomas Suozzi, now a lawyer in private practice, and an early and brilliant booster for building higher-density downtown centers near mass-transit lines to create the jobs and tax base to help support the rest of traditional suburbia.
Long Island as we knew it doesn't work anymore, Mr. Suozzi used to say, as he called for a ''New Suburbia.'' What's sad is that so many people are content with the old one.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (89%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); CITIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); SUBURBS (77%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (75%); ANNUAL REPORTS (74%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (72%); MAYORS (65%); SHIPBUILDING (50%)

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (86%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2013



571 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 449 words

HEADLINE: Recovery Not Yet Secure, Director of I.M.F. Says

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (Reuters) -- Nations around the globe, especially the United States and those in Europe, need to press forward with fiscal and reform promises to reduce the uncertainties shackling growth, the head of the International Monetary Fund said on Thursday, warning that the global economy barely dodged a bullet last year. 
Christine Lagarde, the I.M.F.'s managing director, said the euro zone debt crisis and the budget dispute in the United States could have brought growth to a halt, an outcome only avoided by decisions often made at the last minute.
In particular, she urged the United States to raise its borrowing limit and pressed Europe to follow through with commitments to tackle its debt crisis.
''Clearly, the collapse has been avoided in many corners of the world,'' Ms. Lagarde told reporters, even as she expressed concern that policy makers' resolve could weaken just because there is a ''bit'' of recovery in sight and financial stresses have eased.
''It's important to follow through on policies to put uncertainty to rest,'' she said. ''There is still a lot of work to be done.''
In her first news conference of 2013, Ms. Lagarde focused on political battles over the budget in the United States and the risks the euro zone's debt crisis still presents. That focus is not new, but Ms. Lagarde made clear she worried that complacency could set in.
Ms. Lagarde warned that a fight in the United States over raising the nation's $16.4 trillion borrowing limit could be ''catastrophic'' for the global economy if it is not raised in time.
''I very, very strongly hope that all parties, all views will converge in the national interest of the U.S. economy and in the international interest of the global economy,'' she said. ''To imagine that the U.S. economy would be in default, would not honor the payments that it owes, is just unthinkable.''
In Europe, she said, progress was made last year to tackle the debt crisis. Unfinished business included the need to press forward with plans for a banking union.
She also said that while a financial firewall against the debt crisis had been erected, it had not yet been made ''operational,'' a reference to a European Central Bank program to buy bonds from debt-laden euro zone countries that seek a rescue.
Further, she said, the central bank needed to keep monetary policy loose and perhaps try to lower borrowing costs further to help struggling member states.
''We recognize there has been progress, but the process has been very time consuming and continues to contribute to uncertainty,'' Ms. Lagarde said. ''We sense a sign of waning commitment. There is still momentum, but it is probably not as crucial as it was, and we regret it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Christine Lagarde, managing director of the International Monetary Fund, called for continued fiscal reforms from policy makers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARIO TAMA/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); DEBT CRISIS (90%); EURO CRISIS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); MONETARY UNIONS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EURO ZONE (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); MONETARY POLICY (60%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (62%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%)

PERSON: CHRISTINE LAGARDE (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (98%); UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2013



572 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: The Dwindling Deficit

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
It's hard to turn on your TV or read an editorial page these days without encountering someone declaring, with an air of great seriousness, that excessive spending and the resulting budget deficit is our biggest problem. Such declarations are rarely accompanied by any argument about why we should believe this; it's supposed to be part of what everyone knows.
This is, however, a case in which what everyone knows just ain't so. The budget deficit isn't our biggest problem, by a long shot. Furthermore, it's a problem that is already, to a large degree, solved. The medium-term budget outlook isn't great, but it's not terrible either -- and the long-term outlook gets much more attention than it should. 
It's true that right now we have a large federal budget deficit. But that deficit is mainly the result of a depressed economy -- and you're actually supposed to run deficits in a depressed economy to help support overall demand. The deficit will come down as the economy recovers: Revenue will rise while some categories of spending, such as unemployment benefits, will fall. Indeed, that's already happening. (And similar things are happening at the state and local levels -- for example, California appears to be back in budget surplus.)
Still, will economic recovery be enough to stabilize the fiscal outlook? The answer is, pretty much.
Recently the nonpartisan Center on Budget and Policy Priorities took Congressional Budget Office projections for the next decade and updated them to take account of two major deficit-reduction actions: the spending cuts agreed to in 2011, amounting to almost $1.5 trillion over the next decade; and the roughly $600 billion in tax increases on the affluent agreed to at the beginning of this year. What the center finds is a budget outlook that, as I said, isn't great but isn't terrible: It projects that the ratio of debt to G.D.P., the standard measure of America's debt position, will be only modestly higher in 2022 than it is now.
The center calls for another $1.4 trillion in deficit reduction, which would completely stabilize the debt ratio; President Obama has called for roughly the same amount. Even without such actions, however, the budget outlook for the next 10 years doesn't look at all alarming.
Now, projections that run further into the future do suggest trouble, as an aging population and rising health care costs continue to push federal spending higher. But here's a question you almost never see seriously addressed: Why, exactly, should we believe that it's necessary, or even possible, to decide right now how we will eventually address the budget issues of the 2030s?
Consider, for example, the case of Social Security. There was a case for paying down debt before the baby boomers began to retire, making it easier to pay full benefits later. But George W. Bush squandered the Clinton surplus on tax cuts and wars, and that window has closed. At this point, ''reform'' proposals are all about things like raising the retirement age or changing the inflation adjustment, moves that would gradually reduce benefits relative to current law. What problem is this supposed to solve?
Well, it's probable (although not certain) that, within two or three decades, the Social Security trust fund will be exhausted, leaving the system unable to pay the full benefits specified by current law. So the plan is to avoid cuts in future benefits by committing right now to ... cuts in future benefits. Huh?
O.K., you can argue that the adjustment to an aging population would be smoother if we commit to a glide path of benefit cuts now. On the other hand, by moving too soon we might lock in benefit cuts that turn out not to have been necessary. And much the same logic applies to Medicare. So there's a reasonable argument for leaving the question of how to deal with future problems up to future politicians.
The point is that the case for urgent action now to reduce spending decades in the future is far weaker than conventional rhetoric might lead you to suspect. And, no, it's nothing like the case for urgent action on climate change.
So, no big problem in the medium term, no strong case for worrying now about long-run budget issues.
The deficit scolds dominating policy debate will, of course, fiercely resist any attempt to downgrade their favorite issue. They love living in an atmosphere of fiscal crisis: It lets them stroke their chins and sound serious, and it also provides an excuse for slashing social programs, which often seems to be their real objective.
But neither the current deficit nor projected future spending deserve to be anywhere near the top of our political agenda. It's time to focus on other stuff -- like the still-depressed state of the economy and the still-terrible problem of long-term unemployment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); BUDGET DEFICITS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGET FORECASTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (72%); SOCIAL SECURITY (69%); AGING TRENDS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); TAX LAW (64%); AGING (60%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (51%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2013



573 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1623 words

HEADLINE: An Outsize Personality Joins, And Jostles, the Mayor's Race

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO and MATT FLEGENHEIMER

 BODY:
To pump himself up for tense negotiations with the City Council, Joseph J. Lhota listened to the soaring theme song to the film ''Top Gun,'' and, afterward, relaxed to the soothing tones of Gregorian chants.
Dispensing with diplomacy, he loudly challenged a 77-year-old Holocaust survivor to ''be a man'' at a public meeting of the region's transit authority, and he once gave the middle finger to a reporter in the rotunda of City Hall.
And, acting on instinct, he raced into the streets of Lower Manhattan on Sept. 11, 2001, to direct traffic and then, at day's end, delivered a copy of a Winston Churchill biography to his boss, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, for inspiration.
In a city whose once raucous and colorful politics have become remarkably button-down and tranquil over the past decade, Mr. Lhota, who filed documents on Thursday to become a Republican candidate for mayor, is something of a throwback: an unapologetically outsize personality, known throughout his career for big emotions and an uninhibited style. 
His combination of experience -- on Wall Street, in the Giuliani administration and, most recently, running the Metropolitan Transportation Authority -- differs significantly from the backgrounds of the Democratic elected officials who have so far dominated the 2013 campaign, changing the character of the race.
But above all, Mr. Lhota's candidacy presents a question: Is the New York that elected Michael R. Bloomberg, a relatively measured, data-adoring technocrat, ready to embrace a larger than life, occasionally profane figure reminiscent of a more theatrical era in the city's politics -- a man who as a deputy mayor once paused in the middle of a closely watched legal deposition to quote Aristotle and playfully contemplate the derivation of the word ''ejectment'' (''a new word form, when I first heard it,'' he told his interrogators).
Lhota advisers say his candor and authenticity are his disarming charm, distinguishing him from a field made up of candidates they see as predictable political players.
Asked in an interview on Thursday about his flashes of hotheadedness, Mr. Lhota replied, ''You forgot my humor.''
''People should be respected for the strength of their convictions,'' he added. ''And I also believe in freedom of expression. It is what it is.''
Personality aside, even Mr. Lhota's supporters acknowledge that his challenges are daunting. He is largely unknown, and his party is vastly outnumbered: for every registered Republican in the city, there are six Democrats.
His most significant credentials are also his biggest liabilities. The transit authority is a lifeline that New Yorkers love to hate, and Mr. Giuliani remains a polarizing figure in the city, especially with nonwhite voters.
Mr. Lhota said he was proud of his work with Mr. Giuliani. ''I cannot be separated from Rudy Giuliani,'' he said. ''But I am also not Rudy Giuliani.''
He described himself as a ''practical Republican,'' determined to control spending and resist giveaways to public unions, even as he supports abortion rights and same-sex marriage. He described himself as a hunter who grew up around guns, but, he said, ''there is no reason for anybody to have an assault weapon.''
He declared that New York voters do not vote based on party labels -- no Democrat has won a mayoral race in 24 years -- and seemed to take pains to project a nonpartisan streak. He wore a bright purple tie and conducted the interview inside the Roosevelt House, on the Upper East Side of Manhattan, where he said Franklin D. Roosevelt had formulated his thinking about what would become the New Deal.
Mr. Lhota allowed that he had voted for several Democrats over the years, including Andrew M. Cuomo in his 2010 run for governor, but he did little to hide his reservations about President Obama. ''Let's get it all out of the way,'' he said. ''I have voted for a Republican for president ever since I was voting and since I was 18 years old.''
Mr. Lhota, 58, who lives in Brooklyn Heights, has a biography that seems ready-made for a mayoral race: his father was a New York police lieutenant, his grandfathers a New York firefighter and a taxi driver. In conversations, he wields an encyclopedic knowledge of New York history, architecture and politics.
After graduating from Georgetown and Harvard Business School, he became a leader in the fast-growing Wall Street business of municipal finance.
Like many young conservatives frustrated by the city's problems with crime and homelessness in the 1980s, he was drawn to Mr. Giuliani's tough-talking message of reform.
Mr. Lhota began showing up for weekly tutorial sessions -- quickly called ''mayor university'' -- for Mr. Giuliani, then a United States attorney.
When Mr. Giuliani was elected mayor in 1993, he persuaded Mr. Lhota to join him at City Hall as an assistant in the economic development office, where Mr. Lhota's rise was rapid, even by city government standards. By Mr. Giuliani's second term, Mr. Lhota was deputy mayor for operations, overseeing three-fourths of the city's work force and standing in as mayor when Mr. Giuliani was out of town.
Mr. Lhota was an influential figure in many of Mr. Giuliani's signature pushes -- a huge reduction in the city's welfare rolls; the closing of Fresh Kills on Staten Island, the last landfill in the city; and a hard-nosed style of budgeting that sought to deprive the Council of coveted dollars it had long relied on.
Mr. Lhota, working with Mr. Giuliani, pushed for drastic reductions in mainstays, like financing for the arts, knowing well that council members would demand their return. The resulting fury would be calmed by the return of basic financing, but often little else.
''Joe was the person who helped formulate that strategy,'' Mr. Giuliani said. ''Joe knew the inner secret.'' He was, however, the rare Giuliani loyalist liked by the mayor's enemies.
Ronnie Eldridge, who represented the Upper West Side on the Council from 1989 to 2001, said Mr. Lhota was an uncommon ally in a truculent City Hall that, she recalled, once halted construction on a project she had championed because her husband, the newspaper columnist Jimmy Breslin, had criticized Mr. Giuliani's plans to overhaul Times Square.
''I had a terrible relationship with the Giuliani administration,'' she said in a telephone interview. ''But not with Joe, ever. He was respectful, he was responsive and funny, and willing to at least give you the impression that he was agreeing with you.''
After leaving City Hall at the end of the Giuliani term, Mr. Lhota re-entered the corporate world, as a top executive at Cablevision and Madison Square Garden.
His return to public service, at the transportation authority in 2011, became the unexpected platform for a mayoral run. Under his supervision, the subway system made a rapid recovery after Hurricane Sandy, hastened by a prescient decision to shut down the system before the storm.
But Mr. Lhota, who resigned as the authority's chairman last month, also left it with an unresolved labor contract and a major downtown subway station still shuttered from the hurricane.
''The irony is, he didn't lift a finger to put the system back together,'' said John Samuelsen, president of Transport Workers Union Local 100. ''He didn't settle the contract with us, and now, off the work that we did, he's trying to launch a mayoral candidacy.''
What voters may remember, though, is the looming subway and bus fare increase passed under his watch, raising rates by a quarter, to $2.50. Advisers to a presumptive rival, Christine C. Quinn, the Council speaker, call it the ''Lhota fare hike.''
But Mr. Lhota had pointed words of his own for Ms. Quinn on Thursday, when she was described as his fiercest competitor. ''I thought you would say Billy Thompson,'' he said, referring to a former city comptroller.
He minimized Ms. Quinn's experience and her role in government: ''Understanding the legislative side of how it operates is just one small area of what's necessary for a chief executive.''
Over the past year, Mr. Lhota has endeared himself to a wider audience with an active and frequently impolitic Twitter account, where he offered unguarded commentary on sports, politics and his own alcohol consumption (''Too much wine,'' he posted apologetically).
In his original Twitter profile, he described himself as a ''9/11 cancer survivor,'' a subject he is not shy about discussing.
Shortly after he received a diagnosis of cancer in 2005, Mr. Lhota e-mailed friends with characteristic defiance and humor.
Anticipating hair loss from chemotherapy, he asked for ''ideas for temporary tattoos to slap on the side of my head.'' He asked for prayers, but made clear he had already turned, once again, to Churchill, for words of comfort.
''Never give in, never give in, never, never, never,'' he wrote, quoting his hero.
Mr. Lhota's cancer is in remission, and he says he is ready for the rigors of a mayoral run.
Joseph J. Lhota
BORN
Oct. 7, 1954, in the Bronx; raised on Long Island.
EDUCATION
Georgetown University, bachelor's degree in business administration (1976); Harvard Business School, M.B.A. (1980).
CAREER
Senior accountant, Arthur Andersen; managing director of municipal securities, Paine Webber; director of public finance, Credit Suisse First Boston; finance commissioner, budget director and deputy mayor for operations, City of New York; executive vice president, Cablevision Systems; executive vice president, Madison Square Garden Company; chairman, Metropolitan Transportation Authority.
BOARDS
First Aviation Services; City University of New York; New York City Health and Hospitals Corporation; New York City Employees' Retirement System.
FAMILY
Married Tamra, 1988; daughter, Kathryn.
FAVORITE BOOK GENRE
Spy novels.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Joseph J. Lhota, a Republican mayoral candidate, has been known during his career for big emotions and an uninhibited style. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); MAYORS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); POLITICS (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (65%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (54%); DEPOSITIONS (50%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (50%)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (74%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2013



574 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 675 words

HEADLINE: Strong Economic Data Lifts S.&P. to 5-Year High

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index climbed to another five-year high on Thursday after strong reports on housing starts and unemployment claims made investors more optimistic about the nation's economy.
The S.& P. 500 gained 8.31 points, or 0.56 percent, to close at 1,480.94, its highest level since December 2007. The Dow Jones industrial average also rose, climbing to a five-year high during the day, before falling back to finish 84.79 points higher, or 0.63 percent, at 13,596.02. The Nasdaq composite index climbed 18.46 points, or 0.59 percent, to 3,136.
Builders started work on homes in December at the fastest rate since the summer of 2008, the Commerce Department said Thursday. Home builder stocks rose broadly after the report. The S.& P. 500's home building index climbed 3.8 percent, its biggest gain in almost a month. The Pulte Group led the advance with a jump of $1.03, or 5.33 percent, to $20.37. 
The number of Americans seeking unemployment benefits fell to a five-year low last week, the Labor Department reported, the latest sign that the job market is healing. Weekly unemployment benefit applications fell 37,000, to 335,000, a bigger decline than economists had forecast, according to a financial data provider, FactSet.
The reports helped offset disappointment over the fourth-quarter earnings reports of two of the nation's biggest banks, Citigroup and Bank of America, said Joe Kinahan, chief derivatives strategist at TD Ameritrade.
''The financial stocks are having a tough time impressing the Street with anything,'' Mr. Kinahan said. ''The traditional banks are getting squeezed on margins and the expectations for a lot of those companies had already been set low.''
Citigroup fell $1.24, or 2.92 percent, to $41.24, after its income fell well short of Wall Street's expectations. The bank's legal expenses rose and it released less money from its loan-loss reserves.
Bank of America dropped 50 cents, or 4.24 percent, to $11.28, after its earnings declined. The bank is continuing to work on clearing up problems at its mortgage unit. The bank made $367 million in the last three months of 2012 after paying preferred dividends, down sharply from $1.58 billion in the period a year earlier.
Kim Caughey Forrest, a senior analyst at Fort Pitt Capital, said it was too early to conclude that the housing market had turned the corner. She noted that a large ''shadow inventory'' of houses that still need to be foreclosed on may weigh on house prices in the coming months. ''This rally is probably a little bit too optimistic for the information that we got,'' she said. ''There's some conflicting information here, and the market has just decided to overlook the negative thing.''
The indexes rose even though more discouraging news about manufacturing came out. The Philadelphia branch of the Federal Reserve reported that manufacturing contracted this month in the mid-Atlantic region. On Tuesday, the Fed's New York branch reported that manufacturing in its own district was worsening.
The Dow Jones industrial average is up 3.75 percent since the start of the year and the S.& P. 500 is higher by 3.84 percent.
EBay rose $1.27, or 2.4 percent, to $54.17, after reporting fourth-quarter earnings that exceeded analysts' expectations.
CBS surged $3.01, or 7.93 percent, to $40.95, after reporting late Wednesday that it was converting its outdoor advertising business in the United States to a real estate investment trust and selling the international portion of the business. Deutsche Bank analysts lifted their target price on the stock to $47 from $40, saying the conversion to an investment trust ''meaningfully enhances value.''
BlackRock, the investment manager, gained $9.76, or 4.39 percent, to $232, after posting higher fourth-quarter net income that beat analysts' forecasts. The company also increased its dividend and said it might buy back more stock.
Interest rates were higher. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note fell 14/32, to 97 22/32 and the yield rose to 1.88 percent from 1.82 percent late Wednesday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (99%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); HOUSING STARTS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); DIVIDENDS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); FORECLOSURE (74%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); PREFERRED STOCK (73%); HOME PRICES (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); EMPLOYMENT (52%)

COMPANY: STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (91%); PULTEGROUP INC (56%); CITIGROUP INC (55%); TD AMERITRADE HOLDING CORP (54%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%)

TICKER: PHM (NYSE) (56%); C (NYSE) (55%); C (BMV) (55%); 8710 (TSE) (55%); AMTD (NYSE) (54%); BAC (NYSE) (54%); BAC (LSE) (54%); 8648 (TSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (91%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (91%); NAICS236116 NEW MULTIFAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (56%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (56%); SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (56%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2013



575 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 298 words

HEADLINE: AT&T Will Take a Charge of $10 Billion for Pension Costs

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
AT&T warned late Thursday that it would take a fourth-quarter charge of about $10 billion because of bigger-than-expected pension obligations.
The telephone company also said its results for the period would be depressed by high smartphone costs and damage from Hurricane Sandy. 
It said the pension charge was related to an actuarial loss of about $12 billion, which was partially offset by an asset gain of about $1.9 billion.
AT&T also said it was lowering its expected long-term rate of return because of continued uncertainty in the securities markets and the American economy.
''It's not a real huge negative, but a little bit sobering,'' said Michael Bowen, an analyst with Pacific Crest Securities. ''They are saying their obligations are larger than they thought they were.''
While AT&T said the pension loss would not affect its operating results or margins, it warned that its fourth-quarter earnings would be hurt by other issues.
It said it expected to report a $175 million reduction in its operating income because of storms, including Hurricane Sandy, which damaged cellphone towers and caused service failures in the Northeast in late October.
Mr. Bowen said the estimate of storm-related costs seemed ''a little bit light'' compared with his expectations.
AT&T said its wireless profit would also be reduced by higher-than-expected smartphone sales in the quarter. Because the company pays a hefty subsidy for each smartphone it sells, high sales tend to put pressure on its wireless profit margins. It pays subsidies so that it can offer discounts to consumers who commit to long-term contracts.
AT&T disclosed the charge after the stock market closed. Its shares fell as much as 55 cents, or 1.7 percent, to $32.65 in after-hours trading after ending down 6 cents in regular trading.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (89%); SMARTPHONES (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (77%); HURRICANE SANDY (77%); WEATHER (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); TROPICAL STORMS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%)

COMPANY: AT&T INC (95%)

TICKER: T (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (95%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2013



576 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1159 words

HEADLINE: Republicans May Offer Short-Term Extension Of Borrowing Limit

BYLINE: By ASHLEY PARKER; Jonathan Weisman contributed reporting from Washington.

 BODY:
WILLIAMSBURG, Va. -- Gathered for a retreat to map out how to manage coming confrontations with President Obama and Congressional Democrats, often combative House Republicans seemed on Thursday to be looking for a quick way out of one imminent fight.
Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, the Republicans' former vice-presidential nominee and an influential party voice on fiscal policy, said Thursday that Republicans were considering allowing a short-term extension of the federal debt limit of a month or so to foster more discussion about spending cuts.
''We're discussing the possible virtue of a short-term debt limit extension, so that we have a better chance of getting the Senate and the White House involved in discussions in March,'' Mr. Ryan, the House Budget Committee chairman, told reporters.
Mr. Obama has said he will not negotiate over increasing the debt limit. If House Republicans, who lost seats in November and have low approval ratings, take a hard line, it could leave them getting most of the blame for any government default and subsequent economic turmoil. 
Though a short-term extension might be seen as a momentary surrender, it could tie the debt topic into discussions about across-the-board military and domestic spending cuts set to hit March 1 and the expiration on March 27 of a stopgap law financing the government. Republicans say the timing could give them more room to fight for cuts.
The two days of party meetings outside this colonial capital were being used by leaders to try to remind conservative lawmakers itching to do battle with Mr. Obama that Democrats increased their numbers in Congress and held on to the presidency in November, and so Republicans might want to tread more carefully.
Debriefing reporters after a morning session, which was closed to the news media, Mr. Ryan said he had warned members that they had to ''recognize the realities of the divided government that we have'' and urged them to unite behind leadership on the coming fiscal debates.
''Our goal is to make sure our members understand all the deadlines that are coming, all the consequences of those deadlines that are coming, in order so that we can make a better-informed decision about how to move, how to proceed,'' he said. ''I think what matters most is people have a very clear view of what's coming so that there are no surprises, and that means setting expectations accordingly, so that we can proceed in a unified basis.''
The struggles of House Republicans have been shown most recently in the emergence of an influential but unofficial group that could be called the Vote No/Hope Yes Caucus.
These are the small but significant number of Republican representatives who, on the recent legislation to head off the broad tax increases and spending cuts mandated by the so-called fiscal cliff, voted no while privately hoping -- and at times even lobbying -- in favor of the bill's passage, given the potential harmful economic consequences otherwise.
Representative Tom Cole of Oklahoma, part of the Republican whip team responsible for marshaling support for legislation, said the current makeup of House Republicans could be divided roughly into a third who voted in favor of the bill because they wanted it to pass, a third who voted against the bill because they wanted it to fail, and a third who voted against the bill but had their fingers crossed that it would pass and avert a fiscal and political calamity.
One lawmaker, Mr. Cole said, told him that while he did not want to vote in favor of the bill, he also did not want to amend it and send it back to the Senate, where it might die and leave House Republicans blamed for tax increases. ''So I said, 'What you're really telling me is that you want it to pass, but you don't want to vote for it,' '' recalled Mr. Cole, who voted yes.
The Vote No/Hope Yes group is perhaps the purest embodiment of the uneasy relationship between politics and pragmatism in the nation's capital and a group whose very existence must be understood and dealt with as the Republican Party grapples with its future in the wake of the bruising 2012 elections.
Ron Bonjean, a Republican strategist and once the top spokesman for J. Dennis Hastert, a Republican and former House speaker, described the phenomenon thus: ''These are people who are political realists, they're political pragmatists who want to see progress made in Washington, but are politically constrained from making compromises because they will be challenged in the primary.''
The Jan. 1 tax vote was a case study in gaming out a position on a difficult bill that many Republicans knew had to pass but was also one they preferred not to have their fingerprints on.
The Republican leadership itself seemed to reflect the ambivalence of their membership; Speaker John A. Boehner voted in favor of the legislation, while Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, the majority leader, voted no. Even Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the No. 3 Republican, who is charged with securing votes for bills, voted against the deal. (Ultimately, 85 Republicans joined with 172 Democrats to pass it.)
The phenomenon occurred again this week as the vast majority of House Republicans, many citing spending concerns, abandoned a measure to provide relief for states hit by Hurricane Sandy, even though Republicans clearly wanted the measure to ultimately pass.
At the two-day retreat, aides said, Republican leaders are expected to emphasize that a united conference going forward will offer House Republicans the strongest negotiating stance on crucial coming issues like the debt ceiling limit and spending cuts. (A dinner Wednesday night was aptly titled ''Using Adversity to Our Advantage by Working Together.'')
Conservative rank-and-file members plan to express their frustration at feeling largely cut out of the deal-making process, and to request more chances to offer input.
''I think there will be a lot of looking back on the fiscal cliff vote,'' Mr. Cole said. ''I think there will be some discussion on the divided leadership, saying, 'You guys need to sort this out, you need to be willing to make a decision and lead.' ''
Still, he added: ''I can make a pretty good case that our problem is less one of leadership than of followership. I'd be happy to just have some people who would follow decently.''
Part of the problem House Republicans are struggling with is philosophical: What does it mean to hold the majority in the House, but still be the minority in a town currently under Democratic control? What is ideal, what is achievable and where does that fine line of compromise lie?
And what are the limits of their own conference? (Another panel, ''What is the Role of the Republican Majority in the 113th Conference?'' seemed to pose that question directly.)
''Look, the reality is we control one-half of one-third of the federal government in a Democratic-run town,'' said Michael Steel, a spokesman for Mr. Boehner.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Representatives Paul D. Ryan, top, and Tom Cole are among Republican leaders looking for ways to manage coming confrontations with Democrats. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMES HILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 JACQUELYN MARTIN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); DEBT CEILING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); BUDGETS (76%); TAX LAW (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (92%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); TOM COLE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WILLIAMSBURG, VA, USA (89%) VIRGINIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2013



577 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1042 words

HEADLINE: Keeping the Boats Moving Along a Mississippi Dwindled by Drought

BYLINE: By JOHN SCHWARTZ

 BODY:
ST. LOUIS -- For months along the Mississippi River here, the withering drought has caused record-breaking low water levels that have threatened to shut down traffic on the world's largest navigable inland waterway.
That closing has not happened, however -- and now officials are predicting it will not. ''It looks to me like we're about to get out of the woods here,'' said Maj. Gen. John W. Peabody, commander of the Mississippi Valley Division of the Army Corps of Engineers. ''I am very confident that we will be able to sustain navigation for the rest of the season,'' until the river comes up naturally with the spring rains and snow melt. 
The fact that the river has remained open for business along the critical ''Middle Miss'' -- the 200 miles between the Mississippi's last dam-and-locks structure, above St. Louis, down to Cairo, Ill., where the plentiful Ohio River flows in -- stems from a remarkable feat of engineering that involved months of nonstop dredging, blasting and scraping away of rock obstructions along the riverbed, effectively lowering the bottom of the channel by two feet. It has also involved exacting use of reservoirs along the vast river system that were initially designed by engineers using slide rules nearly 100 years ago to try to manage both flood and drought, as well as rock structures placed in recent years along the bank to direct water and speed it up, a bit like a thumb over the end of a garden hose.
During the most delicate weeks of the low-water crisis, the corps ordered its engineers and water managers to tweak upstream reservoirs, with some staff members waking up every two hours through the night to check river levels and to release precise amounts of water as needed, without wasting a drop.
''This is a game of inches,'' said David R. Busse, the chief of the engineering and construction division for the St. Louis district of the corps -- and in this case, the tired sports metaphor is literally true.
The effort has allowed the corps to maintain the river's 300-foot-wide navigation channel at a depth of at least nine feet. While that is no deeper than many swimming pools, it is just enough to keep tow boats and their barges afloat, though loaded more lightly than the shippers wish.
The shipping industries, fearful that the drought could cause an unprecedented extended shutdown, had in recent months called for the engineering corps to release even larger amounts of water from reservoirs along the upper Missouri River, which provides nearly half of the water flowing past St. Louis. They also urged the administration to speed work on removing the rock obstructions, which was not likely to begin, without a strong push, until February or later. They took the fight all the way to the White House, and worked with powerful lawmakers including Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the No. 2 Democrat in the Senate.
Mr. Durbin worked closely with White House officials like Pete Rouse, counselor to the president and a former Durbin chief of staff. He, along with like-minded lawmakers, urged the administration to speed the work on the rocks, and to keep the option of using the Missouri open.
But Mr. Durbin acknowledged that ''if we have to face the Missouri River option, it's going to be very contentious.'' Such a move would inevitably set off lawsuits from states that benefit from the Missouri's waters, arguing that the administration was violating the laws governing federally mandated uses of the Missouri.
In December, President Obama entered the discussion in a staff meeting, when he asked, according to Mr. Durbin, ''Are we moving and doing everything we should?'' Soon after, barges with underwater jackhammers, excavators and blasting equipment were working the river near the small town of Thebes, Ill., breaking the rock and scooping it away.
As for the Missouri River, a White House official said all options remained on the table, but the administration decided to rely on the advice of its engineers, who argued that a nine-foot draft (plus one foot of water to flow under the vessels) could be maintained without tapping the other river.
Despite the success in keeping the Mississippi open, the effects of the low water can be seen up and down the river, both in reduced barge traffic and in the disarray caused by receding waters. At the offices of JB Marine Service in St. Louis the other day, the company's president, George Foster, listed to one side as he walked down the hall toward his office. The offices are on a barge that has floated in the river since 1976, but which is on dry land today. Now the floors are pitched at a 7.3-degree angle, and picture frames have shifted to a crazy angle that brings a carnival fun house to mind.
Mr. Foster does not like the comparison, growling, ''It's not fun anymore.'' The grounding of his offices forced JB Marine to move into trailers. ''I have been in this industry for 48 years, and I have not seen it this bad,'' he said.
Even with the river remaining open, the companies that normally ship billions of dollars in goods up and down the waters each month have suffered, said Debra Colbert, a spokeswoman for the Waterways Council, a group that lobbies on behalf of inland carriers, operators and ports. Assurances from the corps that the river will be open through the spring are welcome, she said, ''but the uncertainty about whether the water would be there when shippers arrived had been ongoing since early November, and economic damage was done as a result.''
Many shippers withheld barge runs out of fear that they would launch a shipment that, during its weeks upon the river, could get stalled by a closing. The light loads and smaller clusters of barges being pushed by tows mean that moving goods on the river became more expensive. ''Just like the channel itself, shippers, operators and the U.S. economy got squeezed in this crisis,'' Ms. Colbert said.
While the immediate crisis appears to have passed, General Peabody of the corps warned that cycles of drought could last for years, as the Dust Bowl showed, and that there are no guarantees when it comes to rivers. ''We'll continue to respond to what nature throws at us,'' he said. But, he added, ''There's nothing that man can do that nature can't overcome.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Mississippi near Thebes, Ill., where barges with underwater jackhammers, excavators and blasting equipment helped make the river passable. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TYLER BISSMEYER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14)
 The barge-borne offices of JB Marine Service are now on dry land. ''I have not seen it this bad,'' said its president, George Foster. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOHN SCHWARTZ/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A17) GRAPHICS: Helping a River Flow: The historic drought in 2012 lowered water levels in the Mississippi River, threatening to make it impassable for ships. Here are some actions taken to keep the river open. (Source: U.S. Army Corps of Engineers) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RIVERS (90%); DROUGHT (90%); ENGINEERING (89%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (89%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (89%); LAKES (78%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (78%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (78%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (78%); MARINE SHIPPING (78%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (77%); ARMIES (72%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (70%)

ORGANIZATION: ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (92%) MISSISSIPPI RIVER (93%); MISSOURI, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2013



578 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 226 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths BERMANT, JOSEPH EDWARD

 BODY:
BERMANT--Joseph Edward. Born October 14, 1927, NY, NY passed peacefully on January 15, 2013 near his long time home in the Berkshires. Graduated Scarsdale High School, 1944; served in U.S Army during WWII at Los Alamos N.M; and, obtained B.S. Economics, 1949, Wharton Undergraduate School of Business. Was Sr. Exec. VP at National Shopping Centers Mgmt Corp. working with his two brothers, David and Robert. Son of Henry Bermant (deceased) and Anna Forma Bermant (deceased), loving stepson of Etta Bermant (deceased), brother of David W. Bermant (deceased) and Robert L. Bermant; stepbrother of Harold Robinson (deceased), Richard Robinson (deceased), and Gerald Robinson (deceased); fondly remembered as wonderful and witty uncle to Ann Bermant Hancock, Jeffrey Bermant, Wendy Bermant Lynn, Andrew Bermant, Donald Bermant, Susan Bermant Cola; loving friend and lifelong companion of Richard Malkin (deceased); and dear friend of Pat Buchard, Richard Solomon, Michael MacDonald and many at Allendale Mall in Pittsfield, Mass. Lifetime supporter of Phi Lambda Phi and the University of Pennsylvania; enjoyed using math and words in every day life; loved theater and music; and most of all, was great fan of his beloved NY Yankees. Services will be held at 10AM, Sunday, January 20, 2013 at Dery-Foley Funeral Home, 890 E. Main St., Dalton, Mass. (413) 684-0142 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); WORLD WAR II (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); ARMIES (72%); STEPPARENTS (70%); RETAILERS (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2013



579 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 5740 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
Art
Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art. A searchable guide to these and many other art shows is at nytimes.com/events.
Museums
Asia Society and Museum: 'Bound Unbound: Lin Tianmiao' (through Jan. 27) Lin Tianmiao is one of a rare kind in China, where she lives: a nationally and internationally renowned female artist. This museumwide show presents installations that have not been widely seen. Influenced by American artists like Kiki Smith, Louise Bourgeois and Ann Hamilton -- who made the female body and traditional women's occupations hot topics during the 1990s when Ms. Lin was living in New York -- these productions are not particularly original. But they are striking for their surrealistic theatricality and labor intensive craft. 725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street, (212) 517-2742, asiasociety.org. (Ken Johnson) 
Brooklyn Museum: 'Go: a community-curated open studio project' (through Feb. 24) Inspired by ArtPrize, an art competition in Grand Rapids, Mich., that awards money to artists based on votes by the public, and by local open-studios programs, the Brooklyn Museum created a contest in which the award was a spot in this exhibition. More than 1,800 artists registered with the museum; visitors went out to their studios and voted; and the Top 10 artists were whittled down to 5 by Brooklyn Museum curators. The results are less than stellar. ''Go'' has not unearthed any hidden masters of the borough, but it does raise questions about who should choose what appears in museums and what constitutes ''great'' art. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, Brooklyn, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Martha Schwendener)
&#x2605; Brooklyn Museum: 'Materializing ''Six Years'': Lucy R. Lippard and the Emergence of Conceptual Art' (through Feb. 17) This big, intellectually enthralling exhibition of Conceptual works from the 1960s and early '70s is not a conventional museum period survey. Rather, it approximates how the rise of Conceptualism was seen while it was happening by one person: the curator, critic and writer Lucy R. Lippard, who was an extraordinarily energetic participant in and promoter of a trend that brought us the triumph of mind over matter in art. Anyone who wants art to be radically defiant of the market-driven system must see it. 200 Eastern Parkway, Brooklyn, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Johnson)
&#x2605; Frick Collection: 'Mantegna to Matisse: Master Drawings From the Courtauld Gallery' (through Jan. 27) This show of 58 drawings from a London museum and institute of art history covers a lot of ground -- namely, the Renaissance, Baroque and Modern periods. The installation, which spills over from the lower-level galleries into the Cabinet Room off the lobby, encourages much back-and-forth between works of similar subject or virtuosity; Pontormo is paired with Michelangelo, Rubens with Rembrandt, and Goya with Daumier. 1 East 70th Street, (212) 288-0700, frick.org. (Karen Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'African Art, New York, and the Avant-Garde' (through April 14) Timed to the centennial of the Armory Show of 1913, this exhibition tells the story of African art's debut in cutting-edge New York museums and galleries with exceptional candor. It makes clear that early-20th-century Americans received Modern art and African art as a single import, derived from French and Belgian colonies, distilled in Paris and presented on these shores by a few tastemaking dealers and collectors. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'George Bellows' (through Feb. 18) Organized by the National Gallery in Washington, this exhibition starts strong with the lush early paintings of New York City and its residents for which Bellows is justifiably well known. It then devotes more than half its space to a disorganized reprise of his restless but steady artistic decline, which ended with his death in 1925 at 42 from a ruptured appendix. It does little to clarify his achievement, partly because of the short shrift given to his plein air oil studies and late landscape paintings. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Roberta Smith)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Extravagant Inventions: The Princely Furniture of the Roentgens' (through Jan. 27) The first in-depth survey of the brilliant artistry and engineering of Abraham and David Roentgen, a father-and-son team of genius German cabinetmakers, features roll-top desks, writing tables, chairs and clocks. Rife with intricate inlay and marquetry, gilded mounts and hidden compartments revealed by the touch of a button, these objects were among the supreme status symbols of late-18th-century Europe. Video animations show seven of the desks in action. The show is, over all, a stealth blockbuster. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)
Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Faking It: Manipulated Photography Before Photoshop' (through Jan. 27) This absorbing, often amusing exhibition offers abundant evidence that photographers have been cheating since shortly after the medium's invention almost two centuries ago. It features prints dating from 1846 to the early '90s made from altered negatives; seemingly realistic images made by piecing together two or more negatives; hand-colored black-and-white prints; Surrealistic montages; and conceptual confections contesting the ideal of photographic truth. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Matisse: In Search of True Painting' (through March 17) This stunning exhibition skims across the great French modernist's long, productive career with a mere 49 stellar, often pivotal paintings arranged in pairs or groups according to subject. Examining his penchant for working in series and copying his own canvases, they shed new light on the arduous evolution of Matisse's seemingly effortless art, forming one of the most thrillingly instructive exhibitions about the artist, or painting in general, that you may ever see. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)
&#x2605; MoMA PS1: 'Huma Bhabha: Unnatural Histories' (through April 1) In this midcareer survey, long-enduring forms from the ancient world lend some gravity to the throwaway materials that are now commonplace in contemporary sculpture. You could also say that the precariousness of recent assemblage and installation art haunts Ms. Bhabha's monstrous, totemic figures, which are typically made of Styrofoam, clay, rubber, wood scraps and wire mesh; either way, the juxtaposition is arresting. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-2084, momaps1.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; MoMA PS1: 'Thomas Lanigan-Schmidt: Tender Love Among the Junk' (through April 1) Mr. Lanigan-Schmidt makes luminous art out of trash: candy wrappers, cling wrap, reflective plastics, aluminum foil, plastic bottles, beer cans and too many other kinds of cheap refuse to list. As this four-decade retrospective reveals, his devotion to his materials and hobbylike processes has yielded an oeuvre of transcending beauty, eroticized religiosity and poignant autobiography. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-2084, momaps1.org. (Johnson)
MoMA PS1: 'Now Dig This! Art & Black Los Angeles 1960-1980' (through March 11) This exhibition of works by black artists who lived and worked in Los Angeles during a time of revolutionary changes happening in art and society had its debut at the Hammer Museum last year as part of the citywide extravaganza ''Pacific Standard Time: Art in L.A. 1945-1980.'' Focusing mainly on assemblage, the show includes pieces by Melvin Edwards, Betye Saar, David Hammons and nearly 30 others. It contributes a valuable chapter to the American art history of the last 50 years. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-2084, ps1.org. (Johnson)
Morgan Library & Museum: 'Fantasy and Invention: Rosso Fiorentino and Sixteenth-Century Florentine Drawing' (through Feb. 3) With just under 30 works, including an unfinished Rosso painting on loan from the Walters Art Museum in Baltimore, a Rosso drawing from the Metropolitan Museum and a smattering of drawings and letters by other Italian masters in the Morgan's collection, this small exhibition is a fine little introduction to the eccentricities of Florentine Mannerism and to one of the style's quirkiest practitioners, who was lauded by Vasari as ''bold and well grounded in draftsmanship, graceful in manner, sublime in the highest flights of the imagination.'' 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 685-0008, themorgan.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Museum of Arts and Design: 'Doris Duke's Shangri-La: Architecture, Landscape and Islamic Art' (through Feb. 17) The Honolulu estate known as Shangri La is a masterpiece of refined eclecticism. Doris Duke, the owner, referred to it as a ''Spanish-Moorish-Persian-Indian complex.'' Whatever you call it, it looks magnificent in this show and the accompanying book. Both combine sparkling new color shots of the home and gardens taken by Tim Street-Porter; architectural documents and vintage photographs; pieces of the collection; and projects by contemporary artists who had residencies at Shangri La (which has served, since Duke's death in 1993, as the Doris Duke Foundation for Islamic Art). 2 Columbus Circle, (212) 299-7777, madmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)
Museum of Modern Art: 'Artist's Choice: Trisha Donnelly' (through April 8) The 10th artist invited to select an exhibition from the Modern's collection does the series proud. Installed in three far-flung galleries within the museum's vaunted painting and sculpture collection, her effort disturbs the march of masterworks by concentrating on photographs, drawings and other works on paper as well as several kinds of design. At every turn it asks what is art, who is an artist and what makes for greatness? (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)
&#x2605; Museum of Modern Art: 'Born Out of Necessity' (through Jan. 28) The title may or may not have an extra preposition, but the show itself is a fascinating array of recent acquisitions that have a fairly direct bearing on quality of life or actual survival. They range from classic (the 1908 Dixie cup) to cutting edge; cover both analog and digital; and include the tiny (the latest in earplugs) and the quite large (the 1952 United States Army Jeep). Whether born ''of'' or ''out of'' necessity, the displays attest to human ingenuity responding to human need. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)
&#x2605; Museum of Modern Art: 'Inventing Abstraction: 1910-1925' (through April 15) The pursuit of the holy grail of early modernism at its most feverish is presented as a multiple-medium, multinational effort in this dizzying, magisterial cornucopia. The 350-plus works by 84 artists encompass painting, sculpture, music, poetry, dance, film and photography; alternate between the tentative and the prescient; and capture something of both the terrors and thrills of the project, with clusters of paintings by Kazimir Malevich and Piet Mondrian among the high points. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)
&#x2605; Museum of Modern Art: 'Edvard Munch: The Scream' (through April 29) A version of Edvard Munch's ''Scream'' is on view at this museum for the next six months, having come almost straight from the auction block. Protected by a Plexiglas box, like the Mona Lisa, it has been given a prominent perch opposite van Gogh's ''Starry Night'' in the fifth-floor painting and sculpture galleries. There is talk of timed tickets. But if you can put up with all the pageantry, you'll have a rare chance to get acquainted with ''The Scream'' in person and in context. The museum has built a mini-exhibition around the work, surrounding it with Munch paintings and prints that amplify its motifs and mood. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Rosenberg)
Museum of Modern Art: 'New Photography 2012' (through Feb. 4) In her pellucid photographs, Anne Collier contemplates old record album covers and an Edward Weston photograph in an old MoMA date book. In montages by Michele Abeles we see the bodies of naked men through spaces between grids and stripes cut from other printed materials. Shirana Shahbazi's abstractions picture alluring colors and light of photography itself. Zoe Crosher recycles amateur snapshots by a woman who worked as an escort in the 1960s, '70s and '80s. The two members of a team known as Birdhead use nondigital cameras and black-and-white film to shoot scenes in their hometown, Shanghai. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Johnson)
Museum of Modern Art: 'Projects 99: Meiro Koizumi' (through May 6) It would be hard to find another work of contemporary art that protests war with such soulful grace as Meiro Koizumi's ''Defect in Vision'' (2011), the main attraction of this small show. This 12-minute, black-and-white video dramatizes a final conversation between a kamikaze pilot and his wife, both of whom are blind, as they eat together in a small, old-world-style dining room. It is a riveting meditation on the doomed, myth-saturated mind of Japan's warrior class in the last days of World War II. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Johnson)
&#x2605; Museum of Modern Art: 'Alina Szapocznikow: Sculpture Undone, 1955-1972' (through Jan. 28) This small but intense exhibition is the museum's second show of an Eastern European female artist in less than a year, following the Conceptual performance and photography of ''Sanja Ivekovic: Sweet Violence.'' For many Americans it will be their first look at Ms. Szapocznikow's precocious Pop-Surrealist sculpture, much of which parallels work made on these shores by Lynda Benglis, Eva Hesse and Hannah Wilke. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Museum of Modern Art: 'Tokyo 1955-1970: A New Avant-Garde' (through Feb. 25) Modernist art, insurgent and utopian, ignited like a firecracker cluster in cities across the globe in the early 20th century, and Tokyo was one of them. Rising from the ashes after World War II, it produced huge amounts of new art, feisty, fantastic, often politically subversive. And a wave of it comes surging out at you like a blast of sound -- half noise, half music -- in this surprising exhibition made up of loans from Japan and little-seen material from MoMA's collection. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Holland Cotter)
Museum of Modern Art: 'Performing Histories (1)' (through March 11) An awareness of the uprisings, protests, occupations and revolutions erupting around the globe is present in ''Performing Histories (1),'' a show of video, film and photographic work recently acquired by MoMA. Insurrection and resistance pervade the Romanian artist Ion Grigorescu's film ''Dialogue With Ceausescu'' (1978), while the feminist personal as political is employed in Martha Rosler's ''She Sees in Herself a New Woman Every Day'' (1976) and Sharon Hayes's four-channel video ''The Interpreter Project'' (2001). Andrea Fraser's two videos connect politics and the museum. In one she describes how scientific philanthropy in the 19th century directed wealth to museums and other public institutions rather than the poor, while another video delves into how MoMA itself interacted with revolutionaries and communists, like the Mexican muralist Diego Rivera. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Schwendener)
&#x2605; New Museum: 'Rosemarie Trockel: A Cosmos' (closes on Sunday) This elegant, mind-expanding exhibition sidesteps the standard retrospective format and a linear, canonical version of art history. Ms. Trockel emphasizes her recent work in numerous mediums -- most impressively ceramics, photography and drawing, sharing the spotlight with outsider artists, botanical illustrations and zoological models and even natural specimens. The result is completely entrancing, a celebration of nature and also of human nature -- its curiosity, ingenuity and yearning for expression -- encapsulated by the artist's magnanimous vision. 235 Bowery, at Prince Street, Lower East Side, (212) 219-1222, newmuseum.org. (Smith)
New-York Historical Society: 'John Rogers: American Stories' (through Feb. 18) The sculptor John Rogers (1829-1904) was the Norman Rockwell of his time. For a few decades following the Civil War, his lively, anecdotal, figurative tableaus known as Rogers Groups sold by the tens of thousands to middle- and upper-middle-class folks for about $15 apiece. Including examples of the technically impressive bronze masters from which the multiples were cast in plaster, this exhibition showcases an artist who was as remarkable for his entrepreneurial savvy as for his idealistic vision of life in America. 170 Central Park West, at 77th Street, (212) 873-3400, nyhistory.org. (Johnson)
&#x2605; Rubin Museum of Art: 'Radical Terrain' (through April 29) The third and last of three beautifully produced, back-to-back mini-surveys in the series Modernist Art From India, this exhibition combines landscape painting done in India in the years following independence in 1947 with recent work by young artists -- some South Asian, most not -- that corresponds to or comments on the older art. Small in size and unfamiliar in content, the show is large with history. 150 West 17th Street, Chelsea, (212) 620-5000, rmanyc.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; South Street Seaport Museum: 'Compass: Folk Art in Four Directions' (through Feb. 3) The American Folk Art Museum presents some 200 works from its unparalleled collection in this beautifully orchestrated exhibition. Paintings, sculpture, textiles, scrimshaw, painted furniture and much, much more are arrayed along themes that reflect the history of Lower Manhattan -- seafaring, commerce, social life and that all-important factor, the weather -- but not too tightly. Poetic license is taken, yielding an intricate constellation of connected artworks, histories and concerns that highlights one of the city's great treasures. 12 Fulton Street, Lower Manhattan, (212) 748-8600, southstreetseaportmuseum.org. (Smith)
&#x2605; Studio Museum in Harlem: 'Fore' (through March 10) In 2001 the Studio Museum in Harlem opened a dynamite group exhibition called ''Freestyle,'' which turned out to be the first in a series of shows introducing emerging artists of African-American descent. In the latest edition, ''Fore,'' organized by three young staff curators, Lauren Haynes, Naima J. Keith and Thomas J. Lax, covers the waterfront in terms of media, which it samples and mixes with turntablist flair, and in its contents, ranging from abstract to personal to political, sometimes combining all three. Firelei Bez, Sadie Barnette, Crystal Z. Campbell, Zachary Fabri, Yashua Klos, Akosua Adoma Owusu, Valerie Piraino and Nikki Pressley are some of the names to look for. 144 West 125th Street, (212) 864-4500, studiomuseum.org. (Cotter)
Whitney Museum of American Art: 'Richard Artschwager!' (through Feb. 3) Mr. Artschwager had his first career retrospective at the Whitney Museum in 1988, and now, at 88, he is having his second. Much of the work -- the furniturelike sculptures covered with wood-grain Formica and the paintings that appeared to be done with smudged soot -- is familiar. His recent portraits of George W. Bush and Osama bin Laden, and his high-color landscapes of the American Southwest are not. An installation of his famous ''blps'' (pronounced blips), abstract lozenge forms, usually black and shaped like the uprights in an exclamation point, is in place on and around the High Line near the site of the Whitney's future home at Gansevoort and Washington Streets. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Cotter)
Whitney Museum of American Art: 'Trisha Baga: Plymouth Rock 2' (through Jan. 27) ''Plymouth Rock 2,'' a single-room installation by a young up-and-comer consists of seemingly random video scenes projected on one wall and banal, shadow-casting objects on the floor. Images of heaving ocean swells shot from a swimmer's point of view and of a beachcomber with a metal detector imply some kind of quest like a search for the Holy Grail, which turns out to be Plymouth Rock, the boulder whereon, legend has it, the Pilgrims first alighted in the New World, now a sadly nondescript tourist attraction. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Johnson)
&#x2605; Whitney Museum of American Art: 'Sinister Pop' and 'Dark and Deadpan: Pop in TV and the Movies' (through March 31) The dark and truculent mood of this collection show is conversant with recent presentations of Warhol's death-and-disaster paintings, but the curators make plenty of room for other artists (including photographers). The point is not to cast a pall over Pop as we know it; it's to find common ground between the winking consumerism of early-1960s art and the antiwar, anti-corporate sentiment of work made later in the decade and into the 1970s. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Rosenberg)
Galleries: Uptown
&#x2605; 'Calder: The Complete Bronzes' (through Feb. 9) The ingenious master of spare, levitating modern sculpture in wire, wood and sheet metal turns out to have been almost as adept with the ancient dead-weight staple of bronze, as demonstrated by 35 examples and some dozen plaster models in this eye-opening show. They run the gamut from figurative to abstract; dabble in Surrealism; achieve their own kind of levitation; and delve into art history while enabling the artist to use his hands and amazing tactile sense in a different way. Mnuchin Gallery, 45 East 78th Street, (212) 861-0020, mnuchingallery.com. (Smith)
Galleries: Chelsea
'Cellblock I' and 'Cellblock II' (through Feb. 2) This pair of strenuously cerebral group shows, both organized by the scholar Robert Hobbs, envision the artwork as a kind of prison (formalist and otherwise). ''Cellblock I,'' in the main gallery, includes large paintings by Peter Halley, plans for underground mazes by Alice Aycock, works from Robert Motherwell's ''Open'' series and Kelley Walker's canvases printed with images of brick walls. The livelier ''Cellblock II,'' in the gallery's new project space down the street, gathers smaller works by some of the same artists in ''Cellblock I,'' along with others like Robert Morris, Bruce Nauman and Nancy Holt. Andrea Rosen, 525 West 24th Street, Chelsea, (212) 627-6000, andrearosengallery.com. (Rosenberg)
Galleries: Other
'The Islands of Benot Mandelbrot: Fractals, Chaos, and the Materiality of Thinking' (through Jan. 27) This heady, compact exhibition presents efforts from the 1960s and '70s to visualize a species of mathematical formulas known as fractals, a term coined by the mathematician Benot Mandelbrot (1924-2012). The visual impact of the computer printouts, short films, 3-D models, letters, sketches and Polaroids on display is low, but the philosophical import is great considering the enormous advances in scientific imaging technology that have happened since those early days. Bard Graduate Center, 18 West 86th Street, Manhattan, (212) 501-3023, bgc.bard.edu. (Johnson)
&#x2605; Simon Dinnerstein: 'The Fulbright Triptych' (ongoing) This little-known masterpiece of 1970s realism was begun by the young Simon Dinnerstein during a Fulbright fellowship in Germany in 1971 and completed in his hometown, Brooklyn, three years later. Incorporating carefully rendered art postcards, children's drawings and personal memorabilia; a formidable worktable laid out with printmaking tools and outdoor views; and the artist and his family, it synthesizes portrait, still life, interior and landscape and rummages through visual culture while sampling a dazzling range of textures and representational styles. It should be seen by anyone interested in the history of recent art and its oversights. German Consulate General, 871 United Nations Plaza, First Avenue, at 49th Street, (212) 610-9700, germany.info. (Smith)
Out of Town
&#x2605; Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden: 'Ai Weiwei: According to What?' (through Feb. 24) As seen in its first American survey, the work of the lionhearted Chinese artist Ai Weiwei, is no match for his prominent role as a human rights advocate. The sculptures and installation pieces too often adhere to the fashionable international genre of handsome, Conceptually generated artworks. Explanatory labels do much of the heavy lifting, along with historically-charged materials and objects, like Chinese antique furniture and wood from destroyed Qing dynasty temples. The artist's photographs and videos suggest that his documentary work may be best. On the National Mall, at Independence Avenue Southwest and Seventh Street, Washington, (202) 633-4674, hirshhorn.si.edu; free. (Smith)
&#x2605; Massachusetts Museum of Contemporary Art: 'Oh, Canada' (through April 8) Seesawing between bigness and intimacy, the personal and the communal, this 62-artist survey of contemporary art in the Great White North may tell you more about Canada's identity crisis than it does about Canadian art. A sense of place, if not nationhood, does emerge in stark photographs of Newfoundland by Ned Pratt and Kim Morgan's hanging latex cast of a lighthouse on Prince Edward Island. Elsewhere, cartoonlike pencil drawings by Annie Pootoogook and Shuvinai Ashoona depict contemporary Inuit life and the artist Amalie Atkins stars in a prairie fairy tale involving musical wolves and bears with golden teeth. 87 Marshall Street, North Adams, (413) 662-2111, massmoca.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Yale University Art Gallery (continuing) In a museum era dominated by vying forces of bad economics and compulsive building, it's a miracle when something comes out right, which makes the opening of the splendidly renovated and expanded Yale University Art Gallery a happy event. The angels of art, design and budgetary planning were on duty. Everything worked. The country's oldest university art museum has arrived at a kind institutional ideal of opposites in balance: an encyclopedic teaching museum, big enough to get lost in, small enough for intimate art encounters. New galleries of Indo-Pacific art are a particular attraction, but so are other collections, including one of the countries premier holdings in American art and a small, matchless display of very early Italian Renaissance painting. A special exhibition, ''Societe Anonyme: Modernism for America,'' made up of Yale-owned material, is on view through July 14. 1111 Chapel Street, New Haven, (203) 432-0600, artgallery.yale.edu. (Cotter)
Last Chance
El Anatsui: 'Pot of Wisdom' (closes on Saturday) Having made an international name for himself fashioning shimmering tapestries from the discarded foil and wire of liquor-bottle tops and wrappers, El Anatsui stages his third and best show yet at Jack Shainman Gallery. His latest efforts are rangier and more powerful on several fronts: composition, color, pictorial space and narrative suggestion. The sense of Mr. Anatsui opening up his art is unmistakable and thrilling. 513 West 20th Street, Chelsea, (212) 645-1701, jackshainman.com. (Smith)
&#x2605; Brooklyn Museum: 'Mickalene Thomas: Origin of the Universe' (closes on Sunday) This invigorating exhibition is dominated by big, brash collagelike paintings, thick with color and studded with rhinestones that depict cacophonous landscapes, spatially skewed interiors and, best of all, images of imperious black women among swaths of brightly patterned fabrics. Building on Conceptual identity art, borrowing from art history and 1970s blaxploitation extravagance, they subvert prevailing notions of beauty and taste and subvert the male gaze while offering resounding proof that the political, not only the personal, can also be stunningly pictorial. Bravo. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Smith)
Agnes Denes: 'Sculptures of the Mind: 1968 to Now' (closes on Saturday) By the end of the 1960s, art's final frontier was mind itself, and Agnes Denes has been one of its brainiest and far-ranging explorers. This much abridged retrospective includes a miniature tableau of skeletons in philosophical conversation, diagrams of a system of symbolic logic that Ms. Denes thought up, and photographs of outdoor works like the wheat field she planted on a parcel of landfill near the World Trade Center in 1982. Leslie Tonkonow, 535 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 255-8450, tonkonow.com. (Johnson)
&#x2605; 'Carroll Dunham' (closes on Saturday) All nine of Mr. Dunhams big, comical and exhilarating paintings represent landscapes resembling a South Pacific paradise, with chunky, fat-leafed trees and colorful, spongy flowers. Six feature the figure of a naked woman of heroic proportions with chalk-white skin and untamed black hair drawn in thick black lines, bathing, swimming and cavorting in this Edenic setting. She might be the artist's own inner wild woman. Gladstone, 515 West 24th Street, Chelsea, (212) 206-9300, gladstonegallery.com. (Johnson)
&#x2605; Frick Collection: 'Vincent van Gogh's Portrait of a Peasant (Patience Escalier)' (closes on Sunday) ''You'll shortly make the acquaintance of Mr. Patience Escalier -- a sort of man with a hoe, an old Camargue oxherd,'' Vincent van Gogh wrote to his brother, Theo, from the Provenal city of Arles in 1888. His bracingly vivid portrait the same year of this local character, with his grizzled beard and steely blue eyes offset by a ruddy complexion and bright yellow hat, normally resides at the Norton Simon Museum in Pasadena, Calif. But for the past few months it has been at the Frick as part of an exchange program between the two museums. Installed on a temporary wall in the Oval Room, it shocks the neighboring Whistler portraits with its feral gaze and forthright celebration of hard labor. 1 East 70th Street, (212) 288-0700, frick.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Guggenheim Museum: 'Picasso Black and White' (closes on Wednesday) Billed as the first monochromatic look at Picasso's whole career, this exhibition is as eye-opening as it is elegant. That's especially true among the later works on the upper ramps, which push well past the obligatory Neo-Classicism and Analytic Cubism into bracingly sensual explorations of the figure, strident political cries de coeur  la Guernica, and winking homages to Delacroix and Velzquez. Also notable: Thirty eight of the show's 118 works have never been exhibited in this country, and 5, among them the sharply angular ''Bust of a Woman With a Hat'' (1939), have never been on view publicly. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Rosenberg)
Chris McCaw: 'Marking Time' (closes on Saturday) In Chris McCaw's haunting yet matter-of-fact photographs, the sun has burned crispy-edged lines across the skies of spectral land- and seascapes. Mr. McCaw constructs his own large-format cameras, which he equips with military surveillance lenses. Traveling to remote places, he exposes sheets of photo paper for durations from 15 minutes to 24 hours. The lens concentrates the sun into an inflammatory dot, which cuts through the paper like a welder's torch slicing through steel. Yossi Milo, 245 10th Avenue, near 24th Street, Chelsea, (212) 414-0370, yossimilo.com. (Johnson)
New Museum: 'Judith Bernstein: ''HARD'' ' (closes on Sunday) Ms. Bernstein is well-known for the giant drawings of phallic screws that she began making in the late 1960s. Two from the '70s are the main attractions in this much-abbreviated, 40-year retrospective, her first show in a museum. In these bravura performances of draftsmanship on vast sheets of paper, the screws extend horizontally as if they were drilling tunnels through mountains. Rendered by sweeping strokes of charcoal, they appear wildly hairy and scarily purposeful: biomechanical monstrosities of testosterone-fueled fury. 235 Bowery, at Prince Street, Lower East Side, (212) 219-1222, newmuseum.org. (Johnson)
John A. Parks: 'Paint and Memory' (closes on Saturday) The strange, seemingly innocent paintings that dominate this show are small, based on the artist's childhood memories and painted with his fingers. The loosely Pointillist, somewhat Vuillardian hazes of color, light and form that result demarcate trees, gardens, brick buildings, puffy clouds and, above all, scrambling children, whose feral energy and natural subversiveness are vividly conveyed. The distinction between illustration and painting is rendered moot by the teeming quality of both surface and subject. 532 Gallery Thomas Jaeckel, 532 West 25th Street, Chelsea, (917) 701-3338, 532gallery.com. (Smith)
&#x2605; Philadelphia Museum of Art: 'Dancing Around the Bride: Cage, Cunningham, Johns, Rauschenberg and Duchamp' (closes on Monday) This Philadelphia show, an ensemble performance composed of entirely stars, with an elusive sun, Marcel Duchamp, at the center, focuses on a transformative moment in American modernism when a heroic view of art ended, and another view, cool, wry and brainy, began. Benjamin Franklin Parkway at 26th Street, (215) 763-8100, philamuseum.org. (Cotter)
Sandra Sheehy: 'Music From a Garden at Dusk' (closes on Saturday) A magical mini-survey of the eight-year progress of a contemporary self-taught artist whose free-form way with paper, beads, shells, stones, sequins, pearls, thread and yarn, as well as embroidery and quite a bit of ingenious wrapping and knotting, yields eccentric, cocoonlike assemblages that hold culture and nature in exquisite balance. Cavin-Morris Gallery, 210 11th Avenue, at West 25th Street, Chelsea, (212) 226-3768, cavinmorris.com. (Smith)
&#x2605; The Walters Art Museum: 'Revealing the African Presence in Renaissance Europe' (closes on Monday) This history-rattling exhibition is a visual gift, with marvelous things by artists familiar and revered -- Durer, Rubens, Veronese -- along with images most of us never knew existed. Together, they map a history of art, politics and race that few museums have addressed in full-dress style. Like the best scholarship, the Walters show, organized by Joaneath Spicer, the museum's curator of Renaissance and Baroque art, is as much about questions as answers. It takes a prized piece of art history, one polished to a glow by generations of attention, and turns it in an unexpected direction, so it catches the searching, scouring rays of new investigative light. (This exhibition moves to the Princeton University Art Museum in Princeton, N.J., next month, running from Feb. 16 to June 9.) 600 North Charles Street, Baltimore, (410) 547-9000, thewalters.org. (Cotter)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: 'CALDER: THE COMPLETE BRONZES': (through Feb. 9) Alexander Calder (1898-1976), the ingenious master of spare, levitating modern sculpture in wire, wood and sheet metal, turns out to have been almost as adept with the ancient, dead-weight staple of bronze, as demonstrated by 35 examples (including ''The Vine,'' above, from 1944) and some dozen plaster models in this eye-opening show. They run the gamut from figurative to abstract
dabble in Surrealism
achieve their own kind of levitation
 and delve into art history while having enabled the artist to use his hands and amazing tactile sense in a different way. L&M Arts, 45 East 78th Street, Manhattan, (212) 861-0020, lmgallery.com. (Roberta Smith) (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (96%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (91%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (79%); HISTORY (78%); TRENDS (78%); ART HISTORY (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); GRAND RAPIDS, MI, USA (55%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2013



580 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 3833 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
Theater
Approximate running times are in parentheses. Theaters are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of current productions, additional listings, showtimes and ticket information are at nytimes.com/theater. A searchable, critical guide to theater is at nytimes.com/events.
Previews and Openings
'All in the Timing' (previews start on Wednesday; opens on Feb. 12) Fresh from his well-reviewed Broadway production of ''A Christmas Story, the Musical,'' John Rando directs the 20th-anniversary revival of this collection of six one-act comedies in which David Ives brings his playful perspective and wizardry with language to matters romantic and existential. The cast for the Primary Stages production includes Jenn Harris, Carson Elrod and Matthew Saldivar. 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, Manhattan, (212) 279-4200, primarystages.org. (David Rooney) 
'Bethany' (in previews; opens on Sunday) Playing a struggling resident of a depressed American exurb blighted by foreclosures, America Ferrera leaves behind the glitzy fashion and media world she inhabited on ''Ugly Betty'' in this dark comedy by Laura Marks. Gaye Taylor Upchurch directs the world premiere, which kicks off the 35th season of the Women's Project in its new Midtown home. City Center Stage II, 131 West 55th Street, Manhattan, (212) 581-1212, nycitycenter.org. (Rooney)
'Clive' (in previews; opens on Feb. 7) After directing Jonathan Marc Sherman's ''Things We Want'' for the New Group, Ethan Hawke reunites with that playwright and company to stage this world premiere inspired by Bertolt Brecht's ''Baal.'' Mr. Hawke also plays the title character in this modern update, which traces the slide from success to self-destruction of a songwriter in 1990s New York. Brooks Ashmanskas, Vincent D'Onofrio and Zoe Kazan also star in the production, which features live performances of classic American songs. Acorn Theater at Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Rooney)
'Collision' (in previews; opens on Tuesday) The prolific no-rules New York theater troupe the Amoralists return with this incendiary drama written by Lyle Kessler and directed by David Fofi. An incongruous bunch of intellectuals meet in a heartland college dormitory and embark on a dangerous quest to create order out of chaos. Rattlestick Playwrights Theater, 224 Waverly Place, between Perry and West 11th Streets, Greenwich Village, (866) 811-4111, collisiontheplay.com. (Rooney)
'The House of Von Macrame' (previews start on Tuesday; opens on Wednesday) It's not the stage musical adaptation of ''The Eyes of Laura Mars'' that some of us have secretly prayed for, but this ''pop horror fashion show'' sounds close enough. Originally seen as a serialized play at the Flea Theater, this musical follows a small-town girl who becomes muse to a flamboyant designer and is haunted by grisly visions of murdered models that are the handiwork of the Lipstick Killer. Matt Marks wrote the songs, with Joshua Conkel handling book duties. Bushwick Starr, 207 Starr Street, between Irving and Wyckoff Avenues, Brooklyn, (800) 836-3006, thebushwickstarr.org. (Rooney)
'The Jammer' (in previews; opens on Tuesday) Fresh out of the Yale School of Drama, Rolin Jones turned heads at the Atlantic in 2005 with his play ''The Intelligent Design of Jenny Chow.'' After several years devoted to his busy television writing career (''Weeds,'' ''Boardwalk Empire''), Mr. Jones returns to the stage with this contemporary urban fable set in the hard-boiled world of professional roller derby in 1950s New York. Jackson Gay directs a nine-member cast led by Patch Darragh. Atlantic Stage 2, 330 West 16th Street, Chelsea, (212) 279-4200, ticketcentral.com. (Rooney)
'Totally Tubular Time Machine' (previews start on Saturday; opens on Feb. 9) Every time a new jukebox assembly appears, musical theater purists complain that the form is being dumbed down into elaborate karaoke. The creators of this show thumb their noses at such charges. This immersive experience allows audiences to time-travel through the 1980s and '90s and back to the present, joining the party of celebrity excess and pop mash-up. (Saturdays only) Culture Club, 20 West 39th Street, totallytubularnyc.com, (212) 921-1999. (Rooney)
'The Vandal' (previews start on Friday; opens on Jan. 31) Since wrapping up his sitcom role on ''The New Adventures of Old Christine,'' Hamish Linklater has impressed on New York stages in ''Seminar'' and ''School for Lies.'' He follows other actors who have recently ventured into playwriting, like Jesse Eisenberg, Zach Braff and Zoe Kazan, with this enigmatic encounter between a woman and a boy, who swap stories one cold night at a Kingston, N.Y., bus stop. Jim Simpson directs a cast that includes Zach Grenier, Deirdre O'Connell and Noah Robbins. Flea Theater, 41 White Street, TriBeCa, (212) 226-2407, theflea.org. (Rooney)
Broadway
'Annie' James Lapine's revival of the singing comic strip from 1977 is merely serviceable. But its smiley-faced mixture of hope and corn scratches an itch in a city recovering from a recession and a hurricane. Theatergoers may feel the urge both to mist up and throw up, but Lilla Crawford is a nigh irresistible Orphan Annie. With Katie Finneran and Anthony Warlow (2:25). Palace Theater, 1564 Broadway, at 47th Street, (877) 250-2929, ticketmaster.com. (Ben Brantley)
'Evita' This just in: Eva Pern is still dead. That, anyway, is on the evidence of Michael Grandage's unsmiling revival of Andrew Lloyd Webber and Tim Rice's 1978 bio-musical, which feels about as warm-blooded as a gilded mummy. Elena Roger, Michael Cerveris and Ricky Martin are the stars of this earnest combination of requiem mass and history pageant (2:30). Marquis Theater, 1535 Broadway, at 45th Street, Manhattan, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com. (Brantley)
'The Heiress' Masterpiece Theater on Broadway. Moiss Kaufman's revival of Ruth and Augustus Goetz's sturdy war horse, starring a one-note Jessica Chastain, is lovely to look at, easy to follow and -- aside from a vivid supporting performance from Judith Ivey -- about as full of real life as an Olde New York Christmas window in a department store (2:45). Walter Kerr Theater, 219 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
&#x2605; 'The Mystery of Edwin Drood' A boisterous, well-cast revival of Rupert Holmes's Tony-winning 1986 musical, which gives the audience the chance to choose the identity of the killer of the titular hero. Chita Rivera lends an air of authentic glamour, Jim Norton is a cutup as the music-hall proprietor, and the young cast sings the lovely score with great skill (2:35). Studio 54, 254 West 54th Street, roundabouttheatre.org, (212) 719-1300. (Charles Isherwood)
'Newsies' This Disney musical -- adapted from the 1992 movie and inspired by the newsboy strike of 1899 -- markets Urchin Appeal with extra! extra! enthusiasm. Jeff Calhoun directs a cast of comely, if overgrown, ragamuffins. The largely interchangeable songs are by Alan Menken and Jack Feldman (2:20). Nederlander Theater, 208 West 41st Street, (866) 870-2717, newsiesthemusical.com. (Brantley)
'Nice Work if You Can Get It' Every now and then a bubble of pure, tickling charm rises from the artificial froth of this pastiche 1920s musical, directed by Kathleen Marshall and featuring songs by George and Ira Gershwin. But mostly the production, starring Matthew Broderick and Kelli O'Hara, registers as a shiny, dutiful trickle of gags and production numbers (2:30). Imperial Theater, 249 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
&#x2605; 'Once' This gentle musical, set in Dublin, about a love affair that never quite happens -- based on the 2006 movie -- inventively uses songs (by Glen Hansard and Marketa Irglova) and dance to convey a beautiful shimmer of might-have-been regret. Staged by John Tiffany and Steven Hoggett (''Black Watch''), the production stars the immensely appealing Steve Kazee and Cristin Milioti (2:15). Bernard B. Jacobs Theater, 242 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'The Other Place' Laurie Metcalf gives a captivating, complicated performance in Sharr White's clever puzzle of a drama, portraying a woman grappling with sudden onset of a mysterious illness at the same time as her personal life -- disloyal husband (Daniel Stern), estranged daughter (Zoe Perry) -- threatens to implode. Joe Mantello's nimble direction ratchets up the suspense (1:10). Friedman Theater, 261 West 47th Street, Manhattan, (800) 432-7250, mtc-nyc.org. (Isherwood)
'Picnic' A torso stars in Sam Gold's stultifying revival of William Inge's time-yellowed 1953 play, set in lusty, dusty Kansas. The torso belongs to Sebastian Stan as a handsome drifter whose bare pecs and abs stir deep longings in lonely bosoms. Those being stirred include Maggie Grace, Elizabeth Marvel, Ellen Burstyn and the excellent Mare Winningham (2:05). American Airlines Theater, 227 West 42nd Street, (212) 719-1300, roundabouttheatre.org. (Brantley)
&#x2605; 'Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?' Pam MacKinnon's shattering 50th-anniversary revival of Edward Albee's hair-raising drama of marital discord stars an electrifying Tracy Letts (of ''August: Osage County'' fame) as George and Amy Morton (ditto) as Martha, ably supported by Carrie Coon and Madison Dirks as the young couple they use as cannon fodder. Not to be missed (3:05). Booth Theater, 222 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
(Isherwood)
Off Broadway
'Bare' Stafford Arima directs this tale of star-cross'd gay lovers in a Roman Catholic boarding school. While the boys try to keep their romance secret, the truth comes spilling out during a school production of ''Romeo and Juliet.'' Retooled significantly since its first incarnation in 2000, this emo musical has been updated to reflect attitudes toward homophobia and bullying in the ''It Gets Better'' era. But despite touching moments and a committed cast, the material is too painfully earnest and riddled with clichs to connect with audiences not still mired in adolescence (2:30). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, baremusicalnyc.com. (Rooney)
'Cougar the Musical' Three older women find themselves attracted to younger men, two against their better judgment. The concept seems made for bus tours, but imagination, appealing numbers with original melodies and theme-transcending jokes lift this show well above the level of ''Menopause: The Musical'' and its ilk (1:30). St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Anita Gates)
&#x2605; 'Forbidden Broadway: Alive and Kicking' Gerard Alessandrini's essential satirical cheat sheet to Broadway musicals returns after a three-year absence, packing polished brass knuckles. A precisionist cast of four provides vocal cartoons as evocative as Al Hirschfeld's caricatures. This show not only tickles but also pierces the Achilles' heels of the productions under scrutiny (1:40). At the 47th Street Theater, 304 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
&#x2605; 'Fried Chicken and Latkes' Rain Pryor, the daughter of the comedian Richard Pryor, stars in this effervescent solo show, which recounts her upbringing in a biracial household (her mother is Jewish) in Beverly Hills, Calif. Ms. Pryor, who sings and portrays a range of characters (including, poignantly, her father in a spot-on impression) is an ebullient performer with a robust singing voice. Her outsize personality is built for Broadway (1:30). Actor's Temple Theater, 339 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Andy Webster)
'In Acting Shakespeare' What began as an homage to Ian McKellen's one-man show ''Acting Shakespeare'' has become a boisterous, agreeable and somewhat glib tale of acting Shakespeare. The eager-to-please James DeVita charts his progress from histrionics to honesty, interwoven with bits of Shakespeare biography and plenty of dog-eared soliloquies (1:45). Pearl Theater, 555 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 563-9261, pearltheatre.org. (Grode)
'Job' The professionally confrontational Thomas Bradshaw (''Burning'') revisits the Old Testament's most famously afflicted figure in this short, sharp and joltingly funny work, which lets us see a familiar tale through wise virgin eyes. Benjamin H. Kamine ably steers a bright young cast through Mr. Bradshaw's unsparingly graphic vision of heaven and earth (1:00). Flea Theater, 41 White Street, TriBeCa, (212) 226-2407, theflea.org. (Brantley)
'Love in the Time of Cholera' Directed by Jos Zayas and performed by an efficient four-actor crew, Caridad Svich's adaptation of the Gabriel Garca Mrquez novel is pleasing but lightweight. A production cannot live on romance alone. In Spanish with subtitles (2:00). Friday at 8 p.m. only. Gramercy Arts Theater, 138 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 889-2850, repertorio.org. (Claudia La Rocco)
'My Name Is Asher Lev' Aaron Posner's adaptation of Chaim Potok's novel feels like a well-made play from the era in which the story takes place -- the 1950s. Set in a Hasidic community in Brooklyn, this tale of an artistic prodigy has been directed with an attention to emotional nuance by Gordon Edelstein and features strong performances from its three-person cast: Ari Brand, Mark Nelson and Jenny Bacon (1:30). Westside Theater/Upstairs, 407 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Rachel Saltz)
&#x2605; 'Water by the Spoonful' Quiara Alegra Hudes's moving collage of lives in crisis, the 2012 winner of the Pulitzer Prize for drama, is the second part of a trilogy centering on the Ortiz family. Elliot (the fine Armando Riesco), a former Marine injured in Iraq, struggles with the loss of the aunt who raised him and a tempestuous reconnection with the ex-crack-addict mother who abandoned him (2:10). Second Stage Theater, 305 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 246-4422, 2st.com. (Isherwood)
Off Off Broadway
&#x2605; 'Patti Issues' In his funny, tender coming-of-age monologue, Ben Rimalower traces the obsessive Patti LuPone fandom that provided him with an empowering role model. That inspiration proved perhaps most useful to Mr. Rimalower in processing the fallout after his father kicked down the closet door and bailed on the family. While on one hand, this is the story of many young gay men's propensity for diva worship, the tartly observed show goes further by exploring the wide-eyed experiences that result when the acolyte gets to interact with his idol (1:00). Duplex Cabaret Theater, 61 Christopher Street, at Seventh Avenue, Greenwich Village, pattiissues.brownpapertickets.com. (Rooney)
Long-Running Shows
'Black Angels Over Tuskegee' The tear-jerker story of these trailblazing African-American pilots (2:30). Actors Temple Theater, 339 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Chicago' Jazz Age sex, murder and razzle-dazzle (2:25). Ambassador Theater, 219 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'En el Tiempo de las Mariposas' Caridad Svich's Spanish-language adaptation of Julia lvarez's novel (''In the Time of the Butterflies'') about the Mirabal sisters, who opposed the Dominican dictator Rafael Trujillo and died as a result (2:00). Friday only at Repertorio Espaol at Gramercy Arts Theater, 138 East 27th Street, (212) 225-9999, repertorio.org/mariposas.
'Fuerza Bruta: Look Up' A sensory bath aimed at clubgoing college kids in search of cultural diversion (1:05). Daryl Roth Theater, 20 Union Square East, at 15th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Mary Poppins' Supernanny (2:30). New Amsterdam Theater, 214 West 42nd Street, (800) 870-2717, ticketmaster.com.
'The Phantom of the Opera' Who was that masked man anyway? (2:30). Majestic Theater, 247 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Rock of Ages' Big hair, thrashing guitars and inspired humor fuel this jukebox musical (2:25). Helen Hayes Theater, 240 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Sleep No More' A movable, murderous feast at Hotel Macbeth (2:00). The McKittrick Hotel, 530 West 27th Street, Chelsea, (866) 811-4111, sleepnomorenyc.com.
'Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark' Web surfing with music (2:45). Foxwoods Theater, 213 West 42nd Street, spidermanonbroadway.marvel.com, (800) 745-3000.
Last Chance
&#x2605; 'The Freedom of the City' (closes on Sunday) The masterful contemporary Irish dramatist Brian Friel puts a human face on the Troubles in Northern Ireland with this stirring drama from 1973 about the shooting by British soldiers of three nonviolent civilian protesters at a march, which echoes the tragic events of Bloody Sunday the year before. Staged by Ciaran O'Reilly, this drama steadily tightens its grip, from its absorbing beginnings through to its shattering conclusion. The standout among the generally solid cast is Cara Seymour as a stubbornly optimistic housewife and mother of 11 children, living in two rooms with a useless husband and no running water (2:00). Irish Repertory Theater, 132 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 727-2737, irishrep.org. (Rooney)
'Glengarry Glen Ross' (closes on Sunday) The fight has gone out of the boys from David Mamet's 1984 Pulitzer Prize-winning drama of sharks in a small pond. In Daniel Sullivan's deflated production, which stars an extravagantly gesturing Al Pacino, it's as if all the competitive fierceness has been sucked from them by some cosmic super-vacuum cleaner. It also stars Bobby Cannavale as the hotshot Ricky Roma (1:40). Schoenfeld Theater, 236 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
&#x2605; 'Golden Boy' (closes on Sunday) Bartlett Sher directs a superbly cast revival of Clifford Odets's 1937 drama about a young man (Seth Numrich) torn between a career as a boxer and his first love, the violin. It's a richly atmospheric production that cuts to the emotional quick of Odets's still-vital play (2:45). Belasco Theater, 111 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)
&#x2605; 'Grimly Handsome' (closes on Sunday) Weird urban wildlife, funny and expansive language, and three terrific actors: What's not to like about Julia Jarcho's latest play, which mucks around in the darkly rich underbelly of the city? The play, part of Incubator Arts Project's Other Forces festival, has no intermission (1:30). Incubator Arts Project, St. Mark's Church, 131 East 10th Street, East Village, (212) 352-3101, incubatorarts.org. (La Rocco)
'Hamlet, Prince of Grief' (closes on Sunday) The shortest ''Hamlet'' you'll probably ever see, presented as part of the Under the Radar festival: an Iranian production starring Afshin Hashemi and a suitcase full of plastic toys, in a 30-minute contemporary gloss on the Shakespeare tragedy (:30). Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, publictheater.org. (Isherwood)
'I, Malvolio' (closes on Sunday) Tim Crouch's solo show, which reimagines Shakespeare's ''Twelfth Night'' from the perspective of its most put-upon character, improbably finds the sweet (and sour) spot between comedy and self-subverting analysis. This British import skillfully takes its audience into a discomfort zone where laughter rings hollow. Unusually gutsy -- and thoughtful -- stuff for children's theater (1:00). The Duke on 42nd Street, 229 West 42nd Street, (646) 223-3010, new42.org. (Brantley)
&#x2605; 'Inflatable Frankenstein' (closes on Saturday) A sticky, gooey, embarrassing and essential mess, which is what happens when you set about to give birth to something like a monster -- or a play. This gleeful hourlong exploration of Mary Shelley's novel and its descendants comes from Radiohole, the Brooklyn-based company that has dedicated itself to the proposition that art isn't tidy (1:00). This work is a Radiohole production, presented by Performance Space 122 and the Kitchen, as part of the Coil Festival. The Kitchen, 512 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 255-5793, Ext. 11, thekitchen.org. (Brantley)
&#x2605; 'Opus No. 7' (closes on Saturday) Memory is an active muse, as demanding as an Olympics gymnastic coach, in this fittingly memorable work from the Dmitry Krymov Lab and the Moscow Theater of Dramatic Art. A thrillingly inventive, genre-blending production about the search for lost time, in which puppets, bodiless arms and burning pianos all play a role (2:30). St. Ann's Warehouse, 29 Jay Street, at Plymouth Street, Dumbo, Brooklyn, (718) 254-8779, stannswarehouse.org. (Brantley)
&#x2605; 'Peter and the Starcatcher' (closes on Sunday) The most exhilarating and inventive example of story theater since the Royal Shakespeare Company's ''Life and Adventures of Nicholas Nickleby.'' This production, about the boy who became Peter Pan, is an enchanted anatomy of the urge to defy gravity. Roger Rees and Alex Timbers direct (2:10). Brooks Atkinson Theater, 256 West 47th Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com. (Brantley)
&#x2605; 'The Piano Lesson' (closes on Sunday) August Wilson's Pulitzer Prize-winning play, set in Pittsburgh in 1936, gets a galvanizingly beautiful staging by Ruben Santiago-Hudson, featuring memorable performances virtually across the board. A highlight of the year in theater (2:50). Signature Center, 480 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 244-7529, signaturetheatre.org. (Isherwood)
&#x2605; 'Ruff' (closes on Saturday) In her new solo work, written with and directed by Lois Weaver, Peggy Shaw recounts her experience before, during and after she suffered a stroke. The show, part of Performance Space 122's Coil Festival, is dryly funny and appealingly rough-edged, but full of sharp, moving insights (1:15). Dixon Place, 161 Chrystie Street, Lower East Side, (212) 811-4111, ps122.org/coil. (Isherwood)
'Tar Baby' (closes on Saturday) This freewheeling comic performance piece about race is painstakingly self-conscious, conceptually considered and more than a little mechanical in its execution (1:15). DR2 Theater, 103 East 15th Street, Manhattan, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Zinoman)
&#x2605; 'Tribes' (closes on Sunday) Nina Raine's smart, lively and beautifully acted play asks us to hear how we hear, in silence as well as speech. This British import considers the passive and aggressive forms of listening within an insular, intellectual family, whose members include a deaf son. David Cromer is the expert director (2:15). Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street, at Seventh Avenue South, West Village, (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com. (Brantley)
'Vanya and Sonia and Masha and Spike' (closes on Sunday) Nomenclature would seem to be fate for the title characters of Christopher Durang's sunny comedy about gloomy people. David Hyde Pierce, Kristine Nielsen and Sigourney Weaver portray three siblings (if not three sisters) whose parents burdened them with Chekovian names. Nicholas Martin directs this surprisingly mild-mannered work from a savage satirist (2:30). Mitzi E. Newhouse Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: 'THE HEIRESS': Masterpiece Theater on Broadway. Moiss Kaufman's revival of Ruth and Augustus Goetz's sturdy war horse, starring a one-note Jessica Chastain (a recent Golden Globe winner for best actress in the film ''Zero Dark Thirty''), is lovely to look at, easy to follow -- and aside from a vivid supporting performance from Judith Ivey -- about as full of real life as an Olde New York Christmas window in a department store. The cast also includes David Strathairn and, above with Ms. Chastain, Dan Stevens of ''Downton Abbey'' (2:45). Walter Kerr Theater, 219 West 48th Street, Manhattan, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Ben Brantley) (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); WRITERS (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); DRAMA LITERATURE (79%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (79%); THEATER COMPANIES (79%); MUSICAL THEATER (79%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (79%); SONG WRITING (76%); CHRISTMAS (71%); FORECLOSURE (67%); STUDENT HOUSING (67%); THEATER (59%); ANNIVERSARIES (55%)

ORGANIZATION: WOMEN'S PROJECT (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2013



581 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 993 words

HEADLINE: Movement of Missiles by North Korea Worries U.S.

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER and DAVID E. SANGER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The discovery by American intelligence agencies that North Korea is moving mobile missile launchers around the country, some carrying a new generation of powerful rocket, has spurred new assessments of the intentions of the country's young new leader, Kim Jong-un, who has talked about economic change but appears to be accelerating the country's ability to attack American allies or forces in Asia, and ultimately to strike across the Pacific.
The new mobile missile, called the KN-08, has not yet been operationally deployed, and American officials say it may not be ready for some time. But the discovery that the mobile units have already been dispersed around the country, where they can be easily hidden, has prompted the White House, the Pentagon and intelligence agencies to reassess whether North Korea's missile capabilities are improving at a pace that poses a new challenge to American defenses. 
On Thursday, speaking in Italy, the departing defense secretary, Leon E. Panetta, broke from the usual Obama administration script -- which is to write off North Korea as a broke and desperate country -- and told American troops that he was increasingly worried about another, longer-range North Korean missile, one that was successfully tested last month and reached as far as the Philippines, and could lob a warhead much farther.
''Who the hell knows what they're going to do from day to day?'' Mr. Panetta said. ''And right now, you know, North Korea just fired a missile. It's an intercontinental ballistic missile, for God sakes. That means they have the capability to strike the United States.''
After he spoke, Pentagon officials said Mr. Panetta did not mean to imply that North Korea could now hit the continental United States, although intelligence and military assessments have said that Hawaii is within range. But the North has made progress toward its goal of fielding a missile that could cross the Pacific, a goal the previous defense secretary, Robert M. Gates, warned at the end of his time in office could be fulfilled by 2016.
An intensive study of the long-range missile test-flight conducted by North Korea last month, one administration official said, found that it was ''largely a success, if you define success as showing that they could drop a warhead a lot of places in Asia.''
The more immediate mystery for the administration, however, is what North Korea may intend with the intermediate-range KN-08, which was first shown off by the North in a military parade last April. At the time, many analysts dismissed it as a mock-up. In fact, it has never been test-flown. But parts, including the rocket motors, have been tested separately, according to officials familiar with the intelligence reports, who described the missile developments on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss the assessments.
Officials familiar with North Korean missile technology say the KN-08 weapon is designed with a range capable of striking South Korea, Japan and parts of Southeast Asia -- although with uncertain accuracy.
North Korea is aware that it is a focus of American spy satellites, so the decision to roll the missile around the country to potential deployment sites might well have been partly motivated by a desire to send a message to the United States, or at least to get Washington's attention -- which it did. Officials said that North Korea's advancements in missile technology were among the most significant reasons that Mr. Panetta, as he approached the end of his tenure, had spent so much time in Asia. Much of his effort has been aimed at spurring the development of a regional missile defense system to be deployed with allies, particularly Japan and South Korea.
There is no evidence that the KN-08 has been fitted with a nuclear warhead. While North Korea conducted nuclear tests in 2006 and in 2009 -- just months after President Obama took office -- American intelligence officials have said that the North has not miniaturized a nuclear device small enough to be fitted as a warhead atop its missiles. Some believe that may be the goal of its next test -- and perhaps, some intelligence reports speculate, of continuing cooperation on missile design between Iran and North Korea. The Iranians, one official noted, ''are grappling with the same issues.''
In fact, much remains uncertain about North Korea's new missile. There was no question where the mobile launching trucks that carried the missile came from: they are Chinese, and almost certainly imported in violation of United Nations sanctions against the North. The new missile, like most in the North Korean arsenal, appeared to be based on Russian technology.
The missile developments are among a number of steps that have convinced American officials that, a year after his ascension as the third generation to inherit the role as North Korea's dictator, Mr. Kim is proving as confrontational with the West as his father and grandfather. American specialists also warn of the prospect of a third nuclear test, for which preparations are evident.
For the Obama administration, whose last diplomatic effort with the North ended in failure nearly a year ago, the steps are reminders that everything they have tried in the past four years to lure the country out of isolation -- or at least contain its nuclear and missile programs -- has largely failed.
If nothing else, however, the missile efforts in the North have spurred American efforts to build a network of antimissile capabilities across Northeast Asia. Japan already has one American X-band radar, officially known as the AN/TPY-2, which is a central element in a complex technical architecture for identifying ballistic missiles and coordinating a response by interceptors. And last September, during his travels in the region, Mr. Panetta and his Japanese hosts announced a major agreement to deploy a second advanced missile-defense radar on Japanese territory.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Defense Secretary Leon E. Panetta in London on Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JACQUELYN MARTIN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MISSILE SYSTEMS (91%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (89%); ARMED FORCES (75%); PARADES & MARCHES (66%)

PERSON: LEON E PANETTA (88%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); KIM JONG UN (58%); ROBERT M GATES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (59%) HAWAII, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); ASIA (93%); PHILIPPINES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2013



582 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 3037 words

HEADLINE: Spare Times

BYLINE: By ANNE MANCUCO

 BODY:
Around Town
Museums and Sites
Historic Richmond Town: Tavern Concerts (Saturday) This series of old-time, country and traditional concerts continues with a performance by the Whistling Wolves. At 6 and 8 p.m., 441 Clarke Avenue, at St. Patrick's Place, Staten Island, historicrichmondtown.org; $10.
Intrepid Sea, Air & Space Museum: 'Space Shuttle Enterprise: A Pioneer' (daily) Although the shuttle pavilion is undergoing renovation because of damage from Hurricane Sandy, this exhibition on the history and the development of the shuttle is on view in the main museum through the spring. Included in the display are artifacts like cockpit instruments and a flight helmet, as well as photographs and video clips. 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., Pier 86, 46th Street and 12th Avenue, Clinton, (877) 957-7447, intrepidmuseum.org; $12 to $24 (free for active and retired military members and children under 3). Facebook friends and Twitter followers of the museum can take advantage of two-for-one admission through Feb. 15; details are provided on the museum's Web site. 
Museum at Eldridge Street: Lower East Side 'Hot Cider' Tour (Sunday and Monday) This tour of area landmarks, including the historic Eldridge Street Synagogue, will begin with a cup of hot cider and some rugelach and bialys. It meets at 2 p.m. at the museum, 12 Eldridge Street, between Canal and Division Streets, Lower East Side. (212) 219-0302, eldridgestreet.org; $25, $18 for students and 62+.
Museum of Jewish Heritage: 'Hava Nagila: A Comedic Salute' (Wednesday) An evening of borscht belt humor will feature the comedians Max Alexander, Melvin George, Dave Konig and Cory Kahaney. The performance, at 7 p.m., is being presented in conjunction with ''Hava Nagila: A Song for the People,'' on view through May. 36 Battery Place, Lower Manhattan, (646) 437-4202, mjhnyc.org; $15, $12 for students and 62+ and $10 for members.
Museum of Jewish Heritage: 'Through Soviet Jewish Eyes: Photography, War, and the Holocaust' (through April 7) This exhibition of more than 50 rare images, which chronicled the daily hardships that Soviet Jews endured during World War II, is based on David Shneer's book of the same title. Mr. Shneer is also the co-curator, with Lisa Tamiris Becker, of this exhibition. 36 Battery Place, Lower Manhattan, (646) 437-4202, mjhnyc.org; $12, $10 for 65+, $7 for students; free for members and children 12 and younger. Museum hours are Sunday through Tuesday and Thursday from 10 a.m. to 5:45 p.m.; Wednesday from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m.; and Friday from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m.
Museum of the Moving Image: African-American Women in Film (Monday) A screening of excerpts from ''Mitote,'' a film by Barbara Montgomery about three black women in New Mexico in the early 1900s, will begin this event, devoted to unveiling the untold stories of black Americans. Featured in the film are the actresses S. Epatha Merkerson and Ruby Dee, who will take part in a discussion with the director after the 4 p.m. screening. Warrington Hudlin, a director and producer, is the moderator. 35th Avenue at 37th Street, Astoria, Queens, (718) 784-0077, movingimage.us; free with general admission: $12, $9 for students and 65+, $6 for children 3 to 12; free for members and children under 3.
New York Transit Museum: 'Meet Miss Subways' and 'ElectriCity: Powering New York's Rails' (continuing) Two exhibitions are now on display. ''Meet Miss Subways,'' which takes a look at the beauty contest and the lives of former Miss Subways, up through March 25, 2013; and ''ElectriCity: Powering New York's Rails,'' a historical display of items from the museum collection, including switches and circuit breakers, that illustrates how electricity powers the subway system. Tuesdays through Fridays from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., Saturdays and Sundays from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Boerum Place and Schermerhorn Street, Brooklyn Heights, (718) 694-1600, mta.info/mta/museum; $7, $5 for those ages 2 to 17 and 62+, free for members and for 62+ on Wednesdays.
Paley Center for Media: 'Rolling Stones: 50' (through Feb. 3) This video and photography display chronicling the group's career over the last 50 years, and featuring video clips of appearances by the group from the mid-1960s to 2006, has been extended. Viewing hours are Wednesdays through Sundays, noon to 6 p.m., Thursdays, noon to 8 p.m. 25 West 52nd Street, Manhattan, (212) 621-6800, paleycenter.org; $10, $8 for students and 65+, $5 for children under 14 and free for members.
'Rooms of Wonder: From Wunderkammer to Museum, 1599-1899' (through Feb. 2) Wunderkammer -- cabinets of curiosities -- were late Renaissance European collections of geological specimens, dried plants, mummified animals and other objects; they are also considered the root of modern museums. Illustrated catalogs created to document these collections and celebrate their owners will be on display at the Grolier Club. The items were drawn from several collections including those from Harvard's Houghton Library and the Getty Research Institute Library in Los Angeles. Monday through Saturday from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Grolier Club, 47 East 60th Street, Manhattan, (212) 838-6690, grolierclub.org; free.
Events
Brooklyn Israel Film Festival (Thursday) The Israeli director Arnon Goldfinger's ''Flat,'' a 2011 documentary about generational views of the Holocaust told through the story of the director's grandmother, an Israeli immigrant from Nazi Germany, will open this annual festival. A discussion of post-Holocaust reconciliation will follow the 8 p.m. screening. The festival continues with screenings on Jan. 26 and 27. Kane Street Synagogue, 236 Kane Street, Cobble Hill, Brooklyn, (718) 875-1550, kanestreet.org/iff; $12 for each film, $30 for all three screenings.
Brooklyn Navy Yard at BLDG 92: 'Siren Songs of Wallabout Bay' (Thursday) Nicole Mitchell will perform songs inspired by the writings of Walt Whitman and the history of the New York waterfront and former Brooklyn Navy Yard; a reception will follow. The concert also draws inspiration from the stories of the women who worked at the Brooklyn Navy Yard during World War II, the subject of the exhibition ''Reflections on Rosie,'' on view through May. Performance at 7 p.m.; reception at 7:45, Brooklyn Navy Yard Center at BLDG 92, 63 Flushing Avenue, at Carlton Avenue, bldg92.org; $20.
Brooklyn Navy Yard Center at Bldg 92: 'Reflections on Rosie' (Friday through Sunday, Wednesday and Thursday) The stories of women who worked at the Brooklyn Navy Yard during World War II and the female artists who now work in studios in the Center are contained in this exhibition. The display, also sponsored by the Brooklyn Historical Society, includes oral histories and multimedia presentations, and will be on view through May. Open Wednesdays through Sundays from noon to 6 p.m., Brooklyn Navy Yard Center at BLDG 92, 63 Flushing Avenue, at Carlton Avenue, (718) 907-5992, bldg92.org; free.
Grand Central Holiday Train Show (through Feb. 10) In addition to celebrating its 100th anniversary in 2013, Grand Central Terminal welcomes back its annual Holiday Train Show (in its 11th year) with vintage model trains from the New York Transit Museum's collection and a brand-new miniature railroad station with model trains circling the tracks. Monday through Friday from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Saturday and Sunday from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. grandcentralterminal.com/events; free.
Heschel-King Interfaith Service (Monday) Prayers for President Barack Obama on his inauguration will be included in this annual celebration at the Park Avenue Christian Church in honor of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and Rabbi Abraham Joshua Heschel, a noted civil rights activist. Dr. King died in 1968, and Rabbi Heschel died in 1972. The 7 p.m. service will feature performances by choirs from the church and Congregation Da'at Elohim, and will highlight the work of Tougaloo College, a private Mississippi institution founded in 1869 by Christian missionaries for the education of freed slaves and their descendants. Awards for activism will be given to Dr. Robert Smith, one of the founders of the Medical Committee for Human Rights, and the Rev. Edwin King, a former chaplain at Tougaloo College. Park Avenue, at 85th Street, Manhattan, (212) 288-3246, parkavenuechristian.com; free.
'Midnight Moment: 'Stasis' (daily) If you find yourself in Times Square at 11:57 p.m., you will be center stage for a three-minute outdoor art display flashed across 15 digital screens. The installation is part of a monthly program presented by the Times Square Advertising Coalition and Times Square Arts. The piece featured this month, ''Stasis,'' is by the artists Taxiplasm and Jonathan Henry. timessquarenyc.org/arts.
Musical Tribute to the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. (Friday) A program blending gospel and Israeli music and jazz, will commemorate the birthday of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. during the Shabbat service at 6 p.m. at Congregation Rodeph Sholom, 7 West 83rd Street, Manhattan. Appearing during the service, which is free and open to the public, will be Iris and Ofer Portugaly and their Israeli Gospel Choir, which is making its United States debut; the Voices of Christ Ensemble, a gospel group; Diana Solomon-Glover, a soprano; and others. (212) 362-8800, rodephsholom.org.
New York Jewish Film Festival (through Thursday) The festival, which began earlier this month, is winding down. Among the features coming up are ''Max Raabe in Israel,'' about the German singer and his band and their specialty of music from the 1920s and '30s, many tunes of which were composed or performed by Jewish artists (Sunday at 3:45 p.m. and Tuesday at 6 p.m.); and ''The Art of Spiegelman,'' a documentary about the artist (Monday at 6 p.m. and Tuesday at 4 p.m.). The festival is presented by the Film Society of Lincoln Center and the Jewish Museum; screenings are at Walter Reade Theater, Lincoln Center, 165 West 65th Street, (212) 875-5601, filmlinc.com; $13, $9 for students and 62+, $8 for members of the society or the museum.
New York Times Travel Show (Saturday and Sunday) The experts at the travel show may be able to help answer travelers' queries during various seminars with the travel writers Arthur and Pauline Frommer, as well as the travel writers Seth Kugel and Stephanie Rosenbloom, a reporter for The New York Times. There will also be representatives from travel groups and companies. Saturday from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m., Sunday from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., Jacob K. Javits Convention Center, 655 West 34th Street, Manhattan, (212) 216-2000, nyttravelshow.com; $17.
Squash Tournament (through Thursday) Catching one's train will not be the only sport found within the confines of Grand Central Terminal. For the 16th year, Vanderbilt Hall will house the J.P. Morgan Tournament of Champions, an annual squash competition featuring more than 80 international players. Sets are scheduled for noon, 3 and 6 p.m. on Friday and Monday; noon, 3 and 7 p.m. on Saturday and Sunday; noon and 6 p.m. on Tuesday; 6 p.m. on Wednesday and 6:30 p.m. on Thursday. Park Avenue and 42nd Street, (718) 569-0594, tocsquash.com; stadium seating, $8 to $169.
Symphony Space: Artists Celebrate Martin Luther King Day (Monday) A free evening of music and theater in celebration of Martin Luther King Jr. Day, sponsored by the JCC in Manhattan, will begin at 6:30 p.m. Among those performing will be Catherine Russell & Her Band; the singer Anthony Russell; the pianist and composer Anthony Coleman; the clarinetist Michael Winograd; and the actress April Yvette Thompson, who will appear in excerpts from ''Liberty City,'' a play that she wrote with Jessica Blank. Doors open at 6 p.m., 2537 Broadway, at 95th Street, (212) 864-5400, symphonyspace.org; free, but seating is limited.
Spoken Word
Greenlight Bookstore: Discussion with Jami Attenberg and John Kenney (Wednesday) The two novelists -- Ms. Attenberg wrote ''The Middlesteins'' and Mr. Kenney is the author of ''Truth in Advertising'' -- will read from their books and discuss their work. At 7:30 p.m., 686 Fulton Street, at South Portland Avenue, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, (718) 246-0200, greenlightbookstore.com; free.
92nd Street Y: Talks With Entertainers, Writers and Fiscal Experts (Monday, Tuesday and Thursday) The singer Barbara Cook, the actor Joel Grey, the lyricist Sheldon Harnick and the playwright and screenwriter Sheldon Yellen -- all octogenarians -- will talk about their careers and secrets of longevity on Monday at 7:30 p.m. with the radio host Leonard Lopate. The former Mayor Edward I. Koch, 88, will also be on hand. On Tuesday, at 8:15 p.m., the economic health of the country will be discussed. The participants will include Robert Rubin, a former secretary of the Treasury (under Bill Clinton) and founder of the Brookings Institution's Hamilton Project, an economic policy group; John Paulson, founder and president of a hedge fund bearing his name; and Sebastian Mallaby, director of the Maurice R. Greenberg Center for Geoeconomic Studies and a fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. And on Thursday, at 8 p.m., a pre-Academy Awards discussion will feature A. O. Scott, the co-chief film critic for The New York Times; Annette Insdorf, a film scholar and writer; and David Edelstein, chief film critic for New York Magazine. 1395 Lexington Avenue, (212) 415-5500, 92y.org; $29 to $36, $15 for those 35 and younger.
92nd Street Y Tribeca: Talks on Steve McQueen and David Foster Wallace (Friday and Wednesday) Marc Eliot, author of ''Steve McQueen: A Biography,'' will talk about the private life and career of McQueen, who died in 1980 at 50, on Friday at noon; $21. On Wednesday, at 7 p.m., D.T. Max, the author of ''Every Love Story Is a Ghost Story: A Life of David Foster Wallace,'' a biography of the writer, will talk about Wallace's work with Rachel Syme, a book editor and critic. Wallace committed suicide in 2008 at 46. Tickets are $15. 200 Hudson Street, at Canal Street, (212) 601-1000, 92ytribeca.org.
Reading in Celebration of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. (Friday) The actor David Strathairn, who is in the Broadway production of ''The Heiress,'' will be among those reading from the writings of Thomas Jefferson, Abraham Lincoln, President Obama and the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. at 12:30 p.m. at St. Luke's Church, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton. Also taking part in this celebration of Dr. King's birthday -- the official holiday is Monday -- will be the performers Fritz Weaver, Judy Kaye (currently in ''Nice Work if You Can Get It'') and Lee Grant. The free reading is sponsored by the TIPA project (for Toward International Peace Through the Arts). (212) 246-4651.
Readings and Talks with Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor (Saturday and Sunday) The Bronx-born judge, who joined the United States Supreme Court in 2009, will make two stops in the city to talk about her new book ''My Beloved World,'' released by Knopf this week. Attendance is full for her appearance on Saturday at 3 p.m. at El Museo del Barrio with the journalist Maria Hinojosa, but a waiting list for returned tickets, which are free and first come first served, can be signed beginning at 11 a.m.; the museum is at 1230 Fifth Avenue, at 104th Street, East Harlem, (212) 831-7272; elmuseo.org. On Sunday at 2:30 p.m., the justice will be at Barnes & Noble Union Square, 33 East 17th Street, (212) 253-0810, bit.ly/VTPjKM; free, but priority seating is available with purchase of the book.
Symphony Space: Literature and Comedy (Wednesday) The word is king (and queen) at these events, both at 7:30 p.m. At one, the writers Junot Daz and Karen Russell will read from and discuss their new works. The actor John Leguizamo will also take part. Tickets are $28, $24 for members and $15 for those 30 and younger. At the other event, Brad Zimmerman, a comedian who has opened for Joan Rivers, will appear in his one-man show, ''My Son, the Waiter -- A Jewish Tragedy''; $25. 2537 Broadway, at 95th Street, (212) 864-5400, symphonyspace.org.
Walking Tours
Harlem Tours in Honor of Martin Luther King Day (Saturday through Monday) Noted Harlem sites associated with Dr. King as well as other prominent Americans are included in these tours in celebration of his birth (his actual birth date is Jan. 15, 1929). From Saturday through Monday at 2 p.m., NYC Discovery Tours will lead walkers past the Apollo Theater -- the location of many historic appearances by performers past and present -- as well the site where an attempt was made on Dr. King's life in 1958 and the building where Bill Clinton maintains an office. It costs $20, with the meeting place given with reservations: (212) 465-3331. A historic walk on Monday sponsored by Harlem Heritage Tours will begin at 1 p.m. with a video presentation on Dr. King's life at the group's center at 104 Malcolm X. Boulevard, at 116th Street, Harlem; (212) 280-7888, harlemheritage.com; $25. Also on Monday, an annual tour of Harlem's history and culture, offered by Big Onion Walking Tours, will meet at 1 p.m. on the northwest corner of Lenox Avenue and 135th Street; (888) 606-9255, bigonion.com; $20, $15 for students and 63+.
Edgar Allan Poe Walk (Saturday) The Greenwich Village neighborhood that was once Edgar Allan Poe's home and perhaps his literary inspiration is the focus of this tour offered by Ghosts of New York that commemorates the 204th anniversary of his birth; he was born on Jan. 19, 1809. There will be two tours on this day, starting at 2 and 7:30 p.m., and will meet across the street from Fire Patrol Station No. 2, at 85 West Third Street. (646) 493-7092, ghostsofny.com; $25 online, $30 (cash only) in person.
'Union Square: Crossroads of New York' (Saturday) A tour focusing on the area's political history meets at 2 p.m. by the statue of Lincoln in Union Square Park, near the 16th Street transverse. Sponsored by the Union Square Partnership. (212) 517-1826, unionsquarenyc.org; free. ANNE MANCUCO
Information on events for possible inclusion in Spare Times can be sent to weekend@nytimes.com Longer versions of Around Town and For Children listings are in a searchable guide at nytimes.com/events.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: MARTIN LUTHER KING JR.'S BIRTHDAY CELEBRATIONS: (Friday through Monday) The celebration of the life and work of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. (below, at an antiwar rally in New York City in 1967) coincides with another significant event: the inauguration of President Barack Obama for his second term. Tributes to the men are abundant this weekend around the city. Speeches by each of them will be read on Friday at 12:30 p.m. by a group that includes two actors now in shows on Broadway: David Strathairn (''The Heiress'') and Judy Kaye (''Nice Work if You Can Get It''). Fritz Weaver and Lee Grant are among the other performers taking part in the free reading, sponsored by the TIPA (Toward International Peace Through the Arts) project, at St. Luke's Church, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton. A free musical tribute, also on Friday, with Israeli and gospel music will be part of the 6 p.m. Shabbat service at Congregation Rodeph Sholom, 7 West 83rd Street, Manhattan. Monday is a busy day of free events that include a program of music and theater at 6:30 p.m. sponsored by the JCC in Manhattan at Symphony Space, 2537 Broadway, at 95th Street, and an interfaith service with music at 7 p.m. at the Park Avenue Christian Church, at 85th Street. Walking tours of Harlem, with special attention to sites associated with Dr. King and President Obama, will be offered by several tour operators throughout the weekend. Details on these and other holiday events are in the listings on this page. Indeed, this is a weekend for celebration. (Anne Mancuso) (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED W. McDARRAH/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); CALENDARS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); HISTORIC SITES (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); PHOTOGRAPHY (78%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); FILM HISTORY (75%); WORLD WAR II (73%); TROPICAL STORMS (72%); SPACE SHUTTLE (71%); AVIONICS (71%); SPACECRAFT (71%); HOLOCAUST (69%); FLIGHT CONTROL & INSTRUMENTATION (69%); SOCIAL MEDIA (67%); HURRICANE SANDY (56%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (56%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%)

PERSON: MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (92%); BARACK OBAMA (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2013



583 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1031 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths COOK, HON

 BODY:
COOK--Hon. Rodney Mims, A seventh generation Georgian who served for over twenty years in Atlanta and Georgia government, died January 13th at his family's home, Alexandra Park. He was 88. Cook was born to James and Bess Mims Cook. His maternal family has impacted Georgia history for two centuries. 
Azariah Mims, Cook's great-grandfather exerted controversial, exemplary efforts to bring peace to the South; all recorded in the Library of Congress. Despite this, his Red Oak Farm was destroyed by General Sherman during the Siege of Atlanta. Ancestor Mayor Livingston Mims donated the Olmsted designed Mims Park in the late 19th century, which no longer exists. Cook called for its reconstruction, now underway and supported by Mayor Kasim Reed. Cook graduated Washington and Lee University valedictorian, Phi Beta Kappa, and summa cum laude. College was interrupted by World War II, and Cook became a Lieutenant in the United States Navy. He served on the USS DuPage (APA-41), hit by a kamikaze plane, though he was uninjured. Cook witnessed the surrender of Japan in Tokyo Bay on the USS Missouri. Cook was among the first Republican officials elected in Georgia since Reconstruction. Mayor William B. Hartsfield advised he serve at-large as an Atlanta Alderman and member of the House of Representatives simultaneously to foster Atlanta's growth. A law now prohibits dual offices being held. His Atlanta legislation pertained to civil rights, zoning, urban renewal, Atlanta Airport, Interstate Highways, Underground Atlanta and the Stadium Authority housing the Braves and Falcons Georgia committees included Appropriations, Ways and Means, Industry and Computerized Criminal Records. He became Chairman of the Georgia Republican Party and was the GOP nominee for Governor of Georgia in 1978. Commemorative plaques on various public buildings including Hartsfield-Jackson International airport record his efforts. In 1962, he delivered a speech on the floor of the Atlanta Board of Alderman to take down "Peyton Wall," a barrier that was built to stop black citizens from moving into a white section of Atlanta. Called the "Berlin Wall" by the black community, Cook's speech stated that Americans were not a people who wall themselves apart from their fellow citizens. His speech incited the Ku Klux Klan to burn a cross on the lawn of his home in Buckhead. Cook was one of few Representatives who voted to seat the legally elected Julian Bond to the Georgia House of Representatives in 1966. The House refused to seat Bond due to his anti-Vietnam War positions. The Supreme Court returned him to his rightful office. Bomb threats against Cook's home and threats of kidnapping his children were the result. Cook was mentored by Martin Luther King, Sr., Mayors Hartsfield and Allen, nurturing peaceful race relations and shepherding federal and state funding to the city resulting in unprecedented growth during the 1960s and 1970s, Hartsfield making the notable remark that Atlanta was the "city too busy to hate." Cook then championed the careers of Paul Coverdell and Newt Gingrich, later a United States Senator and Speaker of the House of Representatives respectively. Close advisors to Cook, Speaker Gingrich noted this in a speech he made on C-SPAN decades later. Rodney Mims Cook, Jr. shared that his father's college friendship with Virginia Senator John Warner, resulted in an unusual paternal friendship. When Cook Sr. was head of the GOP, "he had a fund- raiser at the Fox Theatre and invited Warner, who at the time, was married to Elizabeth Taylor. She filled the 5000 seat theater, was a great sport, and they remained friends." Cook Jr. stressed that his father's greatest contribution to Atlanta and Georgia was keeping the peace: "There were a number in his generation, black and white who quietly were the stewards of the South during the second half of the 20th century and they met in our home. Other cities were burning, turning hoses or dogs on their citizens. This intentionally did not happen here and Dad and his generation rose to the occasion to solidify and herald the Atlanta Way to the entire nation." Cook's business career began with Holcombe Green at the Guardian Insurance Company, the main office being based on Park Avenue at Union Square in New York. He was President of the Guardian Leaders Field Force, Presidents Council, and a life member of the Million Dollar Roundtable. He expanded with Robert Mathis, founding Peachtree Planning Corporation, the eleventh largest financial planning firm in Georgia. Cook served as President of the alumni board at Washington and Lee University, commissioning a bust of Justice Lewis Powell for the lobby of Powell's Supreme Court archives at W&L Law School. He was also a patron of Colonial Williamsburg, The Atlanta Humane Society, of which he was President and the Millennium Gate Museum, where he reconstructed the 18th century Mims-Midway period room. Midway was the home of Lyman Hall, a Georgia signer of the Declaration of Independence. Cook was a patron of the Prince of Wales Monument to the 1996 Olympic Games, the Buckhead/Midtown Gates, dedicated to his mother, and the 5-ton Peace and Justice Gates. Cook and Georgia Governor Sonny Perdue drove a team of horses delivering the five ton bronzes to their site. He was a member of Piedmont Driving Club, High Hampton Golf Club, North Carolina and Wachesaw Plantation Golf Club, South Carolina. The papers of The Honorable Rodney Mims Cook are housed at the Richard B. Russell Library for Political Research and Studies, University of Georgia Libraries. Following a Morning Order in the House of Representatives Chamber and lying in state in Atlanta City Hall, Cook will be buried at Westview Abbey Mausoleum, on January 19, 2013, in the Mims family vault. Cook's marriage to Lane Young occurred at the chapel at Blenheim Palace, birthplace of Sir Winston Churchill, on Thanksgiving Day, 2003. He is survived by his wife; two daughters, Jody and Laura Cook; a son, Rodney Mims Cook, Jr., and three grandchildren, English and Alexandra Mims Cook and Walker Mims Marshall, all of Atlanta. Online condolences may be made at: hmpattersonspringhill.com.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (77%); APPROPRIATIONS (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); NATIONAL LIBRARIES (73%); WORLD WAR II (73%); NAVIES (73%); AIRPORTS (72%); SPECIAL LIBRARIES (71%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); CIVIL RIGHTS (69%); VIETNAM WAR (68%); STUDENT HONOR SOCIETIES (68%); BOMBINGS (68%); RACE & RACISM (66%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (64%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (57%); PHI BETA KAPPA (56%); US NAVY (56%)

PERSON: MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (75%) GEORGIA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2013



584 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 967 words

HEADLINE: Courts Are Right to Hold Argentina to Equal Debt Treatment

BYLINE: HARRY TETHER


HIGHLIGHT: Recent federal rulings should and will motivate responsible sovereign debtors and private creditors to resolve their differences at the negotiating table, and not in the courtroom, the author contends. 

 BODY:
 Harry Tether is a retired managing director at JPMorgan Chase. 
As the representative of a large New York financial institution, I participated in numerous sovereign debt restructuring negotiations in the 1980s and '90s. It is, at long last, gratifying to see the recent rulings by the Federal District Court and the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit regarding the pari passu clause and "equal treatment" clause present, in a variety of formulations, in many sovereign loan agreements. (Pari passu is a Latin phrase meaning "on equal footing.") The interpretation adopted by those courts is consistent with the intentions of private creditors when they negotiated these clauses with sovereign debtors. 
During the Latin American debt crisis of the 1980s, when sovereign borrowers sought concessions from private creditors, the equal treatment provision became a vitally important affirmative covenant to international banks. Our direct negotiations, often long and arduous, led to mutually satisfactory restructurings of debtors' financial obligations, in part because they required debtors to include strong legal protections in the new borrowing contracts. The sovereign debtor's interest was to regain access to international capital markets, while the creditors' interest was to receive a predictable and sustainable repayment flow. As a diverse group of creditors, we left our competitive instincts at the door. The pari passu clause served as a common denominator that assured equal priority of payment to all creditors of a similar debt class.
To understand the importance of the pari passu clause, it is useful to review the evolution of the 1980s debt crisis. I view the crisis as having had three phases: refinancing, new debt and debt relief. Each of these phases required new debt agreements, and all of these agreements contained equal treatment covenants.
The refinancing phase covered the period from 1982 to 1985. During that time, banks lent new money to stressed debtor countries such that they could continue paying interest. Sovereign debt service and bank loan books remained current. Lenders and debtors shared a common understanding: In spite of strained debtor-country budgets, all renegotiated external indebtedness would be treated equally in priority of payment.
The equal payment provision became even more important in the second phase of debt restructuring. Starting in 1985, it was generally recognized that lending in excess of interest refinancing was required to foster growth in the indebted countries. This has often been referred to as the "free rider" phase, in that some creditor banks refused to participate in this new lending. Instead, they preferred to continue receiving current debt-service payments without participating in new loans. The pari passu clause provided assurance that large creditor institutions, which were negotiating these agreements and often had differing motivations because of their physical presence in the borrowing country, would not receive an unfair advantage in debt repayment over the smaller banks that lacked such negotiating leverage.
"Debt fatigue" developed during this phase, and many banks that probably should not have been lending to sovereigns in the first place exited by selling their loans in the newly emergent secondary market. Other creditors chose to absorb the losses of debt reduction through negotiated debt relief under the "Brady plan," which served as a negotiated solution between private creditors and sovereign debtors. The guiding philosophy for all parties was that all creditors would receive equivalent treatment, even though there might be a diverse menu of alternative debt-relief options. New securities were typically issued in bearer form and not as registered instruments, to prevent a sovereign from compelling an increase in new debt and possibly discriminating in payments.
To persuade creditors to participate in each of these renegotiated debt agreements, nondiscriminatory payments by the sovereign were essential.
What is most disturbing about Argentina's current intransigence is its refusal to uphold its contractual obligation of nondiscriminatory payment and abide by the rule of law to which it agreed in its contracts with the creditor community. Argentina's political threats, dictated "take it or leave it" terms and selective defaults threaten to upset a balance that prevailed through decades of orderly and successful restructurings. 
The international financial community has long depended on negotiated solutions that take into account a country's ability to pay as the primary measure for resolving payment difficulties. But after years of exceptional economic growth, Argentina is neither insolvent nor impoverished. It simply refuses to pay anything to those creditors that it could not coerce into a voluntary rescheduling.
The recent rulings by federal courts in New York correctly interpret the pari passu clause and the "equal treatment" covenant. These decisions reinforce what responsible debtors and creditors understood throughout the 1980s debt crisis and beyond. Where economic circumstances required the modification of financial terms and conditions, good-faith negotiations led to positive outcomes for all concerned. The pari passu clause and the fundamental principle of equal payment were understood then and have now been reaffirmed again to mean that debtors cannot discriminate in priority of payment to creditors holding comparable classes of debt.
The courts' reiteration of these principles should and will motivate responsible sovereign debtors and private creditors to resolve their differences at the negotiating table, and not in the courtroom.

        
Possible Ripples From the Argentine Bond Litigation
        
An Argentine Parallel

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PUBLIC DEBT (93%); EXTERNAL DEBT (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); DEBTOR NATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); DEBT CRISIS (89%); BUDGETS (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); APPEALS COURTS (72%); WRITERS (66%) Argentina; Courts and the Judiciary; Another View

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (93%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (93%); JPM (LSE) (93%); 8634 (TSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ARGENTINA (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%) Argentina

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2013



585 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(ArtsBeat)

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2013

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 222 words

HEADLINE: Gerald R. Ford Library Hires 'Wikipedian in Residence'

BYLINE: JENNIFER SCHUESSLER


HIGHLIGHT: The mission: Improve the Wikipedia presence of the Ford Presidential Library and Museum. 

 BODY:
Gerald R. Ford may have governed during a time of economic stagnation, but his library has just laid claim to a cutting-edge distinction: becoming the first presidential depository to employ an official "Wikipedian in residence." 
Michael Barera, a master's student at the University of Michigan's School of Information who has been editing Wikipedia articles for five years, started the job last week, The Chronicle of Higher Education reported. He is charged with improving the Wikipedia presence of the Gerald R. Ford Presidential Library and Museum, which is housed at the university's Ann Arbor campus.
In 2010 the British Museum became the first organization to engage a Wikipedian in residence, which was seen at the time as an acknowledgment of the fact that Wikipedia articles about libraries, museums and other institutions were sometimes drawing far more traffic than the institution's own Web sites. Since then, according to Wikipedia, some 30 others have followed suit, including the Smithsonian Institution, the Israel Museum and the Palace of Versailles.

        
A British Museum Treasure Will Visit the United States
        
Updated Google Map Service Offers Museum Floor Plans
        
Buffalo's Albright-Knox Gets a Director from Much Farther North
        
Ground Is Officially Broken on Met Museum's 'David H. Koch Plaza'
        
Rare Box Stolen From Oakland Museum

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); SPECIAL LIBRARIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LIBRARIES (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); LIBRARIANS (78%) Ann Arbor (Mich); British Museum; Ford, Gerald Rudolph Jr; Libraries and Librarians; Museums; University of Michigan; Wikipedia; Books

COMPANY: CHRONICLE OF HIGHER EDUCATION (57%); GOOGLE INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: BRITISH MUSEUM (93%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (91%); SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION (55%) British Museum; University of Michigan; Wikipedia

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%)

PERSON: Ford, Gerald Rudolph Jr

GEOGRAPHIC: BUFFALO, NY, USA (66%) MICHIGAN, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (69%) Ann Arbor (Mich)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2013



586 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 335 words

HEADLINE: Lifting the Veil on the Fed's 2007 Discussions

BYLINE: DAVID LEONHARDT


HIGHLIGHT: The Federal Reserve has released the transcripts of its meetings in the pivotal year of 2007, when the housing bubble started to burst and the global financial crisis began. 

 BODY:
 1/19/13 | Updated 
The Federal Reserve has released the transcripts of its meetings in the pivotal year of 2007, when the housing bubble started to burst and the global financial crisis began. 
The transcripts shed light on the decisions that Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed chairman, and other top officials - including Timothy F. Geithner, the current Treasury secretary, who was then president of the New York Fed - were making as the crisis began. They spent much of 2006 underestimating the risks facing the economy before changing tack in 2007 and undertaking the beginnings of an aggressive response.
The transcripts were issued as part of the Fed's normal schedule of releasing them publicly five years later. 
Over the course of the day, four reporters for The Times - Binyamin Appelbaum, Peter Eavis, Annie Lowrey and Nelson D. Schwartz - read and analyzed the hundreds of pages of documents. Mr. Appelbaum's article is now online. 
Here is a brief look at how that crucial year unfolded, from Mr. Appelbaum:
As the housing market, and then financial markets, and then the broader economy began to unravel, the Federal Reserve in the final months of 2007 moved from complacency to action, not in one smooth motion but in a series of herky-jerky steps. Fed officials struggled to understand what was happening and argued among themselves about how the central bank should respond.
In August, the Fed took the first steps to broaden the availability of funding for financial transactions, perhaps the most important role that it would play during the coming crisis. In September, the Fed lowered benchmark interest rates for the first time in four years, opening the second front in its economic stimulus campaign. And by the end of the year, the Fed had begun the first of what would become a host of new programs intended to pump money into financial markets.

        
No More, No Less
        
Live Blog: Inside the Fed's 2007 Deliberations
        
The Legacy of Timothy Geithner
        
Bernanke Unplugged
        
Podcast: Mortgage Crisis, the Euro and the Fed

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (91%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (91%); HOUSING BUBBLE (91%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); TRANSCRIPTS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); SUBPRIME LENDING (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (72%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (67%); INTEREST RATES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); PODCASTING (62%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (61%) Banking and Financial Institutions; Bernanke, Ben S; Federal Reserve System; Geithner, Timothy F; Subprime Mortgage Crisis; United States Economy

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (57%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (84%) Federal Reserve System

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (57%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (57%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (89%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (89%) Bernanke, Ben S; Geithner, Timothy F

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2013



587 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 74 words

HEADLINE: Live Blog: Inside the Fed's 2007 Deliberations

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: Highlights from the newly released transcripts of the Federal Reserve's meetings in a year when the upheaval in the housing market, financial system and economy became apparent. 

 BODY:
On Friday the Federal Reserve released the transcripts of its discussions in 2007, the year the housing market, the financial markets, and the broader economy began to unravel. Reporters from The Times are sharing their findings on what the transcripts reveal in the blog entries and tweets below.

        
Lifting the Veil on the Fed's 2007 Discussions
        
No More, No Less
        
Bernanke Unplugged
        
The Great Dissenters
        
Fed Official Says Monetary Steps Were Too Timid
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CENTRAL BANKS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%) Federal Reserve System; United States Economy; Economics

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (84%) Federal Reserve System

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2013



588 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Taking Note)

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 632 words

HEADLINE: Will China Have to Abandon Its One-Child Rule?

BYLINE: VIKAS BAJAJ


HIGHLIGHT: The country's working-age population is on the decline. 

 BODY:
Chinese officials released data on Friday showing that the country's economy grew faster than previously anticipated at the end of last year. Investors greeted that news enthusiastically while virtually ignoring another, more worrying development: The country's working age population has officially started declining. In 2012, for the first time in recent memory, the number of Chinese between the ages of 15 and 59 fell - by 3.45 million to 937.27 million.
Although the decline is tiny in percentage terms, less than 1 percent, it marks an important turning point for the country and the global economy, which has come to rely on Chinese workers to assemble its iPhones and stitch its T-shirts. Beijing will now have to seriously confront the pleas of families, economists and others to abandon the draconian one-child rule. 
Nobody knows exactly what the decline in the working-age population and the growing ranks of senior citizens will mean for China, but most analysts seem certain that this demographic change will pose significant challenges. At a fundamental level, young Chinese people who are single children - not all of them are, since the one-child policy has some exceptions - will have to support as many as four grandparents and two parents in their old age. For the economy as a whole, there will be far fewer workers to produce the goods and services for a still mammoth population. China will in effect have a super-sized version of the problem that Japan and other developed countries with low-birth rates have: too many dependents, not enough workers.

For the rest of the world, China's demographic trends are a mixed blessing. As the labor force shrinks, Chinese workers will be able to demand and get higher wages, which means that countries like Bangladesh, Vietnam, Cambodia and India will be able to better compete for unskilled or semi-skilled jobs in textile, electronics and other manufacturing sectors. Three years ago, I wrote about how Bangladesh's garment industry had benefitted from rising salaries in China. (Of course, the transfer of these jobs to poorer countries comes with a host of problems like weak safety standards and labor rights violations.) Simultaneously, the changes in China could drive up prices for some consumer goods in the United States and Europe.
So, what can Beijing do about its demographics?
Any change in the one-child policy at this stage will not have much of an impact immediately. Even if Chinese couples suddenly started having more children - and there are reasons to believe that many of them are no longer interested in having more than one child - those young people wouldn't join the labor force for another 20 years. It would have been far better if China had abandoned the restriction years ago.
Another potential answer to its labor problems could come in the form of immigration. Historically, China has been a supplier of workers to the rest of the world. But as it ages the flow could reverse and the country might seek to recruit immigrants from neighbors like India, the Philippines and Indonesia, which have large and relatively younger populations. China, however, like Japan, might find it hard to integrate or accept large numbers of foreigners in its midst.
There are of course moral as well as economic reasons to dislike the rule. It represents an invasion of privacy that leads to hardship and trauma, including unwanted abortions or sterilization. Some China experts like my colleague Nick Kristof are hopeful that China's next president, Xi Jinping, is a reformer who will support more liberal policies. Let's hope they are right and that one of the first changes he undertakes is to get rid of the one-child rule.

        
Everything's Great in China
        
Opinion Report: Military Standards
        
Opinion Report: China and the U.S.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); POPULATION DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); CHILDREN (89%); GARMENT WORKERS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (88%); TRENDS (78%); FAMILY (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); APPAREL MFG (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (73%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (72%); SENIOR CITIZENS (72%); GLOBALIZATION (70%); GRANDPARENTS (69%) China; Population; Xi Jinping

PERSON: XI JINPING (74%) Xi Jinping

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (92%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) CHINA (99%); BANGLADESH (92%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) China

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2013



589 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Joe Nocera)

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 381 words

HEADLINE: And Then There's New York...

BYLINE: JOE NOCERA


HIGHLIGHT: When I called Thomas DiNapoli, the New York State Comptroller, about a pension fund's investment in gun manufacturers, I got a surprising reply. 

 BODY:
There is one response to my queries about investors and Cerberus that I was unable to fit into my column. But I would like to dwell here for a moment on the response of the New York State Common Retirement Fund to the Newtown massacre. 
The fund, which is under the control of Thomas DiNapoli, the New York State Comptroller, made a $50 million commitment to the Cerberus Series IV Fund. Shortly after the Newtown tragedy, DiNapoli announced the Common Fund would "freeze" its direct investment in gun companies. "After the terrible events in Newtown, it is clear that the national movement toward greater regulation of firearms manufacturers will impose significant reputational, regulatory and statutory hurdles that may affect shareholder value," he said in a press release. "As the fiduciary of the Fund, it is my obligation to protect and grow Fund assets and we will continue to monitor the economic and regulatory environment before taking any additional steps."
In fact, the Common Fund owned shares in Smith & Wesson and Sturm, Ruger & Co, in addition to its piece of Freedom Group. When Cerberus announced it would put Freedom Group on the block, DiNapoli put out a statement saying that he "supported" the move. The Common Fund also sold its Smith & Wesson stake on December 18-four days after the tragedy.
Yet inexplicably, DiNapoli has chosen to hold onto the Fund's 45,325 shares of Strum, Ruger & Co., which it valued at a paltry $2.2 million. When I asked DiNapoli's press spokesman, Eric Sumberg, he immediately got his back up. "When we divested from Iran and Sudan's energy sectors, that process took about two years," he said. "We're acting within our fiduciary duty and that's what guides this."
Maybe so, but it's not as if Rugers haven't been used in mass shootings. A Ruger was the weapon of choice for the mass shooter in Norway, who killed 77 people in 2011. A Ruger was also used in a 2011 attack at a Connecticut beer distributor, leaving eight dead and two wounded; the 1999 shooting at Wedgwood Baptist Church in Texas, leaving seven dead and seven wounded; Oregon's Thurston High School in 1998, leaving four dead and 22 wounded, and so on. Would it really be so fiduciarily irresponsible to sell the Common Fund's measly $2.2 million position? Hard to believe.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FIREARMS (92%); SMALL ARMS MFG (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PENSION FUNDS (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); SANDY HOOK ELEMENTARY SCHOOL SHOOTINGS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); SHOOTINGS (75%); DIVESTITURES (75%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (74%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (69%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (65%) DiNapoli, Thomas P; Firearms; Freedom Group Family of Cos; New York State Common Retirement Fund; Newtown (Conn); Newtown, Conn, Shooting (2012); Norway; Office of the Comptroller (NYS); Oregon; Pensions and Retirement Plans; Smith & Wesson; Wedgwood Baptist Church

COMPANY: STURM RUGER & CO INC (69%); SMITH & WESSON CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Freedom Group Family of Cos; New York State Common Retirement Fund; Office of the Comptroller (NYS); Smith & Wesson; Wedgwood Baptist Church

TICKER: RGR (NYSE) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS332994 SMALL ARMS, ORDNANCE & ORDNANCE ACCESSORIES MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC3484 SMALL ARMS (69%); NAICS331512 STEEL INVESTMENT FOUNDRIES (69%); SIC3324 STEEL INVESTMENT FOUNDRIES (69%)

PERSON: DiNapoli, Thomas P

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SUDAN (79%) Newtown (Conn); Norway; Oregon

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2013



590 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2013

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 994 words

HEADLINE: Mali Need Not Be France's Afghanistan

BYLINE: DAVID ROHDE


HIGHLIGHT: Why France's intervention in Mali is necessary, despite the risks for France, the region and the West. 

 BODY:
A colleague's question could have come from anyone in the United States.
"So the French now have their own Afghanistan?" he asked.
The answer is yes and no. 
Several thousand jihadists threaten to destabilize Mali, Niger, Nigeria, and Algeria. Beyond the human rights abuses, their attacks will discourage foreign investment, paralyze local economies and produce vast numbers of refugees. Skeptics play down the threat, but the instability these extremists create will spread over time.
The tragic kidnapping in Algeria, where many hostages appear to have died in a rescue attempt, is already prompting oil companies to pull foreign workers out of the region. Islamists can't be ignored and won't disappear. They should be confronted or contained. The question is how. 
To ensure that Mali is not another Afghanistan, it is vital that France and the international community have reliable allies on the ground. They should mount diplomatic and economic efforts not just lethal force against the jihadists as well.
Many commentators immediately dismissed France's intervention. Some denounced it as "militarism." Others declared it "neo-colonialism." The most common phrase was "quagmire."
In Washington, even some Obama administration officials played down the threat that Mali represented, arguing that Western troops may have made things worse. Isolationism is politically easy but the wrong course. The Obama administration has since said they are assisting the French with logistics and intelligence support. 
Lost in the so-far skeptical response to the French intervention is a clear fact on the ground. For now, public opinion in Mali and across West Africa is hugely supportive of the French intervention. Press reports indicate that before the French arrived, the 1.8 million people of Bamako, Mali's capital, were increasingly terrified that Islamists would take the city.
"People have started to smoke cigarettes and wear long pants!" one taxi driver declared after France intervened. "They're playing soccer in the streets!"
From a military standpoint, the French had to act, according to experts on the region. More than 8,000 French citizens live in Mali, many of them in Bamako. And last week militant groups were on the verge of seizing a militarily vital airfield in the town of Sevare. Had the field been seized, it would have been enormously difficult for troops from France or a UN-mandated West African force to have moved into Mali.
Gregory Mann, a Columbia University history professor and an expert on Mali, has written the best analysis I have found of the intervention. The crisis "needs diplomatic intervention every bit as urgently as it needed military intervention," he argues. 
"Mali's troubles come largely from beyond the country's borders, as do most of the jihadi fighters," Mr. Mann told me in an email message. "It will take a coalition of countries to confront them, and building and maintaining such a coalition should be the diplomats' first priority."
Fears of a quagmire are understandable. The problems that have plagued Mali in recent years after decades of stability sound familiar: government corruption, ethnic and separatist tensions, drug trafficking, meddling neighbors and increasingly weak national institutions, particularly the army.
A previous American effort to train the Malian army to fight Islamists failed spectacularly. And the French intervention is likely to spark retaliatory attacks like the seizure of dozens of foreign hostages in Algeria on Wednesday. Post-Iraq and Afghanistan, skepticism about any Western military intervention is healthy. And France's record of intervention from Algeria to Vietnam is poor. But Malians are calling for help, and a UN effort to counter the militants has stalled.
The Islamist fighters have taken control of northern Mali with surprising speed. They are well organized, heavily armed and in control of a desert area the size of France. Their fighters include members of al Qaeda in the Islamic Magreb, a North Africa-based group allied with al Qaeda. In the future, they could easily use Mali as a base to carry out attacks in France and Europe.
Until now, the group has not said it intends to carry out attacks in the United States, but members of the groups are believed to have been involved in the murder of the American ambassador to Libya, Chris Stevens, and three other Americans. They have also amassed an estimated $100 million by kidnapping Westerners and demanding enormous ransoms. 
Robert Fowler, a Canadian diplomat who was kidnapped by the group in 2009, said his captors told him their hope was to create an Islamic emirate that spanned Africa.
"They would tell me repeatedly that their objective was to extend the chaos of Somalia across the Sahel to the Atlantic coast," Fowler said in a telephone interview Wednesday. "They believed that in that chaos their jihad would thrive."
My perspective is not neutral. Four years ago two Afghan colleagues and I were kidnapped by the Taliban and held captive for seven months in Pakistan. I saw their brutality, ignorance and determination first-hand.
I believe economic growth is the best way to counter militancy, not massive Western military interventions. To me, a threat exists from militancy. It is not manufactured. Yet we declare that there is no threat or we grow impatient when it is not quickly solved.
France faces months of casualties and conflict, but that should be expected. Quick solutions are illusory. So are claims that we can ignore violent militants. Countering militancy involves a combination of limited military force, expansive diplomacy and patience. We, Americans, rarely show those qualities. I hope the French do.

        
Jihadist Kingpin Suspected in Hostage Seizure
        
Hostages Caught Up in France's African Intervention
        
How Far Will Europeans Support France's Counter-Jihad?
        
Europe Ready to Send Military Trainers as Mali War Looms
        
France Considers a Gay Marriage Bill as Marriage Itself Is in Decline

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); HOSTAGE TAKING (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); RELIGION (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (72%); REFUGEES (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (72%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (71%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (70%); ARMED FORCES (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (57%); SOCCER (50%) Defense and Military Forces; Hostages; Al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb; France; Mali; Featured; View From America

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (84%) Al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MALI (99%); FRANCE (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); ALGERIA (93%); NIGERIA (92%); NIGER (92%); WESTERN AFRICA (92%); AFRICA (79%) France; Mali

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2013



591 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2013

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 449 words

HEADLINE: Drought Points Up Critical Role of Waterways

BYLINE: JOHN SCHWARTZ


HIGHLIGHT: If the Mississippi River got so low that navigation had to stop, grain exports and the other commodities could get a lot more expensive very quickly. 

 BODY:
 When people think of the Mississippi River, they might have visions of Mark Twain and old steamboats. But few Americans understand the vast amounts of shipping traffic that still makes its way up and down the river, part of the world's largest navigable inland waterway. 
As I write in The Times, a Midwestern drought has caused the dwindling of the mighty river in recent months. The phenomenon cannot necessarily be ascribed to climate change - no individual weather event can be. 
Still, shifting weather patterns, with heavier rainstorms in one area and much lighter ones in others, are part of the emerging picture of the effects of the overall global warming trend. Only a year ago, the river was experiencing record flooding. 
 If drought does emerge as a more prominent facet of life on the Mississippi and navigation is impeded, the effect on national and even global commerce will undoubtedly be felt. The towboats pushing their tightly grouped clusters of barges up and down the river move billions of dollars a month worth of grain for export and fertilizer for Midwestern farmers, coal and fuel for power plants and many other items.

If the river got so low that navigation had to stop, grain exports and the other commodities could get a lot more expensive very quickly.
 Barges, it turns out, provide a remarkably efficient way to move goods along the Mississippi and its tributaries. The load aboard one fully loaded 15-barge tow, if transferred to a train, would require more than 200 rail cars. Try to move the goods by truck, and you would need a fleet of more than 1,000. And when the river is running well, tow boats might push 24 barges or even more. So by comparison with road or rail transport, the Mississippi is relatively green.
 The looming crisis on the river has thrown a spotlight on the importance of water traffic to the national economy. Rick Calhoun, the president of Cargo Carriers, a part of Cargill, said that even President Obama, who has been talking up infrastructure investment in recent months, has referred chiefly to roads, railroads and air - "even cyber infrastructure," Mr. Calhoun complained. "We don't talk about the waterways."
But as I note in my article, the president has begun taking a personal interest in the Mississippi issue. So Mr. Calhoun is hoping that another mode of transportation will finally get the love. "We will consider it a coup if the president puts waterways in the State of the Union address," he said.

        
Big Drought Makes for a Small 'Dead Zone'
        
Does the Southwest Face a Mega-Drought?
        
On Our Radar: A Debate Challenge for Charles Koch
        
On Our Radar: Russia Warns of Climate Change
        
Drought Strains Russian Wheat Supplies

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CLIMATOLOGY (90%); AGRICULTURE (90%); RIVERS (90%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); DROUGHT (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); MARINE SHIPPING (90%); WEATHER (90%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (76%); GLOBALIZATION (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); FLOODS & FLOODING (71%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (69%); TRAINS (69%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); POWER PLANTS (67%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (67%); FERTILIZERS (67%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (64%) barges; cargo; Drought; Grain; Mississippi River; Global Warming; Infrastructure (Public Works); International Trade and World Market; Rivers; State of the Union Message (US); United States Economy; Agriculture; Business; climate change; Water Quantity; Weather Extremes

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI RIVER (94%) UNITED STATES (93%) Mississippi River

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2013



592 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2013

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 711 words

HEADLINE: E.P.A. Extends Deadline for Navajo Plant's Pollution Controls

BYLINE: FELICITY BARRINGER


HIGHLIGHT: The coal-fired plant now has until 2023 to install expensive scrubbing equipment. 

 BODY:
 In a bid to clean up one of the nation's dirtiest coal-fired power plants without causing economic harm to the Navajo Nation that surrounds it, the Environmental Protection Agency indicated on Friday that it would give the plant's owners five extra years, until 2023, to install expensive state-of-the art emissions reduction equipment.
The agency expressed its willingness to extend the deadline by releasing a proposed rule. 
The Navajo Generating Station near Page, Ariz., not far from the Grand Canyon, has long been a priority for environmentalists concerned about the health impacts from the pollution it generates and the ensuing haze that settles over the the majestic park. 
But the 2,200-megawatt plant has powerful defenders. Its electricity has helped light Los Angeles and pump Colorado River water to communities around Arizona. The plant, which first generated electricity 39 years ago, and the Kayenta coal mine that feeds it provide about 1,000 local jobs. The vast majority of these are held by Native Americans. Unemployment rates are well above 50 percent in and around the reservation.

Jared Blumenfeld, the E.P.A.'s regional administrator for California, Nevada and parts of Arizona, said the economic issue was a major reason for the extension. "There's an economic reality and imperative here," he said in an interview. "I am committed to ensuring that we were not the reason the facility closes," he said. "I wanted it to remain open while the tribes develop a plan for a more sustainable future."
Yet the essential goal, he added, is to enforce the Congressional mandate to reduce the haze the obscures the view in national parks like Grand Canyon.
The managers of the Salt River Project, the private utility that manages the plant, said they were uncertain what the implications of the proposal would be. Even investing as much as $1 billion in control equipment, and extending the deadlines, might not solve the problem, they said.
 "We appreciate that the E.P.A. appears to have attempted to take into consideration the complex timing issues that this decision creates for the N.G.S. owners," John Sullivan, the chief resources executive at the project, said in a statement. "Unfortunately, the proposal may not allow the owners enough time to resolve uncertainties facing the plant before they will be required to make a significant financial commitment."
The E.P.A. proposal makes it clear that the agency will accept only one technology to clean up the emissions of nitrogen oxides. These chemicals are a key component in the formation of fine particles, which are associated with both haze and heart and lung disease. But it also gave the plant credit for its installation of so-called low-NOx burners several years ago; these credits were part of the formula for extending the deadline for installation of the new equipment.
The technology the agency is requiring, known as selective catalytic reduction, transforms some of the smokestack gases into a harmless blend of pure nitrogen and water vapor. Installing these control systems on the three units of the Navajo generating station could cost $550 million to $1.1 billion, according to an estimate published by the Central Arizona project, which distributes the Colorado River water.
The conciliatory proposal, on which the public can submit comments for the next 90 days, drew mixed responses from the longtime combatants in the battle over the plant's emissions.
Erny Zah, a spokesman for the Navajo Nation, said the proposal's insistence on this technology was disappointing. "But it seems that the E.P.A. did have in mind our concerns about the economic impact that harsh deadlines could do to this plant, and the mine, and northern Arizona as a whole," he said.
Andy Bessler of the Sierra Club praised the E.P.A. proposal. "We applaud the Environmental Protection Agency for requiring the long-overdue cleanup of pollution from this dirty coal plant, which for decades has harmed human health and marred one of the nation's iconic national parks, the Grand Canyon," he said.

        
De-hazing the Lazy Days of Summer
        
Carbon Emissions Jumped in 2010, Report Says
        
Delay in Coal Pollution Rules Took Toll in Lives
        
Keep Courts Out of Climate Policy, G.O.P. Lawmakers Say
        
Your Piece of the Keeling Curve

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COAL FIRED PLANTS (92%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (92%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (92%); POWER PLANTS (91%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); COAL INDUSTRY (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); NATIONAL PARKS (89%); WATER POLLUTION (89%); CLEAN COAL TECHNOLOGY (78%); NATIVE AMERICANS (78%); COAL MINING (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); COMBUSTION TECHNOLOGIES (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); NITROGEN OXIDES (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); INTERVIEWS (70%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (60%) air polluy; coal-fired electricity; Kayenta coal mine; Navajo Generating Station; Air Pollution; Coal; Emissions Reduction; Fossil Fuels; Parks; Politics and Policy; public lands

PERSON: JOHN SULLIVAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) ARIZONA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2013



593 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 505 words

HEADLINE: As Obama Begins Second Term, Majority Approve of His Performance

BYLINE: MARJORIE CONNELLY


HIGHLIGHT: President Obama heads into his second term in office with an overall positive approval rating, but the public remains ambivalent about his handling of the economy. 

 BODY:
President Obama heads into his second term in office with an overall positive approval rating, but the public remains ambivalent about his handling of the economy. 
Fifty-one percent of Americans approve of the way Mr. Obama is handling his job, according to a survey by The New York Times/CBS News, with 41 percent disapproving. Mr. Obama's job approval rating is similar to George W. Bush's at the start of his second term, but much lower than the ratings of the previous two presidents who served eight years. (President Bill Clinton's approval rate was 60 percent in January 1997, and Ronald Reagan's was 62 percent in January 1985.) More than 8 in 10 Democrats approve of his job performance, 8 in 10 Republicans disapprove and independents are evenly divided. 
The public has not changed its assessment of Mr. Obama's handling of the economy since the last-minute negotiations with Congress to avert the automatic tax increases and spending cuts that were scheduled to take affect at the end of last year. Almost half, 46 percent, approve of the way the president has been dealing with the economy and 49 percent disapprove. 
The public is also closely divided over how the president is dealing with taxes. In the wake of the recent fiscal deal that raised taxes on individuals with incomes over $400,000, 45 percent of those surveyed approve of Mr. Obama's handling of taxes and 47 percent disapprove. 
Last month, when negotiations to forestall the fiscal crisis were at a stalemate and taxes had not yet been raised on anyone, more than half - 52 percent - approved of how Mr. Obama was taking care of taxes. 
Mr. Obama's management of the overall federal budget deficit continues to be viewed negatively: 37 percent approve and 54 percent disapprove, including a quarter of Democrats. 
Susan Fales, of Wilmington, N.C., strongly approves of Mr. Obama's job performance. "A president doesn't have unlimited power but he's working on behalf of people like myself as best he can under the circumstances he is in," Mrs. Fales, 49, an unemployed Democrat, said in a follow-up interview. 
John Gorden, 58, is an independent who disapproves of how Mr. Obama is handling all aspects of his job. "It seems Barack Obama is moving us closer and closer to socialism, to more of a European government," said Mr. Gorden, a consultant in the oil and gas industry who lives in Traverse City, Mich. 
Moving away from fiscal matters, almost half, 49 percent, of respondents approve of the president's handling of foreign policy, and 36 percent disapprove. 
The nationwide poll was conducted Jan. 11-15 with 1,110 adults, using landlines and cellphones, and has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points. More results from this poll will be released on NYTimes.com after 6:30 p.m. 

        
Prominent Republicans Criticize Obama's Executive Actions
        
Obama Defends His Record on Diversity in Appointments
        
Graphic: Looking for Allies in Washington
        
Obama Can't Depend On New Poll Numbers
        
Parties Do Some Convention Spin on Sunday Talk Shows

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); INTERVIEWS (79%); BUDGETS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); POLITICS (74%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); TAX INCREASES (72%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (72%); TAX LAW (72%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (62%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); FOREIGN POLICY (50%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%) Obama, Barack; Polls and Public Opinion; United States Politics and Government; Polling

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%); BILL CLINTON (59%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: WILMINGTON, NC, USA (53%); TRAVERSE CITY, MI, USA (51%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2013



594 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 10445 words

HEADLINE: Live Coverage of Obama's Second Inauguration

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: President Obama begins his second term in office this weekend and Times reporters in Washington will be providing live updates and analysis starting at 9 a.m. on Monday and running through the inaugural ceremony. 

 BODY:
As President Obama begins his second term in office, Times reporters in Washington are providing live updates and analysis. Mr. Obama declared that the country was "made for this moment," but said that the nation must confront the needs of a rising middle class.
 6:24 P.M. | That's a Wrap 
The president delivered his address, walked in the parade and is now off to the evening's events. We are, too. Thanks for following along, and be sure to check back on nytimes.com for continuing coverage of the inauguration.
- The New York Times 
 5:54 P.M. | Fox News Unimpressed With Address and Ceremony 
Even for the president's most strident political opponents, the pomp and ceremony of Inauguration Day largely quieted their criticisms. And when they did criticize, it was fairly tame. 
But not on Fox News.
All day - while its competitors on CNN waved giddily to the president and first lady along the parade route and MSNBC anchors talked about the progressive promise of his second term - Fox News served as the voice for the president's conservative critics.
Charles Krauthammer, the syndicated columnist, declared the speech unmemorable. "There's not a line here that will ever be repeated," he huffed.
Ben Stein, the humorist and former Nixon speechwriter, decried the president's embrace of government safety nets. "He promised glittering generalities and little gifts for all his interest groups," Mr. Stein said. "This is a speech he must have written an hour before the inauguration."
And while other news outlets focused on the enthusiasm of the crowd, reporters and anchors on Fox News repeatedly mentioned one particular fact about the people on the National Mall: there were fewer of them. 
Comparing the crowds with the president's first inauguration in 2009, Neil Cavuto, a Fox anchor, observed: "It was a bigger event that day. It was two million crowding into this city. We're told 500,000 to 700,000 this go around."
- Jeremy W. Peters 
 5:28 P.M. | Inauguration Leaves Footprint on National Mall 
Inauguration attendees were greeted by piles of trash Monday afternoon as they exited the Capitol grounds through the tents they had entered earlier.
Trash bins overflowing with discarded coffee cups, bottled water and snacks like apples and peanut butter bars gave way to hills of garbage on benches, grass and concrete. Attendees had discarded the items before passing through screening points staffed by the Transportation Security Agency. A man wearing all black picked up an umbrella from a pile and scurried away. (Rain was expected in the evening.)
The lack of adequate trash receptacles did not go unnoticed by one passer-by, who expressed disgust at the sight. "They do all this," a young woman said. "I'm so disappointed that they don't have recycling."
- Ashley Southall 
 5:12 P.M. | No Surprise, No Romney at Inauguration 
Missing from the stage of bipartisan dignitaries on hand to witness President Obama's inauguration was one person perhaps no one expected to be in attendance: his rival, Mitt Romney.
But at most of the recent inaugurations, the defeated candidate for president has been on the stage with the victor - not out of an overgrown sense of comity, but rather because they remained Washington figures that gave them another reason to be there.
Mr. Romney, a former governor and business executive, has no official role in Washington. A former top aide to Mr. Romney said the vanquished Republican nominee was at his home in La Jolla, Calif.
In 2009, Senator John McCain of Arizona shared the stage with the man who beat him, Mr. Obama. Senators are always invited to be on the stand during an inauguration. (He was there again today, wearing his trademark aviator glasses.)
In 2005, Senator John F. Kerry was there as President George W. Bush was inaugurated for the second time. Four years earlier, Mr. Bush's first rival - Vice President Al Gore - was there, too, as part of the official transition of power from one administration to another.
Former Senator Bob Dole was not in attendance as Bill Clinton was inaugurated in 1997. By the time he lost, Mr. Dole had already resigned from the Senate.
But Mr. Clinton's rival in 1993 was on the stage: George Bush was there as the outgoing president.
In 1989, Michael Dukakis also had no official reason to be on the stage and issued a statement instead. "I wish him well and look forward to working with him," Mr. Dukakis, the governor of Massachusetts at the time, said in the statement.
Where was he? According to The Associated Press, Mr. Dukakis watched the inauguration of his rival on television while eating a tuna sandwich.
- Michael D. Shear 
 4:44 P.M. | From the Archive: Wishing for Earplugs 
- The New York Times 
 4:42 P.M. | The Crowd Parts for Tuskegee Airmen 
At one exit, at the intersection of Constitution and New Jersey Avenues, on Monday afternoon, a flailing effort to round up the Tuskegee Airmen attending the inauguration became a crowd cause.
As Capitol police officers blocked foot traffic to allow buses to pass through the intersection, military escorts asked the remaining airmen stuck in the crowd to identify themselves and pleaded for the crowd to"make a hole" for the airmen to pass through. It was an unwitting cue for a chant.
"Make a hole! Make a hole! Make a hole!" the crowd said briefly.
It worked. The crowd parted, albeit narrowly, to provide a path. Three airmen were able to pass through as the crowd cheered them on. It was unclear how many airmen had been stuck in the bottleneck.
- Ashley Southall 
 4:21 P.M. | A Canadian Celebration of an American President 
So how does the United States' neighbor to the north celebrate President Obama's inauguration? 
With Canadian flair, of course. 
The Embassy of Canada opened its doors Monday to a mix of Canadians and American citizens, who gathered among huge Canadian flags to cheer on the 44th president of the United States. By the time Mr. Obama's motorcade passed by on the parade route - which runs directly in front of the embassy - at just after 3:30 p.m., the party was already well under way.
(Mr. Obama did not get out of his limousine, but attendees happily snapped away with their cameras, capturing the tinted windows from behind which they surmised the president sat.)
Guests wandered around in red-and-white striped mittens emblazoned with a red maple leaf and maroon scarves by Roots (a Canadian clothing company), and helped themselves to poutine, a calorie-laden fast food delicacy from Quebec featuring french fries, cheese curd and brown gravy. Canadian beers were also on hand, as was an ice luge featuring chilly pours of Crown Royal Maple. A food cart handed out free "beaver tails" - a thin type of sweet fried dough that Mr. Obama himself sampled during a 2009 trip to Ottawa. 
Lana Pollack, a United States citizen from Detroit who works at an organization that handles United States-Canada independent treaties, said she was not surprised that the Canadian Embassy was throwing a party.
"They're very hospitable, and their hospitality always has a flair and an imagination," she said. "Their Canadian pride is there, but with a light touch. They take themselves seriously, but not too seriously."
Referring to the embassy's prime location, just down the street for the Capitol, she added: "The size and the integration of our economies is just so significant. The relationship is so important that it makes sense that their real estate is the best."
Jason Hollmann, 37, a Canadian currently living in Washington, D.C., said that in Canada, most people are probably watching the spectacle on television (rather than throwing elaborate parties). But that he was happy to celebrate the two countries that "are so intertwined" in person. 
"It's nice to have a mix of the Canadian stuff - the poutine, the beaver tails - combined with a great day for this country," he said.
Keeping with the Canadian theme, BlackBerry, which is owned by a Canadian company, had kiosks set up around the party, where guests could answer a 10-question quiz to try to win either a BlackBerry tablet, or a certificate for the new BlackBerry 10. (A 9 out of 10 scored gets the certificate, and an 8 out of 10 landed them the tablet.)
The multiple choice questions included "Quebec produces 80 percent of the world's _____," (That'd be maple syrup.) and "How long would the average man have to run to burn off the calories from Canada's country-style poutine?" (A whopping 2.5 hours, for the 1,422-calorie snack.)
As a reporter puzzled over the questions for fun, a man sidled up to her, whispering correct answer after correct answer.
"You must be Canadian," she said, after he had gone 10-for-10. 
He laughed and shook his head, explaining that he was actually a Colombian diplomat. But, he added diplomatically, "I have friends here."
- Ashley Parker 
 4:28 P.M. | The Caucus Click: Walking the Parade 
- Doug Mills 
 4:11 P.M. | At Luncheon, Obama Strikes Conciliatory Tone 
After an ideologically assertive Inaugural Address, President Obama used his toast at a luncheon in the ornate Statuary Hall at the Capitol on Monday to reach out to his Republican adversaries and strike a note of humility as he begins his second term.
Raising a glass to Speaker John A. Boehner of Ohio, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, and all the leaders of Congress, Mr. Obama said, "I recognize that democracy is not always easy, and I recognize there are profound differences in this room."
But he thanked the leaders for their service and their families for their sacrifices, "because regardless of our political persuasions and perspectives, I know that all of us serve because we believe that we can make an America for future generations, and I'm confident that we can act at this moment in a way that makes a difference for our children and our children's children."
 The luncheon lacked the drama that marked the same gathering four years ago when Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts collapsed, eight months before he died of a brain tumor. This time, senators and House members, cabinet secretaries and Supreme Court justices bantered with former presidents and at least one celebrity, the singer John Legend, without incident.
Mr. Boehner presented the American flags that flew over the Capitol during the inaugural ceremonies to the president and Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. in the marble room that was once the House chamber, known for its poor acoustics and bitter fights over slavery.
"We gather in the old hall to better hear one another, and to renew the appeal to better angels," he said. 
Senator Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee and the co-chairman of the inaugural committee, presented official inaugural photographs to the president and vice president. Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, the House majority leader, presented "Lennox Inaugural Gifts," two giant crystal vases - one for the president, etched with an image of the White House, the other for the vice president, with an image of the Capitol - that also seemed to show off the inauguration's corporate sponsorship.
 Known for being emotional, Mr. Boehner wiped his eyes during the closing prayer.
 Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, toasted the president, his family "and our great country - four more successful years, Barack Obama."
 But it was Mr. Obama, closing the occasion, who tried to strike the tone. Acknowledging the two former presidents in the hall, Jimmy Carter and Bill Clinton, Mr. Obama said the men "understand the irony of the presidential office, which is the longer you're there, the more humble you become, and the more mindful you are that it is beyond your poor powers individually to move this great country." 
"You can only do it because you have extraordinary partners," he said.
- Jonathan Weisman 
 3:56 P.M. | Inaugural Voices: Hopes for a Second Term 
As a paralegal who worked on domestic violence cases, Marcie Barnes of Abingdon, Va., wanted to help end such crimes. So when she was laid off in October, she tried to remain positive.
"I'd hoped to work myself out of a job," she said as she slowly made her way off the National Mall as the inauguration ceremony wrapped up Monday. "Maybe I kind of did."
Ms. Barnes, 58, said she hoped President Obama could encourage job creation during his second term.
"I think he's calling on the American people to help set his agenda," she said of his Inaugural Address.
Ms. Barnes proudly introduced her daughter, daughter-in-law and young grandson as they inched by the carousel on the edge of the National Mall, temporarily idled during the ceremony. She said she came to Mr. Obama's first inauguration, and though Monday's swearing-in was not as crowded, she was still as energized as she was four years ago.
"Everyone said it wasn't going to be the same," she said. "It feels kind of the same to me."
- Emmarie Huetteman 
 3:55 P.M. | Protests From the Left and the Right 
Protests from the right were to be expected at President Obama's second inauguration. Though kept at a distance, one anti-abortion protester was shouting loud enough that, as the ceremony began, he could still be heard chanting from the seats just below where the president took the oath of office.
The big surprise, however, was that even as Mr. Obama gave an Inaugural Address that seemed to return him to the progressive-sounding themes of the 2008 campaign, there were a smattering of protests about his war policies.
As the crowds departed at the end of the ceremony, those heading over to Union Station, a few blocks from the Capitol, came across a clutch of a half-dozen or so protesters bearing large pictures of children killed in drone attacks. The sight clearly took aback many who had come to celebrate the president's inauguration, and particularly surprised a few of the Tuskegee Airmen, the all-black pilots of the Army Air Corps in World War II. 
"First time I've heard anyone claim Obama was too warlike," one of the airmen said to a companion.
The protesters had even customized a chant for Martin Luther King's Birthday.
"King had a dream,'' one of them yelled. "Obama has a drone."
- David E. Sanger 
 3:48 P.M. | Length of Inaugural Address About Average 
While shorter than his first Inaugural Address by 299 words, the length of President Obama's speech on Monday was fairly average, as Inaugural Addresses go, according to the American Presidency Project. At 2,096 words, Mr. Obama's speech came in slightly under the average of 2,353 words. 
The longest Inaugural Address in the nation's history, at 8,460 words, was given by William Henry Harrison on March 4, 1841. Mr. Harrison broke with precedent by beginning his speech, stopping to take the oath, and then resuming his address. The shortest Inaugural Address was George Washington's second on March 4, 1793, in which he remarked that he would "endeavor to express the high sense I entertain of this distinguished honor" on another occasion.
 Correction: An earlier version of this post misstated the name of a project that measured the length of President Obama's speeches. It is the American Presidency Project, not the American President Project.
- Kitty Bennett 
 3:18 P.M. | New York Pedicabs Crash Inaugural Weekend 
There are a lot of things that New York City has - good bagels, tabloid newspapers and skyscrapers - that Washington does not. 
Apparently, Washington is also short on pedicab drivers. 
Late last week, several pedicab drivers from New York City loaded their bikes onto trucks and headed south to Washington. 
In recent years, the pedicab business in New York has expanded significantly as drivers from Europe, Russia and Africa have started to trek tourists around the city. 
Although Washington has many tourists, the pedicab market there has not expanded as much, and there are only a few hundred drivers. So, in an attempt to cash in on the market shortage, drivers from New York went to Washington for the weekend.
One of them was Gordon Gertsen, a 32-year-old from Upper Manhattan, who said he paid $400 for a pedicab to be brought down to Washington for him. The chance to make money driving in Washington, he said, was particularly appealing because there is so little pedicab work in New York City in January and February. 
"Guys who came down in 2008 were really busy," he said in an interview on Monday, referring to the last inauguration when several hundred thousand more people flooded into Washington to see President Obama sworn into office. 
Mr. Gertsen, who drove his pedicab on Friday, Saturday and Sunday, said that driving in Washington was far different than in New York. There are more hills, passengers want to go greater distances and the temperatures are warmer, he said. 
"New York is pretty dirty," he said. "I was really surprised by how clean it was here. It's hillier and more difficult to ride here."
He added: "My legs are much more sore."
Another challenge Mr. Gertsen encountered in Washington was that he knew little about how to navigate the city and its history.
"At first, it was complicated to get around the Mall, how to get through the alphabets, the monuments, the hotels, a lot of people wanted to be taken to the subway," he said. 
Without much knowledge of the city, he could not provide riders with tours as he does in New York. 
"It takes a very long time to learn a good Central Park tour," he said. "We learned some facts here about the M.L.K. Memorial, the Lincoln Memorial, just some stuff we looked up online" but not enough for tours.
After riding for three days, Mr. Gertsen took Monday off and went to the inauguration before returning to New York.
"Our view wasn't so good," he said. 
Apparently neither was his balance sheet.
Mr. Gertsen said that Friday and Saturday were not very profitable, but that business picked up on Sunday, when he made about $700. But he still did not make as much money as he had thought. He said that the cost of a hotel room and food had weighed down his profits. 
"I probably did a little better than break even," he said.
- Michael S. Schmidt 
 3:01 P.M. | From the Archive: Wrangling a President 
 Correction: An earlier version of a picture caption with this post misstated the given name of a rodeo cowboy. He is Montie Montana, not Monty.
- The New York Times 
 2:39 P.M. | The Origin of 'Takers' 
President Obama referred in his address Monday to the notion of "takers": Americans who are said to be living off the generosity of the government. "The commitments we make to each other - through Medicare, and Medicaid, and Social Security - these things do not sap our initiative; they strengthen us," Mr. Obama said. "They do not make us a nation of takers; they free us to take the risks that make this country great."
Using the word "takers" in this way dates to at least the 1980s and has become popular among conservatives in recent years. "By accepting liberalism's logic, we are becoming a nation of takers, a people constantly inquiring what our country can do for us, heedless of its cost to society or future generations," Don Feder, then a Boston Herald columnist, wrote in a 1988 Heritage Foundation publication. 
Mike Huckabee used the phrase in a Republican presidential debate in 2007. A Wall Street Journal opinion article in 2011 was called, "We've Become a Nation of Takers, Not Makers." Tyler Cowen, an economist at George Mason University, argued last year in The New York Times that the concept was flawed but useful. Representative Paul D. Ryan, the Republican vice presidential nominee last year, has used the word multiple times, including in this 2010 interview. 
Mitt Romney may or may not have used the word in last year's presidential campaign, but he echoed the theme when he talked about the "47 percent of people" who "believe that they are entitled to health care, to food, to housing, to you name it," as well as when he spoke of the "gifts" Mr. Obama had bestowed on his supporters. And while Mr. Romney was governor of Massachusetts, one of his aides used the word "takers," setting off a debate. From The Associated Press, on Oct. 21, 2003:
A top adviser to Gov. Mitt Romney was sharply criticized Monday for referring to Medicaid recipients as "takers" in a speech to a group of business leaders last week. Administration and Finance Secretary Eric Kriss, who is the Republican governor's chief budget adviser, told the Greater Boston Chamber of Commerce Thursday that the increased number of "takers," those who receive more in state services than they pay in taxes meant that state government needs to be reformed immediately. Kriss specifically referred to the approximately 1 million state residents who receive free health care under Medicaid.
- David Leonhardt and Kitty Bennett 
 2:29 P.M. | Climate Change Given Prominence in Obama's Address 
President Obama made addressing climate change the most prominent policy vow of his second Inaugural Address on Monday, setting in motion what Democrats say will be a deliberately paced but aggressive campaign built around the use of his executive powers to sidestep Congressional opposition.
"We will respond to the threat of climate change, knowing that failure to do so would betray our children and future generations," Mr. Obama said, at the start of eight full sentences on the subject, more than he devoted to any other specific area. "Some may still deny the overwhelming judgment of science, but none can avoid the devastating impact of raging fires, and crippling drought, and more powerful storms."
Mr. Obama is heading into the effort having extensively studied the lessons from his first term, when he failed to win passage of comprehensive legislation to reduce emissions of the gases that cause global warming. This time, the White House plans to avoid such a fight and instead focus on what it can do administratively.
The centerpiece will be action by the Environmental Protection Agency to clamp down further on emissions from coal-burning power plants under regulations still being drafted - and likely to draw legal challenges.
That step will be supplemented by the adoption of new energy efficiency standards for home appliances and buildings, a seemingly small step that can have a substantial impact by reducing demand for electricity. Those standards would echo the sharp increase in fuel economy that the administration required from automakers in the first term. Read More
- Richard W. Stevenson and John M. Broder 
 2:12 P.M. | Spotted: John Legend 
- Brendan Hoffman 
 2:08 P.M. | Interactive: A Closer Look at the Inaugural Ceremony 
Zoom in and find out who was who at President Obama's second inauguration.
- The New York Times 
 1:43 P.M. | More on Michelle Obama's Dress 
At the inaugural lunch, Michelle Obama removed her Thom Browne coat to reveal the dress underneath, also by Mr. Browne. The silk jacquard dress follows the same silhouette as the coat - fitted at the bodice and slightly flared through the skirt. The fabric is almost the negative image of the coat she was wearing earlier. As for the blue cardigan, a signature of the first lady, this one is reportedly by the designer Reed Krakoff, whose dress she wore on Sunday, at the first swearing-in of President Obama.
Mrs. Obama has been modifying her looks throughout the day with a range of accessories, including a belt she put on over the coat at the inauguration. The belt came from J. Crew. Jenna Lyons, the executive creative director of J. Crew, said in a phone conversation earlier on Monday she loved the combination, and hoped Mr. Browne did not mind. All of the clothing and accessories will be given to the National Archives.
- Eric Wilson 
 1:53 P.M. | Parties Mix at Inaugural Luncheon 
The inaugural luncheon was a splendor of orange (the centerpieces, not the complexions) and odd pairings (not the New England lobster and South Dakota bison, but the seating arrangement).
Assembled in Statuary Hall at the Capitol was a who's who of power brokers: President Obama and Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., cabinet members, military leaders, Supreme Court justices and senators and House members.
Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the Republican whip, got the draw many others obviously wanted. He sat next to former President Bill Clinton, who had to greet virtually everyone in attendance. The other former president in attendance, Jimmy Carter, was seated next to Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California. Rosalynn Carter drew Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the taciturn Republican leader.
Timothy Geithner, the outgoing Treasury secretary, was seated with Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts, expected to soon be the secretary of state. And Gen. Martin E. Dempsey, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, got plenty of time to talk over impending, across-the-board defense cuts at the table of Representative Howard P. McKeon, Republican of California, the chairman of the House Armed Services Committee.
And the singer John Legend - not on the invitation list - made the rounds before lunch was served.
In keeping with the inaugural theme of equality, Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, the chairman of the inaugural committee, lamented that only one woman was immortalized on statue in the hall: Frances Willard, a leader of the Woman's Christian Temperance Union. But he delivered news that a female face would soon be joining the assembled statuary.
"Rosa Parks completes her journey from the back of the bus to the front of Statuary Hall later this year," Mr. Schumer said.
 Correction: An earlier version of this post misstated the name of a women's organization led by Frances Willard. It is the Woman's Christian Temperance Union, not the Women's Christian Temperance Union.
- Jonathan Weisman 
 1:39 P.M. | Senate Republicans Respond to Inaugural Address 
By and large, Republican senators seemed to find the speech eloquent and hopeful, if short on policy specifics and conciliation. 
"I thought it was excellent," said Senator Orrin G. Hatch of Utah, who was wearing a white 10-gallon hat. "I think one word describes it: togetherness. I think we're going to have some interesting times and some trying times too. It's hard to have people agree with everything everyone says." 
Senator John Hoeven of North Dakota had a similar, if somewhat more muted reaction. "I thought it was good," he said. "The most important point he made was about working together." 
Specifically, Mr. Hoeven said he was interested in hearing the president address energy. "How you get there is the issue," he said. "We'll join in, but you have to empower the private sector." 
Senator Richard C. Shelby of Alabama summed up the discord: "I thought it was courteous, but I didn't see any reaching out." 
Senator John McCain of Arizona, who milled about the crypt with other senators and guests of the president, agreed: "There was very little reaching out to the other side," he said. "It was a fine speech, but I didn't hear any conciliatory remarks. I didn't see any specific reference like, 'I reach out my hand to the other side of the aisle.' "
Senator Bob Corker of of Tennessee seemed somewhat flummoxed by the speech, at one point suggesting that a reporter ought to call his press secretary to get his thoughts on its specifics. But he said he was moved by the day and the program. "He tried to set a good tone," Mr. Corker said. "It was the entire tone of ceremony was that set the tone for me. I didn't take away anything on the specifics. What I thought when I walked over here from my apartment, which is about eight blocks away, was what a great country this is that we have a transition or continuation of power this way. It was really moving to walk and see all sorts of people wrapped in all sorts of winter garb so that they could come here to see this."
Senator Susan Collins, a Republican from Maine, said she was surprised by the tone of the president's remarks, which she characterized as better suited for a political rally than an inaugural address.
"The speech was more of a campaign style speech than I expected," Ms. Collins said as she was walking back from the ceremony. "Maybe it's just the final stage of the campaign, and now we can all get down to governing."
Senator Ron Johnson, a Republican from Wisconsin, said he felt the president's speech was divisive.
"I think all Americans would hope that President Obama, now that he's not facing re-election, would actually sit down and honestly work with Republicans who are very sincere in our desire to fix these problems." 
But, Mr. Johnson added, that was not the sentiment he detected from Mr. Obama on Monday. "You've got to sit down in good faith. But I just don't see that with this president."
- Jennifer Steinhauer and Jeremy Peters 
 1:27 P.M. | Spotted: Cyndi Lauper 
- Stephen Crowley 
 1:13 P.M. | Inaugural Poem: 'One Today' 
 Below is the full text of Richard Blanco's poem, "One Today." 
One sun rose on us today, kindled over our shores,
peeking over the Smokies, greeting the faces
of the Great Lakes, spreading a simple truth
across the Great Plains, then charging across the Rockies.
One light, waking up rooftops, under each one, a story
told by our silent gestures moving behind windows.
My face, your face, millions of faces in morning's mirrors,
each one yawning to life, crescendoing into our day:
pencil-yellow school buses, the rhythm of traffic lights,
fruit stands: apples, limes and oranges arrayed like rainbows
begging our praise. Silver trucks heavy with oil or paper -
bricks or milk, teeming over highways alongside us,
on our way to clean tables, read ledgers or save lives -
to teach geometry, or ring-up groceries as my mother did
for 20 years, so I could write this poem.
All of us as vital as the one light we move through,
the same light on blackboards with lessons for the day:
equations to solve, history to question or atoms imagined,
the "I have a dream" we keep dreaming,
or the impossible vocabulary of sorrow that won't explain
the empty desks of 20 children marked absent
today, and forever. Many prayers, but one light
breathing color into stained glass windows,
life into the faces of bronze statues, warmth
onto the steps of our museums and park benches 
as mothers watch children slide into the day.
One ground. Our ground, rooting us to every stalk
of corn, every head of wheat sown by sweat
and hands, hands gleaning coal or planting windmills
in deserts and hilltops that keep us warm, hands
digging trenches, routing pipes and cables, hands
as worn as my father's cutting sugarcane
so my brother and I could have books and shoes.
The dust of farms and deserts, cities and plains
mingled by one wind - our breath. Breathe. Hear it
through the day's gorgeous din of honking cabs,
buses launching down avenues, the symphony
of footsteps, guitars, and screeching subways,
the unexpected song bird on your clothes line.
Hear: squeaky playground swings, trains whistling, 
or whispers across cafe tables, Hear: the doors we open
for each other all day, saying: hello, shalom,
buon giorno, howdy, namaste or buenos das
in the language my mother taught me - in every language
spoken into one wind carrying our lives
without prejudice, as these words break from my lips.
One sky: since the Appalachians and Sierras claimed
their majesty, and the Mississippi and Colorado worked
their way to the sea. Thank the work of our hands:
weaving steel into bridges, finishing one more report
for the boss on time, stitching another wound 
or uniform, the first brush stroke on a portrait,
or the last floor on the Freedom Tower
jutting into a sky that yields to our resilience.
One sky, toward which we sometimes lift our eyes
tired from work: some days guessing at the weather
of our lives, some days giving thanks for a love
that loves you back, sometimes praising a mother
who knew how to give, or forgiving a father
who couldn't give what you wanted.
We head home: through the gloss of rain or weight
of snow, or the plum blush of dusk, but always - home,
always under one sky, our sky. And always one moon
like a silent drum tapping on every rooftop
and every window, of one country - all of us -
facing the stars
hope - a new constellation
waiting for us to map it,
waiting for us to name it - together
- The New York Times 
 1:07 P.M. | Spotted: John Mayer and Katy Perry, Proud to Be Here 
There was no shortage of boldface names at the Inauguration. The first family, the vice president and hundreds of members of Congress, for starters.
But it was the presence of two people in particular that caused perhaps the biggest stir among the audience on the Capitol steps: Katy Perry and John Mayer.
They were seated just like regular guests, smack in the middle of a group of journalists, spouses of members of Congress and other players in the Washington power scene - not the types to be easily impressed.
But that hardly stopped them from gawking and snapping pictures of the pair. Just before the ceremony started, Mr. Mayer and Ms. Perry got up to walk around. As they passed a group of journalists, a reporter from The Washington Post called out, "Katy, are you excited to be here?"
Ms. Perry stopped, paused dramatically and said, "Yes. Proud."
- Jeremy W. Peters 
 12:49 P.M. | Jill Biden and Her Big Bow 
Jill Biden's distinctive silvery coat is getting a fair share of attention on the inaugural fashion front, namely because of the large bow at the neckline. A bow is a slightly risky look (remember Aretha Franklin's hat at the inauguration four years ago?), but Mrs. Biden pulled it off. She looks elegant.
Lela Rose, the designer of Mrs. Biden's outfit, who also dressed Jenna and Barbara Bush during a previous inauguration, said Mrs. Biden came to her in an unexpected way. Mrs. Biden bought her dress at Neiman Marcus, and the store called Ms. Rose about a week and a half ago, looking for a matching coat.
"I wanted to create a coat that looked good with the dress without being exactly a matching look," Ms. Rose said in a telephone interview from her home in Sullivan County, N.Y.
"It was truly a pleasure to dress Mrs. Biden for the inauguration," she said. "She's a classic American beauty, and she wears clothes very elegantly."
The coat is made of a shimmering silk and wool fabric, but, Ms. Rose said, "I'm sure she's cold. The coat is not all that warm."
As for the bow, Ms. Rose described it as very "sophisticated."
"It's not a jaunty one," she said. "The color and the slight sheen to that silk and wool all looks very put together. Sometimes, bows can look a little cutesy, and I don't think this one does at all."
- Eric Wilson 
 12:49 P.M. | McCain Captures the Moment 
Picture this: From his seat to the right of the podium, Senator John McCain pulled his iPhone from his black overcoat, removed his gloves and took a few pictures of the inauguration crowd.
Mr. McCain, Republican of Arizona, wore dark aviator sunglasses and surveyed the scene with Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California. Several senators soon joined in, taking snapshots of their own of the crowd leading out to the National Mall.
By the time the program began, Mr. McCain had put his camera away and his black gloves back on. He smiled broadly and applauded as Mr. Obama, his onetime rival, was introduced to the crowd and the Marine Band struck up "Hail to the Chief."
- Jeff Zeleny 
 12:43 P.M. | Obama Gets Specific in Address 
People frequently criticize inaugural speeches for not being very specific, as they did with President Obama four years ago. 
But there was a good deal from this inaugural speech that could be important in the months ahead: the way Mr. Obama stuck to, and re-framed, the inequality argument (referring to "takers"); the way he made an affirmative case for entitlement programs (Social Security, Medicare); the significant amount of time he spent talking about climate change; and finally, the mention of Stonewall, the uprising that marked the start of the gay rights movement.
 It is hard to imagine Mr. Obama having given an inaugural speech this forceful - some might say in your face - four years ago. Part of the reason is that Mr. Obama realizes he has a short window and has to, with this speech and the State of the Union, move quickly to get things done before the light begins to dim on his presidency.
 But he is also, as we saw Monday, a president unbound. He is no longer worrying about running for re-election. He is able to think about what he want to do as president. Many times, when you see a president speak, you can almost see the wheels spinning in their head as they think, "How is this going to play? Am I going to stir up the opposition with this? Am I going to get bashed on critics on the blogosphere?"
 Not here, not today.
- Adam Nagourney 
 12:40 P.M. | From the Archive: Finishing the Floats 
- The New York Times 
 12:33 P.M. | Harbor Patrols 'Fight Against Complacency' on Big Day 
The call came in over the radios of the military and law enforcement boats patrolling Washington's harbor shortly before 9 a.m. Monday morning.
A small craft, a dispatcher said, had been spotted in a part of the harbor near the Woodrow Wilson Bridge, which had been restricted from traffic for Monday's inauguration.
Within a matter of minutes, the dispatcher deployed a small Coast Guard fast boat with a large automatic weapon mounted on the front down the Potomac River to interdict the craft.
"We fight against complacency," said Brian Kuhar, the chief petty officer of the United States Coast Guard cutter Chock, as he listened in on a conversation between a dispatcher and the Coast Guard boat that had been deployed to interdict the craft.
Mr. Kuhar said that the report from the dispatcher was particularly troubling because the dispatcher said the craft was close to the bridge, which is considered part of Washington's critical infrastructure because Interstate 95 passes through it.
As Mr. Kuhar and his crew of eight waited to hear more from the dispatcher about the episode, he explained the mission that his 65-foot cutter, which is based in Baltimore, and others from as far away as Texas and California, had been tasked with for the inauguration. 
"Anything moving on the water right now doesn't have a purpose to be here," he said.
Along with all the police officers, soldiers, Secret Service agents, SWAT teams and who knows who else has been moved in Washington for inauguration security, there were several dozen boats from the Coast Guard, Federal Bureau of Investigation and Washington Metro Police that had the cold and mundane task of patrolling Washington's harbor on Monday. 
It was so cold during the 2008 inauguration that parts of the harbor froze, forcing cutters like this one, which specializes in breaking ice as thick as 18 inches, to clear the way for smaller boats to patrol the area. Although it was cold and slightly windy on Monday, the water was about 40 degrees and was free of ice.
"The warm summer has kept the water warmer this year," Mr. Kuhar said.
Without ice to clear, Mr. Kuhar's crew scanned the water, including the coast line near National Airport, for suspicious activity.
Several minutes after the Coast Guard fast boat was deployed to inspect the craft, the dispatcher called over the radio to the fast boat: "Have you intercepted the vessel south of the Woodrow Wilson Bridge?"
"The vessel is in the creek stopped, appears to be fishing," a crew member said over the radio.
The crew member said that the boat appeared to be about 20 feet and had two people on it. But the crew could not get closer than 500 yards from it because the water was so shallow.
The Coast Guard boat, however, was not to leave it. The dispatcher told the boat to try and reach it over its loudspeaker. If that failed, the boat was to continue to watch it until the crew determined who was on the boat.
Mr. Kuhar said that the situation appeared to be under control, and he guided his boat back to a pier, where it docked so his crew could eat before returning to patrolling the water.
"We fight against thinking that what we see is like what we see every day," Mr. Kuhar said.
- Michael S. Schmidt 
 12:21 P.M. | Big Screen Glitches Lead to Disappointment for Some 
Julie Cohn
Thousands who gathered next to the Washington Monument, in the "public ceremony viewing area," content to watch the event through Jumbotrons and loud speakers, were met with a disappointing surprise: the set didn't exactly work. 
With the screens flickering in and out and unable to broadcast a constant stream, and the audio warped and disconnected, the ceremony was difficult, at best, to comprehend for those braving the frosty Washington air.
"We could have watched it better at home than on TV," said Bob Freeman, 61, who was attending with his wife and two children. "I'm very frustrated. We've debated trying to go to a hotel lobby or something, but it took us so long to get here, we are just going to wait it out." 
"It's unfortunate, but funny," said Matt Barrett, 33, who found streaming the ceremony on his iPhone to be more reliable than the speaker set. "I have it DVR'd at home, so it's O.K. But next time, I'm getting a ticket."
Yet the crowd was still energized by the moment, responding to cheers echoing from the National Mall with whoops, cheers and even a cowbell or two.
"I feel completely elated and overjoyed," said Rakia Turner, 35, who flew in from Switzerland for the inauguration and continued waving her American flags as she spoke. "It's disappointing. But I paid a lot of money to travel here for this, and it's nice to be among people who really care about the moment." 
 Julie Cohn contributed reporting. 
- Nick Corasaniti 
 12:19 P.M. | Spotted: Marlon Wayans Bonds With Columbus Mayor 
When Washington celebrates, it makes for the most interesting of bedfellows. Marlon Wayans, the comedian, jumped over a small stone barrier in front of the Capitol and landed next to Mayor Michael B. Coleman of Columbus, Ohio.
"This is how you do it!" Mr. Wayans said, turning to the stage and jokingly shouting to an imaginary President Obama, who had yet to arrive, "Barack! It's your boy! Holla!"
Mr. Wayans, who missed the inauguration four years ago, said he was here this time making "retribution." 
So what does he want out of the day, a television reporter asked. "I just want all the people to see my movie," he joked. "Go see 'A Haunted House'! "
Turning serious, Mr. Wayans said: "Barack Obama is a great speaker, and I'm just happy he got another term, and this one he's hopefully going to get it done."
"We as a people can help by making some of our own bipartisanship and walking across the aisle and making it happen," he added.
Mr. Coleman said he was similarly expecting the president to offer a red-and-blue message.
"I think it will be bridging the divide and bringing us together," Mr. Coleman said. "We have a lot to do as a nation, and it's a unity speech that's need."
At some point, Mr. Coleman introduced himself to Mr. Wayans. Mr. Wayans snapped a portrait of himself with the mayor, and then Mr. Coleman snapped one of himself with the comedian.
- Ashley Parker 
 12:09 P.M. | Full Text of Obama's Inaugural Address 
Read the full text of President Obama's second Inaugural Address as prepared for delivery. Read the Speech
- The New York Times 
 12:05 P.M. | Obama Calls for 'New Responses to New Challenges' 
Barack Hussein Obama renewed his oath of office at midday Monday, ceremonially marking the beginning of another four years in the White House and calling for "fidelity to our finding principles" while also embracing "new responses to new challenges." 
Mr. Obama declared that the country is "made for this moment" but said that America's people must confront the needs of a rising middle class. And he acknowledged that the often divisive and combative politics of today have sometimes fallen short of the size of the country's problems.
"For now decisions are upon us, and we cannot afford delay. We cannot mistake absolutism for principle, or substitute spectacle for politics, or treat name-calling as reasoned debate," Mr. Obama said. "We must act, knowing that our work will be imperfect."
Mr. Obama honored the slain civil rights leader, recalling the time that Mr. King proclaimed that "our individual freedom is inextricably bound to the freedom of every soul on Earth."
Speaking in broad strokes, the president offered the principles that will guide his vision for a second term, vowing to respond to the threat of climate change, maintain economic vitality, protect the poor, and defend the country's people through "strength of arms and rule of law."
Calling it the current generation's task to carry on the quest for equality, Mr. Obama urged the nation to make sure that women are paid equally to men and that gays and lesbians are treated equally under the law.
"Our journey is not complete until our gay brothers and sisters are treated like anyone else under the law - for if we are truly created equal, then surely the love we commit to one another must be equal as well," he said.
In a reference to the gun control debate that he has begun in the wake of the school shootings in Newtown, Conn., Mr. Obama said the the country must confront the dangers to America's children.
"Our journey is not complete until all our children, from the streets of Detroit to the hills of Appalachia to the quiet lanes of Newtown, know that they are cared for, and cherished, and always safe from harm," he said.
- Michael D. Shear 
 11:45 A.M. | Inaugural Voices: View From the Cheap Seats 
"Who was that?"
Crammed into the nonticketed area and not moving any closer long before the ceremony began, people stood shifting weight from one foot to the other on the National Mall, with little else to do but watch the comings and goings of honored guests on the Jumbotrons.
For the most recognizable faces, there were cheers - and boos, mostly apparently reflecting the unpopularity of Congressional Republicans with this crowd. Speaker John A. Boehner of Ohio, Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin and Newt Gingrich elicited waves of disapproving sounds. Scattered boos for Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the minority leader, prompted a few to turn to their friends and ask, "Who's that?"
Inauguration-watchers held cameras and children in brightly colored stocking caps aloft as President Obama was shown entering the Capitol. 
For Rashaan Jennings, 37, of Bowie, Md., bringing his two children to the inauguration was about exposing them to a historic moment.
"Just wanted to bring my kids because they'll probably not experience anything like this again," he said as his 7-year-old daughter stood by his side, wrapped in a bright pink coat.
Patty Williamson, 38, of Pasadena, Calif., volunteered for Mr. Obama's campaign twice. As her 3-year-old daughter climbed around in her stroller, Ms. Williamson said the day maneuvering the crowds with a young child had not been too hard to manage so far. But the sight of so many knees seemed to be getting to her daughter.
"Are we stuck, Daddy?" she asked, looking up at her father as she turned around in her seat.
"Yes, we are," he said.
- Emmarie Huetteman 
 11:29 A.M. | Spotted: Jay-Z and Beyonc 
- Chang W. Lee 
 11:25 A.M. | From the Archives: Gore Watches as Bush Takes Oath 
- The New York Times 
 11:19 A.M. | Bush Family Presidents Not in Attendance 
While much of the nation's political leadership descended on the Capitol for the inauguration, the two Bush family presidents stayed away.
Former President George H.W. Bush, the 41st president, has had bronchitis, fever and other ailments and was released from a Houston hospital on Jan. 14 after seven weeks. At 88, Mr. Bush has a form of Parkinson's disease that has affected his legs.
His son, former President George W. Bush, the 43rd president, has generally remained out of the public eye since handing over the reins of state to President Obama four years ago. The younger Bush has made a point of not criticizing his successor or participating in the continuing political debates. While he visited the White House when asked by Mr. Obama to help with earthquake relief in Haiti, Mr. Bush has said he has little interest in politics anymore.
"President and Mrs. Bush wish President Obama and his family all the best for a wonderful weekend," said Freddy Ford, a spokesman for the younger Mr. Bush.
The two living Democratic presidents were both in attendance on Monday. Former Presidents Jimmy Carter and Bill Clinton joined Mr. Obama on the platform, along with Rosalynn Carter and Hillary Rodham Clinton, the outgoing secretary of state.
Mr. Clinton campaigned hard for Mr. Obama's re-election last fall, and speculation has focused intently on whether Mrs. Clinton might run herself again in 2016.
- Peter Baker 
 11:14 A.M. | A Bipartisan Parade of Lawmakers Lines the Capitol 
Herald trumpeters, men in Revolutionary War garb, Newt and Callista Gingrich and an epic line of lawmakers from both parties - the line from the Capitol onto the West Front was long and colorful. 
House members were escorted out - sloooooowly - by seniority. And if you expected it to be a Democratic-only show, you were wrong. The parade was distinctly bipartisan, although Representative Patrick T. McHenry, Republican of North Carolina, jokingly requested not to be named in press dispatches. 
Representative Charlie Dent, Republican of Pennsylvania, was more conspicuous. President Obama won 49 percent of his newly drawn district, not enough to win but enough to make a mark. But even Pennsylvania moderates have less to worry about politically from an Obama second term. The president had won 56 percent of Mr. Dent's old, less gerrymandered district.
Representative Randy Neugebauer, Republican of Texas, dispensed with his cowboy boots and wore Uggs, carried and blanket and bundled up. "This is not my first rodeo," he said.
As they paraded out, the singers Katy Perry and John Mayer were walking in. Celebrity has its privileges.
If you're wondering, a herald trumpet is like an ordinary one but a lot longer - with a standard (flag) hanging off.
 Correction: An earlier version of this post misstated the surname of a Texas lawmaker. He is Representative Randy Neugebauer, not Neugeberger.
- Jonathan Weisman 
 10:57 A.M. | Spotted: Allison Williams of 'Girls,' Front and Center 
Sitting in a black folding chair front and center at the foot of the Capitol, a gracious Allison Williams - the daughter of Brian Williams, the "NBC Nightly News" anchor, and perhaps now best known for playing the character Marnie on the HBO show "Girls" - chatted with fans (this reporter included) and posed for pictures.
She also took a minute to ponder a question she called "impossible to answer," with a laugh - Which is more exciting: today's inaugural festivities or the recent Golden Globe win for "Girls"?
"They're such different kinds of excitement," she said. "This is a national and international and historic kind of excitement. And while I feel our show winning was momentous, it was personal for our little family, and this is something I'm sharing with half a million of my best friends."
- Ashley Parker 
 10:52 A.M. | The Caucus Click: Choirs at the Capitol 
- Stephen Crowley 
 10:32 A.M. | A Fashion First for the Designer Thom Browne 
Thom Browne landed a spot in fashion history this morning as the designer of Michelle Obama's inaugural morning outfit, a beautiful navy silk jacquard coat and dress in a checked pattern that he said was based on a men's necktie fabric. 
Mr. Browne found out that Mrs. Obama had selected his outfit about a half-hour after television viewers, who first saw the Obama family shortly before 9 a.m. He was in Paris, on his way to a sales meeting the day after his men's wear fashion show, when he began seeing messages.
"It's overwhelming," he said in a telephone interview. "It is one of those rare moments in someone's career that you will always remember. Theres not a word that can really describe it. It's just amazing." 
Mr. Browne is most famous for his 12-year-old men's wear business, specializing in tightly tailored suits. His signature design is an ankle-baring gray suit. He also designs collections for Brooks Brothers and Moncler, and his women's collection, introduced in 2010, is slowly expanding. Mrs. Obama wore one of his dresses at the Democratic National Convention and again during one of the presidential debates last year.
The designer was introduced to Mrs. Obama at a White House event when he received a National Design Award for fashion design in 2012.
"She has been so supportive ever since then," Mr. Browne said.
Mr. Browne designed the outfit specifically for Mrs. Obama after her office invited him to submit an idea several months ago, but he was not told in advance whether she would wear it. The coat and dress each have a fitted bodice and a slight flare below the waist.
"She's such a strong woman," Mr. Browne said. "I wanted her to feel good in it and to feel comfortable, strong, feminine and beautiful."
The outfit represents something of a departure from the lemongrass yellow coat and dress designed by Isabel Toledo that Mrs. Obama wore at the first inauguration, both for its form-fitting tailoring and a notable absence of bright color. The fabric, taken from men's neckwear, suggests a first lady who may be comfortable in designer fashion, but is also ready to get down to serious business.
There has been enormous interest inside the fashion industry in dressing Mrs. Obama and, increasingly, her daughters, who appeared this morning wearing bright purplish blue coats of similar shapes. Malia Obama's coat was from J.Crew, and Sasha Obama wore a coat and a dress from Kate Spade. According to a White House pool report, the first lady is also wearing earrings by Cathy Waterman and J.Crew pumps.
- Eric Wilson 
 10:14 A.M. | Inaugural Voices: Honoring Martin Luther King Jr. 
As the sun peeked across the Tidal Basin on Monday morning in brilliant oranges and pinks, several people gazed up at the statue of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. They had chosen to start the day honoring the civil rights leader whose Bible would later be used to ceremonially swear in the first black president to a second term.
"It's not a novelty this time," said Holly Wieland, 57, of Reston, Va., who attended President Obama's first inauguration. "It's like the first time you say, 'Maybe it's an aberration.' But it's for real now."
Bundled up against the cold, visitors took pictures in front of the statue, its base adorned by wreaths of red, white, blue and yellow flowers. It is the second time that Inauguration Day has fallen on Martin Luther King's Birthday. 
Strings of music drifted in from the National Mall, where the sound system blared to life around 6 a.m. As a small but steady stream of people walked along a darkened Constitution Avenue toward the Capitol, Mr. Obama's voice issued from the speakers near the Washington Monument.
"Thank you for taking the time to help me celebrate this day in our democracy."
Marquita Payne, 30, came from Lynchburg, Va., with her 9-year-old daughter, who excitedly took photos a few yards away of the King memorial as Ms. Payne talked about why they braved the 30-degree temperatures to come to the memorial before sunrise.
"He's big," she said of Dr. King, admiring the statue. "He stands for everything that's going on now."
Ms. Wieland and her sister, who was visiting the memorial for the first time, are from Arkansas, a state with a familiar history of segregation from the civil rights era. They brought up the Little Rock Central High School Band, which is marching in the inaugural parade Monday.
"It's incredible," Ms. Wieland said of black students, "that at one time they couldn't go to school, and here they are representing our president."
- Emmarie Huetteman 
 10:11 A.M. | From the Archive: Climbing for a Better View 
- The New York Times 
 10:07 A.M. | In a Quiet Capitol, Final Preparations 
For all the hubbub outside, there was an almost eerie quiet inside the Capitol on Monday as final preparations for the ceremony fell into place. 
Staff members laid down name tags for Congressional leaders, marking where each was meant to stand along the corridor on the Senate side of the Capitol where the president will enter for his procession to the west front. The elevators were newly carpeted with a blue damask pattern, as were some of the hallways on the third floor.
Members of Congress - some in exciting new hats - wandered the nearly empty corridors with purpose, as did political operators like the Republican pollster Frank Luntz, who marched through the crypt, his face twisted in displaced urgency. Members of the Navy in dress uniform dotted every hallway, along with catering staff members preparing silver coffee canisters and trays. Large television monitors were set up in the oddest of places, like off the first floor Senate corridor, where a large monitor seemed a rude modern intrusion propped near a statue of Oliver P. Morton, a 19th century senator and governor from Indiana.
- Jennifer Steinhauer 
 9:43 A.M. | Obamas Attend Morning Service at St. John's 
President Obama and his family took a short ride in the presidential limousine from the White House to St. John's Church on Monday morning for an inauguration service that has become something of a tradition in the last two decades.
Former presidents George W. Bush, his father, George H. W. Bush and Ronald Reagan all attended services at the church on the mornings that they were inaugurated. Former President Bill Clinton attended service at Metropolitan A.M.E. Church. 
Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and his wife, Jill, also attend the services, which lasted about an hour.
- Michael D. Shear 
 9:16 A.M. | From the Archive: 'The Only Thing We Have to Fear ...' 
- The New York Times 
 9:12 A.M. | Some Inauguration-Goers Opt for Two-Wheel Transport 
Given the large crowds, road closures and packed Metro trains, many inauguration-goers opted to ride their bicycles to the festivities. The District of Columbia's Department of Transportation has two bike-share stations near the National Mall and a parking lot of bike racks just north of the White House.
"We've seen a lot more use in the system for the past couple days," says Eric Gilliland, the general manager of Capital Bikeshare. Since 2010, Capital Bikeshare has offered bike rentals for $7 a day.
In the 2009 inauguration, the Washington Area Bicyclists Association offered valet parking for bicycles. Mr. Gilliland estimates that 2,000 bikes were used at President Obama's first inauguration, and this time, he expects that number will be significantly lower. Several technicians are standing by at each drop-off station so that when the stations are full, bikes can be redistributed to other stations, creating more open spaces and bringing bikes to those who might use them.
Dale and Katy Kunce, who moved to the area from California just six months ago, bought a bike trailer on Sunday so that their 19-month-old son Owen could sit in comfort during their hourlong ride from Silver Spring, Md.
 "We're not always scared of the Metro - just today, so we bought it yesterday," said Mrs. Kunce, who, according to her husband, rode her bike for the first time in three years on Monday.
- Will Storey 
 9:03 A.M. | Inaugural Voices: Searching for Beyonc 
"We got up at 4, we were on the train at 6, and wherever Beyonc is, that's where we're going."
 - Caroline Maulana, 28, on her trip to the National Mall on Monday morning
- The New York Times 
 8:36 A.M. | A Visit to the Other Lincoln Monument 
A steady stream of people marching toward the inauguration ceremony Monday morning paused to wait patiently in an impromptu line to take pictures of the city's first Lincoln monument, in a residential neighborhood east of the Capitol. 
The statue, built with donations from former slaves in the 19th century, shows Abraham Lincoln freeing a slave. It once was a major tourist attraction - and the site of annual gatherings of the Republican Party - but the tourists mostly stopped coming once the newer and far grander monument opened at the western end of the National Mall. But the park where the statue sits, called Lincoln Park of course, happens to be on the route from one of the major bus parking lots to the Mall. And Monday morning, the combination of location and symbolism was enough to revive the statue's fortunes as a tourist attraction.
- Binyamin Appelbaum 
 8:33 A.M. | Smaller Crowds and Higher Temperatures Than in 2009 
Inauguration Day has arrived in Washington, bringing with it chilly winds, a raft of road and bridge closures and a smaller-than-expected crowd eager to watch the start of President Obama's second term and to celebrate the life of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
Security officials now say that a half-million people might pack the National Mall, a grassy area between the Lincoln Memorial and the Capitol, for Mr. Obama's swearing-in. That's lower than the initial estimates of 600,000 to 800,000 and well below the 1.8 million who watched the president's first inauguration.
But they'll be slightly warmer this time, despite light winds that are whipping through the city. By 8 a.m., the temperature was already 34 degrees, well above the 28 that Mr. Obama faced while giving his speech four years ago. Forecasters said it should be into the low 40s by noon.
It's not hard to find evidence that a National Special Security Event - in the official police lingo - is under way: parked buses block some roadways while military vehicles are stationed at other intersections. Big fences line the National Mall, and tents mark the handful of entrances to the high-security areas.
And bleachers line Pennsylvania Avenue, where the Inaugural Parade will proceed later this afternoon.
- Michael D. Shear 
 8:19 A.M. | Inauguration Fun Facts 
There's nothing like an inauguration to send a tingle up the spines of history lovers and patriots.
Aides to the Joint Congressional Committee on Inaugural Ceremonies, the panel of House and Senate leaders overseeing President Obama's swearing-in ceremony and the Capitol luncheon that follows, have put together a guide to all things inaugural. It includes a wealth of fascinating facts about Monday's inauguration and the 56 that preceded it.
For those who (unlike this correspondent) are not nerdy enough to read all 110 pages, here is a sampling. Read more
- Sheryl Gay Stolberg 
 4:46 P.M. | Live Coverage Beginning on Monday at 9 a.m. 
President Obama begins his second term in office this weekend, and Times reporters in Washington will be providing live updates and analysis starting at 9 a.m. Monday and running through the inaugural ceremony.
- The New York Times 

        
Interesting Facts About Inauguration
        
A Washington Weekend Unlike Any Other
        
A Guide to Obama's Second Inauguration
        
Sunday Breakfast Menu, Jan. 20
        
The Weekend Word: Reversal

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (91%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); WRITERS (78%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (69%); CONSERVATISM (69%); BOTTLED WATER (65%) Inaugurations; The Inauguration

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (94%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (94%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); NEIL CAVUTO (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2013



595 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: Are Businesses Hesitant to Connect With Hispanic Consumers?

BYLINE: MP MUELLER


HIGHLIGHT: When this owner's boutique advertising agency suggests outreach, the reaction has been one of surprise, intrigue and excitement -- followed by little or no action. 

 BODY:
As we learned in the recent presidential election, it's always a good idea to connect with Hispanic Americans. In many parts of the country, this is as true in business as it is in politics. But for some reason, many businesses seem hesitant to try to appeal to this big and important demographic.
At my boutique advertising agency in Austin, Tex., I see lots of opportunities for businesses to set themselves apart and pick up some market share by reaching out. But I am often puzzled by the number of retail and professional service businesses that pass up these opportunities. When we have broached incorporating Hispanic outreach with retailers, we have explained why outreach makes business sense and how subtle shifts in their marketing programs might appeal to Latino consumers. The initial reaction has been one of surprise, intrigue and excitement -- followed by little or no action. 
Here's what we know about the size of this large and growing market: According to theSelig Center for Economic Growth, Hispanics control $1 trillion in annual buying power in the United States. By 2015, Selig projects that power to grow to $1.5 trillion, basically the size of the economy of Mexico. So why does this large and desirable population continue to be overlooked by many businesses?
Over a recent lunch of tortas de hongo and nopales at an East Austin Mexican restaurant, I posed this question to Juan Tornoe of Cultural Strategies, a multicultural marketing and communications firm my agency has partnered with. Mr. Tornoe is chief marketing officer at Cultural Strategies and also writes a Latino marketing blog called Hispanic Trending. His insights have been quoted by The Times, NPR, CNN and many others, and as you'll see, he is quite passionate about Hispanic marketing. 
Mr. Tornoe said that while he has spoken on this topic at lots of national business meetings, he too often sees lots of enthusiasm but little action. Why is that? He believes one reason is that many marketers think they have to advertise in Spanish, and he suspects this intimidates them. But he insists that reaching this demographic does not require Spanish-language advertising. In fact, he said, placing a few Spanish-language ads on Telemundo or Univision is unlikely to accomplish any goals.
This confusion, he said, was apparent last summer when Julian Castro, the mayor of San Antonio, gave the keynote speech at the Democratic National Convention. Some people were surprised to learn that Mr. Castro is not bilingual. "Many business people think that Spanish language is the only thing that defines people as Latinos," Mr. Tornoe said. "Julian is an English-dominant guy because his mother, the daughter of an immigrant, got ridiculed at school because of her English. So she made sure her kids' first language was English."
Mr. Tornoe also cited the presidential campaigns and the advice the candidates must have received from their staffs that the only way to reach out to Hispanic voters is through Hispanic media. "That is completely untrue," he said. "If you are Univision, you go out there and tell the world, 'I bring you the Spanish market.' But the fact is, they bring you Spanish-dominant Latinos, which is a smaller percentage of the Spanish market as a whole."
The biggest growth in this fast-growing demographic, he said, is coming not from immigrants but from the birth of second- and third-generation Hispanic Americans. "Some Latinos," he said, "get ticked off when you reach out to them in Spanish -- those who are third or fourth generation."
Mr. Tornoe cites himself as an attractive target for any marketer. He is 44, an immigrant from Guatemala, and he lives in Austin. "According to media and advertising circles," he said, "I should be glued to Telemundo, Univision, and Spanish-language radio, newspapers and Web sites. But the reality is, I don't access any information in Spanish. Everything I absorb is in English."
He finds most businesses that try to reach Spanish audiences try to simplify marketing to a degree that renders their efforts ineffective. But there are some marketers, he said, who get it. For example, he noted a Volkswagen commercial you may have seen that shows two guys getting in a car for a road trip. The point of the ad, titled Vmonos, is to highlight the fuel efficiency of a Passat. The guys, who don't speak Spanish, start a Spanish-language lesson CD as their trip gets underway. At their first stop, a gas station, they alight from the car speaking Spanish fluently and with passion.
"This ad is brilliant in so many ways," Mr. Tornoe said. "They get the gas economy point across. And for Latinos who are not glued to Hispanic TV, suddenly those guys are speaking to us in Spanish! And they reflect my reality that I live a very bilingual and bi-cultural life. I have no idea if that was the advertiser's intention, but it was a huge home run."
Personally, I believe Volkswagen is much too savvy a marketer for the language these guys were learning to have been just a happy creative coincidence. In my next post, I will offer some suggestions on how small businesses can better connect with this audience.
 MP Mueller is the founder of Door Number 3, a boutique advertising agency in Austin, Tex. Follow Door Number 3 on Facebook. 

        
Marketing Tips for Reaching Hispanic Americans
        
Can a Web Site Get Visitors to 'Feel' the Cotton?
        
This Week in Small Business: Facebook Search
        
Learning From Tito's Vodka
        
Building a Brand When You Can't Afford an Ad Agency

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HISPANIC AMERICANS (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); MULTICULTURAL MARKETING (90%); RETAILERS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (87%); MULTILINGUALISM (78%); POLITICS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); TRENDS (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (76%); MARKET SHARE (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (74%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); EMERGING MARKETS (72%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (71%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (71%); RESTAURANTS (70%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (60%) Advertising and Marketing; Austin (Tex); Hispanic-Americans; Small Business; Spanish Language; Branded

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (94%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Austin (Tex)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2013



596 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Lede)

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2013

LENGTH: 3370 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Fed's 2007 Deliberations

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: Highlights from the newly released transcripts of the Federal Reserve's meetings in a year when the upheaval in the housing market, financial system and economy became apparent. 

 BODY:
 On Friday the Federal Reserve released the transcripts of its discussions in 2007, the year the housing market, the financial markets, and the broader economy began to unravel. Focusing on the crucial period from August to December, reporters from The Times shared their findings on what the transcripts reveal in the blog entries and tweets below. 
 4:45 P.M. | A.I.G. and Lehman, Off the Radar 
Two words that never appear in the transcripts of the Fed's 2007 meetings:
"A.I.G." and "Lehman." 
Indeed, the two companies that in many ways came to define the crisis - the insurer that required a $85 billion bailout and the investment bank that went bankrupt and set off a market panic, both in September 2008 - were never mentioned by name just the year before.
That said, weak firms that required the Fed's attention before A.I.G. and Lehman did, most notably Countrywide Financial and Bear Stearns, do come up in the 2007 transcripts. Moreover, the meeting participants amply discussed the issues that ultimately led to the downfall of both firms, including losses on mortgage insurance, a credit crunch and the concentration of counterparty risk in the financial system. 
- Annie Lowrey 
 2:41 P.M. | August 2007: A Question of How Much Was Shared 
With strains in the financial markets increasing in August, bank executives were beginning to eye the possibility of turning to the Fed's discount window to line up fresh liquidity at bargain-basement rates. However, banks were wary of being seen doing that because it would suggest just how vulnerable they were. And commercial bank officials were unsure of what collateral could be exchanged for loans. Timothy F. Geithner, the head of the New York Fed and vice chairman of the Federal Open Market Committee, said he had been in touch with market participants to discuss the stigma and how they could best make use the window. 
I have been interested in hearing from them whether doing so would, in effect, change their behavior in a way that might be helpful to confidence in markets now. That's the extent of what I think is relevant from those conversations.
 But Jeffrey M. Lacker, head of the Richmond Fed, suggests that the conversations between Mr. Geithner and Kenneth D. Lewis, then the chief executive of Bank of America, had been a lot more specific than that in terms of the Fed's upcoming moves and might have gone further than Mr. Geithner indicated. Mr. Geithner fires back that Mr. Lacker has been misinformed. 
MR. LACKER. Vice Chairman Geithner, did you say that they are unaware of what we're considering or what we might be doing with the discount rate?
 VICE CHAIRMAN GEITHNER. Yes.
 MR. LACKER. Vice Chairman Geithner, I spoke with Ken Lewis, President and CEO of Bank of America, this afternoon, and he said that he appreciated what Tim Geithner was arranging by way of changes in the discount facility. So my information is different from that.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Okay. Thank you. Go ahead, Vice Chairman Geithner.
 VICE CHAIRMAN GEITHNER. Well, I cannot speak for Ken Lewis, but I think they have sought to see whether they could understand a little more clearly the scope of their rights and our current policy with respect to the window. The only thing I've done is to try to help them understand - and I'm sure that's been true across the System - what the scope of that is because these people generally don't use the window and they don't really understand in some sense what it's about.
 Update: On Friday, Mr. Lacker reiterated his assertion that Mr. Geithner had tipped the Fed's hand. "From conversations I had prior to the video conference call on Aug. 16, 2007, I was aware of discussions among a few large banks about borrowing from their discount windows to support the asset-backed commercial paper market," he said in a statement. "My understanding was that President Geithner had discussed a reduction in the discount rate with these banks in connection with these initiatives." A request for comment from the Treasury Department, where Mr. Geithner moved as secretary after his time as New York Fed president, got no immediate reply.
- Nelson D. Schwartz 
 2:31 P.M. | At the Fed, Aware of Being Watched 
Despite the occasional flashes of humor at the Fed's 2007 meetings, the participants knew their actions would be closely watched - and knocked. Thomas M. Hoenig, president of the Federal Reserve of Kansas City said it bluntly at September's meeting.
Mr. Hoenig: Having been a part of this policy group for a while, the one thing I can tell you with certainty is that, no matter what we do today, it will be criticized, [laughter] and unlike us, our critics will be absolutely confident in their position. 
The chairman of the Fed, Mr. Bernanke, quickly concurred. 
Mr. Bernanke: The one person at the table who I know is going to be right is President Hoenig, who says that whatever we do is going to be criticized. I can write the Wall Street Journal editorial for tomorrow. [Laughter] I just want to say that I think that moral hazard is a terribly misunderstood idea and that as the central bank we have a responsibility to help markets function normally and to promote economic stability broadly speaking. We are not in the business of bailing out individuals or businesses. As long as we make that distinction, I think we're fine, but it may be history that agrees to that rather than the newspapers.
- Nelson D. Schwartz 
 2:23 P.M. | In September 2007, How Much to Cut? 
As the Fed met in September 2007, not everyone was so worried about the rising volatility on Wall Street and the sell-offs in global financial markets, including Richard W. Fisher, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas. Here, he pushes for a more gradual approach to cutting rates, favoring a quarter-point cut rather than the 50-basis-point move the Fed took. 
Mr. Fisher: We should be guided by what we think is going to happen in the economy and not be pushed around by the markets. That's one reason I'm in favor of 25 basis points and not 50, with an eye open to possibly moving further later.
Jeffrey M. Lacker, president of the Richmond Fed, also favored a more gradual approach.
Mr. Lacker: I expect that the slowdown is going to be a little less severe than that in the Greenbook, and I'm concerned about the likelihood of inflation's remaining above my objective. Arguments for a larger cut appear to rest on the possibility that financial turbulence since last month could cause significant further reductions in real activity. I think that's certainly a plausible possibility, and we can't rule it out at this point. But I don't see it as extremely likely, and so my preference is for a cut of 25 basis points.
Eric S. Rosengren, president of the Boston Fed, was ready to move more aggressively. 
Mr. Rosengren: I'm concerned that a 25-basis-point ease today might very well need to be followed by another ease, quite possibly before the next meeting. Given the economic slowing we have seen and the additional slowing that is already likely as a result of the increase in many short-term interest rates, I prefer a more aggressive approach.
 The resulting 50-basis-point cut was the first rate reduction by the Fed in four years and marked its most abrupt reversal in policy since 2001. 
- Nelson D. Schwartz 
 2:16 P.M. | October 2007: Lighter Moments 
It's a stretch to call it gallows humor, since the markets and the economy had yet to fall off a cliff, but the jocularity present in 2007 Federal Reserve meetings certainly comes close. Take the Fed's October meeting. Officials found plenty of moments for levity, perhaps because they were seeing some encouraging signs after a big interest-rate cut the previous month. Or maybe they're just funny that way. 
Humor took many forms. There were bad puns that, to the credit of all present, were immediately recognized as bad.
Richard W. Fisher, the Dallas Fed president: "To be sure, we're not out of the woods quite yet, as President Plosser and President Rosengren mentioned. The situation remains real, but we've gone beyond suspended reality. If you will forgive me, you might say we have gone from the ridiculous to the subprime."
Jeffrey M. Lacker, the Richmond Fed president: "Let the transcript say 'groan.'"
Later Mr. Fisher added some more color - and a beautifully mixed metaphor:
Mr. Fisher: "I am confident, as I have said in previous meetings, that - just to be polite - some cow patties might show up in the punch bowls of some portfolios, perhaps especially in Europe and Asia."
Others preferred to lighten proceedings with a dash of irony.
Mr. Lacker: "In particular, I'd take this opportunity to endorse the public statement of Governor Kohn that an increase in inflation would not be in the public interest."
 Donald Kohn, vice chairman of Fed's Board of Governors: "I stand by that."
Timothy F. Geithner, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and open market committee vice-chairman: "That would be intrepid of you."
Mr. Geithner was on roll that day.
Dennis P. Lockhart, president of the Atlanta Fed: "Thank you, Mr. Chairman. One of my life-long purposes has been to make the world safe for ambivalence and indecision." 
Mr. Geithner: "How is that going?"
- Peter Eavis 
 1:54 P.M. | September 2007: Little Concern About Moral Hazard 
Before the full scale of the crisis became apparent, some were concerned that being too quick to offer help might be perceived as encouraging or rewarding risky behavior - the problem of so-called moral hazard. But in September 2007, Donald Kohn, vice chairman of the Federal Reserve System at the time, warned that the consequences of not acting were a greater threat. 
I'm not concerned about the moral hazard issues. I think our job is to keep the economy at full employment and price stability and let asset markets fluctuate around that. There will be winners and losers. That's fine. The Congress told us to have maximum employment and stable prices, and that's what we should be about here. Sometimes that means you need to move to keep employment maximum or prices stable, and we need to take account of the asset markets but not worry about the effects of those actions on asset markets per se. Holding back - inertia - because of concerns about moral hazard would be a serious mistake. We shouldn't hold interest rates higher than they need to be in order to impose additional cost on borrowers to teach lenders a lesson. Too many innocent bystanders would be hurt in that process.
Kevin Warsh, a member of the Federal Reserve's Board of Governors at the time, said moral hazard was a worry - but that the market had learned its lesson because of the losses sustained amid the rising market volatility in the past few months:
Just a quick point on moral hazard - I think there are fair concerns about it. The losses that have been felt in the markets in the past six weeks - that money is gone. It is not coming back. It is true that some of these institutions will find new ways, create new products, buy assets cheap, but that lesson has been learned. Behavior is changed. I won't say forever [laughter] because that is an awfully long time, but it is changed for purposes of this cycle.
- Nelson D. Schwartz 
 1:08 P.M. | A Difficult Target to Hit 
The September transcript is a fascinating account of how hard it is to hit a monetary policy target in a crisis. http://t.co/RgcbzEBs
- Binyamin Appelbaum (@BCAppelbaum)18 Jan 13
The September transcript
 1:12 P.M. | August 2007: 'Desirable' Market Stress 
In an Aug. 16, 2007, conference call, Ben S. Bernanke said: "Since we last met in these circumstances, financial markets have come under even more stress. As you know, some effects of this are desirable. We're seeing reductions in risk. We're seeing deleveraging, and we're seeing revaluation of assets. But I think we're also seeing a certain amount of panic; a certain amount of markets seizing up, with good credits not being able to be financed;and a good deal of concern that there is a potential for some downward spiral in the markets that could threaten or harm the economy."
It is hard to imagine that Mr. Bernanke would use the word "desirable" in retrospect.
- Binyamin Appelbaum 
 12:59 P.M. | Bernanke in October 2007: A Pre-emptive Approach 
In the October 2007 meeting, Ben S. Bernanke took the sort of pre-emptive approach that analysts say has characterized his term as Fed chaiman. He was willing to provide monetary stimulus even if the data didn't seem to justify it.
"We have not so far seen evident spillovers from housing into other sectors," Mr. Bernanke said. But he then argued that a further interest rate cut was needed. "The downside risks are quite significant, if the housing situation, including prices, really deteriorates."
- Peter Eavis 
 12:56 P.M. | December 2007: Inflation vs. Unemployment 
In the Fed's December 2007 meeting, the word "unemployment" comes up 15 times. The word "inflation" appears 201 times.
- Annie Lowrey 
 12:53 P.M. | October 2007: Growing Pessimism on Foreclosures 
In 2007, the Fed was thinking about ways of helping homeowners grappling with burdensome mortgages. "We spend a lot of time here at the board thinking about different plans for refinancing subprime borrowers or other borrowers into sustainable mortgages," said Mr. Bernanke at the October meeting.
But after looking at some of the potential problems of putting people into more affordable mortgages, Mr. Bernanke sounded a pessimistic note. "I am becoming increasingly persuaded that a significant amount of refinancing will not be happening and that we will see substantial financial problems and foreclosures that will peak somewhere in the middle of next year," he said. One of the reasons he gave for his pessimism was that lenders might be tempted to use refinancing to disguise losses.
- Peter Eavis 
 12:51 P.M. | A Fed Forecast Free of 'Mind-Altering Chemicals' 
In December 2007, the Fed forecast that the economy would avoid a recession, despite the financial turmoil and despite the increasing downside risk. That assessment was leavened with a note of strange humor, with David Stockton, a Fed economist, noting that it had recently approved more-frequent drug testing for some senior officials. "The staff is not going to fall back on the increasingly popular celebrity excuse that we were under the influence of mind-altering chemicals and thus should not be held responsible for this forecast," he said to laughs from the other members. "No, we came up with this projection unimpaired and on nothing stronger than many late nights of Diet Pepsi and vending-machine Twinkies."
A few attendees at the meeting - including Janet Yellen, Frederic Mishkin and Eric S. Rosengren - were openly pessimistic. Mr. Mishkin, for instance, said, "I'm actually very, very worried," describing his concerns about derivative products. "The kind of negative scenarios that are pointed out in the Green Book are very real possibilities," he added. Ms. Yellen said, "I held out hope that the financial turmoil would gradually ebb and the economy might escape without serious damage. Subsequent developments have severely shaken that belief." 
- Annie Lowrey 
 12:43 P.M. | December 2007: No Problems Seen With Insurance Firms 
Just eight months before the Fed would have to help stage a $85 billion rescue for A.I.G., Charles I. Plosser of the Philadelphia Fed dismissed problems among such companies. "I have talked to one of the large mortgage insurance companies in some detail, and their view is that their pricing power actually is improving - that their own ability to work their way out of this thing is getting better all the time right now," he said. "Even though they are taking some very large hits in the near term, their outlook actually has improved in recent months."
- Annie Lowrey 
 12:40 P.M. | September 2007: The Uncertainty 'Should Lessen' 
 By September 2007, Federal Reserve officials were clearly aware of the broader risks posed by subprime mortgages and the deteriorating housing market in the United States, even though their estimates of the total losses were a fraction of what eventually came to pass.
 At the September meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee, ultimate losses were predicted to equal $100 billion to $200 billion by William C. Dudley, a top Fed official who now serves as president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
 "The pressure on bank balance sheets is coming from three major sources," Mr. Dudley told the committee members. First, investors were increasingly unwilling to buy risky mortgages that had been bundled into securities, forcing banks to hold the shaky loans in their own portfolios. That was causing banks to fall back on other sources for liquidity. At the same time, banks were having a hard time finding buyers for big loans they had made to finance huge leveraged buyouts. 
 "This pressure on bank balance sheets - both existing and anticipated - has led to significant dysfunction in financial markets," he warned. Still, Fed officials held out hope the worst could be avoided. 
 "The good news, of course, is that as time passes, the uncertainty about bank balance sheet pressures and funding requirements should lessen," Mr. Dudley said. What's more, he added, "the tone in financial markets has improved a bit in recent days."
- Nelson D. Schwartz 
 12:34 P.M. | Bernanke in December 2007: 'Not a One-Shot Deal' 
By December, the Federal Reserve had started to pull its first levers to promote financial stability, creating the Term Auction Facility and opening swap lines to pump dollars into the European financial system. "This is not a one-shot deal," Mr. Bernanke said at the outset of the meeting, in which members ranged from the queasily sunny to the darkly pessimistic and several struggled to determine what seemed prudent given the conflicting data. 
The signs of collapse were there, the puzzle pieces discussed but never fit together. William C. Dudley of the New York Federal Reserve Bank presented a detailed look into mortgage finance, for instance, including a discussion of problems with collateralized debt obligations. "There remain considerable uncertainties on many fronts, such as the magnitude of mortgage losses, the degree of further tightening of credit availability and the fate of some thrifts and mortgage and financial guarantors," he said. But he concluded, "I believe we may have finally defined the broad dimensions of the crisis," thus indicating that the Federal Reserve knew what it was facing.
- Annie Lowrey 
 12:32 P.M. | September 2007: Was the Medicine Working? 
Partly in response to weakness in the financial markets, the Federal Reserve made a big cut in interest rates in September 2007. As was the case before the 2008 crisis, the Fed's main way of stimulating the economy was to slash its benchmark interest rate. This approach, of course, proved inadequate, and the Fed deployed far more firepower in the form of asset purchases after 2008. Still, back in 2007, the Fed still expected interest rate cuts to relieve financial markets. In October 2007, Fed officials thought the cut had brought improvements, but they were still nervous.
"Financial market conditions are substantially better than during the peak of the panic in mid-August," said Timothy F. Geithner, then vice chairman of the Fed. "But the improvement, as many of you said, is still quite limited and uneven." Other members seemed more sanguine. "I think these markets are at the very high end of what are reasonable expectations for improvement." said Kevin M. Warsh, a Fed governor. "These markets appeared delicately balanced between greed and fear."
- Peter Eavis 
 12:26 P.M. | A First Take 
My first take on the Fed transcripts: A somnolent institution finally lurching into action. http://t.co/FNuIYr3g
- Binyamin Appelbaum (@BCAppelbaum)18 Jan 13
An earlier version of the 12:51 p.m. entry in this post misidentified the speaker at a December 2007 meeting who said, "I'm actually very, very worried," describing his concerns about derivative products. It was Frederic Mishkin, not Eric S. Rosengren.

        
Vignettes of Black Friday
        
Updates on Financial Market Upheaval
        
Live Blog: The Markets

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); TRANSCRIPTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (88%); INSURANCE (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); MORTGAGE INSURANCE (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%) Federal Reserve System; United States Economy; News

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (92%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (55%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (53%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF RICHMOND (51%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (84%) Federal Reserve System

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (53%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (53%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (79%); KENNETH D LEWIS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2013



597 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 08

LENGTH: 226 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths BERMANT, JOSEPH EDWARD

 BODY:
BERMANT--Joseph Edward. Born October 14, 1927, NY, NY passed peacefully on January 15, 2013 near his long time home in the Berkshires. Graduated Scarsdale High School, 1944; served in U.S Army during WWII at Los Alamos N.M; and, obtained B.S. Economics, 1949, Wharton Undergraduate School of Business. Was Sr. Exec. VP at National Shopping Centers Mgmt Corp. working with his two brothers, David and Robert. Son of Henry Bermant (deceased) and Anna Forma Bermant (deceased), loving stepson of Etta Bermant (deceased), brother of David W. Bermant (deceased) and Robert L. Bermant; stepbrother of Harold Robinson (deceased), Richard Robinson (deceased), and Gerald Robinson (deceased); fondly remembered as wonderful and witty uncle to Ann Bermant Hancock, Jeffrey Bermant, Wendy Bermant Lynn, Andrew Bermant, Donald Bermant, Susan Bermant Cola; loving friend and lifelong companion of Richard Malkin (deceased); and dear friend of Pat Buchard, Richard Solomon, Michael MacDonald and many at Allendale Mall in Pittsfield, Mass. Lifetime supporter of Phi Lambda Phi and the University of Pennsylvania; enjoyed using math and words in every day life; loved theater and music; and most of all, was great fan of his beloved NY Yankees. Services will be held at 10AM, Sunday, January 20, 2013 at Dery-Foley Funeral Home, 890 E. Main St., Dalton, Mass. (413) 684-0142 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); WORLD WAR II (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); ARMIES (72%); STEPPARENTS (70%); RETAILERS (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2013



598 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; GREEN; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 688 words

HEADLINE: Plant's Cleanup Deadline Is Extended

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER

 BODY:
In a bid to clean up one of the nation's dirtiest coal-fired power plants without causing economic harm to the Navajo Nation that surrounds it, the Environmental Protection Agency indicated on Friday that it would give the plant's owners five extra years, until 2023, to install expensive state-of-the art emissions reduction equipment.
The agency expressed its willingness to extend the deadline by releasing a proposed rule. 
The Navajo Generating Station near Page, Ariz., not far from the Grand Canyon, has long been a priority for environmentalists concerned about the health impacts from the pollution it generates and the ensuing haze that settles over the the majestic park.
But the 2,200-megawatt plant has powerful defenders. Its electricity has helped light Los Angeles and pump Colorado River water to communities around Arizona. The plant, which first generated electricity 39 years ago, and the Kayenta coal mine that feeds it provide about 1,000 local jobs. The vast majority of these are held by Native Americans. Unemployment rates are well above 50 percent in and around the reservation.Jared Blumenfeld, the E.P.A.'s regional administrator for California, Nevada and parts of Arizona, said the economic issue was a major reason for the extension. "There's an economic reality and imperative here," he said in an interview. "I am committed to ensuring that we were not the reason the facility closes," he said. "I wanted it to remain open while the tribes develop a plan for a more sustainable future."
Yet the essential goal, he added, is to enforce the Congressional mandate to reduce the haze the obscures the view in national parks like Grand Canyon.
The managers of the Salt River Project, the private utility that manages the plant, said they were uncertain what the implications of the proposal would be. Even investing as much as $1 billion in control equipment, and extending the deadlines, might not solve the problem, they said.
"We appreciate that the E.P.A. appears to have attempted to take into consideration the complex timing issues that this decision creates for the N.G.S. owners," John Sullivan, the chief resources executive at the project, said in a statement. "Unfortunately, the proposal may not allow the owners enough time to resolve uncertainties facing the plant before they will be required to make a significant financial commitment."
The E.P.A. proposal makes it clear that the agency will accept only one technology to clean up the emissions of nitrogen oxides. These chemicals are a key component in the formation of fine particles, which are associated with both haze and heart and lung disease. But it also gave the plant credit for its installation of so-called low-NOx burners several years ago; these credits were part of the formula for extending the deadline for installation of the new equipment.
The technology the agency is requiring, known as selective catalytic reduction, transforms some of the smokestack gases into a harmless blend of pure nitrogen and water vapor. Installing these control systems on the three units of the Navajo generating station could cost $550 million to $1.1 billion, according to an estimate published by the Central Arizona project, which distributes the Colorado River water.
The conciliatory proposal, on which the public can submit comments for the next 90 days, drew mixed responses from the longtime combatants in the battle over the plant's emissions.
Erny Zah, a spokesman for the Navajo Nation, said the proposal's insistence on this technology was disappointing. "But it seems that the E.P.A. did have in mind our concerns about the economic impact that harsh deadlines could do to this plant, and the mine, and northern Arizona as a whole," he said.
Andy Bessler of the Sierra Club praised the E.P.A. proposal. "We applaud the Environmental Protection Agency for requiring the long-overdue cleanup of pollution from this dirty coal plant, which for decades has harmed human health and marred one of the nation's iconic national parks, the Grand Canyon," he said.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (92%); POWER PLANTS (91%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); NATIONAL PARKS (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); NATIVE AMERICANS (78%); CLEAN COAL TECHNOLOGY (78%); COMBUSTION TECHNOLOGIES (78%); COAL INDUSTRY (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); NITROGEN OXIDES (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); WATER POLLUTION (75%); COAL MINING (73%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); INTERVIEWS (70%); RIVERS (68%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (60%)

PERSON: JOHN SULLIVAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) ARIZONA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2013



599 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUCKS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 479 words

HEADLINE: Not Carrying A Mortgage

BYLINE: By ANN CARRNS

 BODY:
With all the painful foreclosures during the recent economic downturn, it's easy to forget that some homeowners don't even have mortgages. Nearly a third of homeowners - 29.3 percent of them - do not, according to a recent analysis by the real estate site Zillow. 
That translates into nearly 21 million Americans who own their homes free and clear, Zillow found. By comparison, about 14 million homeowners are underwater - that is, they owe more than their homes are worth.
Stan Humphries, chief economist at Zillow, said that looking at the number of debt-free homes is important, given that the inventory of homes for sale is tight in some markets. Homeowners without mortgages may have more flexibility, and therefore be more willing to put their homes up for sale.
The number of homeowners with mortgages, though, is still high. Roughly 71 percent do, according to Zillow's analysis. That compares with about 45 percent in 1945, and 62 percent in 1990, based on federal census data, Mr. Humphries said.
Not surprisingly, most debt-free homeowners tend to be older, since they have had longer to pay off their loans. Homeowners 65 to 74 years old are most likely to have no mortgage (21 percent), followed by 74- to 84-year-olds (18 percent).
But when looking at the various age groups, Zillow found that almost 35 percent of homeowners age 20 to 24 owned homes free and clear. Owners in that age group make up a small proportion of homeowners over all. They may have had wealthy parents who buy homes for them, or they may be young, successful entrepreneurs, the Zillow analysis notes.
Areas with higher concentrations of mortgage-free homes tend to be those where home prices are more affordable, since smaller loan amounts are easier to pay back more quickly.
Among the country's largest 30 metropolitan areas examined in the study, Pittsburgh and Tampa, Fla., had the highest rates of debt-free owners, at 39 percent for Pittsburgh and 33 percent for Tampa.
The New York area also ranked high on outright ownership, at about 30 percent. That is because the area included in the analysis encompassed northern New Jersey, parts of upstate New York and Long Island, according to Zillow. Because of the wide area, the median home value is lower than might be expected. The median home value for the entire New York metro area is $343,100, compared with $940,800 for Manhattan alone.
Washington, D.C., at about 16 percent, and Atlanta and Las Vegas, each at 18 percent, had the lowest percentages of homeowners without mortgages.
Zillow's analysis looked at mortgage data from TransUnion through the third quarter of 2012. The data covered roughly 800 metropolitan areas nationwide. The analysis excluded investor-owned and rental homes.
Do you own your home outright? How did you pay off your mortgage?
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMEOWNERS (93%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (87%); FORECLOSURE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (73%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (71%); CENSUS (69%); CITIES (67%)

COMPANY: ZILLOW INC (91%)

TICKER: Z (NASDAQ) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (91%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2013



600 of 1033 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 539 words

HEADLINE: Car Sales Worldwide Are Slow To Rebound

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and the economy at nytimes.com/economix.

 BODY:
THE United States' industrial economy has finally returned to where it was in 2006, something that few other major developed countries have accomplished. But car sales, a sign of consumer economic health and confidence, remain well below the level of six years ago across the spectrum of countries. In Europe, car sales fell last year to the lowest level since 1995. 
The Federal Reserve Board reported this week that its industrial production index climbed 2.2 percent in 2012. That represents a slowing of the growth rate from 2010 and 2011, but still left the index slightly above the 2006 average.
That index peaked in December 2007, just as the recession began, and remains below that peak. There have been only two periods since 1921 in which it took longer for production to recover fully. One, lasting just over six years, came after production peaked during World War II. The other, lasting more than seven years, came during the Great Depression.
The accompanying charts show the trends in the two indicators in the largest developed countries. The constant, if slow, increases shown in the United States since the economy hit bottom in 2009 have not been matched in any of the other countries. German industrial production is above where it was in 2006, but has been declining for more than a year.
In much of Europe, the idea that there has been a recovery at all seems doubtful. Car sales did spike higher in 2009, but that was largely because of temporary government-financed incentives that provided money to buyers who traded in older cars for new, presumably more fuel-efficient vehicles.
Britain also announced a tax increase that could be avoided if car buyers acted quickly, and many did. Sales fell off sharply in most of Europe after the incentives expired, and have continued to decline.
New-car sales can be a particularly sensitive economic indicator because few people really need to buy a new car, and thus tend not to do so when they feel uncertain about their economic prospects. Even if a car purchase can no longer be delayed, a used car is an alternative.
The charts show car sales over 12-month periods, compared with the figures in each country for 2006. They exclude light truck sales, a category that includes sport utility vehicles and minivans. Such vehicles are normally included in the United States when counting car sales but excluded in other countries, where they are more likely to be used by businesses than families.
In 2012, car sales in the United States were 7 percent below the level of 2006. Sales in Japan had recovered to within 6 percent of the 2006 total. But in most European countries, sales are well below precrisis levels and are continuing to fall.
A couple of years ago, the periphery of the euro zone appeared to be in a recession, but the core countries of the zone seemed to be doing relatively well. That has changed, and not because the periphery has improved.
Germany reported this week that its economy declined in the final quarter of 2012, and France also seems to be in decline. But in neither of those countries have car sales and industrial production plunged as rapidly as they have in Italy and Spain. Spain's car sales are now less than half the level of six years ago.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: A Slow Recovery Is Better Than None: The United States reported a 2.2 percent rise in industrial production in 2012, pushing the rate past the 2006 average for the first time since the downturn began in late 2007. Production has also exceeded the 2006 level in Germany, although it began to slip in late 2012, but other major developed countries are still below that level. Car sales have recovered to some extent in the United States and Japan, but are still falling in much of Europe. (Sources: Bloomberg, Haver Analytics, Ward's Automotive, European Automobile Manufacturers' Association) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SALES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); SALES FIGURES (89%); RECESSION (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); MINIVANS (78%); TRENDS (76%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); GREAT DEPRESSION (74%); EURO ZONE (73%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%); MONETARY UNIONS (64%); WORLD WAR II (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (91%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2013

 
