

601 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 240 words

HEADLINE: Many Economists Are Immigrants, Too

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Using the Harvard economics department, where he is chairman, as an example, N. Gregory Mankiw argued that a global labor market is an unalloyed good because it increases competition, thereby reducing labor costs and raising productivity (''Give Me Your Tired, Your Poor and Your Economists, Too,'' Economic View, Feb. 10). 
But when it comes to the labor market for economics teachers and that for American workers as a whole, the comparisons are flawed. Many university economics professors are protected from competitive market forces by tenure -- protection that is the envy of many other workers. Would Professor Mankiw feel less strongly about the benefits of unfettered global competition if he were an at-will employee, who could be replaced at any time by someone who was younger and could be paid less?
ERIC K. HEAVNER
Towson, Md., Feb. 11
*
To the Editor:
I agreed with almost everything that Professor Mankiw wrote about immigration. But I do have a question about the hiring process he describes at his university, where half the candidates to be assistant professors of economics are not from the United States. Is it possible that the relatively low number of Americans on the list has been caused by our K-12 education system?
TONY LIMA, Ph.D.
Hayward, Calif., Feb. 10
The writer is an emeritus professor of economics at California State University, East Bay.
Letters for Sunday Business may be sent to sunbiz@nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CARL WIENS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); WRITERS (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (76%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); IMMIGRATION (72%); AT WILL EMPLOYMENT (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2013



602 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1063 words

HEADLINE: Relinquishing Purse Strings

BYLINE: By JOHN ANDERSON

 BODY:
As a substitute teacher in Boston during the 1970s school-busing crisis there, Orlando Bagwell was attacked by a mob and kicked into the street. He was rescued by a bus driver. Shortly thereafter Mr. Bagwell, a fledgling filmmaker, was hired by public television to work on a piece about a South Boston protester who had changed her mind and was advocating peace. Her son, it turned out, was one of Mr. Bagwell's attackers.
Great stories, true stories -- they're what Mr. Bagwell has been chasing his whole career.
As a director and producer he has been involved with some of the more influential documentaries made about the civil rights movement and the black American experience, including the landmark television mini-series ''Eyes on the Prize'' and the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. portrait ''Citizen King.'' In 2004 he joined the Ford Foundation to help it support social-issue filmmaking. Two years ago he helped found the Ford initiative JustFilms, which further focused that effort but kept Mr. Bagwell off the radar -- except, of course, to filmmakers who knew where they might find financing. 
But in June he plans to exit JustFilms to make his own documentaries once again. He leaves on a decidedly upbeat note: Eight JustFilms movies screened at last month's Sundance Film Festival; another project, ''How to Survive a Plague,'' is an Oscar nominee for best documentary. JustFilms projects are in production around the world, and the social-justice documentary has arguably never had more cachet. Likewise Mr. Bagwell.
A dinner turned testimonial at Sundance had its honoree squirming, and last week Darren Walker, the foundation's vice president's for education, creativity and free expression, said: ''It's hard not to be enthusiastic about Orlando, if you care about social-justice documentary. He's the pre-eminent person in the field today.''
Mr. Bagwell, he said, had changed the foundation's thinking, leading in 2010 to a commitment of $50 million over five years and giving him a way to collaborate more directly with other Ford programs on human rights, economic equality and criminal justice. One recent result was ''Gideon's Army,'' Dawn Porter's debut film about public defenders in the South, which received a rousing response at Sundance last month. Unlike many documentaries at Ford it originated not at JustFilms but in the human rights program.
Kirsten D. Levingston, a program officer working on justice reform, said she brought Ms. Porter and her footage to Mr. Bagwell. Ms. Levingston remembered how Mr. Bagwell keyed into its theme of student debt and how law school graduates saddled with enormous loans can't afford to devote themselves to the indigent.
''That became a big theme in the film,'' Ms. Levingston said, two to three years before it became a topic of news reports. She added: ''I think this speaks to the kind of eye he has, both for art and for policy. You hope whoever picks up the baton has the same astute sensibility he has.''
Mr. Bagwell would say the crucial factor is narrative. ''A lot of filmmakers want to change the world,'' he said at his office at the foundation, overlooking East 43rd Street in Manhattan and decorated with the art and artifacts of years of making films (among them ''Malcolm X: Make It Plain,'' ''Roots of Resistance: The Story of the Underground Railroad'' and ''Africans in America'').
''But they haven't done a lot of thinking about the translation of those things into stories,'' said the 60-ish Mr. Bagwell, dreadlocks framing his strong face and trimmed beard. If he thinks the topic is promising, Mr. Bagwell can give the filmmaker a grant as small as $50,000 and say, ''I think you need to do more research, and when you get that research, don't send me a proposal, send me a little narrative and tell me how you see this as a story.''
Few people, especially the hundreds of filmmakers turned down each year, would describe Mr. Bagwell as easy.
''You have to get past the stare,'' said Jon Else, a filmmaker (''The Day After Trinity,'' ''Cadillac Desert'') and journalism professor at the University of California, Berkeley, who also worked on ''Eyes on the Prize.'' ''He's an amazingly warm, really thoughtful person.''
At the same time, ''he is not a person uncomfortable in silence,'' said Noland Walker, who co-directed Mr. Bagwell's ''Citizen King'' (2004). ''He's got this stare where he drops his chin and looks at you in a way that asks: Why are we in the same room?''
Told this, Mr. Bagwell laughed. ''It's terrifying being a first-time filmmaker,'' he said. ''And they're showing you work, talking about it, they have a long, long explanation about why they have to do it this way or that way.'' He stares ''because if I respond in a certain way it would just deflate them,'' he said. ''I'm searching for words. But I'm not smiling.''
''I think I got it from my father,'' Mr. Bagwell added. ''My father had a look that could turn you to stone.''
David France got the look. When he pitched what became his film debut, ''How to Survive a Plague,'' the story of early AIDS activism, ''I got that unfocused Orlando gaze that told me he was paying more attention to what was going on inside his head than anything I was saying.''
But Mr. Bagwell let Mr. France talk. And show him footage. ''And when the lights came back on, he was there,'' Mr. France said. ''He saw it.'' In addition to throwing the weight of the Ford Foundation behind the film, Mr. Bagwell offered support and feedback throughout the project.
Mr. Bagwell was interested less in history, Mr. France said, than in ''the power of activism and the power of the individual to make social change.''
There's a good of deal of power, as Mr. Walker pointed out, in giving $10 million away each year. Mr. Bagwell sees it instead as a responsibility.
''The big lesson to me is that we're all so connected,'' he said. ''There's nothing happening now that is not affecting each of us individually, emotionally, intellectually, in our pocketbooks. At the same time information is the same way. We can inform one another in the same way. And there's something going on right now in the field of documentary.''
It's something he wants to be part of, making his own films. Maybe even applying for the same kind of grants he's been giving away.
''I think it's utterly unfair to the rest of us,'' Mr. France said. ''The competition just got way worse.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Orlando Bagwell, top, of the Ford Foundation's JustFilms initiative found financing for the Oscar-nominated documentary ''How to Survive a Plague,'' above. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROBERT CAPLIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
WILLIAM LUCAS WALKER) (AR16)
 Orlando Bagwell was a director of ''Citizen King'' (2004), above. Now Mr. Bagwell is returning to directing documentaries. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PBS/PHOTOFEST) (AR18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (89%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (89%); FILM (89%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (89%); CIVIL RIGHTS (88%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); SUBSTITUTE TEACHERS (78%); CELEBRITIES (77%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (77%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); FILM DIRECTORS (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (74%); FOUNDATIONS (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (73%); LAW SCHOOLS (73%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (72%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (69%); FESTIVALS (65%); PUBLIC DEFENDERS (64%); PERSONAL DEBT (61%); STUDENT LOANS (61%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (61%)

PERSON: MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (90%) FLORIDA, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); UTAH, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2013



603 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1934 words

HEADLINE: Now Onstage in Spain: Austerity

BYLINE: By ZACHARY WOOLFE

 BODY:
BARCELONA, Spain -- There is no sign marking the door to La Poderosa, a dance and performance space on a scruffy street in the Raval neighborhood here. The door itself is low and set a few inches off the ground; to get inside, visitors have to climb up and duck down.
Up a flight of dusty stairs is an airy yet cozy loft with a slightly raised platform for performances at one end, a bar at the other and some hand-me-down tables and chairs. One afternoon recently, as the sun streamed through a wall of windows, Javier Vaquero Ollero sipped a beer and talked about the future.
''We really live day by day,'' said Mr. Vaquero Ollero, 28, a dancer and choreographer and a member of the collective that runs the space. ''You cannot project about the future. You cannot have an idea of a project or design a certain kind of artistic project from one year's distance, because you actually don't know if you can pay the rent next month.'' 
The rent on La Poderosa's loft isn't much: about $1,100 a month. But it's hard to pay even that when just a trickle is coming in. Like most arts organization in Spain the space used to draw the better part of its income from public subsidies. At the high point, a few years ago, La Poderosa was receiving about $90,000 a year from various governmental sources. It used that for rent, hosting performers and technical costs, and to give three members of the collective small salaries as employees.
Now it gets nothing.
The housing bubble that began with the introduction of the euro and burst in Spain in 2008 was not unlike the one that helped cause a recession in the United States. But the rigid austerity-focused response to Spain's crisis and the strictures of the nation's membership in the euro zone have prevented any similar recovery from taking hold.
The country's recession continues to deepen; unemployment continues to rise. The jobless rate reached 22.8 percent at the end of last year, more than double the European average, and is much higher for young people.
Two successive governments have desperately cut spending to meet targets for aid from the European Union. If anything, the budget decisions have failed to stem the crisis and have been devastating for culture. A far greater proportion of arts budgets in Europe -- often upward of 50 percent -- comes from government subsidies than in the United States.
Private donations in Europe are generally not tax deductible, so when subsidies are cut, it is hard to generate new income to compensate. In Spain ticket sales, the largest remaining source of revenue, have been affected by a large hike in the value-added tax on tickets, to 21 percent from 8 percent. (Using the tax's Spanish acronym, the newspaper El País coined a bitter rhyme, calling it an ''IVA-guillotina.'')
A calmly devastating report produced for the Culture Ministry and updated at the end of 2012 found that since 2009 the average cultural organization had reduced its budget or volume of activity by 49.8 percent.
All in all the situation for the arts in Spain is dire, affecting both the underground, experimental world epitomized by La Poderosa and much more famous, mainstream institutions and personalities.
The Gran Teatre del Liceu in Barcelona, one of the country's two leading opera houses, has laid off about 100 employees since the crisis began. When asked in an interview in his office overlooking the bustling Ramblas Avenue what had changed at the Liceu since the crisis, Joan Francesc Marco, the theater's general director, simply burst out laughing at the enormity of the answer.
''Everything,'' he said.
The tenor Plácido Domingo, sitting in the serene lobby of the seaside Arenas Hotel in Valencia recently, said, ''The hope for everybody is that we go back to the level of quantity and quality we had before the crisis.''
But quantity is a daunting problem at the Palau de les Arts Reina Sofia in Valencia, where Mr. Domingo was singing in the Verdi rarity ''I Due Foscari.'' The house's budget and performance schedule have both been cut in half, and its soaring, retro-futurist Santiago Calatrava building, which opened in 2005, therefore sits dormant most of the year.
''What has been spent here was at a moment when Spain had all the money,'' the Palau's director, Helga Schmidt, said of the building, part of the sprawling, expensive Calatrava-designed City of Arts and Sciences complex. ''I think it is a great project and will stay here forever. But in the future politicians and those who have to pay will have to be very careful.''
Even in boom times arts management is about surmounting an inexorable series of obstacles. But Ms. Schmidt's job has become purely a labyrinth of cuts and compromises. She sought to rent the Metropolitan Opera's starkly stylized recent production of Verdi's ''Ballo in Maschera'' but could not afford it. Instead, for the same amount she cobbled together four loans of simple, traditional productions of standards like Verdi's ''Rigoletto'' (from Warsaw) and Puccini's ''Bohème'' (from Philadelphia).
Attendance was spotty two weeks ago for a powerful program of Montsalvatge, Beethoven and Sibelius from the Orquestra de la Comunitat Valenciana, led by the rising conductor Pablo Heras-Casado. Unable to fill her seats with locals consistently, Ms. Schmidt now faces the sudden need to increase marketing, hoping to sell Valencian culture to American and Japanese tourists.
Neither the biggest cities nor the most important institutions have been spared. Cuts forced the Museo Nacional del Prado in Madrid to cancel a planned Lucian Freud retrospective. The Teatro Real, in the same city, has faced cuts of a third of its budget, forcing, among other adjustments, the cancellation of a much-anticipated three-year series of opera productions in collaboration with the Berlin Philharmonic.
While major institutions have been cut badly, smaller ones have been decimated. The Orquestra de Girona, a chamber orchestra in a university town about 60 miles north of Barcelona, has been guaranteed less than 30 percent of the support it had just a few years ago. Founded in 1996, the orchestra has fostered up-and-coming Spanish artists. For several years it engaged Mr. Heras-Casado, then an unknown young conductor from Granada who is now, at 35, embarked on a major international career.
After years of relatively robust programming, the orchestra could afford only a single concert this year. Irene Llongarriu, the ensemble's secretary and manager, brought a manifesto she had written about the crisis to a meeting with a reporter at a cafe in Girona's Plaça Independencia.
''It is a truly asphyxiating situation at times,'' it read in part, ''and at great personal risk we want to continue performing music. Yet despite everything we continue, even if just to offer a testimonial. We do not want to quit.''
Midsize organizations like these -- large enough to have real expenses but small enough to have seen their relatively minor subsidies mostly vanish -- may end up the lasting victims of a financial crisis that will eventually polarize the cultural scene, leaving just the biggest institutions, the Prados and Teatro Reals, and the smallest. But for the major institutions, with millions of dollars of fixed costs and hundreds of employees, the worst part may be the perpetual uncertainty.
''What I have asked for is that the government gives me an insurance for at least three seasons the amount of money they will give me without further cuts,'' Ms. Schmidt, of Valencia, said. ''Because so far I have always had last-minute cuts, and that is damaging. You have to change things at the last minute. You have to undo very carefully put-together projects. Give me three seasons, and I can make plans.''
Gerard Mortier, the Teatro Real's artistic director, has incorporated into his contract a clause that nullifies it if his performance budget is reduced any further. But he has led the theater through the crisis to present seasons far more exciting than companies like the Paris Opera, whose budgets have remained relatively stable. At the Teatro Real world premieres and recent works abound. Mr. Mortier has eagerly taken up operas that pose timely questions of capitalism and consumerism, from Weill and Brecht's ''Rise and Fall of the City of Mahagonny'' to Messiaen's ''St. François d'Assise.''
He has also curbed (a bit) the notorious extravagance of his experimentations, channeling his interest in innovation into a searching series of operas in concert, like a revelatory period-instrument version of Wagner's ''Parsifal'' conducted by Thomas Hengelbrock a few weeks ago. All performances offer a rush program in which unsold tickets can be bought for 10 percent of face value.
Barcelona's Liceu, under Mr. Marco and its adventurous artistic director, Joan Matabosch, continues to push its audiences forward in both repertory (Weill's ''Street Scene'' opens on March 1) and productions (Stefan Herheim's dazzling version of Dvorak's ''Rusalka'' last December).
In the coming years arts institutions in Spain and throughout Europe will have to turn, for better and worse, toward an arts financing system more like America's privatized model. The Liceu's marketing chief, Martí Torres Mata, joined the company two years ago after a career in retail, and a newly announced initiative project based in New York seeks support for the theater among American donors.
Mr. Vaquero Ollero, of La Poderosa, is part of a group of young artists called Ocho Octubre, named after the date last fall when it met for the first time in response to a wave of subsidy cuts. With a mailing list of more than 100, the organization has met every two weeks and aims to lobby the government, to train artists in self-sustainability strategies and to connect the arts with other areas experiencing drastic cuts, from health to education.
A few years ago an abandoned brothel in Madrid opened as a kind of microtheater, offering short plays before an audience of only a dozen or so. Such intimate performance experiences have expanded into something of a movement. Mr. Vaquero Ollero has twice danced in performances that took place in people's homes, and he attends more and more of the same. There is less work being done, he said, but with no need to answer to anyone for financing, what remains is more raw and experimental.
''When you know you don't have a theater, it provokes something very different,'' he said. ''It affects the work. The conditions are changing, but that doesn't mean the work is going to be worse.''
For many smaller institutions, going off the subsidy grid brings an unexpectedly welcome freedom from forms and bureaucracy. ''We don't spend so much time organizing anymore, because you don't have to organize anything,'' Mr. Vaquero Ollero added. ''We have more time to rehearse and research.''
Curbed under decades of dictatorship, the cultural scene in Spain is effectively just three decades old, still young and fragile.
''The future has a lot of uncertainty in store for us,'' Alfonso Aijón, the country's most prominent classical music promoter, wrote in an e-mail. ''But we have to trust that necessity is the mother of invention and that it will wake us from the somnolence resulting from the easy, irresponsible life we've had in recent years, which has led us to the regrettable situation we are going through today.''
As dancing gigs in Barcelona have dried up, Mr. Vaquero Ollero spends more of his time working abroad. He has considered moving back in with his parents, as many young people he knows have, or leaving for Mexico City or Brazil.
''I'm not here to suffer,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Among the struggling cultural institutions in Spain are the Palau de les Arts Reina Sofía, above left, in Valencia
and Teatro Real, top and above right, in Madrid, where ''The Perfect American'' is being staged. American counterparts like the Met, where Jonas Kaufmann, below left, and René Pape are starring in ''Parsifal,'' are doing relatively well. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MONICA GUMM
JAVIER DEL REAL/TEATRO REAL, VIA AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES
JAVIER DEL REAL/TEATRO REAL, VIA EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY
 RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DANCE (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); BUDGETS (86%); DANCERS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); CHOREOGRAPHY (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (73%); HOUSING MARKET (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); EURO (68%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (64%); MONETARY UNIONS (63%); VALUE ADDED TAX (63%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (63%); HOUSING BUBBLE (63%); TICKET SALES (61%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (60%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BARCELONA, SPAIN (90%); MADRID, SPAIN (78%) CATALONIA, SPAIN (90%) SPAIN (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2013



604 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; FIELD NOTES; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1049 words

HEADLINE: 'Surrounded by Love All Day'

BYLINE: By MARGAUX LASKEY

 BODY:
Loving one's work is always important, but especially so when that work involves being in constant contact with people who are in love. It helps, too, that James Mitchell, who officiates at more than 200 weddings a week at the Manhattan Marriage Bureau, is happily married himself.
Mr. Mitchell, who grew up on Staten Island, like many boys, wanted to become a professional baseball player. Early on, it became clear that he did not have the skills for that.
He studied computer programming and accounting at the Staten Island campus of St. John's University, and for 17 years after graduation worked for his father's direct-mail advertising business.
Then came Sept. 11. He wanted to leave New York and in 2003 moved to Jupiter, Fla., to open a dog biscuit bakery. That became a casualty of the recession. 
''Emotionally and economically, we wanted to come home to our family and friends,'' he said.
He began looking for work in New York, where his résumé landed on the desk of Michael McSweeney, the New York City clerk. In 2010, he hired Mr. Mitchell as his floor supervisor at the Manhattan Marriage Bureau, which had recently opened in a space once occupied by the Department of Motor Vehicles.
One duty was to perform ceremonies when the bureau was understaffed. After getting glowing reviews from some of the couples, however, it became clear that Mr. Mitchell had found his calling. In 2011 he was appointed the main marriage officiant.
''In a very short period of time, we realized that he has the perfect personality, the perfect understanding and sensitivity,'' Mr. McSweeney said. ''The guy talks about his wife all the time, and he's happily married. He's somebody who has everything going for him. It's a perfect fit.''
Mr. Mitchell, 47, has performed more than 27,000 wedding ceremonies. He still loves it, and he still tears up from time to time.
''On Sundays, I look forward to coming to work,'' he said. ''It might be my 50th or 100th, but it's still their only marriage ceremony, and I want to do my last as well as my first,'' he said.
Mr. Mitchell can complete a ceremony in about a minute, but some couples want to personalize theirs, so many last longer. Some write their vows, others bring music to play over the stereo system and still others Skype the ceremony to their families in places like Italy, Russia or China.
Mr. Mitchell said he and his colleagues do their best to accommodate special requests, and try to follow the maxim ''Don't interfere with anyone else's happiness.''
One never knows what might happen.
Mr. Mitchell will not soon forget the seven-piece klezmer band that provided the coda to a wedding in late January.
''They left the chapel and walked down the hallway playing the whole time,'' he said. ''All of the employees came out to watch. It was one of the most amazing sights I've ever seen. It was a beautiful thing.''
On a Monday morning earlier this month, Mr. Mitchell was busy fielding questions and guiding couples into the two chapels and the waiting area, He remains the floor supervisor.
''We're the happy building; next door, they're not so happy,'' he said, referring to one of the courthouses, ''but we're happy.''
As Mr. Mitchell enters a chapel, he shouts, ''Welcome, guys! How you doing?'' He introduces himself, occasionally to couples who do not speak English, and takes pains to pronounce even the most unusual-sounding names correctly.
After a dash of advice (''There's nothing to be nervous about. The hardest thing is finding the person'') he then begins the ceremony with an air that suggests a 19th-century orator.
He is playful, yet serious. He performs all of his ceremonies with a blend of familiarity and formality that seems fitting for a place where white satin and dinner jackets mingle with blue denim, where the gift shop sells veils and bridal bouquets alongside packets of dental floss and eyeglass repair kits.
Just before Christmas, Mr. Mitchell officiated at the wedding of Alejandra Villagra and Jason van Dalen.''For me it felt like we had found a professional speaker, a Broadway showman, a preacher and a caring family man all in one,'' Mr. van Dalen wrote in an e-mail. ''I say this as an admitted jaded New Yorker; I am always on the lookout for insincerity and found absolutely none.''
When Mr. Mitchell was in the second grade at the Holy Rosary School on Staten Island, he met a third grader named Mary Marron. Romance did not bloom until they became reacquainted in 1991. They were married in 2000 at the Holy Rosary Church and now live in Great Kills, Staten Island, with their dog, Peppy, and their cat, Jet.
Mrs. Mitchell is not surprised that her husband, who regularly receives thank-you notes from couples, is so well loved at his job.
''He is a romantic, not overly, but he's a firm believer in marriage, the institution and love and all that kind of stuff,'' she said. ''And he's genuine.''
Mr. Mitchell loves the busy days most.
''I love Fridays, and Valentine's Day is another day I love,'' he said. ''You know you're going to be busy, but you're going to have the big parties. You can feed off of their excitement.''
His favorite day was Sunday, July 24, 2011, when same-sex marriage became legal in New York State. He officiated at only one ceremony that day, but 484 marriages were performed at the bureau's five offices.
''We were a part of history,'' he said. ''And then the love and excitement and the joy. Everyone who came out of the chapel got a cheer. It was like you were in a stadium. It was phenomenal.''
While Mr. Mitchell is grateful for his job, he is quick to point out that it is not all roses and Champagne.
On most days, the bureau performs about 40 to 70 ceremonies and on Fridays, 120 to 150. That is some 350 to 450 ceremonies a week. Of those, Mr. Mitchell performs roughly 60 to 80 percent, usually topping 200 a week.
All that emoting gets exhausting, and he often becomes hoarse. And while most people who go to the marriage bureau are in festive moods, that is not always the case.
''You're dealing with the public, you're dealing with personalities,'' he said. ''It's like anything else, it's a job, but this is one of the better jobs I've had. I like the people I work with and there's a lot more happiness than there is anything else. How many city employees are surrounded by love all day?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY TINA FINEBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (89%); FAMILY (77%); BASEBALL (71%); RECESSION (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (67%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (60%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (55%); EMPLOYMENT (54%)

ORGANIZATION: ST JOHN'S UNIVERSITY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (51%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2013



605 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1108 words

HEADLINE: How to Unparalyze Us

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
I WAS struck by one particular moment during President Obama's State of the Union address. The president proposed a $1 billion investment to build a new National Network for Manufacturing Innovation to spur high-tech manufacturing in America. I'm sure that would be helpful, and I'm sure the president will have to beg to get any such funding out of Congress. Yet sitting up there in the balcony listening to the president's speech was the chief executive of Apple, Tim Cook. Apple is currently sitting on $137 billion of cash in the bank. There are many reasons Apple has not spent its cash horde, but I'll bet anything that one of them is the uncertain economic and tax environment in this country. Think about how much better we'd all be if Apple, and the many other companies sitting on cash, felt confident enough in the future to spend it. These are the most dynamic companies in the world. They don't need any government help to innovate. 
Message: There is no doubt our economy is primarily being held back by the deleveraging and drop in demand that resulted from the 2008 financial crisis. But they are being reinforced today by uncertainty and worry that we do not have our political house in order and, therefore, our tax, regulatory, pension and entitlement frameworks are all in play. So businesses, investors and consumers all hold back just enough for us not to be able to move the growth and employment meters with any robust momentum. Sure, we'll throw money into the stock market if the only alternative is zero interest from bonds or banks, but it is not being recirculated with confidence in the long term. It's a tragedy. You can feel the economy wants to launch, but Washington is sitting on the national mood button. We the people still feel like children of permanently divorcing parents.
The latest Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll, conducted in mid-January, found that Americans see some signs of improvement but that ''just over half of those surveyed said they were less confident about the economy as a result of the budget negotiations.'' The Journal article quoted Bill McInturff, one of the pollsters, as saying, ''This is now Washington's economy. The problem in Washington is ... contributing to a very negative sense of what's going to happen in the economy.'' Richard Curtin, who directs the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan index of consumer sentiment, told me that his team regularly asks the consumers who are polled whether they've heard of any events impacting the economy -- positively or negatively -- without giving them any choices. Since August, the index has seen record numbers citing government paralysis as contributing negatively to the economy, including in the survey released Friday.
''People's incomes are so stretched,'' said Curtin, ''that any additional uncertainty about how taxes or government spending might affect them has a big impact on their situation and how they plan for the future. ... There is real economic uncertainty out there.'' In addition, he said, historically, ''people have always turned to Washington in times of economic crisis, but now they're losing confidence in the government's ability to reshape the economy, and that affects their buying and investing habits.'' People now think they have to ''take more control themselves.''
What to do? To be sure, the G.O.P.'s lurch to the far right has been more responsible for this paralysis than the Democrats, but Barack Obama is president. He wants to succeed. The country needs him to succeed. Therefore, he owes it to himself and to the country to make one more good shot at a Grand Bargain on spending, investment and tax reform before he opts for a strategy of trying to pummel the Republican Party, hoping that he can win the House for the Democrats in 2014 and then push through his second-term agenda unencumbered. I don't think the latter will be so easy, and I think the former would give the country so much more of a lift and the president so much more momentum to get the best ideas in his speech -- like infrastructure, early childhood education and a trade agreement with the European Union -- enacted.
TO have any effect, though, the president can't just say he is ready for ''tough'' decisions. He has to lead with his chin and put a concrete, comprehensive package on the table, encompassing three areas. First, new investments that would combine immediate jobs in infrastructure with some long-term growth-enablers like a massive build-out in the nation's high-speed broadband capabilities. That would have to be married with a long-term fiscal restructuring, written into law, that slows the growth of both Social Security and Medicare entitlements, along with individual and corporate tax reform. Obama has hinted at his willingness to do all of these. They should be agreed upon in 2013 and phased in gradually, starting in 2014. There are a lot of good bipartisan packages out there to choose from; we just need one that puts us on a trajectory to shrink our ratio of debt to gross domestic product over time. Otherwise, we will have little in reserve to fight the next economic crisis or 9/11 or Hurricane Sandy.
Our choice today is not ''austerity'' versus ''no austerity.'' That is a straw man argument offered by both extremes. It's about whether we phase in -- in the least painful way possible -- a long-term plan that balances our need to protect the most vulnerable in this generation while funding the most opportunities for the next generation, and still creating growth. We can't protect both generations in full anymore, but we must not sacrifice one for the other -- favoring nursing homes over nursery schools -- and that's what we're on track to do.
A Grand Bargain now, rather than a meat-ax sequester, would offer stability for the long-term and maybe even a boost for the short term. ''It would give people some reason to redeem their hope in their own economic future,'' said Curtin. ''It would be such a relief for most consumers to see that the government was actively working as a cohesive unit toward the betterment of the economy.''
After the whipping the G.O.P. took in the election, I believe there is now a group of Republican politicians and C.E.O.'s who would meet Obama in the middle, if the president showed he was ready to take on some of his base as well. If the president tries, and I am wrong, well, he'll have a few bad weeks. If I am right and enough Republicans meet Obama on a Grand Bargain, it would both split the G.O.P. between the sane conservatives and the certifiable crazies and give the president a real foundation for a truly significant second term.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); BONDS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); CHILDREN (69%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (50%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (91%); NBC UNIVERSAL INC (84%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (52%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (91%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (91%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (91%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (91%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); TIM COOK (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2013



606 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 622 words

HEADLINE: Group of 20 Vows to Let Markets Set Currency Values

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

 BODY:
MOSCOW -- In a concerted move to quiet fears of a so-called currency war, finance officials from the world's largest industrial and emerging economies expressed their commitment on Saturday to ''market-determined exchange rate systems and exchange rate flexibility.''
In a statement issued at the conclusion of a conference here of the Group of 20, the finance ministers from the Group of 20 promised: ''We will refrain from competitive devaluation. We will not target our exchange rates for competitive purposes.'' 
In its statement, the group also vowed to ''take necessary collective actions'' to discourage corporate tax evasion, particularly by preventing companies from shifting profits to avoid tax obligations. For instance, a number of big American companies, including Apple and Starbucks, have come under scrutiny recently for seeking out the friendliest tax jurisdictions.
Over all, the statement largely echoed one last week by seven top industrial nations pledging to let market exchange rates determine the value of their currencies. Currency devaluation can be used to gain competitive advantage because it makes a country's exports cheaper.
''We all agreed on the fact that we refuse to enter any currency war,'' the French finance minister, Pierre Moscovici, told reporters at the conference, which was held in a meeting center just a short walk from the Kremlin and Red Square.
In the statement on Saturday, the Group of 20 pointedly avoided any criticism of Japan, where stimulus programs backed by Prime Minister Shinzo Abe have kept interest rates near zero and flooded the economy with money -- leading to a roughly 15 percent drop in the value of the yen against the dollar over the last three months.
The Japanese policies, which have reduced the cost of Japanese products around the world, were the primary cause of fears of a currency war.
In essence, the Group of 20 expressed a view that loose monetary policy, including steps that weaken currency values, are acceptable when used to stimulate domestic growth but should not be used to benefit in global trade.
Critics of that view say that it amounts to a distinction without a difference because loose monetary policies stimulate growth and bolster exports at the same time.
The United States has also used a loose monetary approach to aid in the economic recovery, in the form of ''quantitative easing'' by which the Federal Reserve buys tens of billions of dollars in bonds each month.
The chairman of the Federal Reserve, Ben S. Bernanke, who attended the conference in Moscow, gave brief remarks on Friday indicating support for Japan's efforts.
Faster-growing, developing countries like Brazil and China have expressed concerns about the loose monetary policies of more established economies like Japan and the United States. The money created by policies like the Fed's quantitative easing can prove destabilizing as it enters faster-growing economies.
The Group of 20 acknowledged this concern in its statement, saying: ''Monetary policy should be directed toward domestic price stability and continuing to support economic recovery according to the respective mandates. We commit to monitor and minimize the negative spillovers on other countries of policies implemented for domestic purposes.''
As the three-day conference drew to a close, participants did not reach any new agreement on debt-cutting targets. Efforts to reach such a pact will continue at the annual Group of 20 summit meeting to be attended by President Obama and other world leaders in St. Petersburg in September.
But while the debt agreement was elusive, the Group of 20 leaders reiterated efforts to work together, promising to ''resist all forms of protections and keep our markets open.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (91%); EXCHANGE RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); DEVALUATION (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); EXPORT TRADE (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (77%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (74%); JAPANESE YEN (73%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); TAX FRAUD (69%); TAX LAW (69%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (67%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%)

PERSON: SHINZO ABE (79%); BEN BERNANKE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (89%) JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (89%); FRANCE (79%); BRAZIL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2013



607 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1134 words

HEADLINE: Regulators Cast Critical Eye on Affluent Cities That Sell Federal Grants to Their Neighbors

BYLINE: By ALISON LEIGH COWAN

 BODY:
Last year, Malibu, Calif., was one of several thousand communities across the country that received federal grants intended to improve the lot of low- and moderate-income residents. But instead of putting the $54,866 it received to work on an eligible project, like restoring houses, the city did what dozens of other well-off municipalities have done: it sold its grants to other communities in exchange for smaller purses that had no strings attached.
Such wheeling and dealing is longstanding practice in Los Angeles County, stretching back at least 25 years. Local officials describe the horse-trading as a way to redirect money from communities that lacked eligible projects or had ample money of their own to areas that needed them more.
And with Congress regularly lowering the amount it disburses through the Community Development Block Grant program, the exchanges have allowed communities to bundle modest allotments into bigger ones. 
While the practice has often been presented as advantageous for the communities that buy and sell the grants, not everyone agrees that it makes the best use of the $3 billion or so that Congress has been devoting to the annual program.
Brian E. Sullivan, a spokesman for the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development, said in an e-mail that ''while not expressly prohibited by law or regulation,'' the department strongly discourages such sales.
Senator Tom Coburn, Republican of Oklahoma, simply views the practice as a waste of public resources.
''What it tells you is they didn't need the money,'' he said. ''The authorization for the program says you're supposed to be giving it to the communities that need it, so why would Beverly Hills need a C.D.B.G. block grant?''
The Community Development Block Grant program, signed into law by President Gerald R. Ford in 1974, gives communities more say over how public money is spent.
It is not clear why the trading has not caught on more broadly across the country. Mayor J. Christian Bollwage of Elizabeth, N.J., who has been active in community development for two decades, said he doubted that there were any instances of trading in his region, given the broad need for money. ''Suffice to say, that is not happening in Connecticut, New York or New Jersey,'' he said.
In the dozens of cases that are documented, the selling city relinquishes its claim to thousands of dollars of promised grants in exchange for a payment, typically set at 60 cents or so on the dollar. Whatever the agreement, the federal government will disburse the same amount that it had committed to pay. But the community that ultimately puts the money to work will receive less than if it had received the grant directly.
Regulators at the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development had tolerated these arrangements until fairly recently.
They did issue a warning to Milwaukee County in 2011 after a Wisconsin newspaper reported that one of the county's richer suburbs, River Hills, was routinely trying to sell its grant allocation. Threatened with penalties, the county took that option off the table.
Until Mr. Coburn questioned the practice in his annual chronicle of government waste in October, federal regulators had raised few objections in Los Angeles County. There, a virtual bazaar had openly flourished for decades under the supervision of the Los Angeles County Community Development Commission.
County officials are convinced that it was Mr. Coburn's criticism that prompted a cease-and-desist letter they received in October from Yolanda Chavez, a deputy assistant secretary at the housing department in Washington. ''If cooperating jurisdictions cannot use their annual allocations,'' she wrote, ''the funds should revert to the county and be reallocated to areas of highest need.''
County officials say they have complied by passing along Ms. Chavez's request to the 48 cities that receive block grants from the county. ''If it's going to raise eyebrows, we'll figure out another way to help our cities function,'' said Terry Gonzalez, a top official at the Community Development Commission.
That change is already being felt by cities that had been active in the brisk trade.
County records show that 14 of its 48 participating municipalities had signed away their rights last year to receive $1.1 million in federal grants for the current fiscal year in return for $782,000 in payments that were free and clear.
Eager for bigger allocations, Torrance, San Fernando and Hawaiian Gardens each picked up more than $100,000 in grants to bolster their usual allotment. La Mirada, the standout of the bunch, stitched together nearly $700,000 in grants from nine sellers, averaging 70 cents on the dollar for the privilege.
''That doesn't seem in keeping with the spirit of the program,'' said Mark Elliot, a Californian who objected on his blog, Better Bike, last March when Beverly Hills struck a similar deal with a city 30 miles to the south.
''Why trade away 90,000 bucks at a discount to the City of Hawaiian Gardens, of all places, when that federal funding could help house people of modest means or less-mobile seniors'' at home, Mr. Elliot said at the time.
Municipal records suggest that the money Beverly Hills and other affluent communities earn under the formula often idles as they struggle to find eligible ways to put the awards to work.
In a report written last April, Malibu officials stuck to a line they had been using as far back as 2008 to lobby the City Council for the release -- and sale -- of the federal grants. ''The city has not been able to identify a project that meets the criteria of the funding,'' the report said.
In a similar memorandum drafted last March for its City Council, Beverly Hills explained why it had felt compelled to sell the grants. ''It can be particularly difficult for cities such as Beverly Hills, which does not have any qualified low-income areas, to find C.D.B.G.-eligible projects,'' it said, adding that, ''staff has been researching promising projects, but none are ready to fund.''
Stockpiling the money until qualified projects emerged would only expose it to ''recapture'' if it appeared that the grants were languishing, according to the memo.
Some of those headaches could be avoided, the memo said, if the City Council approved the sale of grants to Hawaiian Gardens at 70 cents on the dollar.
Ms. Gonzalez defended the county's allocation method, which is modeled on the federal government's and factors in population, poverty and overcrowding, as ''the fairest way to proceed.'' Judged by that standard, she said, Beverly Hills and other suburbs were entitled to a share of the proceeds.
''They qualify,'' Ms. Gonzalez said. ''It's borne out, it's indisputable and it's fair.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Tom Coburn 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRANTS & GIFTS (92%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); CITIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); CURRENCIES (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING & URBAN DEVELOPMENT (55%)

PERSON: TOM COBURN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2013



608 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINIONATOR; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1417 words

HEADLINE: Equal Opportunity, Our National Myth

BYLINE: By JOSEPH STIGLITZ

 BODY:
President Obama's second Inaugural Address used soaring language to reaffirm America's commitment to the dream of equality of opportunity: "We are true to our creed when a little girl born into the bleakest poverty knows that she has the same chance to succeed as anybody else, because she is an American; she is free, and she is equal, not just in the eyes of God but also in our own."
The gap between aspiration and reality could hardly be wider. Today, the United States has less equality of opportunity than almost any other advanced industrial country. Study after study has exposed the myth that America is a land of opportunity. This is especially tragic: While Americans may differ on the desirability of equality of outcomes, there is near-universal consensus that inequality of opportunity is indefensible. The Pew Research Center has found that some 90 percent of Americans believe that the government should do everything it can to ensure equality of opportunity. 
Perhaps a hundred years ago, America might have rightly claimed to have been the land of opportunity, or at least a land where there was more opportunity than elsewhere. But not for at least a quarter of a century. Horatio Alger-style rags-to-riches stories were not a deliberate hoax, but given how they've lulled us into a sense of complacency, they might as well have been.
It's not that social mobility is impossible, but that the upwardly mobile American is becoming a statistical oddity. According to research from the Brookings Institution, only 58 percent of Americans born into the bottom fifth of income earners move out of that category, and just 6 percent born into the bottom fifth move into the top. Economic mobility in the United States is lower than in most of Europe and lower than in all of Scandinavia.
Another way of looking at equality of opportunity is to ask to what extent the life chances of a child are dependent on the education and income of his parents. Is it just as likely that a child of poor or poorly educated parents gets a good education and rises to the middle class as someone born to middle-class parents with college degrees? Even in a more egalitarian society, the answer would be no. But the life prospects of an American are more dependent on the income and education of his parents than in almost any other advanced country for which there is data.
How do we explain this? Some of it has to do with persistent discrimination. Latinos and African-Americans still get paid less than whites, and women still get paid less than men, even though they recently surpassed men in the number of advanced degrees they obtain. Though gender disparities in the workplace are less than they once were, there is still a glass ceiling: women are sorely underrepresented in top corporate positions and constitute a minuscule fraction of C.E.O.'s.
Discrimination, however, is only a small part of the picture. Probably the most important reason for lack of equality of opportunity is education: both its quantity and quality. After World War II, Europe made a major effort to democratize its education systems. We did, too, with the G.I. Bill, which extended higher education to Americans across the economic spectrum.
But then we changed, in several ways. While racial segregation decreased, economic segregation increased. After 1980, the poor grew poorer, the middle stagnated, and the top did better and better. Disparities widened between those living in poor localities and those living in rich suburbs - or rich enough to send their kids to private schools. A result was a widening gap in educational performance - the achievement gap between rich and poor kids born in 2001 was 30 to 40 percent larger than it was for those born 25 years earlier, the Stanford sociologist Sean F. Reardon found.
Of course, there are other forces at play, some of which start even before birth. Children in affluent families get more exposure to reading and less exposure to environmental hazards. Their families can afford enriching experiences like music lessons and summer camp. They get better nutrition and health care, which enhance their learning, directly and indirectly.
Unless current trends in education are reversed, the situation is likely to get even worse. In some cases it seems as if policy has actually been designed to reduce opportunity: government support for many state schools has been steadily gutted over the last few decades - and especially in the last few years. Meanwhile, students are crushed by giant student loan debts that are almost impossible to discharge, even in bankruptcy. This is happening at the same time that a college education is more important than ever for getting a good job.
Young people from families of modest means face a Catch-22: without a college education, they are condemned to a life of poor prospects; with a college education, they may be condemned to a lifetime of living at the brink. And increasingly even a college degree isn't enough; one needs either a graduate degree or a series of (often unpaid) internships. Those at the top have the connections and social capital to get those opportunities. Those in the middle and bottom don't. The point is that no one makes it on his or her own. And those at the top get more help from their families than do those lower down on the ladder. Government should help to level the playing field.
Americans are coming to realize that their cherished narrative of social and economic mobility is a myth. Grand deceptions of this magnitude are hard to maintain for long - and the country has already been through a couple of decades of self-deception.
Without substantial policy changes, our self-image, and the image we project to the world, will diminish - and so will our economic standing and stability. Inequality of outcomes and inequality of opportunity reinforce each other - and contribute to economic weakness, as Alan B. Krueger, a Princeton economist and the chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, has emphasized. We have an economic, and not only moral, interest in saving the American dream.
Policies that promote equality of opportunity must target the youngest Americans. First, we have to make sure that mothers are not exposed to environmental hazards and get adequate prenatal health care. Then, we have to reverse the damaging cutbacks to preschool education, a theme Mr. Obama emphasized on Tuesday. We have to make sure that all children have adequate nutrition and health care - not only do we have to provide the resources, but if necessary, we have to incentivize parents, by coaching or training them or even rewarding them for being good caregivers. The right says that money isn't the solution. They've chased reforms like charter schools and private-school vouchers, but most of these efforts have shown ambiguous results at best. Giving more money to poor schools would help. So would summer and extracurricular programs that enrich low-income students' skills.
Finally, it is unconscionable that a rich country like the United States has made access to higher education so difficult for those at the bottom and middle. There are many alternative ways of providing universal access to higher education, from Australia's income-contingent loan program to the near-free system of universities in Europe. A more educated population yields greater innovation, a robust economy and higher incomes - which mean a higher tax base. Those benefits are, of course, why we've long been committed to free public education through 12th grade. But while a 12th-grade education might have sufficed a century ago, it doesn't today. Yet we haven't adjusted our system to contemporary realities.
The steps I've outlined are not just affordable but imperative. Even more important, though, is that we cannot afford to let our country drift farther from ideals that the vast majority of Americans share. We will never fully succeed in achieving Mr. Obama's vision of a poor girl's having exactly the same opportunities as a wealthy girl. But we could do much, much better, and must not rest until we do.
Joseph E. Stiglitz, a Nobel laureate in economics, a professor at Columbia and a former chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers and chief economist for the World Bank, is the author of "The Price of Inequality."
This is an excerpt from The Great Divide, a series on inequality, at nytimes.com/opinionator.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK PERNICE) GRAPHIC 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); GENDER EQUALITY (89%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (79%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); WOMEN (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); RELIGION (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (62%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (62%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2013



609 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1455 words

HEADLINE: The Health Benefits That Cut Your Pay

BYLINE: By DAVID GOLDHILL. 
The chief executive of GSN, a media company, and the author of ''Catastrophic Care: How American Health Care Killed My Father -- and How We Can Fix It.''

 BODY:
NOT long ago, a 23-year-old woman joined my company as an assistant in the advertising sales department at a starting salary of $35,000. Smart, ambitious and poised, she should have a promising future. Unfortunately, her earnings prospects are threatened. Like many Americans, she's unaware of how much of her compensation is being eaten up by health care costs, and how much this share will grow as long as the increase in health costs exceeds growth in gross domestic product. That's just math.
The Affordable Care Act does require employers, beginning this year, to note on W-2's how much both the employee and the employer contributed to health care costs. Maybe that will help diminish the ignorance regarding true health care costs. But even with greater awareness, many Americans still might not understand that the largest effect of the cost of our health care system is to reduce the amount of money they actually take home.
I have estimated that our 23-year-old employee will bear at least $1.8 million in health care costs over her lifetime. That's assuming that such costs don't grow by more than current government estimates, that she never has a working spouse, and that she and her dependents don't ever contract a serious illness. 
Even after decades of financial engineering, including both the already-implemented and the planned aspects of the Affordable Care Act, the American health care system can be called successful mainly in its ability to hide its enormous cost.
My new employee thinks that she is paying roughly $2,600 for health care in her first year on the job -- her $500 deductible plus her $2,100 share of the company's health insurance premiums. In fact, she's paying more than $10,000 into the country's health care system. As her employer, our company will pay $6,190 of her health care costs, money that might otherwise go to her in salary. (From my point of view as a chief executive of a company, health care is just a different form of compensation.) She is also paying more than $1,500 in federal and state taxes to finance Medicare and Medicaid.
Clearly, personal health insurance is not the only way our employees pay into our health care system. There is the 1.45 percent of every paycheck that goes to Medicare, as well as the portion matched by the employer. Furthermore, a large slice of her general taxes are, in fact, health care costs: roughly 20 percent of federal spending and 10 percent of state spending support Medicare and Medicaid. She must pay for all of this.
And of course, when my 23-year-old employee turns 65, she'll be eligible for Medicare and will begin to pay Medicare premiums of, say, $140 a month in today's dollars. She is likely to do so for the rest of her life.
For employees like her, however, the greatest impact of exploding health care costs will arrive in the form of stagnating wages. Before the Affordable Care Act became law, President Obama's Council of Economic Advisers warned that its projections to 2040 showed that ''essentially all of the rise in average compensation due to increasing productivity over time would go to health insurance, and essentially none would go to take-home wages.''
This year, a standard deductible family policy for our company will carry premiums of roughly $23,000. How has health care gotten so expensive that even a middle-income worker faces such a burden?
In the world of health care analysis, there are basically two schools of thought. The first is that health care is so fundamentally different from other goods and services that a normal market can't drive down its prices. This school of thought makes a number of assumptions: health care consumers are desperate and have no leverage to avoid high pricing. An individual's need for care depends on luck and genes, so that social fairness requires pooling risk.
An aging population needs ever more care. New technologies offer beneficial advances but only at great expense. For-profit motivations conflict with fundamental human needs, requiring extensive regulatory oversight. Managing the insurance system requires costly and complex administration (with direct annual administrative costs now running at roughly $1,900 per household).
AN alternative to the conventional wisdom is that consumer ignorance is what differentiates health care from other industries. This results in a lack of discipline that allows for pervasive excess care and exorbitant prices. If people understood how much they were paying for health care, they would insist on greater control of these resources, creating incentives for the kind of competition in price and quality we have seen develop in other industries -- even those that were once assumed to be too complex for the average consumer to readily understand, such as personal computing.
We manage health care as if our needs were always urgent and unpredictable, ignoring how deeply this industry is integrated into our lives, with a vast amount of care now devoted to treating ongoing, chronic conditions.
Our system takes resources from all of us, pools the cost of certainties disguised as risks, extracts enormous costs of administration and complexity and then returns -- to almost all of us -- a fraction of the money we've put in.
Try to imagine what homeowners' insurance would look like if we expected everyone's house to burn down and then added coverage for each homeowner's utility bills and furniture wear-and-tear. This would be insanely expensive without meaningfully reducing anyone's risk. That, in short, is how health insurance works.
Through private insurance, Medicare and Medicaid, our health system relies on centralized cost control and clever adjustments to payment formulas to try to tame the beast. Traditional health experts may repackage their ideas, but they are never discouraged by past failure. So the new Accountable Care Organizations are a reinvention of H.M.O.'s. The Independent Payment Advisory Board is the new Medicare Payment Advisory Commission, or MedPAC. Bundled payments are the new Prospective Payment System.
We often see some early benefit from the introduction of new ideas, but over time such initiatives are always subjugated by our system's nefarious economic incentives. Implement cost control reforms and watch providers circumvent new rules and guidelines. Reduce reimbursement rates for procedures, and witness providers expand the definition of required services. Convert fee-for-service reimbursements into bundled payments, and soon more severe diagnoses are given. Attempt to use government buying power, and see providers turn to lobbyists to keep prices up. We are approaching a half-century of fighting this losing battle.
Some believe the only hope for cost control is to adopt a single-payer system as used in several other countries, even though the increasingly high costs of many of these systems look good only when compared with our unique disaster.
Whatever your views of the effectiveness of these approaches, in our exquisitely responsive political system, government intervention in health care has often allowed for giveaways to powerful industry interests. Inserted in the recent bill to delay the fiscal cliff was, for instance, a provision mandating the delay of scheduled reductions in the price of a dialysis drug. (Medicare has financed almost all dialysis treatment for 40 years, at extraordinary expense and questionable safety, a cautionary tale for how single payer would work in our system.) Those who think single payer will establish real discipline in the United States haven't been to a political fund-raiser or heard of the Iowa caucuses. They don't understand how special interests already distort government reimbursement policies.
Here's a completely different idea, one that might actually work. Let's give every American health insurance, but only for truly rare, major and unpredictable illnesses. In other words, let's cover everyone but not everything. It would take a generation to transition fully to such a system, but eventually the most routine and expected medical treatments, from checkups and minor illnesses all the way to common chronic conditions and expected end-of-life care, would be funded from our individual health savings; only the most major needs -- for example, cancer, stroke and trauma -- would be paid out of insurance.
Defining insurable events more narrowly and enabling Americans to use the premium savings to build health savings would reduce the distortions inherent in our insurance approach. Most importantly, it will also compel providers to compete on the basis of price, quality and service, as they meet the one force that creates real incentives for good performance, innovation and safety: the consumer.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY TOMI UM) (SR6-SR7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE COSTS (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); MEDICARE (89%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (72%); MEDICAID (56%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2013



610 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 851 words

HEADLINE: Start of a Long Goodbye

BYLINE: By ALLAN KREDA. 
Allan Kreda has covered the N.H.L. for more than two decades, primarily for The Associated Press, Bloomberg News and the magazine Athletes Quarterly.

 BODY:
UNIONDALE, N.Y. -- To enter Nassau Coliseum is to step back in time. It has been the Islanders' home since their inception in 1972 and retains the intimacy of an Original Six rink.
When the Coliseum opened, the Montreal Forum, Boston Garden, Chicago Stadium, Maple Leaf Gardens in Toronto and even the Olympia in Detroit were still in use. Madison Square Garden, the N.H.L.'s oldest arena, opened in 1968 and is undergoing a billion-dollar renovation. Nassau Coliseum remains a relic.
''I will miss the way the Coliseum stands out there when you pull up on the visiting team bus, sort of like an old temple,'' said Tom Renney, who coached the rival Rangers from 2004 to 2009 and now is associate head coach for the Detroit Red Wings. ''What made the experience of coaching there special for me was the blend of Islander and Ranger fans and the push and pull you could absolutely feel from them down on the bench. I don't know of a more player-fan interactive venue in the league.'' 
But amenities at the 41-year-old Coliseum are few and far between. With only 32 luxury suites, it is behind the times compared with the league's 29 other rinks, including two others that remain from the 1970s: Rexall Place in Edmonton, Alberta, which opened in 1974, and Joe Louis Arena in Detroit, which dates to 1979.
The street-level concourse can become jammed like the Long Island Expressway at rush hour. Many seats in the upper half of the bowl show signs of their four decades of use. Yet the Coliseum, which features the throwback sounds of a pipe organ during games, has a certain magical charm for players, fans and broadcasters.
''There's no better spot in the league to view and broadcast a game than mine here at the Coliseum,'' said Howie Rose, the television voice of the Islanders for 18 years. ''The sightlines are unmatched.''
Before frenzied crowds, the Islanders won four straight Stanley Cups from 1980 to 1983. They captured 19 straight playoff series before losing to the Edmonton Oilers, led by Wayne Gretzky and Mark Messier, in the 1984 finals. No team since has won more than two consecutive titles.
The past 20 years have been difficult, as the Islanders last won a playoff series victory in 1993. After several plans in the past decade failed to rebuild or refurbish the Coliseum or construct a new arena on Long Island, the team announced in October that it would relocate to Barclays Center in Brooklyn for the 2015-16 season.
Those who have long worked for the team know that leaving Long Island will be emotional. At the same time, they understand the economic realities and the team's need to play in a modern home.
''The Coliseum is a soundtrack to so many of our lives, and we'll always look back well at our old house,'' said Tim Beach, the vice president for game operations and events, who has been with the Islanders since 1992. ''But it's time to graduate.''
Some veteran hockey watchers resist, even though making it to games will be easier, given that 11 subway lines and the Long Island Rail Road funnel into stations near Barclays Center.
Vincent Losinno, 50, a Brooklynite who has visited more than a dozen N.H.L. rinks, said: ''When I want to see a game in person, my first thought immediately is the Coliseum, despite the distance. There's no better place to see an N.H.L. game live. You're on top of the action regardless of where you sit.''
Longtime Islanders fans like Jerome Minerva of Huntington, N.Y., have mixed feelings.
''I'm thrilled the Islanders are staying in the area, but there's an emptiness knowing they are finally leaving Nassau,'' Minerva, 45, said. ''Part of me is melancholy they are moving, and it strikes me more often than I thought it would when I visit the Coliseum.''
For Joanne Holewa, the manager of hockey administration, who joined the Islanders in 1979, change was vital to ensure the team's survival.
''We honestly would have liked to stay,'' she said. ''I see the move to Brooklyn as positive for everyone involved -- players, employees, management and fans. It's a new chapter. If we had moved to Kansas City, that would have been a real loss.''
The face of the current squad is the 22-year-old center John Tavares, the top overall draft pick in 2009, who has led the Islanders in scoring each of his three seasons. Tavares speaks reverently of gazing up at the four Stanley Cup banners won well before he was born.
''When we have a full house, it's electric,'' said Tavares, although the Islanders rank 29th in average attendance this season. ''You can feel the energy in the locker room before big games. And I will miss that. We will have to bring the history with us and make fresh history in our new building.''
Butch Goring, Rose's partner in the television booth, was a center on the Islanders' four Cup-winning teams.
''All of us who played and won here in the '80s have many great memories of this place,'' Goring said. ''For me, the real impact of leaving the Coliseum won't happen until it happens. I am thrilled the Islanders are staying in the area, but my sense is that this will be an example of 'you don't know what you have until it's gone.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Nassau Coliseum, top, in Uniondale, N.Y., has been the Islanders' home arena since 1972. The team won four straight N.H.L. titles beginning in 1980, when Duane Sutter, center right, celebrated with Butch Goring after giving the Islanders a 2-1 lead at home in Game 6 of the Stanley Cup finals against Reggie Leach and the Philadelphia Flyers. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOHN DUNN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 RAY STUBBLEBINE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); ICE HOCKEY (90%); SPORTS FANS (89%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); TOURNAMENTS (86%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (67%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK ISLANDERS (93%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (83%); PHILADELPHIA FLYERS (59%); DETROIT RED WINGS (56%); NEW YORK RANGERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (91%); DETROIT, MI, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (68%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%); ONTARIO, CANADA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ALBERTA, CANADA (73%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (91%); CANADA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2013



611 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; JOURNEYS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1765 words

HEADLINE: Rediscovering Old Trails of the New Deal

BYLINE: By JONATHAN MINGLE

 BODY:
I climbed the final few feet to the top of the slope and turned around just in time to watch the last rays of sun set the town of Adams aglow, 2,000 feet below. I had arrived at the base of Mount Greylock, Massachusetts' highest peak, on a gorgeous, bluebird January afternoon, just a few days after a storm had dumped a thick coating of fresh powder across New England. And I had made good time skinning up the trail.
But one glance at the rutted maze of crisscrossing tracks all around told me that, in the race that mattered most, I had arrived much too late.
My quarry was, as the first-track backcountry seekers like to say, all ''skied off.'' The secret of the Thunderbolt Trail had been long since revealed. 
I had been warned. ''Back in 2001 you might see two or three people on a weekend,'' Blair Mahar, a co-founder of the Thunderbolt Ski Runners, a local club that has revitalized the trail, had said. ''It's not uncommon on a Saturday to see 50 to 80 people up there, even with no new snow. It's become a go-to spot.''
Those weekend adventurers, riding a surge of interest in backcountry skiing, may not realize it, but they have the Great Depression to thank for those fresh tracks. The Thunderbolt is one of more than a dozen semi-hidden gems tucked throughout the hills of New England, the legacy of a trail-cutting frenzy conducted in the 1930s by the Civilian Conservation Corps, a signature program of President Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal.
From 1933 until 1942, the C.C.C. deployed almost 3 million unemployed men between the ages of 18 and 25 across the nation to plant trees, hew trails and build roads, bridges and park structures. Workers lived in camps run by the Army, were clothed and fed, and received $30 a month. Communities across the country benefited from new state parks and infrastructure.
The program also helped catalyze the nascent ski industry in the United States. Many New England ski resorts were built around trails first cut by the C.C.C. ''In the scope of what the C.C.C. did, it was a real drop in the bucket,'' said Jeff Leich, director of the New England Ski Museum. ''And yet you think about Cannon, Wildcat, Stowe and what that's meant for the economy of the region.'' The winter tourism industry they helped spawn remains an important source of revenue throughout Vermont, New Hampshire and the Berkshires.
Thunderbolt's arc is similar to that of many of the trails. It was one of the premier skiing venues in the nation in the 1930s and 1940s, drawing up to 5,000 people to watch top skiers like Dick Durrance hurtle past them on seven-foot-long wooden skis. It was maintained into the 1950s, but grew back in as lift-served skiing grew in popularity, until backcountry enthusiasts started trimming it again in the 1990s.
On that afternoon last month, almost 80 years after the C.C.C. carved the Thunderbolt out of Mount Greylock's birch glades, I was about to ski the first of four trails I would explore over six days, in a backcountry circuit that was equal parts New Deal history tour and time-travel journey back to the birth of skiing in America.
Thunderbolt was a promising start. In a nod to its series of banking twists and sudden airy drops, the trail was named after a famous roller coaster at Revere Beach north of Boston. As soon as I dropped into the first pitch, I understood why. I linked a few wide turns down the aptly named Big Bend, and then doglegged hard right, jump-turning over a series of ledges -- the Steps -- and plunging into an infamously narrow tunnel through the trees known as the Needle's Eye. The cover was thin in places, scratchy and fast, so I held an edge to bleed some speed before I made a hard left into the next steep section, after which another left took me down through a series of sharp ramps known as the Bumps, to a bobsled-like runout snaking above a creek.
Panting and hunched over my poles, I glanced at my watch. Including two stops to adjust boot buckles and snap a photo, it took me more than 10 minutes to reach the trailhead at the base of the mountain.
Dick Durrance would not have been impressed. On Feb. 17, 1935, Durrance, a Dartmouth skier, won the Massachusetts State Downhill Championship, the first official race on the trail (which was four-tenths of a mile shorter at the time) in just 2 minutes and 48 seconds.
FOUR DAYS LATER I arrived at the base of Mount Mansfield in Vermont to tackle another C.C.C. classic with my friend Ashley Morton. Before there was Stowe Mountain Resort, there was a network of trails built by C.C.C. crews stationed at Ranch Camp, an old logging camp at the southeast foot of the mountain. In 1934, they cut the Nose Dive Trail, which ultimately became the centerpiece of Stowe's terrain on the east side. But Ashley and I had our sights set on the Bruce Trail. Snaking down the sunnier southeast side of Mansfield, it was the first run that a local engineer named Charlie Lord designed before going on to lay out much of Stowe's network.
We skinned past what remains of the old Ranch Camp -- now just a lonely clearing in the woods -- and paused to appraise the climb ahead. The trail rose steeply from the forest floor; rocks and roots poked out of the snow, which was starting to sag in the 40-degree-and-climbing temperatures. After an hour and 2,000 vertical feet of vigorous skinning, we reached the top of the trail where it intersects with the Toll Road.
The chairlift nearby expelled a pack of young skiers in a group lesson. They cruised over to investigate the curious sight we presented, as we pulled the skins off the bottom of our skis.
''You climbed up here?'' asked one incredulous little girl.
After the children shuffled off down the Toll Road, and back into the familiar ''front-country'' world, Ashley and I turned to contemplate the first pitch of the Bruce. It dropped steeply for about 80 feet behind the yellow ''ski area boundary'' sign, and then quickly corkscrewed right into thick stands of spruce and fir. We ducked under the rope, pushed off the lip, and were soon reading the distinctive vocabulary of the C.C.C. trail-builders, who had laid out a thrilling sequence of sharp turns; unannounced dips; wide, sweeping bends; and a ''needle'' or two, where the woods close in, leaving little room to turn, and all we could do was ''point 'em'' straight.
And despite some bare spots, an array of protruding rocks, low-hanging branch ambushes and a few scraped-off sections (the Bruce's proximity to Stowe's lifts makes it a popular run), we kept up a good head of steam, covering the two miles from top to bottom in under 15 minutes.
Dick Durrance's winning time on the Bruce in a February 1934 race? 10 minutes, 48 seconds.
THAT EVENING I drove two hours east to New Hampshire, and settled into a lean-to at Hermit Lake, nestled at the foot of Mount Washington's Tuckerman Ravine. Long considered the mecca of the east coast's backcountry ski set, the east side of the mountain is also home to some of the C.C.C.'s finest handiwork: the John Sherburne Ski Trail, cut in 1934, and the Gulf of Slides Trail, cut in 1935.
Like fraternal twins, the two trails snake down from their respective glacial cirques to Pinkham Notch. The Sherburne is the popular extrovert, attracting heavy traffic on its bold, wide S-turns in the spring, as skiers take their last quad-shredding run down from the ravine. With the ravine drawing only the most daring experts, the Sherburne was a destination unto itself for hordes of eager skiers coming up from Boston, well before there was a single ski tow, let alone a chairlift, in America. The Sherburne, unlike other trails that fell into disuse, has long been maintained (and occasionally rerouted) by the United States Forest Service. The Gulf of Slides Trail just to the south, meanwhile, is the quiet sibling, a more introspective, woodsy, meandering character.
My plan was to ski them both the next day, but when I awoke to the sound of snowmelt dripping from the roof, I knew I had to beat the clock. We were in the midst of a dreaded January thaw. (The temperature on the summit at that moment set a record high for January, surpassing the same day's temperature in San Diego.)
I started with the Sherburne, known to some as the ''sure burn'' -- a reference to the lactic acid sure to be generated by the run's end. As I pushed myself down the narrow flat section at the start, my skis chattered in the morning shadows, where the snow was glazed and crusty, and grabbed in the ruts of old tracks.
The Sherbie is familiar territory to me. Years ago I used to work at Hermit Lake for the Appalachian Mountain Club, and the run became the best commute I've ever had. So I relished the chance to get reacquainted with its chain of mogul-like dips at the top, and its mid-trail straightaway interludes that open into three big, steep, swooping bends at the bottom.
I came to a stop just before the bridge at trail's end that leads back to the Pinkham Notch parking lot. The Gulf of Slides Trail beckoned through the birches to the southwest. After a coffee break, I started skinning up again, this time in a T-shirt. The sun had been busy, softening the surface of the snowpack. Soon a grinning fellow zoomed past. Without stopping, he shook his head and warned, ''It's sticky!''
I kept up a steady pace, but not too fast to enjoy the Christmas-tree scent of the firs released by the warm sun, and other small joys I would have simply missed from a chairlift at a resort. Instead of dropped gloves, I found fresh fox droppings in the middle of the trail, a reminder that wildlife is frequently one's only competition there.
I knew I was close to the top when I passed through that telltale transition zone from birch and beech to spruce and fir, and I soon reached the bottom of the avalanche-prone wall of gullies that gives the place its name. I ratcheted down the buckles of my telemark boots, and slid off back the way I came. As on the Bruce 24 hours earlier, the Gulf of Slides at times took on the character of a minefield, with sunken crusts over stream crossings, a varied menu of half-submerged rocks and roots, and ''postholes'' left by the odd hiker. I skied through stretches as narrow as a bowling alley lane and as banked as a velodrome, made a few last gentle, twisting turns through the trees, and glided down onto the flat runout -- recognizing all these components of the C.C.C. trail-builders' vocabulary -- sweaty and grinning, just like the guy I'd met on the way up.
As far as I know, Dick Durrance never raced down the Gulf of Slides Trail. But I didn't keep track of my time anyway.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: STILL POPULAR: Top left, skiing the Gulf of Slides Trail in New Hampshire. Above, Dick Durrance competing for Dartmouth in 1935. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID GOODMAN
ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 PIONEERS: Center, the Wildcat cabin at the top of New Hampshire's Wildcat Ski trail, seen here in the mid-1930s. Above, a C.C.C. logo. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NEW ENGLAND SKI MUSEUM) MAPS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SKIING (90%); MOUNTAINS (78%); RUNNING (75%); STATE PARKS (75%); SKIING FACILITIES (74%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (70%); GREAT DEPRESSION (70%); RESORTS (69%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (68%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (67%); LODGING (65%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (62%); TOURISM (50%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2013



612 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 201 words

HEADLINE: The Chatter

 BODY:
''A growing economy that creates good, middle-class jobs -- that must be the North Star that guides our efforts.'' 
President Obama in his State of the Union address.
''It is our kind of company.''
Warren E. Buffett, chairman and C.E.O. of Berkshire Hathaway, which said it would buy the food giant H.J. Heinz with the Brazilian investment firm 3G Capital for about $23 billion.
''We will have four very big, very vigorous competitors in the market.''
William S. Swelbar, a research engineer at the International Center for Air Transportation at M.I.T. American Airlines agreed to merge with US Airways, and if the deal is approved, the nation's top four airlines -- American, United, Delta and Southwest -- will control nearly 70 percent of the domestic market.
''I can get the price for a car, for a can of oil, for a gallon of milk. But health care? That's not so easy.''
Dr. Peter Cram, an associate professor of internal medicine at the University of Iowa and co-writer of a paper describing efforts to procure price estimates for a hip replacement from more than 100 hospitals. Only half the hospitals could provide any kind of estimate, and those that did quoted figures that ranged from $11,100 to $125,798.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); AIRLINES (74%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (72%); FOOD INDUSTRY (71%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (65%); APPROVALS (54%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (51%)

COMPANY: BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (58%); H J HEINZ CO (57%); 3G CAPITAL PARTNERS LTD (57%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (56%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: THE INTERNATIONAL CENTER (57%); UNIVERSITY OF IOWA (55%)

TICKER: BRK.B (NYSE) (58%); BRK.A (NYSE) (58%); HNZ (NYSE) (57%); LCC (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (58%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (58%); NAICS311941 MAYONNAISE, DRESSING & OTHER PREPARED SAUCE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311421 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING (57%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (57%); SIC2035 PICKLED FRUITS & VEGETABLES, VEGETABLE SAUCES & SEASONINGS, & SALAD DRESSINGS (57%); SIC2033 CANNED FRUITS, VEGETABLES, PRESERVES, JAMS, & JELLIES (57%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (72%); WARREN BUFFETT (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2013



613 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; STRATEGIES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1109 words

HEADLINE: Jumping Aboard the Train, As if There Won't Be Another

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
THE economy may be lurching into another crisis, but you wouldn't know it from the stock market, where an epic party is under way.
Since March 2009, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index has risen 125 percent. This year, the S.& P. 500 hasn't fallen for even a single week.
Irrationally or not, some investors who were on the sidelines have become emboldened enough by the rally to start buying stocks, fund flow data shows.
Yet this effervescence belies some ominous developments in politics and the economy. After the State of the Union address by President Obama on Tuesday -- and the negative reaction to it among many Republicans in Congress -- it seemed quite possible that $1.2 trillion in automatic government spending cuts might begin in just a few weeks, delivering yet another blow to an already lackluster economy. Most economists had expected minimal growth this year, even without a new shock from Washington -- or from Europe or anywhere else. 
These apparently conflicting pictures pose a quandary for market strategists. Which signals should an investor emphasize: the signs of disharmony in Washington and the negative indicators for the economy, or the upward trend of the stock market?
For Laszlo Birinyi, the veteran strategist and longtime market bull, the contest isn't close. He says he starts by assuming that the market is smarter than any analyst. ''We focus on the market itself, on what it is actually telling us,'' he said. ''We don't worry about the cosmic issues that a lot of people get concerned about, We worry about the stock market ticker. And it's telling us the market is going up.''
In September 2009, when very few strategists were overtly bullish, Mr. Birinyi, president of Birinyi Associates, the stock market research firm in Westport, Conn., told me that we were in the early stages of a classic bull market. That analysis was prescient. The S.& P. 500 has returned more than 50 percent since then.
In a conversation last week, he said we were in the final stage of that bull market. ''The bull market probably has between a year and three years to go,'' he said. ''I can't time it. I can only point out the trend.''
Mr. Birinyi, formerly chief stock market analyst at Salomon Brothers, uses a combination of quantitative and subjective analysis. He carefully meters money flows into and out of stocks and scours business coverage in newspapers and magazines, which he sees as barometers of popular sentiment.
Money flow, as he measures it, comes from an algorithm he devised at Salomon. ''Trades made on a price uptick are treated as buyer-initiated,'' said Jeffrey Yale Rubin, director of research at Birinyi Associates. ''On a downtick, it's seller-initiated.''
As Mr. Birinyi puts it, ''we care about what traders are actually doing with the money.'' Mutual fund flows are widely tracked, he said, ''but they aren't as critical as most people generally think.'' They tell you how much money is being given to a money manager -- an intermediary. ''The critical issue is how that intermediary is actually using the money,'' he said.
The firm's calculations indicate that in January, net money flows into the stocks of the S.& P. 500 -- as opposed to money flowing into mutual funds -- amounted to $15.6 billion. This compares with a net outflow of $10.4 billion in October, just before market sentiment began to change.
Based on the history of long bull markets -- particularly those of 1962, 1974, 1982, 1990 and 2002 -- such upswings usually have four stages, Mr. Birinyi said. They begin with reluctance, shift to consolidation and then move to ''grudging acceptance.'' The last phase, which he says we have just entered, is exuberance: ''This is a point where people say, yes, the economy isn't going into recession right away, companies are making money, interest rates are not going through the roof, and all the concerns we have had for some time perhaps were too negative.''
He says it's as if people are realizing: ''The market isn't like the New York subway system. There isn't another train coming right after this one. This is it, this is the last train. You'd better get on board.''
WHEN this exuberance turns irrational and becomes widespread -- when fear is gone and people with no skill in day-trading gleefully engage in it -- it's time to run, but that time hasn't come yet, he said. ''There are still problems in the economy,'' he said. ''People are still concerned.''
And they may have good reason. For example, the latest threat to the economy was conceived in Washington as a deterrent -- a planned disaster that is never supposed to happen. That's the sequester, the imminent spending cuts that President Obama and Congress set in motion last year. As the president put it last week, ''Democrats, Republicans, business leaders and economists'' have already said these cuts ''are a really bad idea.''
Bad or not, the idea was that by legislating a catastrophe that no sane person would accept, the fiscal logjam in Washington would be broken. Well, don't count on it.
The cuts are scheduled to start on March 1. The president's speech and the Republican response suggest that the two sides remain far apart. Mr. Obama, for example, called for a ''balanced'' approach, involving higher taxes as well as some spending cuts. Senator Marco Rubio, the Florida Republican, said that for Mr. Obama, the ''solution to virtually every problem we face is for Washington to tax more, borrow more and spend more.''
The cuts may subtract roughly a quarter of a percentage point from the gross domestic product in 2013, assuming that Congress eventually mitigates them, according to an estimate by Michael Feroli, chief United States economist at JPMorgan Chase. He now expects G.D.P. growth of only 1.9 percent, roughly in line with consensus forecasts. And it could get worse.
Mr. Birinyi doesn't so much ignore these forecasts as discount them. ''The market is telling us it will be a profitable year for many companies,'' he said. ''That's what's important.''
There is a 55 percent chance that the S.& P. 500 will reach 1,600 this year, he estimated, and it's likely to keep rising after that. On Friday, the index closed at 1,519.79, within shouting range of its closing high of 1,565.15 reached in 2007, according to Bloomberg.
Asked what is ultimately propelling the market, he said, ''It's the Fed, always the Fed'' -- the accommodative monetary policy of the Federal Reserve and other central banks. Precisely because the economy is weak, he said, the Fed will keep its foot on the gas, making stocks appealing.
If you want to know where the market is going, he said, study the news -- but always ''follow the money.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The strategist Laszlo Birinyi says that the long bull market in stocks is in its final stage, and that it ''probably has between a year and three years to go.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUGLAS HEALEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); TRENDS (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2013



614 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1313 words

HEADLINE: The Real Cost of Shrinking Government

 BODY:
In less than two weeks, a cleaver known as the sequester will fall on some of the most important functions of the United States government. About $85 billion will be cut from discretionary spending over the next seven months, reducing defense programs by about 8 percent and domestic programs by about 5 percent. Only a few things will be spared, including some basic safety-net benefits like Social Security, as well as pay for enlisted military personnel.
The sequester will not stop to contemplate whether these are the right programs to cut; it is entirely indiscriminate, slashing programs whether they are bloated or essential. The military budget, for example, should be reduced substantially, but thoughtfully, considering the nation's needs. Instead, every weapons system, good or bad, will be hurt, as will troop training and maintenance.
These cuts, which will cost the economy more than one million jobs over the next two years, are the direct result of the Republican demand in 2011 to shrink the government at any cost, under threat of a default on the nation's debt. Many Republicans say they would still prefer the sequester to replacing half the cuts with tax revenue increases. But the government spending they disdain is not an abstract concept. In a few days, the cuts will begin affecting American life and security in significant ways. 
While some departments may have exaggerated the dire effects of their reductions, Congressional budget experts say they have little doubt that the size and pervasive nature of the sequester will inflict widespread pain. Here are some examples from the government departments most affected:
NATIONAL SECURITY Two-week furloughs for most law-enforcement personnel will reduce Coast Guard operations, including drug interdictions and aid to navigation, by 25 percent. Cutbacks in Customs agents and airport security checkpoints will ''substantially increase passenger wait times,'' the Homeland Security Department said, creating delays of as much as an hour at busy airports. The Border Patrol will have to reduce work hours by the equivalent of 5,000 agents a year.
The Energy Department's nuclear security programs will be cut by $900 million, creating delays in refurbishing the weapons stockpile, and cutting security at manufacturing sites. Environmental cleanup at nuclear weapons sites in Washington State, Tennessee, South Carolina and Idaho will be delayed.
AIR TRAFFIC About 10 percent of the Federal Aviation Administration's work force of 47,000 employees will be on furlough each day, including air traffic controllers, to meet a $600 million cut. The agency says it will be forced to reduce air traffic across the country, resulting in delays and disruptions, particularly at peak travel times.
CRIMINAL JUSTICE Every F.B.I. employee will be furloughed for nearly three weeks over the course of the year, the equivalent of 7,000 employees not working each day. The cut to the F.B.I. of $550 million will reduce the number of background checks on gun buyers that the bureau can perform, and reduce response times on cyberintrusion and counterterrorism investigations.
A cut of $338 million will mean more than a two-week furlough for 37,000 prison employees. This will result in lockdowns at federal prisons across the country, increasing the chances for violence and risks to guards, and preventing the opening of three new prison buildings.
Federal prosecutors will handle 2,600 fewer cases, because of furloughs resulting from a $100 million cut. That means thousands of criminals and civil violators will not face justice, and less money will be collected in fines.
EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION About 70,000 children will lose access to Head Start, and 14,000 teachers and workers will be laid off, because of a $424 million cut. Parents of about 30,000 low-income children will lose child-care assistance.
HEALTH AND SAFETY A cut of $350 million to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention will mean 25,000 fewer breast and cervical cancer screenings for low-income women; 424,000 fewer H.I.V. tests; and the purchase of 540,000 fewer doses of vaccine for flu, hepatitis and measles. Community health centers will be cut by $120 million, meaning that about 900,000 fewer patients lacking insurance will receive primary care.
A three-week furlough of all food safety employees will produce a shortage of meat, poultry and eggs, pushing prices higher and harming restaurants and grocers. The Agriculture Department warns that public health could be affected by the inevitable black-market sales of uninspected food.
Several air-monitoring sites will be shut down, as will more than 100 water-quality projects around the country. About $100 million will be cut from Superfund enforcement, allowing companies to evade their responsibilities to clean up environmental disasters.
RESEARCH Nearly 1,000 grants from the National Science Foundation will be canceled or reduced, affecting research in clean energy, cybersecurity, and reform of science and math education.
RECREATION National parks will have shorter hours, and some will have to close camping and hiking areas. Firefighting and law enforcement will be cut back.
DEFENSE PERSONNEL Enlisted personnel are exempt from sequester reductions this year, but furloughs lasting up to 22 days will be imposed for civilian employees, who do jobs like guarding military bases, handle budgets and teach the children of service members. More than 40 percent of those employees are veterans.
The military's health insurance program, Tricare, could have a shortfall of up to $3 billion, which could lead to denial of elective medical care for retirees and dependents of active-duty service members.
MILITARY OPERATIONS The Navy plans to shut down four air wings on March 1. After 90 days, the pilots in those air wings lose their certifications, and it will take six to nine months, and much money, to retrain them. The Navy has also said the Nimitz and George H. W. Bush carrier strike groups will not be ready for deployment later this year because the service will run out of operations and maintenance money. This means the Truman and Eisenhower strike groups will remain deployed indefinitely, a decision affecting thousands of service members and their families.
Continuous bomber flights outside of Afghanistan will be reduced, and there will be cutbacks to satellite systems and missile warning systems.
TRAINING AND MAINTENANCE The Army, which has done most of the fighting in Afghanistan and Iraq, says it will be forced to curtail training for 80 percent of its ground forces and that by the end of the year, two-thirds of its brigade combat teams will fall below acceptable levels of combat readiness. Air Force pilots expect to lose more than 200,000 flying hours. Beginning in March, roughly two-thirds of the Air Force's active-duty combat units will curtail training at their home bases, and by July will no longer be capable of carrying out their missions. Some ship and aircraft maintenance will be canceled for the third and fourth quarters of the fiscal year, resulting in fewer available weapons.
Last week, Senate Democrats produced a much better plan to replace these cuts with a mix of new tax revenues and targeted reductions. About $55 billion would be raised by imposing a minimum tax on incomes of $1 million or more and ending some business deductions, while an equal amount of spending would be reduced from targeted cuts to defense and farm subsidies.
Republicans immediately rejected the idea; the Senate minority leader, Mitch McConnell, called it ''a political stunt.'' Their proposal is to eliminate the defense cuts and double the ones on the domestic side, heedless of the suffering that even the existing reductions will inflict. Their refusal to consider new revenues means that on March 1, Americans will begin learning how austerity really feels.

GRAPHIC: CHART 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (89%); AIRPORTS (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (88%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (86%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); CRIMINAL LAW (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); DEFENSE SPENDING (77%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); ARMED FORCES (76%); BORDER CONTROL (76%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (76%); MILITARY COMPENSATION (76%); AVIATION SECURITY (76%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (75%); CIVIL AVIATION (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (71%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (71%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (71%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (68%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (66%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (63%); GUN CONTROL (63%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2013



615 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; TAKING NOTE; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 574 words

HEADLINE: Building Up and Under

BYLINE: By JULIET LAPIDOS

 BODY:
Unlike London and Hong Kong and Tokyo and nearly every city that would dare call itself a global economic hub, New York City has no express rail link between its airports and its central business districts. If you work in the Chrysler Building on Lexington Avenue, and you need to catch a flight at J.F.K., the quickest route is to take the 4/5/6 to the E to the AirTrain. By some estimates, the 4/5/6 is at 116 percent capacity. 
Lately our mayor, Michael Bloomberg, has been warning that New York could lose its wealthiest corporate tenants to cities like London and Hong Kong and Tokyo. But he's not especially concerned about the city's rickety infrastructure. He's worried that our buildings aren't tall enough, and wants to rezone the city's premier business area, East Midtown, to encourage development of larger, more modern skyscrapers. If you work in the Chrysler Building, you might see new towers rise above its spire.As our editorial this morning noted, the area is due for rezoning, and could surely use new construction. Some 300 of its roughly 400 buildings are more than 50 years old, and don't offer the column-free spaces or environmental features that tenants now demand. But the mayor's current plan doesn't really grapple with the problems below ground. Tentative proposals for improving the East Midtown transit situation are unambitious.
Forget linking Manhattan directly to its airports - a New York version of the Heathrow Express or the Narita Express. The M.T.A.'s focused on crowd circulation: Increasing capacity on platforms, ameliorating pathways between lines, reconfiguring exits, installing escalators.
That's not nothing. Better stations will mean commuters can move faster from train to street. If there's less crowding on platforms, the M.T.A. can run more trains. (Currently there are long "dwell times" in East Midtown because frantic passengers squeeze into trains and block the doors.) Still, none of the authority's concepts seem designed to address the fact that the area's main line, the 4/5/6, is already above capacity. As for the long-promised Second Avenue subway, which should eventually reduce overcrowding: The city has financing to complete only phase one of that project, an extension of the Q up to 96th street.
Even assuming that the M.T.A.'s proposals are all that's needed to make East Midtown commuting sufferable for the foreseeable future, there's reason to doubt that the authority will have the money it requires. And it needs a lot of money: Between $340 million and $465 million.
The city's latest idea is to use rezoning as a carrot - to require developers to contribute to a transit fund before obtaining a building permit. But the tri-board task force on East Midtown, comprising Manhattan community boards four, five and six, said in a letter last week to the Department of City Planning that "there is no clear sign that sufficient funds are or will be available to address [M.T.A. infrastructure needs] or that such funds could be acquired in time to make improvements before density increases."
There's nothing wrong with building taller, newer towers to make sure the business community doesn't decamp for Tokyo, but surely if we want to compete with Tokyo we have to make sure tenants can easily get to their taller, newer towers.
These are excerpts from the blog Taking Note, at nytimes.com/opinion.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rush hour on the Lexington Avenue subway line in Midtown. A plan to further develop the area would worsen crowding. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BYRON SMITH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ZONING (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); AIRPORTS (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (75%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (71%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (70%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (88%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2013



616 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2013
National

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 25A

LENGTH: 710 words

HEADLINE: Starting New Businesses Behind Bars Creates an Incentive for Texas Inmates

BYLINE: By MAURICE CHAMMAH. 
mchammah@texastribune.org

 BODY:
CLEVELAND -- As Christopher Holbert danced down the aisle of a Cleveland Correctional Center classroom, dozens of other prisoners in matching dark blue uniforms flanked him, clapping and cheering. When he reached the front of the classroom, he spoke for 10 minutes on his business plan for Adrenaline Indoor Paintball, an idea he worked on over the last year.
With three investors lined up, he plans to create the company when he returns to the Dallas area. But first he has to finish his three-year sentence for arson. 
''I used to be complacent,'' Mr. Holbert said. ''Without prison, I would have never known how to start my own business.''
Mr. Holbert, 39, is one of more than 100 students in the Prison Entrepreneurship Program, an initiative organized by a Houston nonprofit of the same name that teaches business skills to prisoners who will soon be released, including market research, finance and professional etiquette. Inmates across the state can apply, and those accepted are transferred to the Cleveland Correctional Center, which houses the program.
Last month, the program created a partnership with the Hankamer School of Business at Baylor University to offer each inmate who completes the program a certificate in entrepreneurship. Although the course of study is not changing, say organizers, the partnership adds credibility and an extra incentive for the men to excel.
Gary Carini, associate dean of the graduate program in management and entrepreneurship at Hankamer, serves on the governing board for the entrepreneurship program. He was so impressed with the curriculum that he persuaded the university to give the certificates.
More than 5,000 inmates apply each year, and 120 are selected for the program. ''We ask, 'Is the man genuinely committed to change?' '' said Bert Smith, the program's chief executive. ''The second is, 'Do we believe based on everything he's done before, he's got a strong work ethic?' "
After three months of classes in character development and computer skills, the prisoners form business plans during six months of entrepreneurship classes.
Students in the program, which started in 2004, currently make up two-thirds of the prison unit's population. Program officials say they raise up to $2 million a year from private foundations and individuals, and they estimate that the program saves the state roughly $6 million in reduced recidivism.
But it would not work for everyone in prison. ''Part of it is probably that inmates who are interested are those already committed to changing their lives,'' said Marc Levin, a criminal justice researcher with the Texas Public Policy Foundation, a conservative research organization.
The partnership has drawn praise from many Texas business leaders who say that criminal justice reform can benefit the economy, as successful former inmates become employees, consumers and taxpayers. ''Studies have shown that vocational education reduces recidivism more than anything else you can do,'' Mr. Levin said.
Prisoners are delving into various fields. Shawn Evans, two years into his four-year sentence for driving while intoxicated, plans a Web site where people can design custom blankets for babies. Others want to sell vending machines with healthy products and work as party entertainers.
The program also operates transitional houses in Dallas and Houston that most of the graduates live in for two to three months after release. Jeremy Gregg, chief development officer for the program, said that the biggest challenge was to keep the program's graduates accountable once they were released.
When the inmates were asked how they plan to deal with questions from future customers about their pasts, many of them said they hoped honesty would trump the stigma of having been in prison.
''You'll get their confidence by telling the truth,'' said Ricardo Blanco, who is serving a 13-year sentence for manslaughter and kidnapping.
Toward the end of his speech about paintball, Mr. Holbert stumbled, forgetting the next part of his speech. The crowd, which had been totally silent, encouraged him.
''You can do it!'' someone shouted repeatedly, slowly overtaken by the cheers of the rest, until Mr. Holbert broke into a smile.
''It's up to you,'' Mr. Smith said, ''but you're not alone.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A Prison Entrepreneurship Program session. Inmates are taught skills including finance, market research and business etiquette.
 Bert Smith, the program's head, congratulates Morgan Crocker on his proposal. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TAMIR KALIFA FOR THE TEXAS TRIBUNE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRISONS (92%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (91%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); BUSINESS PLANS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); SENTENCING (78%); RECIDIVISM RATES (78%); CURRICULA (78%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (74%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (73%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (73%); MARKET RESEARCH (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); ETHICS (72%); ARSON (70%); PUBLIC POLICY (67%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (66%); FOUNDATIONS (64%); EXECUTIVES (64%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (60%); MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (53%)

ORGANIZATION: BAYLOR UNIVERSITY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (57%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (56%) TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2013



617 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2013
National

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 25A

LENGTH: 1097 words

HEADLINE: Waiting for Cloud to Lift On State Cancer Institute

BYLINE: By BECCA AARONSON. 
baaronson@texastribune.org

 BODY:
When Texas voters approved the creation of the $3 billion Cancer Prevention and Research Institute of Texas in 2007, state officials said they hoped it would help Texas become an epicenter of cancer research, accelerate the development of lifesaving treatments and expand prevention programs.
But a series of improprieties at the institute, known as Cprit, has endangered the state's mission, and a moratorium placed on Cprit grants while leaders work to reform the institute has left Texas' cancer community hanging in the balance. 
''The individuals who are facing this disease are too important to allow this to derail such a monumental effort,'' said Doug Ulman, president and chief executive of the Livestrong Foundation, which is part of a coalition of national cancer prevention and survivorship groups that is urging state lawmakers to restructure Cprit, not demolish it. ''The cancer community is frustrated, both by the sort of hiccups and missteps, but also by the belief by some that that means everything is bad.''
The moratorium placed on Cprit grants in December has halted the distribution of $182.6 million -- including $71.8 million to bring additional research teams to Texas and $16.2 million for cancer prevention services. As a result, Texas universities are scrambling to hold on to renowned cancer researchers who were promised millions of dollars to move their labs to Texas. And advocacy groups fear they will be forced to dismantle cancer prevention programs.
''All of the momentum that we've worked for in the last two to three years will just be lost if those funds abruptly go away,'' said Leticia Goodrich, executive director of the Amarillo Area Breast Health Coalition, which has increased the number of cancer screenings provided to impoverished women by 400 percent with a Cprit grant that expires in June. ''It gives us no time to build our program towards becoming self-sustaining.''
Since 2010, Cprit has awarded nearly 500 grants totaling $836 million. With that financing, Texas' higher-education institutions have recruited 44 prominent cancer researchers, and 184,000 Texans have been screened for cancer -- including 38,000 people who had never received cancer screenings before, according to the institute's figures.
But three of those grants -- totaling $56 million -- were approved without proper peer review, according to a state audit released in January. And the Travis County district attorney's office is conducting an investigation to determine whether the actions of former Cprit employees were criminal.
The most problematic grant identified by auditors was the institute's largest and most visionary: $25 million to establish a statewide clinical trial network, known as CTNeT, designed to expand access to cancer services and accelerate testing of new cancer treatments. An audit found that three high-ranking Cprit employees were members of CTNeT's board of directors, and that the company received $6.8 million in advance payments not permitted under its contract.
CTNeT closed in January, and the state is trying to recover $1.3 million that was spent on prohibited expenses like employee bonuses and office furniture.
Such statewide clinical trials are ''exactly what needs to happen,'' said Mr. Ulman, of the Livestrong Foundation, who expressed disappointment that rural Texans would continue to have limited access to cancer treatments because of CTNeT's failure. ''We would encourage the leadership to think about how to accomplish that goal in a different manner.''
State Representative Sarah Davis, a breast cancer survivor, represents a Houston district with four higher education institutions that have collectively been awarded more than $300 million in Cprit grants. Ms. Davis, a Republican, said lawmakers agreed that there were some major problems at Cprit, but she said she had concerns that the moratorium ''further erodes the stature and credibility of Cprit'' by scaring scientists and researchers away from Texas.
A researcher recruited with a Cprit grant to one of the institutions in Ms. Davis's district backed out because of the moratorium, she said, while another ''had a whole research team move to Texas -- and they're just waiting in limbo.''
Dr. Adam Kuspa, the senior vice president of research at Baylor College of Medicine in Houston, said Cprit grants have been critical in attracting scientists to Texas and developing infrastructure for biotechnology labs, both of which provide long-term benefits to the state's economy.
Baylor, for example, has recruited seven nationally recognized cancer researchers with Cprit grants, but three of those grants are on hold because of the moratorium, Dr. Kuspa said.
''They chose to come here because we were able to offer them a substantial kick-start to their career through the Cprit award,'' Dr. Kuspa said. The prospect of being able to apply for additional Cprit grants for research was also enticing, he said, ''so there's a little bit of angst around whether that will be available to them going forward.''
If the moratorium is not lifted, Baylor will have to divert money from other projects to keep its financial promises to the new recruits, Dr. Kuspa said, which could slow the institute's overall research progress.
The Legislature's initial budget proposal for the 2014-15 biennium reduces Cprit's financing from $300 million to $10 million -- the bare minimum to meet existing obligations. But lawmakers are considering measures to reform the institute, and some are optimistic that financing could be restored before the end of the legislative session.
''What I'm hearing from the members is, 'Mend it, don't end it,' '' said Wayne Roberts, the associate vice president of public policy at the University of Texas Health Science Center in Houston, who was appointed as Cprit's interim executive director in December.
Cprit's rescue team -- which also includes a fiscal consultant, Billy Hamilton, the state's former chief revenue estimator, and a chief scientific officer, Margaret L. Kripke, the former executive vice president of the M. D. Anderson Cancer Center in Houston -- is reviewing past grant applications and carrying out recommendations from state auditors while awaiting further direction from the Legislature.
Mr. Roberts said he would not recommend lifting the moratorium or requesting additional financing from the Legislature until Cprit had ''made inroads in regaining their trust.''
The institute's grant review processes ''are only as good as the people implementing them,'' he said, ''and if they don't follow them, things go off track.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Grants went to the Baylor College of Medicine in Houston.
Prof. Sung Jung analyzes proteins in cancer cells at Baylor. (A25A)
 A mass spectrometer used by cancer researchers at Baylor. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL STRAVATO FOR THE TEXAS TRIBUNE) (A25B) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CANCER (98%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (92%); ONCOLOGY (91%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); CRIME PREVENTION (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); CANCER SCREENING & DETECTION (89%); APPROVALS (89%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (78%); GRANTS & GIFTS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (65%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (63%); AUDITS (63%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AMARILLO, TX, USA (73%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (73%) TEXAS, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2013



618 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 886 words

HEADLINE: Costs vs. Benefits In a Quest for Romance

BYLINE: By ROBERT H. FRANK. 
Robert H. Frank is an economics professor at the Johnson Graduate School of Management at Cornell University.

 BODY:
IS love for sale? Maybe not quite as directly as sex is, but economists believe that the quest for a romantic partner obeys essentially the same cost-benefit logic that governs every other market.
Economists may seem soulless, unlikely guides to affairs of the heart. But ''Dollars and Sex,'' a delightful book by Marina Adshade, an economist at the University of British Columbia, may convince you otherwise.
In the book, to be published in April by Chronicle Books, she summarizes her own research and that of other economists, and shows that forces of supply and demand indeed loom large in the implicit market for romance. 
Numbers matter. And while it's good to be in the majority in politics, it's far better to be in the minority if you're in the market for love.
Consider the evolution of heterosexual dating practices on American college campuses. Forty years ago, when women were a minority of the student population, they were in high demand. On some campuses, a man couldn't win an extended conversation with a woman without inviting her out to dinner.
Today, most undergraduates are women, shifting the terms of trade. These days, it's not uncommon for students (women or men) to graduate without having gone on a traditional date. Professor Adshade says the committed relationships of yore have largely given way to a hookup culture that many women view as highly stressful.
To be sure, supply and demand isn't the whole story here. Social norms often have an even stronger impact on courtship rituals. But norms are themselves heavily shaped by implicit comparisons of costs and benefits.
A case in point is the sexual revolution of the 1960s. According to conventional wisdom, the invention of the birth control pill caused it by eliminating fear of pregnancy. But that claim gives short shrift to the far bigger role of changing social norms.
After all, contraceptive devices like diaphragms and condoms became available long before the pill. By the 1930s, the fertility rate in the United States had declined to roughly two children per woman, down from seven in 1800 and near its current level. While the rate has fluctuated, affected by factors like war and the economic cycle, its low level in the '30s suggests contraceptives were having an effect on sexual behavior.
THE more profound influence of contraception was the indirect way it transformed social norms about premarital sex. In 1900, only 6 percent of unmarried 19-year-old women were sexually experienced, a status that carried an enormous social stigma. But the moral outrage summoned by stigmatized behavior can fade as the behavior becomes more widespread. As the availability of contraceptives grew, reduced fear of pregnancy slowly led additional unmarried women to enter the pool of the sexually active. And because every such transition slightly weakened the original stigma, it encouraged still more women to become active, too.
Eventually, this dynamic reached a tipping point, after which premarital sex in many circles no longer entailed any social cost. Even with fears about AIDS and other sexually transmitted diseases, and with many women relying on forms of contraception other than the pill, more than 70 percent of unmarried 19-year-old women in 2000 had had sex. In many social circles, sexually inactive teenagers became the ones viewed with suspicion. That change is hard to explain without invoking the implicit cost-benefit calculations that transformed social norms.
American individualism traditionally favors letting people do as they please, so long as they don't cause undue harm to others. So it's also hard to explain attempts to restrict some sexual practices. Consider those who say states should be able to ban the sale of contraceptives. Even many people who personally object to contraceptives on religious grounds may find it hard to see how government could have a legitimate interest in restricting private behavior this way.
Yet because contraceptive availability changes individual choices in ways that can transform social norms about sex, it can cause indirect harm. Proponents of a ban may just want teenagers to grow up in an environment where they aren't expected to sleep with the first classmate who hits on them. A ban, though, would cause enormous harm, and is an ill-advised strategy for creating such an environment. But the wish itself is hardly mysterious.
Few human endeavors are more important than the quest for a successful romantic relationship. And as even the most soulless economist recognizes, emotions play a bigger role in that quest than in markets for most other goods. In an earlier column, I described persuasive reasons for believing that our emotions often steer us to better relationships than we'd achieve if led by narrow economic considerations alone.
Yet as even the most starry-eyed romantic should know, economists' cost-benefit logic also matters -- as witnessed, for example, by the many otherwise attractive suitors who are rejected because their earnings prospects are poor. That the reasons for such rejections often lie beyond conscious awareness doesn't make them any less real.
Occasionally, however, they bubble to the surface. As F. Scott Fitzgerald is reputed to have advised a younger friend, ''Don't marry for money -- go where the money is, then marry for love.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHI BIRMINGHAM) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); CONTRACEPTION (89%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (88%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (78%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (75%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (73%); FERTILITY RATES (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2013



619 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1787 words

HEADLINE: Going With the Flow

BYLINE: By MICHAEL KIMMELMAN

 BODY:
OVERDIEPSE POLDER, WASPIK, THE NETHERLANDS -- When Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo of New York proposed the other day to spend up to $400 million to buy and raze homes in the floodplains damaged by Hurricane Sandy, I thought of Nol Hooijmaijers.
Some dozen years ago the Dutch government ordered Mr. Hooijmaijers to vacate the farmland that he and his family shared with 16 other farmers so it could be turned into a river spillway for occasional floods. I visited Mr. Hooijmaijers recently. He and his wife, Wil, served coffee in their new farmhouse and showed off the new stall for their cows.
How they and their neighbors responded to that government order, and how in turn the government dealt with their response, is a story that might now interest Mr. Cuomo and other New Yorkers. 
It has been to the Netherlands, not surprisingly, that some American officials, planners, engineers, architects and others have been looking lately. New York is not Rotterdam (or Venice or New Orleans, for that matter); it's not mostly below or barely above sea level. But it's not adapted to what seems likely to be increasingly frequent extreme storm surges, either, and the Netherlands has successfully held back the sea for centuries and thrived. After the North Sea flooded in 1953, devastating the southwest of this country and killing 1,835 people in a single night, Dutch officials devised an ingenious network of dams, sluices and barriers called the Deltaworks.
Water management here depends on hard science and meticulous study. Americans throw around phrases like once-in-a-century storm. The Dutch, with a knowledge of water, tides and floods honed by painful experience, can calculate to the centimeter -- and the Dutch government legislates accordingly -- exactly how high or low to position hundreds of dikes along rivers and other waterways to anticipate storms they estimate will occur once every 25 years, or every 1,000 years, or every 10,000.
And now the evidence is leading them to undertake what may seem, at first blush, a counterintuitive approach, a kind of about-face: The Dutch are starting to let the water in. They are contriving to live with nature, rather than fight (what will inevitably be, they have come to realize) a losing battle.
Why? The reality of rising seas and rivers leaves no choice. Sea barriers sufficed half a century ago; but they're disruptive to the ecology and are built only so high, while the waters keep rising. American officials who now tout sea gates as the one-stop-shopping solution to protect Lower Manhattan should take notice. In lieu of flood control the new philosophy in the Netherlands is controlled flooding.
Governor Cuomo's plan would turn properties in Queens, Brooklyn and Staten Island into parks, bird sanctuaries and dunes that could act as buffer zones for inland development. The idea is to give homeowners an incentive (perhaps up to $300,000) to move voluntarily out of areas where, in hindsight, single-family houses shouldn't have been built in the first place. The Dutch have pursued a more aggressive and complex relocation strategy.
They are, by temperament, almost as allergic as Americans to top-down programs that impinge on personal and property rights; but water safety trumps pretty much every other priority in a country where 60 percent of the nation's gross domestic product is produced below sea level. Protecting the country from storms and floods isn't treated here merely as a burden or a political football but as an economic and architectural opportunity.
The local buzzword is ''multifunctional.'' The Dutch are putting retail and offices on top of new dikes, designing public squares and garages to double as catch basins for rain and floodwater, constructing floating houses and reservoirs that create recreational opportunities.
I enlisted Tracy Metz to help me find useful lessons for New York in the Dutch example. An architecture critic based in Amsterdam, she is the co-author, with Maartje van den Heuvel, an art historian, of ''Sweet & Salt: Water and the Dutch,'' which should be required reading these days. Ms. Metz called in some Dutch officials and architects, and she took me to see the Maeslantkering, the giant sea gate guarding Rotterdam, the last of the Deltaworks, as big and spectacular as a pair of Eiffel towers, on their sides, which slide closed.
Europe's busiest port and the Netherlands' second biggest city, Rotterdam lies some 20 feet below sea level, so it relies on this immense barrier -- and, it turns out, on faith. Rotterdam, in fact the whole of the Netherlands, has no evacuation plan should the floodwaters breach the levees, a calamity that could dwarf what happened in New Orleans. If Americans spend too much energy and capital on emergency relief and recovery after disasters have already struck, and not nearly enough on anticipating and mitigating trouble, the Dutch have achieved so much for so long in flood prevention that much of their population, even in sitting-duck places like Rotterdam, has been lulled into complacency.
That said, American politicians, including those who argued to cut back on money for preventive measures after Sandy, might want to see how the Dutch have managed to improve public life, public space and the landscape at a fraction of the billions American taxpayers pay out for repairing hurricane damage.
A good place to start is the newly completed waterfront development at Scheveningen, a coastal district of The Hague, where the Catalan architect Manuel de Solà-Morales and his firm fashioned a dike into a graceful, snaking seaside boulevard, nearly two miles long. Even in the freezing cold I saw crowds strolling the boulevard, the Netherlands' version of the Coney Island boardwalk, designed so that the pedestrian bridge leading from the beach to the city will break into harmless pieces in the event of a catastrophic flood.
The centerpiece of Dutch water management now is Room for the River, a decades-long $3 billion program. It consists of nearly 40 interlinked infrastructure projects to mitigate climate change along the rivers and waterways that weave through the Netherlands.
Dikes are being lowered, spillways created. Many of the projects have faced legal battles and predictable public protests. People are being uprooted, lands repurposed. But the benefits are clear and widely shared.
So, for example, West 8, the Dutch firm now reshaping Governors Island in New York City, won the commission to design the bridges and pumping stations for Noordwaard, a Room for the River initiative to convert a vast polder, half an hour's drive from Rotterdam, into a reservoir for occasional controlled flooding. The plan recuperates what had been a natural lake centuries ago, colonized as farmland. Dikes will be adjusted; walking paths added; panoramic decks constructed on the stations, so that the whole area, while continuing to support farming, can become a destination for hikers, skaters and bicyclists.
Another Room for the River project is the Overdiepse Polder, in the southeastern province of Brabant, an hour's or so drive south of Amsterdam. It gets back to where we started: where Nol Hooijmaijers and his wife live.
Polders are reclaimed marshes, floodplains and other low-lying lands, surrounded by dikes. By lowering the dike along the northern edge of the two-square-mile Overdiepse Polder, the Bergse Maas canal will be able to spill in, diminishing the water level in the canal by a foot, enough to spare the 140,000 residents of Den Bosch, upriver, in the event of once-every-25-year floods. By displacing farmers, in other words, residents in that city can breathe a little easier.
Naturally the project didn't go over well with Mr. Hooijmaijers and the other residents of the Overdiepse Polder when it was announced in 2000, any more than it would go over well with homeowners on the New Jersey Shore or in the Rockaways if government officials ordered them to leave.
But here's where the Dutch example is instructive. The government did not ask for volunteers to leave. It made a decision, based on real numbers and the economy of the area. The polder would be used as a spillway. The farms would have to go. The farmers would be compensated, but staying wasn't an option: a tough, greater-good decision that American politicians tend to avoid like kryptonite.
Rather than try to sue for more money or fight the plan, as farmers elsewhere did over other elements of Room for the River, the residents of Overdiepse Polder came up with a novel idea: Yes, the polder would become a spillway but the government should build a number of mounds along the southern edge onto which a half-dozen or more of the farmers could resettle. The mounds would be large enough (roughly 20 acres) to accommodate new farmhouses and sheds, and high enough (20 feet above the level of the polder) to keep dry. There wouldn't be enough room for 17 mounds, so some of the farmers would have to leave. Constructing eight mounds, as it turned out, was the right number.
Mr. Hooijmaijers organized the farmers. Negotiations were grueling and took years. ''Every farmer thinks he has the best farm in the world,'' is how he put it to me. In the meantime one farmer moved to Canada. Another died. ''We had been a village, a community, and then in a moment, when the government said, 'You have to go,' you become each other's competitors,'' Mr. Hooijmaijers recalled. ''But we came together, and the government was very reasonable. It wanted to help.''
Through the picture windows in the Hooijmaijers' new, airy, modern farmhouse, designed by Wil's brother, an architect, I got a view of one end of the polder. In the other direction was the old farmhouse, cozy but cramped. With the money the government paid to buy and eventually raze it, the Hooijmaijers had a down payment for the new house, which they finally moved into toward the end of last year. ''The lesson is that these things are not easy,'' Mr. Hooijmaijers said, ''but they work out if there is cooperation and participation.''
Another way to phrase it is that hard decisions need to be made to cope with rising waters and severe weather. Notwithstanding the obvious difference between a group of farmers on a Dutch polder and communities in the Rockaways or Coney Island, good government makes those decisions while giving affected residents adequate knowledge and agency: the ability to make choices, and the responsibility to live by them.
Politically that may be trickier than commissioning sea barriers or making dikes into boardwalks or redesigning waterfronts and neighborhoods to accommodate floods and storms.
But it's necessary. And it may be the most important lesson that the Netherlands has to offer at the moment.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Overdiepse Polder, above, will have eight elevated farms. An illustration shows the polder, far left, in a normal state, and with floodwaters. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DICK SELLENRAAD/AEROVIEW, THE NETHERLANDS
RUDOLF DAS) (AR1)
Above, Nol Hooijmaijers and his wife, Wil, at their new, elevated farm. They were forced to vacate their old farm so the land could be used as a spillway for floodwaters at the reconfigured Overdiepse Polder. Left, construction on the project, part of Room for the River, designed to mitigate climate change. Below, the Maeslantkering, the sea gate at Rotterdam. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GEORGE BURGGRAAFF
HENRI CORMONT, WATERBOARD BRABANTSE DELTA, THE NETHERLANDS
FRANS LEMMENS/HOLLANDSE HOOGTE -- REDUX)
 The New Jersey Shore, hit by Hurricane Sandy. The Netherlands' approach to rising waters might provide valuable lessons for New Jersey and New York. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MASTER SGT. MARK OLSEN/UNITED STATES AIR FORCE, VIA EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (AR23) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FLOOD ZONES (90%); HURRICANE SANDY (90%); RIVERS (89%); HURRICANES (77%); CLIMATOLOGY (77%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (77%); TROPICAL STORMS (77%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (76%); FLOOD CONTROL (76%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (73%); BIRDS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (59%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); ROTTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (88%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); NORTH SEA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NETHERLANDS (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2013



620 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2584 words

HEADLINE: Why Gender Equality Stalled

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE COONTZ. 
A professor of family history at Evergreen State College and the author of ''A Strange Stirring: The Feminine Mystique and American Women at the Dawn of the 1960s.''

 BODY:
THIS week is the 50th anniversary of the publication of Betty Friedan's international best seller, ''The Feminine Mystique,'' which has been widely credited with igniting the women's movement of the 1960s. Readers who return to this feminist classic today are often puzzled by the absence of concrete political proposals to change the status of women. But ''The Feminine Mystique'' had the impact it did because it focused on transforming women's personal consciousness.
In 1963, most Americans did not yet believe that gender equality was possible or even desirable. Conventional wisdom held that a woman could not pursue a career and still be a fulfilled wife or successful mother. Normal women, psychiatrists proclaimed, renounced all aspirations outside the home to meet their feminine need for dependence. In 1962, more than two-thirds of the women surveyed by University of Michigan researchers agreed that most important family decisions ''should be made by the man of the house.''
It was in this context that Friedan set out to transform the attitudes of women. Arguing that ''the personal is political,'' feminists urged women to challenge the assumption, at work and at home, that women should always be the ones who make the coffee, watch over the children, pick up after men and serve the meals. 
Over the next 30 years this emphasis on equalizing gender roles at home as well as at work produced a revolutionary transformation in Americans' attitudes. It was not instant. As late as 1977, two-thirds of Americans believed that it was ''much better for everyone involved if the man is the achiever outside the home and the woman takes care of the home and family.'' By 1994, two-thirds of Americans rejected this notion.
But during the second half of the 1990s and first few years of the 2000s, the equality revolution seemed to stall. Between 1994 and 2004, the percentage of Americans preferring the male breadwinner/female homemaker family model actually rose to 40 percent from 34 percent. Between 1997 and 2007, the number of full-time working mothers who said they would prefer to work part time increased to 60 percent from 48 percent. In 1997, a quarter of stay-at-home mothers said full-time work would be ideal. By 2007, only 16 percent of stay-at-home mothers wanted to work full time.
Women's labor-force participation in the United States also leveled off in the second half of the 1990s, in contrast to its continued increase in most other countries. Gender desegregation of college majors and occupations slowed. And although single mothers continued to increase their hours of paid labor, there was a significant jump in the percentage of married women, especially married women with infants, who left the labor force. By 2004, a smaller percentage of married women with children under 3 were in the labor force than in 1993.
SOME people began to argue that feminism was not about furthering the equal involvement of men and women at home and work but simply about giving women the right to choose between pursuing a career and devoting themselves to full-time motherhood. A new emphasis on intensive mothering and attachment parenting helped justify the latter choice.
Anti-feminists welcomed this shift as a sign that most Americans did not want to push gender equality too far. And feminists, worried that they were seeing a resurgence of traditional gender roles and beliefs, embarked on a new round of consciousness-raising. Books with titles like ''The Feminine Mistake'' and ''Get to Work'' warned of the stiff penalties women paid for dropping out of the labor force, even for relatively brief periods. Cultural critics questioned the ''Perfect Madness'' of intensive mothering and helicopter parenting, noting the problems that resulted when, as Ms. Friedan had remarked about ''housewifery,'' mothering ''expands to fill the time available.''
One study cautioned that nearly 30 percent of opt-out moms who wanted to rejoin the labor force were unable to do so, and of those who did return, only 40 percent landed full-time professional jobs. In ''The Price of Motherhood,'' the journalist Ann Crittenden estimated that the typical college-educated woman lost more than $1 million dollars in lifetime earnings and forgone retirement benefits after she opted out.
Other feminists worried that the equation of feminism with an individual woman's choice to opt out of the work force undermined the movement's commitment to a larger vision of gender equity and justice. Joan Williams, the founding director of the Center for WorkLife Law at the University of California's Hastings College of the Law, argued that defining feminism as giving mothers the choice to stay home assumes that their partners have the responsibility to support them, and thus denies choice to fathers. The political theorist Lori Marso noted that emphasizing personal choice ignores the millions of women without a partner who can support them.
These are all important points. But they can sound pretty abstract to men and women who are stuck between a rock and a hard place when it comes to arranging their work and family lives. For more than two decades the demands and hours of work have been intensifying. Yet progress in adopting family-friendly work practices and social policies has proceeded at a glacial pace.
Today the main barriers to further progress toward gender equity no longer lie in people's personal attitudes and relationships. Instead, structural impediments prevent people from acting on their egalitarian values, forcing men and women into personal accommodations and rationalizations that do not reflect their preferences. The gender revolution is not in a stall. It has hit a wall.
In today's political climate, it's startling to remember that 80 years ago, in 1933, the Senate overwhelmingly voted to establish a 30-hour workweek. The bill failed in the House, but five years later the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 gave Americans a statutory 40-hour workweek. By the 1960s, American workers spent less time on the job than their counterparts in Europe and Japan.
Between 1990 and 2000, however, average annual work hours for employed Americans increased. By 2000, the United States had outstripped Japan -- the former leader of the work pack -- in the hours devoted to paid work. Today, almost 40 percent of men in professional jobs work 50 or more hours a week, as do almost a quarter of men in middle-income occupations. Individuals in lower-income and less-skilled jobs work fewer hours, but they are more likely to experience frequent changes in shifts, mandatory overtime on short notice, and nonstandard hours. And many low-income workers are forced to work two jobs to get by. When we look at dual-earner couples, the workload becomes even more daunting. As of 2000, the average dual-earner couple worked a combined 82 hours a week, while almost 15 percent of married couples had a joint workweek of 100 hours or more.
Astonishingly, despite the increased workload of families, and even though 70 percent of American children now live in households where every adult in the home is employed, in the past 20 years the United States has not passed any major federal initiative to help workers accommodate their family and work demands. The Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 guaranteed covered workers up to 12 weeks unpaid leave after a child's birth or adoption or in case of a family illness. Although only about half the total work force was eligible, it seemed a promising start. But aside from the belated requirement of the new Affordable Care Act that nursing mothers be given a private space at work to pump breast milk, the F.M.L.A. turned out to be the inadequate end.
Meanwhile, since 1990 other nations with comparable resources have implemented a comprehensive agenda of ''work-family reconciliation'' acts. As a result, when the United States' work-family policies are compared with those of countries at similar levels of economic and political development, the United States comes in dead last.
Out of nearly 200 countries studied by Jody Heymann, dean of the school of public health at the University of California, Los Angeles, and her team of researchers for their new book, ''Children's Chances,'' 180 now offer guaranteed paid leave to new mothers, and 81 offer paid leave to fathers. They found that 175 mandate paid annual leave for workers, and 162 limit the maximum length of the workweek. The United States offers none of these protections.
A 1997 European Union directive prohibits employers from paying part-time workers lower hourly rates than full-time workers, excluding them from pension plans or limiting paid leaves to full-time workers. By contrast, American workers who reduce hours for family reasons typically lose their benefits and take an hourly wage cut.
Is it any surprise that American workers express higher levels of work-family conflict than workers in any of our European counterparts? Or that women's labor-force participation has been overtaken? In 1990, the United States ranked sixth in female labor participation among 22 countries in the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, which is made up of most of the globe's wealthier countries. By 2010, according to an economic research paper by Cornell researchers Francine Blau and Lawrence Kahn, released last month, we had fallen to 17th place, with about 30 percent of that decline a direct result of our failure to keep pace with other countries' family-friendly work policies. American women have not abandoned the desire to combine work and family. Far from it. According to the Pew Research Center, in 1997, 56 percent of women ages 18 to 34 and 26 percent of middle-aged and older women said that, in addition to having a family, being successful in a high-paying career or profession was ''very important'' or ''one of the most important things'' in their lives. By 2011, fully two-thirds of the younger women and 42 percent of the older ones expressed that sentiment.
Nor have men given up the ideal of gender equity. A 2011 study by the Center for Work and Family at Boston College found that 65 percent of the fathers they interviewed felt that mothers and fathers should provide equal amounts of caregiving for their children. And in a 2010 Pew poll, 72 percent of both women and men between 18 and 29 agreed that the best marriage is one in which husband and wife both work and both take care of the house.
BUT when people are caught between the hard place of bad working conditions and the rock wall of politicians' resistance to family-friendly reforms, it is hard to live up to such aspirations. The Boston College study found that only 30 percent of the fathers who wanted to share child care equally with their wives actually did so, a gap that helps explain why American men today report higher levels of work-family conflict than women. Under the circumstances, how likely is it that the young adults surveyed by Pew will meet their goal of sharing breadwinning and caregiving?
The answer is suggested by the findings of the New York University sociologist Kathleen Gerson in the interviews she did for her 2010 book, ''The Unfinished Revolution: Coming of Age in a New Era of Gender, Work, and Family.'' Eighty percent of the women and 70 percent of the men Ms. Gerson interviewed said they wanted an egalitarian relationship that allowed them to share breadwinning and family care. But when asked what they would do if this was not possible, they described a variety of ''fallback'' positions. While most of the women wanted to continue paid employment, the majority of men said that if they could not achieve their egalitarian ideal they expected their partner to assume primary responsibility for parenting so they could focus on work.
And that is how it usually works out. When family and work obligations collide, mothers remain much more likely than fathers to cut back or drop out of work. But unlike the situation in the 1960s, this is not because most people believe this is the preferable order of things. Rather, it is often a reasonable response to the fact that our political and economic institutions lag way behind our personal ideals.
Women are still paid less than men at every educational level and in every job category. They are less likely than men to hold jobs that offer flexibility or family-friendly benefits. When they become mothers, they face more scrutiny and prejudice on the job than fathers do.
So, especially when women are married to men who work long hours, it often seems to both partners that they have no choice. Female professionals are twice as likely to quit work as other married mothers when their husbands work 50 hours or more a week and more than three times more likely to quit when their husbands work 60 hours or more.
The sociologist Pamela Stone studied a group of mothers who had made these decisions. Typically, she found, they phrased their decision in terms of a preference. But when they explained their ''decision-making process,'' it became clear that most had made the ''choice'' to quit work only as a last resort -- when they could not get the flexible hours or part-time work they wanted, when their husbands would not or could not cut back their hours, and when they began to feel that their employers were hostile to their concerns. Under those conditions, Professor Stone notes, what was really a workplace problem for families became a private problem for women.
This is where the political gets really personal. When people are forced to behave in ways that contradict their ideals, they often undergo what sociologists call a ''values stretch'' -- watering down their original expectations and goals to accommodate the things they have to do to get by. This behavior is especially likely if holding on to the original values would exacerbate tensions in the relationships they depend on.
In their years of helping couples make the transition from partners to parents, the psychologists Philip and Carolyn Cowan have found that tensions increase when a couple backslide into more traditional roles than they originally desired. The woman resents that she is not getting the shared child care she expected and envies her husband's social networks outside the home. The husband feels hurt that his wife isn't more grateful for the sacrifices he is making by working more hours so she can stay home. When you can't change what's bothering you, one typical response is to convince yourself that it doesn't actually bother you. So couples often create a family myth about why they made these choices, why it has turned out for the best, and why they are still equal in their hearts even if they are not sharing the kind of life they first envisioned.
Under present conditions, the intense consciousness raising about the ''rightness'' of personal choices that worked so well in the early days of the women's movement will end up escalating the divisive finger-pointing that stands in the way of political reform.
Our goal should be to develop work-life policies that enable people to put their gender values into practice. So let's stop arguing about the hard choices women make and help more women and men avoid such hard choices. To do that, we must stop seeing work-family policy as a women's issue and start seeing it as a human rights issue that affects parents, children, partners, singles and elders. Feminists should certainly support this campaign. But they don't need to own it.

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY MELINDA BECK) (SR1
SR6-SR7)
MAP: Paid Maternal Leave: Almost Everywhere The United States is one of only eight countries, out of 188 that have known policies, without paid leave. (Source: ''Children's Chances: How Countries Can Move From Surviving to Thriving'' by Jody Heymann With Kristen McNeill) (SR6-SR7)
CHARTS: Changing Attitudes: Views on women's working have evolved -- despite skepticism after the 1994 ''Republican Revolution.'' (Source: analysis of General Social Survey by David A. Cotter, Union College, Joan M. Hermsen, Univ. of Missouri, and Reeve Vanneman, Univ. of Maryland) (SR6)
 Elsewhere, Much Less Time on the Job: Average annual hours worked, per worker. (Source: Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development) (SR7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOMEN (91%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (91%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (90%); GENDER EQUALITY (90%); MARRIAGE (89%); WORKING MOTHERS (88%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (88%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); SINGLE PARENTS (69%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (66%); LABOR FORCE (66%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (59%); ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); UNIVERSITY OF MISSOURI (59%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2013



621 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1515 words

HEADLINE: By the Book: Karen Russell

 BODY:
The author of ''Vampires in the Lemon Grove'' recently met Louise Erdrich, but all she could say was something like ''Hey, Louise, are these pimentos in the dip?''
What was the best book you read last year?
One that continues to haunt me is ''The Vanishers,'' by Heidi Julavits. I am in awe of her prose. And I am still reeling from ''My Poets,'' a joyfully transgressive hybrid book by Maureen McLane -- part memoir and part criticism.
When and where do you like to read?
When I was younger I used to lock myself in the bathroom and read in the dry tub. I was also a fan of the ''shoe closet.'' Reading felt thrilling and illicit and deeply private to me, and I felt vulnerable doing it in public. 
Now I'll read anytime, anywhere. I love reading in front of the space heater. Isn't that a sad confession? But it's like my substitute for the roaring fireplace of yore. My siblings call it the Firestarter. They start humming that menacing Prodigy song whenever they see it. I've been meaning to look into renters' insurance.
Who are your favorite authors?
I'm bad at picking favorites, but a few of the writers whose work has really inspired me would be Flannery O'Connor, George Saunders, Jim Shepard, Italo Calvino, Jorge Luis Borges, Kafka, Dostoyevsky, Wallace Stevens, Stephen King, Denis Johnson, Mary Gaitskill, Virginia Woolf, Ben Marcus, Kelly Link, Joy Williams, Carson McCullers.
What's your preferred literary genre? Any guilty pleasures?
Oh, I think I've gotten to a place where the word ''genre'' gives me the heebie-jeebies. Like someone coming at you with a bit and trying to guide you into a narrow stall. And reading anything, poetry or prose, fiction or biography, I think I'm always going to feel a little guilty, out of some vestigial sense that I should be doing something ''useful'' outside -- on a boat, or with a tool, or what have you.
What are the best books about Florida?
''Their Eyes Were Watching God,'' by Zora Neale Hurston, has maybe the best depiction of a wrathful hurricane in literature. Carl Hiaasen is our bard, and thank God for him. Dave Barry's books are hilarious cultural anthropology of South Florida. Peter Matthiessen's ''Killing Mister Watson'' trilogy. Joy Williams on Key West. Wells Tower has some fabulous Florida stories. ''The Yearling,'' by Marjorie Kinnan Rawlings, is a great old Florida book. Denis Johnson's ''Fiskadoro,'' I think that qualifies, too -- it's a fever-dream set on a former Florida Key after nuclear holocaust.
You've said in the past that you like books that are funny and strange. Read anything especially funny and strange lately?
''After the Apocalypse,'' by Maureen McHugh, an amazing collection from Small Beer Press. And Kent Russell is one of the funniest and strangest writers I know. He is my favorite nonfiction writer. Sorry, Gore Vidal.
What were your favorite books as a child? Do you have a favorite character or hero from one of those books? Is there one book you wish all children would read?
I'm not sure if I have a universal recommendation for all children -- I wouldn't want angry parents writing in to the Book Review after my suggestions gave their fourth graders nightmares. I tended to be drawn to the weirder, darker stuff. Horror and sci-fi anthologies. Although maybe even Poe looks quaint to today's kids in the era of ''The Hunger Games.''
Several books that I remember going crazy for as a younger reader were ''A Wrinkle in Time,'' by Madeleine L'Engle; ''The Rats of NIMH''; ''The Last Unicorn,'' by Peter S. Beagle; and ''The Martian Chronicles,'' by Ray Bradbury. I loved Richard Adams's ''Watership Down,'' an exodus story told from a rabbit's point of view -- it makes sense to me that child readers like to consider human systems from the estranged vantage point of animals. Children are alien observers of adult customs and cruelty, too.
In terms of a favorite character -- no big surprises here, I guess, but I loved Fiver, the psychic rabbit. Fiver had a tough row to hoe. He was like a rabbit Cassandra. For whatever reason, I felt a much more powerful emotional connection to Fiver than I did to, say, those baby sitters in the Baby-Sitters Club books.
What book had the greatest impact on you? What book made you want to write?
Oh, it's hard to isolate just one. ''Jane Eyre.'' â[#x20ac][0/00]''The Grapes of Wrath.''â[#x20ac][0/00] ''The Lord of the Rings.''â[#x20ac][0/00] ''The Heart Is a Lonely Hunter.'' The Brothers Grimm. ''Great Expectations.''â[#x20ac][0/00] ''Middlemarch.''â[#x20ac][0/00] ''The Day of the Triffids.''â[#x20ac][0/00] ''Antigone.''â[#x20ac][0/00] ''The Waves.'' ''Dune.'' If we're measuring impact in terms of months of sleep lost, I read Stephen King's ''It'' in middle school and remained moon-eyed and haunted for six months. More than any single book, though, I had parents who communicated to me that reading was a worthwhile activity. I had pretty extraordinary teachers, too.
What does your personal book collection look like? Do you organize your books in any particular way?
I want to lie and say that I have floor-to-ceiling bookshelves. They are Brazilian teak bookshelves. Look at that attractive Turkish rug underneath them. There's ''Ulysses,'' front and center. How would you guys ever know?
In fact, I've been running my life like a yard sale for these past several years, doing guest teaching stints, traveling a lot. So my ''book collection'' is housed in several Tupperware bins. Marcel is sharing space with the George Foreman grill. At the moment, I'm living in a quasi-legal sublet. I've got maybe two suitcases' worth of books on the shelves. It's organized by accident and luck, I guess, and what I could carry. The books that made it with me to this weird frontier are survivors. Somehow I've managed to hold on to my high school copy of ''One Hundred Years of Solitude,'' for example, and my mom's edition of C.â[#x20ac][0/00]S. Lewis's ''Till We Have Faces.''
If you could meet any writer, dead or alive, who would it be? What would you want to know?
I'd love to meet Flannery O'Connor. I think I'd be content to hear her speak on any subject. What forces shaped her. What nebula of books and stories were whirling together inside her at the time of her death. What her death felt like, and how it compared to the graced deaths she imagined for her characters. I doubt I'd be able to fashion the right kind of questions to get at any of that knowledge, though. I think an epistolary relationship with a writer you admire, rather than a meeting, might be the way to go. In real time, language always fails me. Recently I got to meet Louise Erdrich, and what I really wanted to do was to thank her for creating worlds that have such a deep spiraling life. But what came out of my mouth was something on the level of: ''Hey, Louise, are these pimentos in the dip?''
If you could meet any character from literature, who would it be? And if you could be any character from literature?
I'd like to meet Mick, from ''The Heart Is a Lonely Hunter.'' I'd like to hear Mick play the piano, the song that keeps running through her head. I would maybe like to be Bone, from Russell Banks's ''Rule of the Bone,'' but only for that briefest of idylls where he lives with I-Man and Froggy in the abandoned school bus. It's a credit to Banks's writing that this abandoned school bus remains one of the most credible depictions of a terrestrial heaven that I've encountered in a novel. Everybody's safe and well fed, there are wildflowers, I-Man is a Rastafarian. .â[#x20ac][#x2c6].â[#x20ac][#x2c6]. Maybe you have to read it.
Are you a rereader? What books in particular do you find yourself returning to, and why?
I am a rereader -- one of my favorite things about teaching literature to students is that it gives me license to do some deep rereading of books that knocked me flat when I was a freshman. With a book like Borges's ''Ficciones'' that I've owned since college, I get to see all the underlinings and marginalia from my previous trips through. It's embarrassing, sometimes! But I love the shock of those re-encounters with a vanished self -- here is this enormous cave system, engineered by Borges, that can contain your feeble little hieroglyphs.
Paper or electronic?
I'm still a paper gal. I own a Kindle, just to bluff like I belong to this century. But I really love the heft and feel of a book.
What's the one book you wish someone else would write?
David Graeber has this line in ''Debt'' that I keep thinking about: ''About the only thing we can imagine is catastrophe.'' In film and literature we've got such a glut of apocalyptic visions right now, future wastelands and dystopias. I know my own imagination tends to list in that direction. Given our grim economic and ecological situation, I think it's scarily easy to imagine a blasted, ruined future world. But I'd love to read a book that fully imagined a global utopia. What would that place look like? How would our policies and practices have changed? And then what new challenges might a character encounter, on some healthy, halcyon planet?
What do you plan to read next?
On my night stand I have a galley of Karen Shepard's beautiful new novel, ''The Celestials,'' and A.â[#x20ac][0/00]M. Homes's ''May We Be Forgiven.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JILLIAN TAMAKI) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (90%); LITERATURE GENRES (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); LITERATURE (78%); POETRY (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (70%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (60%); RENTERS INSURANCE (51%)

PERSON: STEPHEN KING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KEY WEST, FL, USA (66%) FLORIDA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2013



622 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1036 words

HEADLINE: Women on the Verge

BYLINE: By ELISSA SCHAPPELL. 
Elissa Schappell is the author of ''Blueprints for Building Better Girls,'' a collection of linked stories.

 BODY:
THERE ONCE LIVED A GIRL WHO SEDUCED HER SISTER'S HUSBAND, AND HE HANGED HIMSELFLove Stories
By Ludmilla PetrushevskayaTranslated by Anna Summers171 pp. Penguin. Paper, $15.
For years, acceptable portrayals of Soviet women in art were limited to the ideal proletariat, a strong-jawed woman with flashing eyes and scythe in hand, or the fairy tale Snow Queen in furs.
It's no surprise that the realistic short stories and pessimistic plays of Ludmilla Petrushevskaya, who began writing in the 1960s, were banned until glasnost. Her bleak fictions depicted Soviet women as the human workhorses they were. They did not live in castles or picturesque garrets but in mini-gulags, subdivided apartments, which deprived the generations of families and strangers forced to cohabitate of any sense of privacy. (As a child, Petrushevskaya and her mother lived under a desk in her mentally ill grandfather's room.) Her work was suppressed because she matter-of-factly described the horrors of domestic life in a society that abolished the self. 
Many of Petrushevskaya's stories can be considered fantastic. Her breakout book in America, ''There Once Lived a Woman Who Tried to Kill Her Neighbor's Baby,'' was cheekily marketed as ''Scary Fairy Tales.'' These stories teemed with grotesque and supernatural elements that masked the real terror: how unrelenting misery transforms human beings into monsters.
The new collection, ''There Once Lived a Girl Who Seduced Her Sister's Husband, and He Hanged Himself,'' is slyly subtitled ''Love Stories.'' These 17 tales, selected and translated by Anna Summers, who herself grew up in those ''cramped, ghoulish blocks of apartments,'' follow Petrushevskaya's writing career from her first published story in 1972 to one published on her 70th birthday in 2008. They are deeply unromantic love stories told frankly, with an elasticity and economy of language. The characters are often pathetic, incomprehensible. ''Doctor Zhivago'' this ain't.
The first lines of the first story, ''A Murky Fate,'' establish the tone and themes of the book: ''This is what happened. An unmarried woman in her 30s implored her mother to leave their studio apartment for one night so she could bring home a lover.'' The lover turns out to be her co-worker -- a slovenly, narcissistic married man. The next day she discovers that despite their dispassionate and perfunctory encounter, she is madly in love. Is it possible that she truly desires this toad? Or does she just want to enter the kingdom of tragic women who have loved and lost? Does it matter? Is it so wrong to want to have a love story?
A few stories capture a character in a Chekhovian moment of clarity; some read like family lore, recounted without fanfare or urgency; others echo the gossip women exchange like currency. What is consistent is the dark, fatalistic humor and bone-deep irony Petrushevskaya's characters employ as protection against the biting cold of loneliness and misfortune that seems their birthright.
Even when a story ends with the narrator suggesting that a couple lived happily ever after, it rings false. We suspect the teller has tired of the story and is deliberately concluding on a mawkish note. What one can cling to is reward enough -- a home, even if shared with a host of other miserables; children, even if they are scheming to steal your money and your home; a man, even if he is unfaithful, abusive and unpredictable.
The strongest piece, ''Young Berries,'' which seems to draw on Petrushevskaya's own life, recalls a young girl's stay at a sanitarium where she faces down bullies, finds her voice and begins to write. The narrator becomes infatuated with a beautiful and cruel boy who is drawn to her ''whiff of shame.'' He mocks and torments her, but her victory is in her survival. ''The circle of animal faces had never crushed the girl; the terror remained among the tall trees of the park, in the enchanted kingdom of young berries.''
Characters and settings seem to reappear hazily. Is the woman in ''A Happy Ending'' scheming to take over her mother-in-law's apartment a grown-up iteration of the 15-year-old girl in ''Hallelujah, Family'' who gives birth to a child she despises? Do we see the same communal apartment through different characters' eyes in different stories? The sense of sameness, the repetition of landscape, circumstance and emotion is disconcerting.
Petrushevskaya's female characters resemble nothing so much as Russian matryoshka nesting dolls, hollow women with a succession of smaller hollow women inside them, with the only solid figure a baby at the core. Maternal love trumps all. Children are the center that holds parents together. Children, even unborn children, console women when the men inevitably leave. We see, again and again, how, in the absence of a child to care for, a man will do, especially if he is abusive, deranged or suitably helpless. So haunted by loss is the elderly woman in ''Tamara's Baby'' that she takes in a lunatic man she meets at a health resort, scandalizing her family and friends. While their coupling might be perverse, their mutual need is undeniable.
It seems fitting that a book that opens with ''A Murky Fate'' should end with the tongue-in-cheek ''Happy Ending,'' in which a woman, wounded by the emotional abandonment of her son, betrayed by her philandering husband who has also infected her with gonorrhea, secretly inherits an apartment, which enables her to escape. In her absence, her husband is unable to wash or feed himself, or even use a telephone. The discovery that he has become as vulnerable as an infant gives her permission and reason to return.
For these women, telling their stories is as necessary as having someone to care for. They tell stories, while waiting in endless lines for bread and trains and promotions that will never come, to feel less lonely. As Joan Didion said, ''We tell ourselves stories in order to live.''
Petrushevskaya loves her female characters too much to idealize their lives. Their husbands cheat and beat them, but these women take lovers. They have their work and their children. They may not have the heart to throw the bastards out or lock the door against them, but these women hold the keys.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ZOË TAYLOR) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); WRITERS (78%); FAMILY (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2013



623 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2122 words

HEADLINE: Sunday Dialogue: U.S. Policy Toward Russia

 BODY:
Readers react to Gary Hart's urging of patient diplomacy.
To the Editor:
It is dismaying to read that the Obama administration is ''quietly adopting a new approach to its old cold war rival, the cold shoulder'' (''Another Reset of Relations With Russia in Obama's Second Term,'' news article, Feb. 2). Once again, this suggests a triumph for the anti-Russian brigades that seem to occupy American foreign policy circles.
Unquestionably, there are instances in which Russia does not live up to our standards of democracy and refuses to behave as we instruct it to. But no more so than another major power, the People's Republic of China, with which we maintain much better relations over all.
Any fair-minded analysis demonstrates that persistent and patient diplomacy with Russia will yield many more rewards than disappointments, including in venues such as Syria, where its help can be decisive. 
GARY HART Kittredge, Colo., Feb. 11, 2013
The writer, a former Democratic senator from Colorado, is an author, lecturer and consultant on international law and business.
Readers React
In arguing that the situation in Russia is no worse than that in China, Mr. Hart notes ''instances in which Russia does not live up to our standards of democracy and refuses to behave as we instruct it to.''
Instances? A recent Freedom House report documents a series of initiatives by President Vladimir V. Putin designed to eliminate any and all potential threats to his grip on power, including increasing criminal penalties for ''unsanctioned'' protests, censoring and controlling the Internet, drastically expanding the definition of treason, and recriminalizing libel and slander. Arrests, arbitrary detentions and home raids targeting opposition figures are occurring on a level not seen since Soviet times.
Mr. Hart argues that Russia is not living up to ''our'' standards. The Russian government is not living up to its own standards under its constitution, nor is it complying with universal human rights commitments it has made.
Under the reset policy of the first term, the Obama administration looked the other way during the worst deterioration in Russia's democracy and human rights situation since the collapse of the Soviet Union. A new approach toward Russia is desperately needed, one that places much more emphasis on contending with the problems that Mr. Putin poses to his own people and to others.
Viewing Mr. Putin as a threat to human rights and American interests should not be misrepresented as being anti-Russian. The Russian government has moved, step by step, to restrict political pluralism, hamstring the opposition and distance itself from the United States. I don't see Mr. Hart decrying that.
DAVID J. KRAMER President, Freedom House Washington, Feb. 13, 2013
Russia's engagement with our international partners, particularly the United States, is a very important element of our foreign and economic policy and needs to be further encouraged to maintain global stability. Aside from the number of international security issues that require our cooperation and a resolution in a multilateral fashion, it is very clear that the United States and Russia have the same goal: stimulating economic growth while maintaining security and stability around the globe.
However, our relationship with the United States has to be one of balance and mutual respect. As with any relationship, both sides need to accept that there are areas where closer cooperation is mutually beneficial, and others where we have different approaches. Having a constructive, long-term relationship means that we will acknowledge our disagreements honestly and stand committed to work toward solutions together.
DMITRY PESKOV Moscow, Feb. 14, 2013
The writer is press secretary to President Vladimir V. Putin.
As a naturalized American citizen from the former Soviet Union, I'd welcome improved relations between the United States and Russia, leading to more fruitful cooperation in world affairs. But I disagree with Mr. Hart, who blames ''the anti-Russian brigades that seem to occupy American foreign policy circles'' for the latest worsening of American-Russian relations.
The worsening is clearly by Vladimir V. Putin's deliberate and cynical choice -- unless we are prepared to completely ignore Russia's internal affairs no matter how anti-democratic they become.
Mr. Putin experienced a rude awakening, discovering that he hasn't been universally loved in Russia. He did not win the March 2012 election as easily as he had expected. And anti-Americanism has always been among the most potent weapons to mobilize the base.
So unless Mr. Hart and like-minded advocates of improving American-Russian relations are prepared to say, ''yes, we do have to ignore what Mr. Putin does inside Russia as long as he cooperates with us elsewhere,'' there is not much the United States can do.
VALENTIN LYUBARSKY Brooklyn, Feb. 13, 2013
Mr. Hart is right. The United States cannot realistically hope to have Russia as a partner where it matters to us while otherwise treating it as an adversary.
Russia is not a democracy, and its corruption is pervasive. But Russia is not more authoritarian than Saudi Arabia, where no political parties are allowed, and women have no right to vote or even to drive. The Putin rule is not crueler than the Karzai government in Afghanistan, where nearly half of detainees interviewed claim that they were tortured, and the drug trade is protected by government officials.
This is neither to praise how Russia is ruled, nor to suggest that we end America's long friendship with Saudi Arabia and abandon Afghanistan. Rather, we need to ask ourselves whether the United States has important interests where Russian cooperation could make a difference, such as no nuclear weapons for Iran and terrorism. If so, we should not single out Moscow for harsher treatment than we give to others from whom we want and expect less. Such actions ultimately come at the expense of American national security.
DIMITRI K. SIMES Washington, Feb. 14, 2013
The writer is president and chief executive of the Center for the National Interest.
America's antipathy to Russia dates from the exposure of czarism's system of exiling dissidents. American sympathy for China originates from Secretary of State John Hay's engineering of the ''open door policy,'' promoting equal trading opportunities with China.From the 1890s to today, with only a few exceptions, our policy makers determined to give Russia the ''cold shoulder'' while embracing China. It should come as no surprise that Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton's ''reset'' button is getting replaced with President Obama's ''stop'' button.
Almost every time Russia rebuffs us with intransigence, we renew our antipathy. Yet America excuses Chinese intransigence, however egregious.
By now it should be obvious that, as Mr. Hart suggests, ''persistent and patient'' diplomacy with Russia could yield rewards with our Syrian diplomacy and beyond. Likewise, a firmer hand with China might be in order.
When will America's Russia-China relations grow up?
DONALD E. DAVIS EUGENE P. TRANI Normal, Ill., Feb. 13, 2013
The writers are, respectively, professor emeritus of history at Illinois State University and president emeritus of Virginia Commonwealth University.
The United States and Russia are more similar than they, unfortunately, are publicly willing to admit. Countries are composed of people. American and Russian people equally value family, education and personal success, and they proudly believe that their heritage, culture and history have made significant contributions worldwide.
Bilateral dialogues that start with demands for change are destined to fail. Bilateral dialogues that seek cooperation based on common grounds will not only succeed, but will also inspire both countries to organically evolve and benefit from mutual interests.
To this day the wisest advice I've heard relating to Russian-American relations was offered by Nicholas Burns, a professor at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government and former diplomat, who wrote, ''There are times when we have to deal with the world as it is to eventually get the world we want.'' Until both countries accept each other's differences and concentrate on the way mutual cooperation can benefit each other, no long-term progress will be achieved. President Obama's and President Dmitri A. Medvedev's willingness to do that in Mr. Obama's first term has led to substantial, yet little known, progress and cooperation in education, sciences, arts, health, environment, commerce, security and beyond. If that doesn't continue, the losers will be on both sides.
RINA KIRSHNER New York, Feb. 13, 2013
The writer is vice president of the Russian American Foundation.
It would be nice to think that our relations with China are based on some altruistic intention to take the geopolitical high road, which would give us hope of eventually adopting the same policy with Russia. It would be nice, but it would be naïve.
Our relationship with China is based purely on economic and strategic self-preservation. The current American economy is inextricably linked with, and dependent on, that of China. China also poses the only serious global military threat that we currently face, filling the cold-war vacuum created by the dissolution of the Soviet Union.
Russia has neither the economic nor military leverage of its Asian neighbor. It is for these reasons, and not some political idealism, that the United States treads lightly with China, while trampling any Russian diplomatic opportunities.
DENNIS B. APPLETON Madison, Wis., Feb. 13, 2013
Eleven years ago I held a Fulbright to teach American history at Moscow State University. Spending a semester living in Moscow, I fell in love with the city and began a process of deep engagement with Russian history and culture. I've come to appreciate the extent to which the fear of invasion is part of the Russian DNA, a fear based on centuries of fighting off Tatar, French and German attacks. Any leader of Russia who evokes that fear can enhance his own authoritarianism. Therefore, it is counterproductive for another country to play into that narrative.
This does not mean unilateral disarmament, but it does mean cooling rhetorical excess. Our unreconstructed cold warriors reinforce arguments made by Kremlin hard-liners, and vice versa. This is not a helpful situation.
In the intervening years since living in Moscow, I've been deeply distressed to read about the deaths of journalists, the stifling of dissent and the increasingly anti-American rhetoric of Vladimir V. Putin. But I think that our long-term interests are best served by finding a way to negotiate the tricky terrain between being a doormat and invariably playing the role of opponent.
GLENNA MATTHEWS Laguna Beach, Calif., Feb. 13, 2013
The Writer Responds
Diplomacy is a search for common interests, not a reward for good behavior. Our common interests with Russia outweigh our many differences, and they include: chemical weapons in Syria, nuclear capabilities in North Korea and Iran, terrorism and energy security, among others. Mr. Peskov's letter makes the same argument in less specific terms, combining these ''international security issues'' with shared interests in stability provided by economic growth.
Organizations such as Freedom House have the duty to focus our attention on human rights abuses. The State Department has the duty to focus on those common interests and promote them.
If men were angels, we would need no government. If nations met our standards, we would need little diplomacy. Even as we promote democracy in Russia, as we should, we must continue to perfect democracy in America, where just last fall there was widespread voter suppression and where large-scale racial and gender discrimination occurred during my lifetime.
Mr. Kramer does not mention my juxtaposition of China against Russia on the human rights scale, though Professors Davis and Trani properly do. If Russia were heavily invested in United States Treasury bonds, would our policy be somewhat more understanding?
Ms. Matthews appropriately notes the role of ''unreconstructed cold warriors'' in the Russian context, an antipathy that does, as she notes, provide grist for the Kremlin mill and become self-fulfilling. We may not like it, but President Vladimir V. Putin was elected by a 64 percent majority, beyond the margin of manipulation.
Despite what Mr. Lyubarsky suggests, I do not advocate ignoring Mr. Putin's anti-democratic behavior. I do advocate holding Russia to the same standards we do other, even less democratic nations such as China.
Ms. Kirshner makes my argument much better than I did.
GARY HART Kittredge, Colo., Feb. 15, 2013

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY EVGENIA BARINOVA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC POLICY (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); WRITERS (78%); LIBEL & SLANDER (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (73%); DECRIMINALIZATION (72%); CENSORSHIP (69%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: FREEDOM HOUSE (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (92%); TAIWAN (79%); SYRIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2013



624 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; IT'S THE ECONOMY; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1231 words

HEADLINE: Coming to America

BYLINE: By ADAM DAVIDSON. 
Adam Davidson is co-founder of NPR's ''Planet Money,'' a podcast and blog.

 BODY:
Earlier this month I met Pedro Chan at his small apartment above an evangelical church in Brooklyn's Sunset Park neighborhood. Chan, who shares the place with three others, is short and muscular. He has a quiet voice and a patient demeanor that seems to have served him well on his journey to New York. In 2002, he left his Guatemalan village for a long trip through Mexico and, with the help of a smuggler, across the Texas border. In 2004, he made it to Brooklyn, where his uncle helped him find work on small construction crews.
These days, Chan helps skilled (and fully documented) carpenters, electricians and stucco installers do their jobs by carrying heavy things and cleaning the work site. For this, he earns up to $25,000 a year, which is considerably less than the average entry wage for New York City's 100,000 or so documented construction workers. Chan's boss, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said that unless he learned a specialized skill, Chan would never be able to move up the income ladder. As long as there are thousands of undocumented workers competing for low-end jobs, salaries are more likely to fall than to rise. 
As Congress debates the contours of immigration reform, many arguments have been made on economic grounds. Undocumented workers, some suggest, undercut wages and take jobs that would otherwise go to Americans. Worse, the argument goes, many use social programs, like hospitals and schools, that cost taxpayers and add to our $16 trillion national debt. Would deporting Pedro Chan and the other 11 million or so undocumented workers mean more jobs, lower taxes and a stronger economy?
Illegal immigration does have some undeniably negative economic effects. Similarly skilled native-born workers are faced with a choice of either accepting lower pay or not working in the field at all. Labor economists have concluded that undocumented workers have lowered the wages of U.S. adults without a high-school diploma -- 25 million of them -- by anywhere between 0.4 to 7.4 percent.
The impact on everyone else, though, is surprisingly positive. Giovanni Peri, an economist at the University of California, Davis, has written a series of influential papers comparing the labor markets in states with high immigration levels to those with low ones. He concluded that undocumented workers do not compete with skilled laborers -- instead, they complement them. Economies, as Adam Smith argued in ''Wealth of Nations,'' work best when workers become specialized and divide up tasks among themselves. Pedro Chan's ability to take care of routine tasks on a work site allows carpenters and electricians to focus on what they do best. In states with more undocumented immigrants, Peri said, skilled workers made more money and worked more hours; the economy's productivity grew. From 1990 to 2007, undocumented workers increased legal workers' pay in complementary jobs by up to 10 percent.
I saw this in action when Chan took me to his current work site, a two-story office building on Coney Island Avenue. The skilled workers had already installed wood flooring in a lawyer's office and were off to the next job site. That left Chan to clean up the debris and to install a new toilet. As I looked around, I could see how we were on one end of an economic chain reaction. Chan's boss no longer had to pay a highly skilled worker to perform basic tasks. That lowered the overall cost of construction, increasing the number of jobs the company could book, which meant more customers and more money. It reminded me of how so many restaurants operate. Without undocumented labor performing routine tasks, meals, which factor labor costs into the price, would be more expensive. There would also be fewer jobs for waiters and chefs.
Earlier that day, I was reminded of another seldom-discussed fact about immigrant life in the United States. Immigrants spend most of the money they make. Chan had broken down his monthly expenses: $400 a month in rent, another $30 or so for gas, electric and Internet. He sends some money home and tries to save a few thousand a year in his Citibank account, but he ends up spending more than $10,000 annually. That includes the $1,400 or so he pays the I.R.S. so that he can have a taxpayer I.D. number, which allows him to have a credit score so that he can rent an apartment or lease a car.
There are many ways to debate immigration, but when it comes to economics, there isn't much of a debate at all. Nearly all economists, of all political persuasions, agree that immigrants -- those here legally or not -- benefit the overall economy. ''That is not controversial,'' Heidi Shierholz, an economist at the Economic Policy Institute, told me. Shierholz also said that ''there is a consensus that, on average, the incomes of families in this country are increased by a small, but clearly positive amount, because of immigration.''
The benefit multiplies over the long haul. As the baby boomers retire, the post-boom generation's burden to finance their retirement is greatly alleviated by undocumented immigrants. Stephen Goss, chief actuary for the Social Security Administration, told me that undocumented workers contribute about $15 billion a year to Social Security through payroll taxes. They only take out $1 billion (very few undocumented workers are eligible to receive benefits). Over the years, undocumented workers have contributed up to $300 billion, or nearly 10 percent, of the $2.7 trillion Social Security Trust Fund.
The problem, though, is that undocumented workers are not evenly distributed. In areas like southern Texas and Arizona and even parts of Brooklyn, undocumented immigrants impose a substantial net cost to local and state governments, Shierholz says. Immigrants use public assistance, medical care and schools. Some immigrant neighborhoods have particularly high crime rates. Jared Bernstein, a fellow at the Center for Budget and Policy Priorities, told me that these are also areas in which low-educated workers are most likely to face stiff competition from immigrants. It's no wonder why so much political furor comes from these regions.
Undocumented workers represent a classic economic challenge with a fairly straightforward solution. Immigrants bring diffuse and hard-to-see benefits to average Americans while imposing more tangible costs on a few, Shierholz says. The dollar value of the benefits far outweigh the costs, so the government could just transfer extra funds to those local populations that need more help. One common proposal would grant amnesty to undocumented workers, which would create a sudden increase in tax payments. Simultaneously, the federal government could apply a percentage of those increased revenues to local governments.
But that, of course, seems politically improbable. Immigration is one of many problems -- like another economic no-brainer: eliminating farm subsidies -- in which broad economic benefits battle against a smaller, concentrated cost in one area. As immigration reform seems more likely than at any time in recent memory, it's important to remember that it is not the economic realities that have changed. It's the political ones.
Deep thoughts this week:
1. Illegal workers do undercut the salaries of millions of Americans.
2. But they boost the income of nearly everyone else.
3. Why don't people know this already?
4. Oh, yeah: politics.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JASPER RIETMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); FOREIGN LABOR (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); EMPLOYMENT (88%); RELIGION (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (75%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); IMMIGRATION LAW (71%); PUBLIC DEBT (71%); SMUGGLING (71%); PRODUCTIVITY (69%); NATIONAL DEBT (65%); HIGH SCHOOLS (64%); POLITICAL DEBATES (51%)

PERSON: ADAM SMITH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); GUATEMALA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2013



625 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 6766 words

HEADLINE: The Late Adopters

BYLINE: By ROBERT DRAPER

 BODY:
One afternoon last month, I paid a visit to two young Republicans named Bret Jacobson and Ian Spencer, who work in a small office in Arlington, Va., situated above an antique store and adjacent to a Japanese auto shop. Their five-man company, Red Edge, is a digital-advocacy group for conservative causes, and their days are typically spent designing software applications for groups like the Heritage Foundation, the Republican Governors Association and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. Lately, however, Jacobson and Spencer have taken up evangelizing -- and the sermon, delivered day after day to fellow conservatives in the form of a 61-point presentation, is a pitiless we-told-you-so elucidation of the ways in which Democrats have overwhelmed Republicans with their technological superiority.
They walked me through a series of slides showing the wide discrepancies between the two campaigns. ''And just to make them feel really bad,'' Jacobson said as he punched another image onto the overhead screen. ''We say, 'Just wait -- this is the most important slide.' And this is what kills them, because conservatives always look at young voters like the hot girl they could never date.'' He read aloud from the text: ''1.25 million more young people supported Obama in 2012 over 2008.'' 
In the light of his Apple monitor, Jacobson's grin took on a Luciferian glow. He is 33, wiry and well dressed and has the twitchy manner of a highly caffeinated techie. ''And then we continue with the cavalcade of pain,'' he said. The next chart showed that while the Romney campaign raised slightly more money from its online ads than it spent on them, Obama's team more than doubled the return on its online-ad investment.
Spencer chimed in: ''That's when one of our clients moaned, 'It's even worse than I thought.' '' Spencer, who is 29, possesses the insectlike eyes of a committed programmer. He and Jacobson are alumni of the University of Oregon, where they both worked on the Commentator, a conservative alternative paper whose slogan was, ''Free Minds, Free Markets, Free Booze.''
''Then, once people think we've gotten them through the worst,'' Jacobson said, ''we pile on more -- just the way Obama did.'' He put up Slide 26, titled, ''Running Up the Score.'' ''Obama was the very first candidate to appear on Reddit. We ask our clients, 'Do you know what Reddit is?' And only one of them did. Then we show them this photo of Obama hugging his wife with the caption 'Four more years' -- an image no conservative likes. And we tell them, 'Because of the way the Obama campaign used things like Reddit, that photo is the single-most popular image ever seen on Twitter or Facebook.' Just to make sure there's plenty of salt in the wound.''
Back in August 2011, Jacobson wrote an op-ed in Forbes alerting Republicans to Obama's lead on the digital front. His warnings were disregarded. Then last summer, he and Spencer approached the conservative super PAC American Crossroads with their digital-tool-building strategies and, they say, were politely ignored. It's understandable, then, that a touch of schadenfreude is evident when Jacobson and Spencer receive the policy-group gurus and trade-association lobbyists who file into Red Edges's office to receive a comeuppance.
''Business is booming for us,'' Jacobson said. ''We'll double or triple our bottom line this year, easily. But this isn't about getting new business. We need the entire right side of the aisle to get smart fast. And the only way they can do that is to appreciate how big the chasm was.''
Exhibit A is the performance of the Romney brain trust, which has suffered an unusually vigorous postelection thrashing for badly losing a winnable race. Criticism begins with the candidate -- a self-described data-driven chief executive who put his trust in alarmingly off-the-mark internal polls and apparently did not think to ask his subordinates why, for example, they were operating on the assumption that fewer black voters would turn out for Obama than in 2008. Romney's senior strategist, Stuart Stevens, may well be remembered by historians, as one House Republican senior staff member put it to me, ''as the last guy to run a presidential campaign who never tweeted.'' (''It was raised many times with him,'' a senior Romney official told me, ''and he was very categorical about not wanting to and not thinking it was worth it.'')
Under the stewardship of Zac Moffatt, whose firm, Targeted Victory, commandeered the 2012 digital operations of the Romney campaign, American Crossroads and the Republican National Committee, Team Romney managed to connect with 12 million Facebook friends, triple that of Obama's operation in 2008; but Obama in 2012 accrued 33 million friends and deployed them as online ambassadors who in turn contacted their Facebook friends, thereby demonstrably increasing the campaign's get-out-the-vote efforts in a way that dwarfed the Republicans'. While Romney's much-hyped get-out-the-vote digital tool, Orca, famously crashed on Election Day, Obama's digital team unveiled Narwhal, a state-of-the-art data platform that gave every member of the campaign instant access to continuously updated information on voters, volunteer availability and phone-bank activity. And despite spending hundreds of millions of dollars, the Romney television-ad-making apparatus proved to be no match for the Obama operation, which enlisted Rentrak, the data corporation for satellite and cable companies, through which it accrued an entirely new layer of information about each and every consumer, giving the campaign the ability to customize cable TV ads.
''They were playing chess while we were playing checkers,'' a senior member of the campaign's digital team somberly told another top Romney aide shortly after the election. Later, the top aide would participate in a postelection forum with Obama's campaign manager. He told me (albeit, like a few people I spoke to, under the condition that he not be identified criticizing his party), ''I remember thinking, when Jim Messina was going over the specifics of how they broke down and targeted the electorate: 'I can't play this game. I have to play a different game, so that I don't look like an idiot in front of all these people.' ''
But the problem for the G.O.P. extends well beyond its flawed candidate and his flawed operation. The unnerving truth, which the Red Edge team and other younger conservatives worry that their leaders have yet to appreciate, is that the Republican Party's technological deficiencies barely begin to explain why the G.O.P. has lost the popular vote in five of the last six presidential elections. The party brand -- which is to say, its message and its messengers -- has become practically abhorrent to emerging demographic groups like Latinos and African-Americans, not to mention an entire generation of young voters. As one of the party's most highly respected strategists told me: ''It ought to concern people that the most Republican part of the electorate under Ronald Reagan were 18-to-29-year-olds. And today, people I know who are under 40 are embarrassed to say they're Republicans. They're embarrassed! They get harassed for it, the same way we used to give liberals a hard time.''
It was not long after the election that elder statesmen of the G.O.P. began offering assurances that all would soon be right. But younger Republicans were not buying it. On Dec. 6, Moffatt addressed an audience of party digital specialists at the R.N.C.'s Capitol Hill Club. Moffatt spoke confidently about how, among other things, the Romney digital team had pretty much all the same tools the Obama campaign possessed. Bret Jacobson was shocked when he read about Moffatt's claim the next day. ''That's like saying, 'This Potemkin village will bring us all prosperity!' '' Jacobson told me. ''There's something to be said for putting on a happy face -- except when it makes you sound like Baghdad Bob.''
A few days after the Moffatt gathering, the R.N.C.'s chairman, Reince Priebus, announced that the committee would conduct a wide-ranging investigation -- called the Growth and Opportunity Project -- into the ways the party was going astray. To guide the investigation were familiar names, like the former Bush White House press secretary Ari Fleischer, the longtime Florida operative Sally Bradshaw and the R.N.C. veteran Henry Barbour. Erik Telford, the 28-year-old founder of the RightOnline bloggers' convention, told me that he found himself wondering aloud: ''Do you want an aggressive investigation from people who've built their careers on asking skeptical questions? Or do you want a report from people who are symptomatic of what's gone wrong?''
Equally galling to younger Republicans was the op-ed Stuart Stevens wrote in The Washington Post on Nov. 28. In it, Romney's top strategist struck an unrepentant tone, proudly noting that the candidate ''carried the majority of middle-class voters'' and that the party therefore ''must be doing something right.'' From her office near the Capitol, Kristen Soltis Anderson, a 28-year-old G.O.P. pollster, tried not to come unglued. ''But you didn't win the election,'' she told me she thought at the time. ''I'm really glad you scored that touchdown in the third quarter, I am -- but you lost the game!''
Anderson is a fantasy-football fanatic, with the rat-a-tat argumentative cadence that gives her away as a former high-school debater. Upon graduating from college, she became the lead singer of the Frustrations, a rock-ska group that folded, as only a D.C.-based band could, when one member decided to attend law school and another needed more time to study for the bar exam. Anderson, for her part, is now a pollster and vice president of the Winston Group. Like the Red Edge partners and virtually every other young Republican with whom I spoke, she regards herself as a socially tolerant, limited-government fiscal conservative. (Today Republicans of all age groups strenuously avoid describing themselves as ''moderate,'' a term that the far right has made radioactive.) Camera-ready and compulsively perky -- she has twice appeared on Bill Maher's ''Real Time'' panel as a token conservative -- she nonetheless lapses into despondency when talking about her party's current state of denial. During one of the postelection panels, Anderson heard a journalist talk about his interviews with Romney staff members who had hoped to build a winning coalition of white voters. ''That just stunned me,'' she told me one afternoon over coffee. ''I thought: Did you not see the census? Because there was one! And it had some pretty big news -- like that America's biggest growing population is the Latino community! Surprise, surprise! How have we not grasped that this is going to be really important?''
One afternoon last month, I flew with Anderson to Columbus, Ohio, to watch her conduct two focus groups. The first consisted of 10 single, middle-class women in their 20s; the second, of 10 20-something men who were either jobless or employed but seeking better work. All of them voted for Obama but did not identify themselves as committed Democrats and were sufficiently ambivalent about the president's performance that Anderson deemed them within reach of the Republicans. Each group sat around a large conference table with the pollster, while I viewed the proceedings from behind a panel of one-way glass.
The all-female focus group began with a sobering assessment of the Obama economy. All of the women spoke gloomily about the prospect of paying off student loans, about what they believed to be Social Security's likely insolvency and about their children's schooling. A few of them bitterly opined that the Democrats care little about the working class but lavish the poor with federal aid. ''You get more off welfare than you would at a minimum-wage job,'' observed one of them. Another added, ''And if you have a kid, you're set up for life!''
About an hour into the session, Anderson walked up to a whiteboard and took out a magic marker. ''I'm going to write down a word, and you guys free-associate with whatever comes to mind,'' she said. The first word she wrote was ''Democrat.''
''Young people,'' one woman called out.
''Liberal,'' another said. Followed by: ''Diverse.'' ''Bill Clinton.''''Change.''''Open-minded.''''Spending.''''Handouts.''''Green.''''More science-based.''
When Anderson then wrote ''Republican,'' the outburst was immediate and vehement: ''Corporate greed.''''Old.''''Middle-aged white men.'' ''Rich.'' ''Religious.'' ''Conservative.'' ''Hypocritical.'' ''Military retirees.'' ''Narrow-minded.'' ''Rigid.'' ''Not progressive.'' ''Polarizing.'' ''Stuck in their ways.'' ''Farmers.''
Anderson concluded the group on a somewhat beseeching note. ''Let's talk about Republicans,'' she said. ''What if anything could they do to earn your vote?''
A self-identified anti-abortion, ''very conservative'' 27-year-old Obama voter named Gretchen replied: ''Don't be so right wing! You know, on abortion, they're so out there. That all-or-nothing type of thing, that's the way Romney came across. And you know, come up with ways to compromise.''
''What would be the sign to you that the Republican Party is moving in the right direction?'' Anderson asked them.
''Maybe actually pass something?'' suggested a 28-year-old schoolteacher named Courtney, who also identified herself as conservative.
The session with the young men was equally jarring. None of them expressed great enthusiasm for Obama. But their depiction of Republicans was even more lacerating than the women's had been. ''Racist,'' ''out of touch'' and ''hateful'' made the list -- ''and put '1950s' on there too!'' one called out.
Showing a reverence for understatement, Anderson said: ''A lot of those words you used to describe Republicans are negative. What could they say or do to make you feel more positive about the Republican Party?''
''Be more pro-science,'' said a 22-year-old moderate named Jack. ''Embrace technology and change.''
''Stick to your strong suit,'' advised Nick, a 23-year-old African-American. ''Clearly social issues aren't your strong suit. Stop trying to fight the battle that's already been fought and trying to bring back a movement. Get over it -- you lost.''
Later that evening at a hotel bar, Anderson pored over her notes. She seemed morbidly entranced, like a homicide detective gazing into a pool of freshly spilled blood. In the previous few days, the pollster interviewed Latino voters in San Diego and young entrepreneurs in Orlando. The findings were virtually unanimous. No one could understand the G.O.P.'s hot-blooded opposition to gay marriage or its perceived affinity for invading foreign countries. Every group believed that the first place to cut spending was the defense budget. During the whiteboard drill, every focus group described Democrats as ''open-minded'' and Republicans as ''rigid.''
''There is a brand,'' the 28-year-old pollster concluded of her party with clinical finality. ''And it's that we're not in the 21st century.''
Of course, many conservatives like their brand just the way it is, regardless of what century it seems to belong to. Anderson did not relish a tug of war over the party's identity between them and more open-minded Republicans. She talked to me about Jon Huntsman, the presidential candidate whose positions on climate change and social issues she admired, and the unseemly spectacle of his denigrating the far right. To prosper, the party should not have to eat its own, she maintained. Still, to hear her focus-group subjects tell it, the voice of today's G.O.P. is repellent to young voters. Can that voice, belonging to the party's most fevered members, still be accommodated even as young Republicans seek to bring their party into the modern era?
This conundrum has been a frequent postelection topic as youthful conservative dissidents huddle in taverns and homes and -- among friends, in the manner of early-20th-century Bolsheviks -- proceed to speak the unspeakable about the ruling elite. I sat in on one such gathering on a Saturday evening in early February -- convened at a Russian bar in Midtown Manhattan, over Baltika beers. The group of a half-dozen or so conservative pundits and consultants calls itself Proximus, which is Latin for ''next,'' and they seem to revel in their internal disagreements. One of them argued, ''Not all regulation is bad,'' while another countered, ''I hate all regulations, every single one of them'' -- including, he cheerfully admitted, minimum-wage and child-labor laws. Nonetheless, the focal point of Proximus's mission is not policy formulation but salesmanship: how to bring new voters into the fold while remaining true to conservative principles.
''This is a long-term play,'' conceded John Goodwin, a founder of the group and former chief of staff to the outspoken conservative congressman Raúl Labrador. ''This isn't going to happen by 2014. But we want to be able to show voters that we have a diversity of opinion. Right now, Republicans have such a small number of vocal messengers. What we want to do is add more microphones and eventually drown out the others.''
''And we can't be afraid to call out Rush Limbaugh,'' said Goodwin's fiancée, S. E. Cupp, a New York Daily News columnist and a co-host of ''The Cycle'' on MSNBC. ''If we can get three Republicans on three different networks saying, 'What Rush Limbaugh said is crazy and stupid and dangerous,' maybe that'll give other Republicans cover'' to denounce the talk-show host as well.
Cupp, who is 33, defines her brand of conservatism as ''rational -- and optimistic!'' She is staunchly anti-abortion but also pro-gay-marriage and a ''warheads on foreheads'' hawk whose heroes are Barry Goldwater and William F. Buckley Jr. Like many Republicans today -- and indeed like liberal Democrats in the 1980s, before Bill Clinton came along and charted a more centrist course -- Cupp finds herself in the unenviable position of maintaining that Americans largely side with her party's worldview, even if their votes suggest otherwise. ''Public polling still puts the country center-right on a host of issues,'' she told me.
The problem is that her party's loudest voices sound far more right than center. The voters in Kristen Soltis Anderson's focus groups condemned Republicans for their unchecked hatred of Obama and for threatening to take away financing for Planned Parenthood, ban abortion, outlaw gay marriage and wage war. From where they stood, at the center-right of S. E. Cupp's domain, the party had been dragged well out of plain view.
Proximus seeks to marginalize the more strident talking heads by offering itself up to -- or if necessary, forcing itself upon -- the party as a 21st-century mouthpiece. ''If I were training a candidate who's against gay marriage,'' Cupp told me, ''I'd say: 'Don't change your beliefs, just say legislatively this is not a priority, and I'm not going to take away someone's right. And if abortion or gay marriage is your No. 1 issue, I'm not your guy.' ''
I tried to imagine how Cupp's kinder-gentler message-coaching would go over with the Tea Party, a group that was never mentioned by the young Republicans I spoke with until I broached it. Still, the influence of the far right on the party's image remains hard to ignore. When I brought up the subject of the Tea Party to Cupp, she said: ''People aren't repelled by the idea of limited government or balancing the budget or lowering taxes. Those Tea Party principles are incredibly popular with the public, even if they don't know it. Again, that's a messaging issue, that's not a principle issue.''
She went on to say, ''I don't think we win by subtraction'' -- meaning, by casting out the party's right wing to entice the centrists. Instead, Cupp and her fellow travelers hope to revive Lee Atwater's bygone ''big tent,'' under which gay people and Tea Party members and isolationists and neocons would coexist without rancor. But Atwater, the legendary R.N.C. chairman, did not have to worry about freelance voices like Limbaugh and Todd Akin offending whole swaths of emerging demographic groups. Nor during the Atwater era, when Ronald Reagan was president, did the party's most extreme wing intimidate other Republicans into legislating like extremists themselves, thereby further tarnishing the party's image. When I mentioned this to the Proximus gathering, Goodwin explained the dilemma faced by Republicans in Congress. ''What forces them to vote that way, 9 times out of 10, is a fear of a primary challenge,'' he said. ''What we hope to accomplish is to bring more voters into Republican primaries, so that it isn't just the far right that shows up at the polls.''
The dilemma, Goodwin acknowledged, is that the far-right rhetoric may well repel such voters from participating in G.O.P. primaries to begin with. ''We recognize that this isn't something that's going to happen anytime soon,'' he said.
On Nov. 30, more than 2,000 progressives shuffled into the Washington Convention Center to participate in RootsCamp, an annual series of seminars hosted by the New Organizing Institute, where the most cutting-edge digital and grass-roots organizing techniques are discussed. The shaggy and the achingly earnest are well represented at RootsCamp, which makes it an easy target of derision from the right. A reporter from the conservative publication The Daily Caller attended the postelection gathering in 2010 and made great sport of the ''unconference,'' with its self-conscious inclusiveness, which the reporter termed ''multilingual, multicultural and multi-unpurposeful.''
But the handful of conservatives who attended the conference this past November were in no mood to sneer. One was Patrick Ruffini, a 34-year-old leader of the G.O.P.'s young-and-restless digerati. At RootsCamp, his breathless tweets of the sessions held by top Obama organizers -- ''In eight years, calling people will be obsolete''; ''Digital organizing director and field director will be one and the same'' -- set off a buzz among Republican techies. Ruffini was plainly impressed by the openness of the experience. ''I'm like, Wow, they're doing this in front of 2,000 people, and the system seems to actually work,'' he told me a month later. ''The thing I was struck by at RootsCamp was that in many ways, the Democratic technology ecosystem has embraced the free market -- whereas the Republican one sort of runs on socialism, with the R.N.C. being the overlord.''
The success of the RootsCamp, and its smaller and more intensive offshoot gathering, the New Media Boot Camp, helps explain the yawning digital divide between the two parties. In 2006, a few holdovers from the Howard Dean and John Kerry campaigns eschewed lucrative offers from Washington consulting firms in order to devote some of their time to the communal information-sharing ideals of the New Organizing Institute. Since then, numerous Boot Camp alumni have gone on to help run the tech operations of the Obama campaign and throughout the Democratic Party infrastructure, while RootsCamp has served as a crash course in best practices for thousands of lefties.
Young Republicans now lament that no one from their side has stepped up to organize a conservative version of RootsCamp. Michael Turk, a 42-year-old Republican digital guru, suggested that the failure of G.O.P. technologists to do this springs from a uniquely Republican trait. ''They all wanted to make money,'' he said. ''And so as a result, Katie Harbath, who was one of my deputies at the R.N.C., is now at Facebook, and Mindy Finn'' -- a longtime G.O.P. digital operative -- ''is at Twitter, and Patrick and I each started our own companies. We all found ways to parlay that into a living for our families, as opposed to just doing it for the cause.''
Several G.O.P. digital specialists told me that, in addition, they found it difficult to recruit talent because of the values espoused by the party. ''I know a lot of people who do technology for a living,'' Turk said. ''And almost universally, there's a libertarian streak that runs through them -- information should be free, do your own thing and leave me alone, that sort of mind-set. That's very much what the Internet is. And almost to a person that I've talked to, they say, 'Yeah, I would probably vote for Republicans, but I can't get past the gay-marriage ban, the abortion stance, all of these social causes.' Almost universally, they see a future where you have more options, not less. So questions about whether you can be married to the person you want to be married to just flies in the face of the future. They don't want to be part of an organization that puts them squarely on the wrong side of history.''
Many young conservatives also said that technological innovation runs at cross-purposes with the party's corporate rigidity. ''There's a feeling that Republican politics are more hierarchical than in the Democratic Party,'' Ben Domenech, a 31-year-old blogger and research fellow at the libertarian Heartland Institute, told me. ''There are always elders at the top who say, 'That's not important.' And that's where the left has beaten us, by giving smart people the space and trusting them to have success. It's a fundamentally anti-entrepreneurial model we've embraced.''
Erik Telford explained it this way: ''I think there's a very incestuous community of consultants who profit off certain tactics, and that creates bias and inhibits innovation.'' Telford was suggesting that many of the party leaders, like Karl Rove and his American Crossroads super PAC, saw no financial advantage to bringing in avant-garde digital specialists, the types who were embraced by the Obama operation. For that matter, Zac Moffatt and his firm, Targeted Victory, enjoyed a virtual monopoly on the G.O.P.'s digital business during the lackluster 2012 cycle, which has made Moffatt an irresistible symbol for all that's clubby and backward-thinking about the party. As Bret Jacobson said, half-jokingly, ''If you have one firm that's doing the top candidate, plus the R.N.C., plus the top outside group -- the Department of Justice, in any other industry, would be actively asking questions.''
One of several G.O.P. digital whizzes who went unused by Moffatt's shop in 2012 was Vincent Harris, a savvy 24-year-old social-media consultant whose efforts in Texas helped catapult Ted Cruz to an upset victory over a better-known candidate in the U.S. Senate primary. Harris told me he saw the Romney campaign as ''a very insular, closed operation,'' symptomatic of a partywide affliction. ''There's an old guard in Republican politics, and that old guard is mostly made up of television and direct-mail consultants,'' he said. ''And you can say that's generational -- but at the same time, David Axelrod has to be the same age as Karl Rove, right? The old guard in the Democratic Party made the adjustment with the Obama digital operation. There hasn't been a concerted effort among the established G.O.P. folks to figure this stuff out.''
Harris suffers no illusions that the Roves of his party will turn over the keys to young techies like him. ''We're the second rung,'' he told me. ''The first tier isn't going away for another 20 years.''
It is Harris's last point -- that the G.O.P. is stuck with its current leadership for the next decade or more -- that incites particular angst in young Republicans. With palpable envy, they describe the forward-leaning impulses of the Obama campaign: Axelrod's tweeting endlessly; the deputy campaign manager Stephanie Cutter's becoming a YouTube dynamo with her sassy Web rebuttals to the Romney campaign; Jim Messina's traveling westward to receive wisdom from Eric Schmidt, Steve Jobs and Steven Spielberg. (From Spielberg, about not trying to replicate their 2008 campaign: ''You can only be the Rolling Stones from 1965 once. And then you're a touring band that has to sell tickets each time you come to town.'') One leading G.O.P. digital operative told me: ''We're looking for someone who comes to us and is like: 'All right, what do we need to do? I'm going to trust you to do it, I'm going to give you a real budget, you'll have a seat at the table and will be just as important as the communications guy and the field guy. And you know what, those other guys need to be more modern, too, and that's the campaign we're going to run. So let's start plotting out how we're going to do that.' ''
Echoing the opinion of nearly every other young Republican with whom I spoke, the operative concluded sadly, ''And we haven't had that person yet.''
The person they are seeking is the Republican incarnation of David Plouffe -- the seemingly unremarkable Hill staffer and itinerant consultant who, like the Howard Dean strategist Joe Trippi before him, recognized that the only way his relatively unknown and underfinanced candidate could prevail over the front-runner would be to muster a guerrilla operation. To accomplish this, in 2007, Plouffe met with a 25-year-old former Dean techie named Joe Rospars and promptly enlisted him to help marshal candidate Obama's volunteer support through high-tech means. Plouffe, Rospars told me, became the champion of ''using digital to build the campaign from the bottom up.'' Employing then-nascent social media channels like Facebook, YouTube and Twitter, Rospars's team raised enormous sums of money online while also plugging a nationwide grass-roots network into Obama's get-out-the-vote efforts. Four years later, Stephanie Cutter said, ''Plouffe was a big proponent'' of completely reimagining the 2008 effort.
A few days before this year's inauguration -- after which he would take leave of the Obama White House and of politics as a profession -- Plouffe met with me in his small and uncluttered West Wing office. He wore a blue shirt and a purple tie and, with his work now done, was uncharacteristically expansive. He told me he was surprised by the Romney campaign's strategic shortcomings. After naming one particular member of Romney's high command, he said, ''We had 15 people more qualified to do that job than him.''
Plouffe cut his teeth as the deputy chief of staff of Representative Dick Gephardt, whose impressive farm team also included those who would go on to be White House advisers, like Paul Begala, George Stephanopoulos and Bill Burton. Now it was the Obama operation that, he said, ''is going to generate a lot of people who are going to run presidential and Senate campaigns.'' They were apt pupils of a campaign that was ''a perfect-storm marriage between grass-roots energy and digital technology.'' He continued: ''Not having that is like Nixon not shaving before his first debate -- you've got to understand the world you're competing in. Our thinking always was, We don't want people when they interact with the Obama campaign to have it be a deficient experience compared to how they shop or how they get their news. People don't say, 'Well, you're a political campaign, so I expect you to be slower and less interesting.' Right? We wanted it to be like Amazon. And I still don't think the Republicans are there.''
But, I asked Plouffe, wasn't the G.O.P. just one postmodern presidential candidate -- say, a Senator Marco Rubio -- away from getting back into the game?
Pouncing, he replied: ''Let me tell you something. The Hispanic voters in Nevada, Colorado and New Mexico don't give a damn about Marco Rubio, the Tea Party Cuban-American from Florida. You know what? We won the Cuban vote! And it's because younger Cubans are behaving differently than their parents. It's probably my favorite stat of the whole campaign. So this notion that Marco Rubio is going to heal their problems -- it's not even sophomoric; it's juvenile! And by the way: the bigger problem they've got with Latinos isn't immigration. It's their economic policies and health care. The group that supported the president's health care bill the most? Latinos.''
Plouffe readily conceded that he and his generation held no iron grip on political wisdom, but then he flashed a grin when I brought up the R.N.C.'s Growth and Opportunity Project, composed of party stalwarts. ''If there's a review board the Democrats put together in 2032, or even 2020, and I'm on it,'' he said, ''we're screwed.''
The Republicans did in fact recently have a David Plouffe of their own. As one G.O.P. techie elegantly put it, ''We were the smart ones, back in '04, eons ago.'' Referring to the campaign that re-elected George W. Bush, Plouffe told me: ''You know how in fantasy baseball you imagine putting up your team against the 1927 Yankees? We would've liked to have faced off against the 2004 Republicans. Beating the Clintons'' -- during the 2008 primaries -- ''that was, in terms of scale of difficulty, significantly above beating Romney. But going up against the Bushies -- that would've been something we all would've relished.''
Plouffe wasn't referring to competing against Bush's oft-described architect, Karl Rove -- but rather, against the campaign manager, Ken Mehlman. ''Mehlman got technology and organization and the truth is -- I think it's completely misunderstood -- it was Ken's campaign,'' Plouffe said. He added that he and Mehlman were friends, and that during the 2012 cycle, Mehlman -- who had been informally advising the Romney campaign -- was also ''very free with advice about structure, how they dealt with an incumbent president, how they dealt with debate prep.'' (Similarly, the former Bush senior strategist Matthew Dowd told me that Axelrod reached out to him for advice and they sat down together. ''Which never happened with me and Romney-world.'')
Mehlman, according to Bush campaign officials, persuaded Rove to invest heavily in microtargeting (a data-driven means of identifying and reaching select groups of voters), which helped deliver Ohio and thus the election. He advocated reaching out to minority voters both as Bush's campaign manager and later as chairman of the R.N.C., where he also instructed his staff to read ''Moneyball.'' ''I was like, 'What does a baseball book have to do with politics?' '' said Michael Turk, who worked for Mehlman at the R.N.C. ''Once I actually took the time to digest it, I realized what he was trying to do -- which was exactly the kind of thing that the Obama team just did: understanding that not every election is about home runs but instead getting a whole bunch of singles together that eventually add up to a win.''
I met with Mehlman one morning in his office near the Capitol. He left politics in 2007 and subsequently came out as gay -- and after that, became a vigorous if behind-the-scenes supporter of legalizing same-sex marriage in New York and beyond. Mehlman is now a partner at the private-equity giant Kohlberg Kravis Roberts, wealthy and free from his party's fetters. He was nonetheless hesitant to criticize his fellow Republicans, though implicitly his comments were damning.
''There's an important book by Ben Wattenberg and Richard Scammon called 'The Real Majority,' published in 1970,'' Mehlman said as he leaned back in his chair. ''The book explains in part how the Republican Party would go on to win five out of six presidential elections through the eyes of the 'typical' voter -- a working-class couple in Dayton, Ohio. They're white, worried about crime, feel burdened by taxes and feel like too many Democrats don't understand these concerns.''
Today's typical voter, he went on to say, could be that same white couple in Dayton. ''But here's the difference,'' he said. 'They worry about economic mobility -- can their kids get ahead or even keep up. Their next-door neighbors are Latino whose mom gets concerned when she hears talk about self-deportation or no driver's licenses. And that couple has a gay niece and an African-American brother-in-law. And too many folks like the couple in Dayton today wonder if some of the G.O.P. understands their lives anymore.''
I asked him whether, as even some Republicans have suggested, Ronald Reagan would have trouble building a winning coalition today. ''I think he could win, partly because Reagan wouldn't be the Reagan he was in 1980,'' Mehlman replied. ''Reagan had an unbelievable intuitive understanding of the electorate, because he'd spent his life as the president of a large union, as an actor who understands his audience, as the governor of the largest state, as a corporate spokesman who traveled -- Reagan spent his life listening to people and learning from them and adapting to their concerns. That's why there were Reagan Democrats -- ethnics, working-class voters, Southern voters. So I think a modern Reagan would understand the demography and where the new voters are and would've applied his principles accordingly.''
But could a modern-day Reagan, even with Ken Mehlman running his campaign, overcome the party's angry and antiquated image? To win, a reincarnated Reagan -- or a Rubio or a Chris Christie or a Bobby Jindal -- would still have to satisfy his base of hard-line conservatives and captivate a new generation of voters at the same time. I ran this quandary by Kristen Soltis Anderson. ''It's a big challenge,'' she acknowledged. ''But I think that if you can earn the trust of the people, there are ways you can say, 'Here's why I take this position.' I don't know that someone like Rubio, who may be young and attractive and well spoken, could attract young voters despite his views on gay marriage. I do think that in the absence of a very compelling reason to vote for a candidate, those social issues can be deal-breakers for young voters. The challenge is: Can you make a case that's so compelling that you can overcome those deal-breaker issues? And I don't know the answer to that question.''
Bret Jacobson, the Red Edge entrepreneur, insisted that the solution was ultimately a simple one. ''I think the answer for a vibrant Republican Party is to make our North Star empowering every individual in this country to follow their own dream, free of legislative excesses,'' he told me. ''There are millions of Americans who take seriously their religious culture as well as traditions that have been handed down for centuries. And the party has to empower them to fight those battles in the social sphere, not in the government sphere. That's harder work than taking control of the country for four years. But it's the appropriate battle.''
But, I asked him, don't social conservatives feel a moral obligation to legislate their beliefs? Did Jacobson really expect the Rick Santorums of his party to let a new generation of Republican leaders tell them what to accept and how to behave?
Jacobson did not back down. ''Even the Republican Party rejected Santorum,'' he said. ''He got some attention, and he certainly received votes. But he didn't win.''
In a sense, however, Santorum and his fellow archconservatives did win, by tugging Mitt Romney and his pliable views rightward. Then Romney lost, and so did the Republicans.
Two days after Obama's inauguration, Bret Jacobson flew to Charlotte to attend the R.N.C.'s winter conference and sit on a panel devoted to discussing new digital techniques. ''Bret's presentation was one of the best-received of the panel, by far,'' the seminar's organizer, Ryan Cassin, told me. Still, Jacobson was disappointed to see only 30 people in attendance. President Obama, meanwhile, announced the previous week that his campaign juggernaut would be transformed into an advocacy group, Organizing for Action, that would use the vast social network amassed during the 2012 cycle to advance the administration's policy goals. The Republican panel amounted to a first step -- a baby step -- while the competition was lapping them.
Jacobson did not stick around the next day to hear Reince Priebus declare to the conferees, ''We're the party of innovation!'' Instead, he left his own panel early to catch a plane back to Washington. Calls were continuing to come into Red Edge's office from establishment Republicans inquiring about Jacobson and Spencer's cautionary slide presentation.
Jacobson wanted to interpret this interest as a good thing. But I could tell from his voice that the experience at the R.N.C. conference deflated his hopes about Republicans being well on the road to enlightenment. ''My primary worry,'' he told me without his characteristic levity, ''is that I'm going to become the Al Gore of the right'' -- meaning, a forecaster of doom, appreciated and unheeded as the clever if somewhat lonely guy who told them so.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVE COLE/ GETTY IMAGES) (MM24)
PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY BARAN OZDEMIR/GETTY IMAGES) (MM25)
PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GABRIELLE PLUCKNETTE/ THE NEW YORK TIMES
IMAGE SOURCE/GETTY IMAGES) (MM28-MM29) DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY MATT DORFMAN) (MM24
MM25
MM28-MM29)
GRAPHICS: WHAT SWING VOTERS ASSOCIATE WITH THE WORD 'REPUBLICAN' (SOURCE: FOCUS GROUP HELD BY THE REPUBLICAN POLLSTER KRISTEN SOLTIS ANDERSON) (MM26-MM27)
 WHAT SWING VOTERS ASSOCIATE WITH THE WORD 'DEMOCRAT' (SOURCE: FOCUS GROUP HELD BY THE REPUBLICAN POLLSTER KRISTEN SOLTIS ANDERSON) (MM30-MM31) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (77%); GOVERNORS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (71%); VOTERS & VOTING (70%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (68%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (63%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (57%); THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2013



626 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section M2; Column 0; T: Women's Fashion Magazine; T MAGAZINE; Pg. 162

LENGTH: 1307 words

HEADLINE: Mexican Revolution

BYLINE: By SARA RUFFIN COSTELLO

 BODY:
On arriving in the sleepy Mexican town of Mérida, one might wonder what all the recent fuss is about. The historical center, with its faded limestone mansions, narrow cobblestoned streets and monumental cathedral - one of the oldest in all of the Americas and built out of limestone rocks from ancient Mayan structures - is indeed picturesque. And the handful of modest-looking restaurants in town can certainly serve up a decent bowl of lime and tortilla soup. And if you're in the market to unload some pesos on a colorful hammock or an embroidered blouse, a few mom-and-pop tourist shops can help you do just that. But in truth, there's not much to shake a stick at here in this remote corner of the Yucatán. 
And it's precisely for this reason, the town's languid, low-key atmosphere, as well as some nicely priced real estate, that a savvy group of early adopters - artists, architects and designers - has descended on this lost-glory town, snatching up old, dilapidated haciendas and refurbishing them into year-round retreats or Shangri-Las for rent. As once-laid-back Tulum has become headquarters for the vacationing fashion crowds, and San Miguel de Allende is overrun with American snowbirds, Mérida has quietly evolved into a sophisticated refuge for those who like to be far from the touristy crowds.
The food author Jeremiah Tower, 70, famous for helping to kick-start the California locavore restaurant scene at Chez Panisse and then at Stars in San Francisco, stumbled upon Mérida in 2004. He remembers driving past the town one day and feeling an indescribable urge to stop the car. A year later, he found himself stranded in resort-clogged Cozumel with all his worldly possessions underwater in a Katrina-soaked New Orleans, where he had recently moved. After several visits to Mérida, he claims he was enchanted, literally haunted by the city, "which is totally ridiculous, it's not like we are talking about Venice," he said, dragging a corn tortilla through a chili mole sauce at La Lupita inside the Santiago Market. "But there is something undefinable about Mérida," Tower explained. "Perhaps it's the spirituality of the Mayans and the city itself, which has nothing to do with attracting tourism." He eventually moved here full time to write, scuba dive and rehabilitate colonial houses.
For Nicolas Malleville, an ex-model from Argentina, the discovery of Mérida was more gradual. Nico, as he is called, moved to the Yucatán after vacationing there several times. In 2003 he decided to open the Coqui Coqui hotel on the beach in Tulum. His Zen-like spa and hotel quickly became popular with the chic bohemian set. A few years ago, he and his Italian wife, Francesca Bonato, followed up with two smaller properties in the region, first in Valladolid and then in nearby Coba. In September 2011, the couple turned a turn-of-the-century building in Mérida's historical center into a perfumeria. Last December, they opened an adjoining guesthouse, complete with Venetian plaster walls, marble baths, red velvet settees and the original ornate tile work. Their boutique features hand-crocheted hammocks, gold filigree necklaces designed by Bonato and their own line of locally made fragrances. Malleville distinguishes his Mérida destination as "more belle époque compared to the minimalist Mayan ruin look of our Tulum place."
At the turn of the 20th century, Mérida was one of the richest cities in the world, due to the lucrative export of rope, which was made from the local agave plant. As the money flowed in, the Casta Divina - elite, wealthy families of Spanish descent - built impressive working haciendas outside of town and created a kind of Paris within the city, even a Champs-Élysée-inspired grand boulevard called Paseo de Montejo. Children of the elite were educated in New Orleans, an easy stop on the trade route, and shopped for clothes in Europe. By the 1920s, however, synthetic nylon replaced sisal and the lucrative rope business dried up.
It was the potential of that last-frontier aspect, gloriously abandoned ruins and haciendas for a song, that lured the expat John Prentice Powell to relocate full time. It was also "the Mayans themselves, who smile even when there's nothing to smile about," he says. A model from Texas by way of Paris and New York, who in his post-mannequin life made custom buttons for Sonia Rykiel and Hermès, he says local real estate prices nearly tripled from 2000 to 2008. (After a dip during the global recession, sales have recently spiked again.) Over the past decade, Powell has renovated a dozen houses in the city, which he rents out to visitors. He also has an inside track to some of the finest haciendas outside of town. He's the town's social conduit, and if he likes you, he might bring you to a late-night Mayan soiree. At the very least, he'll let you know where there's a Mescal tasting.
This comes in handy since the local night life is for the most part made up of small dinner parties thrown by this loose-knit group of expats. "The mix here is New Yorkers who come down for a week every six weeks, the locals and the Casta Divina and art crowd. Throw in some younger, richer more attractive folks from Mexico City and things get interesting," Powell says over margaritas at Alberto's Continental restaurant. Certain weekends will find a supernaturally good-looking group of artists and actors lunching poolside at the Mexican sculptor Jorge Marín's hacienda about 40 minutes outside of town, while other gatherings are slightly more formal.
Not too long ago, the Mexican banking billionaire Roberto Hernández Ramírez and his wife, Claudia, hosted a benefit to raise money for the conservation of Mayan culture. For the concert, the composer Philip Glass performed in an amphitheater that had been designed and built by the artist James Turrell. (Turrell also created a light installation inside a cenote for the occasion.) "Both Roberto and Claudia are the genuine article. They are classic Renaissance patrons," explains James Jordan, the vice chairman of the World Monuments Fund, who shuttles between his apartment in New York and his vacation house here in Mérida. The Ramírezes are renovating several properties in the area and have enlisted the help of Jorge Pardo, the Los Angeles-based sculptor, who happens to own a place in the historic town center. Pardo just finished up work on a 150-year-old house here for Mima and César Reyes, longtime friends and art collectors from Puerto Rico. They became intrigued by Mérida after visiting Pardo here.
It's this organic, serendipitous nature that has all roads leading to Mérida. For the American painter James Brown, it was his friend's 50th birthday party in Mérida that convinced him to relocate here from Oaxaca eight years ago. Today, Brown, his wife, Alexandra, and their family divide their time between the house and studio in Mérida and a place in Paris. On my last day in town, Dec. 20, 2012, I received a hand-delivered invitation to the Browns' house for an "End of World" party. The whole lot of Mérida was there, along with a bohemian mix of international friends. At the stroke of midnight on the eve of the last day of the Mayan calendar, magic happened. The heavens opened up, contradicting what they are supposed to do during the dry season, and released lashings of rain. The multigenerational crowd of Americans, South Americans, Europeans, Yucatecans and Mayans all stood in the street laughing. Despite our collective disabuse of foolish world-ending threats, there were Mescal-soaked hugs of relief. But if our fates had been different that night, so be it. As one guest announced around 4 a.m., when the Mexican reggae band was packing up, "If we do wind up dying later today, this is not a bad way to go."
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: OPEN-DOOR POLICY: The Mexican actress Claudia Lizaldi with her son Iam, visiting the hacienda of Jorge Marín, a friend and sculptor.
LEISURE CLASS: Left: the Coqui Coqui co-owner Francesca Bonato at the hotel's cafe. Below: the architect Salvador Reyes Ríos's Modernist house on the grounds of a former hacienda.
A GRAND AFFAIR: A refurbished room at the Coqui Coqui guesthouse, inspired by the belle époque period.
LIGHT SHOW: Left: César Reyes's lap pool, as seen from a guest room. Below: fractured light, a repeated theme in Pardo's design, as seen at the artist's own house.
PRIVATE LIVES: Left: Jorge Pardo's dining room, which features lights and a table designed by the artist, and an interpretation of Velázquez's ''Las Meninas'' by a local painter.
CONCRETE PLANS: Left: koi- and waterlily- filled ponds in the courtyard of one of the renovator John Prentice Powell's properties. Right: an outbuilding at the antiques dealer Ross Schiering's place, which he frequently rents out.
EARLY ADOPTER: Chef Jeremiah Tower moved from the busy town of Cozumel to tranquil Mérida in 2005.
BRIGHT OUTLOOK: Right: the courtyard at the home of James Jordan, the New York-based vice chairman of the World Monuments Fund. Below left: the sculptor Jorge Marín's house is a marvel of scale, color and open-air loggias, like this one
 STREET LIFE: The town's historic district remains quiet even at nightfall.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY PAUL COSTELLO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); HISTORY (78%); REAL ESTATE (76%); RESTAURANTS (76%); SMALL BUSINESS (75%); BEACHES (69%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (67%); WRITERS (64%); SCUBA DIVING (62%)

PERSON: JIM JORDAN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) MEXICO (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); ARGENTINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2013



627 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; LENS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 311 words

HEADLINE: Black and White, and Blue

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP

 BODY:
We highly recommend viewing this slideshow in "full-screen" mode.
To see New York through cyanotype prints of the late 19th and early 20th centuries is to behold a dreamscape of almost-familiar scenes rendered in a very unfamiliar palette, neither silver nor sepia. 
The Prussian blue was not an effect, but the product of a printing process that used a solution of iron compounds that was briefly popular among photographers - and still claims a following - for its economy, its simplicity and (if the prints are stored correctly) its permanence.
There is a pleasing symmetry in the use of cyanotype prints to record the built environment, because they are directly related to blueprints, the architectural documents that helped create the structures in the first place. But the color also calls attention to our distance from the subjects, as if a veil had been drawn between viewer and photographer. And it definitely depresses the mood. Bleu was the old noir.
Manhattan's fabled night skyline flickers against an immense darkness in these photos. The beacons atop the Park Row Building, then the world's tallest office building, do nothing to illuminate the shadowy hulk below - an enormous post office that occupied what is now the south half of City Hall Park. An architectural ornament on what may be the Home Life Insurance Building, in the right foreground, could be a brooding gargoyle at Notre Dame.
How perfectly appropriate the cyanotype is for the Edgar Allan Poe Cottage in the Bronx, photographed in its original location on the east side of Kingsbridge Road. Little imagination is needed to conjure the moment described by Poe - in a poem written here - when "the wind came out of the cloud by night, / Chilling and killing my Annabel Lee."
Follow Lens on Facebook and Twitter.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Clockwise from top left, subway construction in Manhattan in 1901
the Edgar Allan Poe Cottage in the Bronx, photographed around 1894
an elevated railroad curve at 110th Street and Ninth Avenue, around 1890
the Park Row Building, the tallest office building in the world in 1905
and Belvedere Castle in Central Park, around 1880. (PHOTOGRAPHS COURTESY OF WINTER WORKS ON PAPER
COLLECTION OF THE MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK
 AUGUSTUS HEPP, COLLECTION OF THE MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (62%); LIFE INSURANCE (50%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (53%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2013



628 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: Bus Strike Put Damper on Field Trip Attractions

BYLINE: By JENNY ANDERSON

 BODY:
At the New York Hall of Science in Queens, the button-operated skateboard that children use to test their balance has been sitting still for most of the week.
The number of ''journey cakes'' -- working-class colonial fare -- being baked in the 1740 Guyon-Lake-Tysen House at Historic Richmond Town on Staten Island has plummeted.
And while she cannot say for herself, Fantasia, the 280-pound albino Burmese python at the Brooklyn Children's Museum, is likely getting kind of lonely. 
The New York City school bus strike, which has now ended, had left more than 100,000 students without regular and reliable transportation to and from school for a month. And the collateral damage was felt by museums and cultural institutions that usually pack their halls during the week with field trips. Revenues were down, exhibits were empty, and museum instructors were trying to find ways to bring the hands-on curriculums they created to schools that could no longer get to them.
''When the strike started, we essentially stopped receiving bookings,'' said Dan Wempa, the vice president of external affairs at the New York Hall of Science. ''It was close to a virtual stop.''
''It's like a library in here,'' said Beverly Newsome, the manager of visitor services at the Brooklyn Children's Museum, comparing the noise level last Thursday to a prestrike day, when the racket of children filled the air.
Six field trips a day usually arrive by 10 a.m., but after the strike began, the museum averaged one a day. Revenues fell $15,000 in January, and the museum was forecasting a drop of $20,000 for February, said Marcos Stafne, the director of education. ''Let's just say it has added insult to injury for an already difficult year,'' he said, noting that November visits fell drastically because of Hurricane Sandy.
Teachers and administrators say that booking field trips is hard enough even when all buses are running. There are limited windows for outings, squeezed into the hours after drivers have dropped off students in the morning and before they have to pick them up in the afternoon. Most schools do not have much discretionary money to pay for the trips, and parent fund-raising has been pinched by the economy.
The Brooklyn School of Inquiry in Bensonhurst usually has three to five field trips a week, said Donna Taylor, the principal. Among its canceled trips were outings to the Skyscraper Museum, the Waterfront Museum, an exhibition at the Brooklyn Navy Yard and Historic Richmond Town. Public transportation is somewhat limited in Bensonhurst, and long subway rides are hard on younger children, Ms. Taylor said.
''When you go on a field trip, you experience things, you touch and see and feel,'' she said. ''When we cut off that mode, we are limiting the depth of what they can learn.''
The school had planned several visits to Historic Richmond Town to study the history of colonial America. Parents and teachers banded together to try to find alternatives. They found a bus company that was operating and negotiated down the rate, Ms. Taylor said. Yet the cost was still too much for many families ($6 for the bus and $9 for entry to the museum), so only one class went.
As the strike dragged on, museums tried to adjust. ''We are taking the museum on the road,'' Felicity Beil, the director of education and public programs at Historic Richmond Town, said last week.
Before the strike, the museum welcomed seven groups a day; during the strike, only three groups a week made it to the 100-acre village. Museum educators usually make about five trips every two months to schools; last week, four went out, Ms. Beil said. Smaller children were taught how to make butter with churns and other equipment; other educators brought historic documents for analysis, and some arrived in costume.
The Brooklyn Children's Museum was also extending itself, especially to local schools that had built the museum into their curriculum. For example, the Lefferts Gardens Charter School visits the museum 25 times a year, and its kindergarten-through-third-grade science curriculum is intricately tied to the museum, which has a 30,000-object collection of natural history and cultural artifacts, and a living collection of reptiles, including snakes, small lizards, bugs and one bird.
To make sure those students did not fall behind, people from the museum traveled to the school, taking snails and bugs, phasmids (stickbugs) and even small reptiles -- though not the python.
Yet the experience was not the same, noted Dr. Stafne. Take a Snail's Place, a workshop about a snail's habitat and anatomy. At the museum, children could go into the 600-square-foot greenhouse and watch the snail crawl up a tree. ''Classrooms don't have trees,'' Dr. Stafne said.
Mr. Wempa said on Saturday that bookings at the Hall of Science began to pick up late last week as ''teachers seemed to know that the end was in sight.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Fantasia, the 280-pound albino Burmese python at the Brooklyn Children's Museum, was bereft of the usual throng of visitors. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KATIE ORLINSKY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (90%); SCHOOL FIELD TRIPS (90%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); CHILDREN (89%); CURRICULA (78%); SCHOOL & EMPLOYEE BUS SERVICES (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (75%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (75%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (75%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (73%); FUNDRAISING (70%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (70%); HURRICANE SANDY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2013



629 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 865 words

HEADLINE: The End of a Catholic Moment

BYLINE: By ROSS DOUTHAT

 BODY:
THE last time the Chair of St. Peter stood vacant, during Pope John Paul II's funeral in 2005, the Roman Catholic Church enjoyed a wave of unusually favorable coverage from the American press. The Polish pope had a way of disarming even his most stringent critics, and that power extended beyond his death, turning his funeral into a made-for-television spectacle that almost felt like an infomercial for the Catholic faith.
Perhaps not coincidentally, the mid-2000s were the last time the Catholic vision of the good society -- more egalitarian than American conservatism and more moralistic than American liberalism -- enjoyed real influence in U.S. politics. At the time of John Paul's death, the Republican Party's agenda was still stamped by George W. Bush's ''compassionate conservatism,'' which offered a right-of-center approach to Catholic ideas about social justice. The Democratic Party, meanwhile, was looking for ways to woo the ''values voters'' (many of them Catholic) who had just helped Bush win re-election, and prominent Democrats were calling for a friendlier attitude toward religion and a bigger tent on social issues. 
That was a long eight years ago. Since then, the sex abuse scandals that shadowed John Paul's last years have become the defining story of his successor's papacy, and the unexpected abdication of Benedict XVI has only confirmed the narrative of a church in disarray. His predecessor was buried amid reverent coverage from secular outlets, but the current pope can expect a send-off marked by sourness and shrugs.
The collapse in the church's reputation has coincided with a substantial loss of Catholic influence in American political debates. Whereas eight years ago, a Catholic view of economics and culture represented a center that both parties hoped to claim, today's Republicans are more likely to channel Ayn Rand than Thomas Aquinas, and a strident social liberalism holds the whip hand in the Democratic Party.
Indeed, between Mitt Romney's comments about the mooching 47 percent and the White House's cynical decision to energize its base by picking fights over abortion and contraception, both parties spent 2012 effectively running against Catholic ideas about the common good.
This transformation suggests that we may have reached the end of a distinctive ''Catholic moment'' (to repurpose a phrase from the late Catholic priest-intellectual Richard John Neuhaus) in American politics, one that began in the 1980s after John Paul's ascension to the papacy and the migration of many Catholic ''Reagan Democrats'' into the Republican Party.
This was hardly the first era when Catholic ideas shaped American debates. (New Deal-era liberalism, for instance, owed a major debt to Catholic social thought.) But it was the first era when the Catholic vote was both frequently decisive and genuinely up for grabs, and it was an era when Catholic debates and personalities filled the vacuum left by the decline of the Protestant mainline.
The fact that the Second Vatican Council had left the church internally divided limited Catholic influence in some ways but magnified it in others. Because the church's divisions often mirrored the country's, a politician who captured the typical Catholic voter was probably well on his way to victory, and so would-be leaders of both parties had every incentive to frame their positions in Catholic-friendly terms. The church might not always be speaking with one voice, but both left and right tried to borrow its language.
If this era is now passing, and Catholic ideas are becoming more marginal to our politics, it's partially because institutional Christianity is weaker over all than a generation ago, and partially because Catholicism's leaders have done their part, and then some, to hasten that de-Christianization. Any church that presides over a huge cover-up of sex abuse can hardly complain when its worldview is regarded with suspicion. The present pope has too often been scapegoated for the sex abuse crisis, but America's bishops have if anything gotten off too easily, and even now seem insufficiently chastened for their sins.
The recent turn away from Catholic ideas has also been furthered by a political class that never particularly cared for them in the first place. Even in a more unchurched America, a synthesis of social conservatism and more egalitarian-minded economic policies could have a great deal of mass appeal. But our elites seem mostly relieved to stop paying lip service to the Catholic synthesis: professional Republicans are more libertarian than their constituents, professional Democrats are more secular than their party's rank-and-file, and professional centrists get their encyclicals from Michael Bloomberg rather than the Vatican.
Nothing that happens in Rome over the next few months is likely to convert the Acela Corridor's donors and strategists and think tankers to a more Catholic-friendly worldview. The next pope may be more effective than Benedict, or he may be clumsier; he may improve the church's image in this country, or he may worsen it.
But if there is another Catholic moment waiting in our nation's future, it can only be made by Americans themselves.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Pope John Paul II with President Ronald Reagan in 1987 at the garden of the Vizcaya, a villa on Biscayne Bay in Florida. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DIANA WALKER/TIME & LIFE PICTURES -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (94%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (92%); RELIGION (91%); POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (78%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (75%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (74%); ELECTIONS (74%); POLITICAL DEBATES (74%); RESIGNATION OF POPE BENEDICT XVI (73%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (72%); INFOMERCIALS (71%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (67%); SCANDALS (65%); ABORTION (60%); SEX SCANDALS (51%)

PERSON: POPE BENEDICT XVI (79%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2013



630 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; TAKING NOTE; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 646 words

HEADLINE: The Daunting Politics Facing Sally Jewell

BYLINE: By ROBERT B. SEMPLE JR.

 BODY:
Here is some unsolicited advice for Sally Jewell, President Obama's surprise nominee to run the Interior Department: She should read her prospective boss's State of the Union address very carefully. What she will find there is the strong suggestion that the public lands she will be asked to manage wisely and for all Americans serve one purpose and one purpose only: to produce energy, whether oil or gas or solar or wind. The idea that these lands are also valuable as national parkland, as habitat for thousands of animal and plant species, as sources of clean water, as wilderness fully protected from all but the hardiest backpackers (as Ms. Jewell is said to be) is nowhere mentioned in that speech. 
By both commission and omission, the speech gave an inkling of a political reality that Interior secretaries have, with some exceptions, faced over and over again: conservation does not loom large in the White House, most especially when the economy is sour and problems are busting out all over the world. Bruce Babbitt, Bill Clinton's Interior secretary, has said that he could hardly get a word in edgewise in the White House until Dick Morris, then the president's chief pollster, showed up in 1994 with numbers showing that the Republicans were killing themselves politically with their anti-environmental agenda. At which point Mr. Clinton became something of a born-again environmentalist, extolling the virtues of Everglades restoration, saving redwood forests, blocking mining operations near Yellowstone, establishing a dozen or so new national monuments by presidential proclamation and, generally, leaving a substantial environmental legacy.Mr. Obama may experience a similar epiphany, making it easier for Ms. Jewell to tackle the difficult tasks that await her. The present secretary, Ken Salazar, performed admirably despite formidable obstacles, including a Republican House that shortchanged his budget and tried to circumscribe his authority, and the BP oil spill, which consumed his energies for months. He rescinded some truly awful and environmentally-destructive oil and gas leases in Utah, protected the Arctic from the unrestrained drilling envisioned by the Bush administration, restructured his department's inept and politically-driven regulatory operations, and initiated wind and solar development on public lands.
But much remains to be done. The last Congress did not establish a single new acre of permanent wilderness. The president made almost no use of his considerable power under the Antiquities Act to establish new national monuments. Mr. Salazar began but did not have time to complete a set of rules governing hydraulic fracturing on public lands. And last fall, both he and the president - plainly worried by persistently high gasoline prices, and by Mitt Romney's attacks on their energy policies - began to sound for all the world like George W. Bush and Dick Cheney in their eagerness to please the fossil-fuel crowd - a disappointing development for an administration that for the most part had deftly balanced resource extraction and conservation.
Ms. Jewell is the first woman nominee Mr. Obama has chosen for the second-term cabinet and would be only the second woman to run the Interior Department (Gale Norton, George W. Bush's first Interior boss, was the first.) As a businesswoman, she is also a break from the long line of Western politicians that have occupied the post. But there is a downside here, too. If she has no political baggage, she also has none of the political clout that a Senator or governor would bring to the job. Which is one more reason why she will need the help of a president who so far has not shown much passion for the issues she will confront.
These are excerpts from the blog Taking Note, at nytimes.com/opinion.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); NATIONAL PARKS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (77%); WIND ENERGY (76%); ENERGY REGULATION (76%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (76%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (76%); HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (76%); SOLAR ENERGY (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (76%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (76%); OIL EXTRACTION (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); LAND RECLAMATION (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); OIL SPILLS (71%); OIL & GAS LEASES (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (71%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (71%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (71%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (70%); MINES & MINING (64%); GASOLINE PRICES (50%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); BILL CLINTON (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); KEN SALAZAR (58%); DICK CHENEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2013



631 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2423 words

HEADLINE: Lives of the Party

BYLINE: By JACOB HEILBRUNN. 
Jacob Heilbrunn, a regular contributor to the Book Review, is a senior editor at The National Interest.

 BODY:
COOLIDGEBy Amity Shlaes
Illustrated. 565 pp. Harper. $35.
This past December the Claremont Institute convened a forum at the Ronald Reagan Building in Washington to discuss the presidential election. The mood among the conservative stalwarts during the reception may have ranged from pensive to glum, but it brightened somewhat when Claremont's panelists contemplated a return to true Republican principles as advanced by the last president to slash both taxes and the federal budget -- Calvin Coolidge. James Ceaser, a political scientist at the University of Virginia and a regular contributor to The Weekly Standard, said it was important to revive the ''moral stigma'' of debt, and added, ''I want to go back to Coolidge and even McKinley.'' The Claremont fellow Charles Kesler, author of ''I Am the Change,'' a recent book denouncing President Obama and liberalism, agreed: ''We're in for a Coolidge revival.'' 
Indeed we are. Coolidge was a figure of sport in his own era. H. L. Mencken mocked his daily naps -- ''Nero fiddled, but Coolidge only snored'' -- and Dorothy Parker reportedly asked, ''How could they tell?'' when his death was announced. But such quips have only heightened the determination of a growing contingent of Coolidge buffs to resurrect him. They abhor the progressive tradition among Democrats (Woodrow Wilson) and Republicans (Theodore Roosevelt and Herbert Hoover) as hostile to big business and prosperity. Instead, their aim is to spread the austere doctrine of what might be called Republican Calvinism. Their liturgy is based on Coolidge's remark ''If the federal government were to go out of business, the common run of people would not detect the difference.'' Coolidge, the new Calvinists say, has been calumniated by liberal intellectuals for his embrace of what amounted to supply-side economics -- tax cuts for the wealthy that would pay for themselves. Far from being a hapless president who set the stage for the Great Depression, they argue, he presided over a notable golden age.
This view of Silent Cal as a prophet on the right emerged during the Reagan administration. A freshly inaugurated Reagan banished Harry Truman's portrait from the Cabinet Room and replaced it with Coolidge's. As president, Reagan praised Coolidge, read his autobiography and met with Thomas Silver, the author of ''Coolidge and the Historians,'' a pioneering attack on his liberal detractors. Bouquets to Coolidge proliferated: in 1983 Paul Johnson declared in his popular history ''Modern Times'' that Coolidge had presided over ''the last Arcadia.'' Then more than a decade later the prolific business writer Robert Sobel published a tribute called ''Coolidge: An American Enigma'' with the Regnery press. In it, he bestowed what has become the right's highest commendation -- ''the last president who believed in a passive executive branch in times of peace and prosperity.''
Since then a flurry of panegyrists have gone on to contrast that passivity favorably with Obama's alleged hubris. In a column about the ''unsilent Barack,'' for example, George F. Will lamented that Coolidge was ''the last president with a proper sense of his office's constitutional proportions.'' Sarah Palin has expressed her devotion to Coolidge in ''America by Heart,'' while Michele Bachmann has urged that his visage be carved on Mount Rushmore. Meanwhile, Arthur C. Brooks, the president of the American Enterprise Institute, singles him out in the recent book ''The Road to Freedom.''
No one, however, is offering as silky a defense of Coolidge as Amity Shlaes. Shlaes, whose new biography is blurbed by Representative Paul Ryan as a ''must-read,'' has always had a deft finger on the conservative pulse. Her previous book -- the best seller ''The Forgotten Man,'' which assailed both Herbert Hoover and Franklin Roosevelt for perpetuating the Great Depression through big-government activism -- was described in 2009 by Politico as an essential text for House Republicans, who were, it said, ''tearing through . . . 'The Forgotten Man' like soccer moms before book club night.''
Now Shlaes, a trustee of the Calvin Coolidge Memorial Foundation and a former editor at The Wall Street Journal, has turned to Coolidge. She has assiduously researched Coolidge's life, drawing both on his private papers (going so far as to photograph his appointment books) and on contemporary newspaper reports. Her biography depicts him as a paragon of a president, less for what he did than for what he did not do -- Coolidge, she says, ''is our great refrainer.'' But that, for the most part, is as far as Shlaes is willing to go. She has not written a fiery polemic, but a stylistically assured narrative of Coolidge's life that seeks to nudge the reader imperceptibly into sharing his (and her) views. Wall Street potentates like J. P. Morgan and notorious railroad tycoons like E. H. Harriman are blandly depicted as underdogs, the victims of progressive politicians and intellectuals. She displays a marked disinclination to mention, let alone engage, differing interpretations of key events in Coolidge's career. It is also the case that she assumes an omniscient insight into his views, playing Edgar Bergen to Coolidge's Charlie McCarthy, which can make it difficult to distinguish where Coolidge ends and Shlaes begins. Her distinctive approach to Coolidge results in a soothing lullaby about a vanished America, an exercise in nostalgic reverence rather than an authoritative history.
The pity of it is that Coolidge was in fact a more astute politician than the easy scorn of his contemporaries suggested, and historians like David Greenberg, the author of a fine study of Coolidge (which Shlaes scarcely mentions), are starting to offer a more judicious appraisal of him. Coolidge was canny enough to work with several spinmeisters who sought, as far as possible, to mold his public image as a Yankee steward of the Republic through the new media of newsreels and radio. Shlaes doesn't attempt to scrutinize Coolidge's image but to burnish it.
What makes Coolidge a fascinating character, however, aren't his bromidic phrases and vapid homilies, designed to reassure a public unsettled by rapid social and economic change; or his loyalty to his vivacious wife, Grace; or his taciturnity or any of his other personal qualities. Rather, it is that he represented the right's first sweeping counterrevolution against liberal Republicans in a battle that continues down to the present. What Shlaes's biography underscores is the fantastic tenacity with which the party still adheres to the ossified pre-New-Deal-era economic doctrines enunciated by Silent Cal.
Coolidge, who was born in Vermont on the Fourth of July in 1872, grew up in the village of Plymouth Notch, where the Yankee virtues of thrift and industry were prized. His father was a farmer, a merchant and a state legislator; at the age of 3, Calvin sat in the governor's chair, hewed from the timbers of the U.S.S. Constitution. Yet the future president -- a sickly, gaunt and solitary boy who suffered great anguish when his mother died on her 39th birthday -- seemed himself to be made of unpromising material. Not until he entered Amherst College did he display much potential. All his life Coolidge may have been a shy fellow, but he blossomed when he spoke publicly at Amherst. He also studied under a popular professor named Charles Garman, who, Shlaes writes, mesmerized his disciples with the revelation that ''the group was less important than the individual . . . because there was really no such thing as group happiness.''
It was a lesson Coolidge never forgot. He first made it clear that he was at loggerheads with the progressives when he backed the pro-business William Howard Taft in the 1912 election against Theodore Roosevelt, a split that allowed the Democrat Woodrow Wilson to enter the Oval Office. Coolidge could not discern any distinction, however minute, between the welfare of business and individuals. They were identical. In the Massachusetts Senate his ''crowning achievement,'' Shlaes says, ''had been killing a tax on stocks at the last minute by masterfully exercising the Senate president's privilege to create a tie vote.'' Coolidge believed that anyone who constructed a factory was building a temple deserving of ''reverence and praise.''
This sentiment reached full bloom when he won praise as Massachusetts governor for breaking a policemen's strike in Boston in 1919 at a moment when the country was in the midst of the Red Scare, fearful of radicals and immigrants. As Shlaes depicts it, Coolidge acted decisively and heroically to restore the ''reign of law'' for businesses and private property by sending in the state guard. ''Coolidge felt certain of one thing,'' she reports. ''The progressives could not be met. Conciliation would not work.'' Maybe not, but was it really necessary to fire all the policemen in the aftermath? And why had Coolidge not intervened sooner rather than waiting until the strike degenerated into violence?
But Coolidge's intransigence at a time of internal tumult made him a national hero, and his wealthy backers like Frank Stearns, a Boston department store magnate, and Dwight Morrow, a partner at J. P. Morgan, began to see in him presidential timber. The finishing touches were supplied by the advertising man Bruce Barton, a fellow Amherst graduate and an evangelist for capitalism who himself earned fame for his tract ''The Man Nobody Knows,'' a best seller that depicted Jesus and his disciples as the pioneers of a business organization that conquered the world. As part of Coolidge's quest for the presidential nomination in 1920, Barton wrote the first national article about him, in Collier's, emphasizing his flinty ''Yankee'' character -- Coolidge's frugality meant that he rented half of a two-family house in Northampton -- and portraying him as a ''man who kept his own counsel, a novelty when most prominent politicians freely gave advice on everything.'' He was, Barton said, ''cut from granite.''
What Stearns, Morrow and Barton detected in 1920 was that the Coolidge brand could be effectively marketed to a public weary of World War I and Woodrow Wilson. But Coolidge's Republican adversaries kept him from receiving the nomination (''Nominate a man who lives in a two-family house?'' Senator Henry Cabot Lodge said. ''Never!''), and he had to settle for a spot on the ticket as vice president to Warren Harding. After Harding died in August 1923, Lodge told a reporter: ''My God! That means Coolidge is president!''
No sooner did Coolidge become president than he went on a budget and tax cutting spree to terminate what he called the ''despotic exactions'' of the past years. The immediate aim was to enact Harding's hope to roll back the higher progressive income tax that Wilson had imposed during World War I. Coolidge, for his part, idolized the Treasury secretary Andrew Mellon, whose frosty credo was that ''the people generally must become more interested in saving the government's money than in spending it.'' Tax cuts, Shlaes asserts, were ''not merely to favor the rich, as many said. The tax rate cuts at the top were designed to favor enterprise. If people got to keep more of their money, they would hire others, Mellon said.'' As Mellon saw it, this was ''scientific taxation,'' a program he detailed in 1924 in his classic statement of supply-side economics, ''Taxation: The People's Business.'' But progressive Republicans initially impeded Coolidge and Mellon's sweeping plans. Coolidge was undaunted. ''Cutting rates brought more revenue,'' says Shlaes. ''So cutting rates even more might bring yet more cash.'' All Coolidge could think about was economizing. He was a cheap tipper. He berated the White House housekeeper, Mrs. Jaffray, for favoring specialty shops rather than the new supermarkets. Talking to a group of Jewish philanthropists, he admitted that the budget was ''a sort of obsession with me. . . . I regard a good budget as among the noblest monuments of virtue.'' When the mayor of Johannesburg, South Africa, sent the Coolidges two lion cubs, the White House named them Tax Reduction and Budget Bureau. In 1926, Coolidge finally got the tax cuts he had always dreamed about, what Shlaes deems nothing less than ''a beauty to behold, with its surtax rate topping out at 20 percent.'' By the end of his term, only the very wealthiest Americans paid any income tax at all. Frenzied speculation took off. The bubble would soon pop. But Shlaes suavely dismisses the notion that Coolidge bears responsibility for the Great Depression and suggests his work was ''complete, ready as a kind of blessing for another era.''
This is flapdoodle. No, Coolidge was not single-handedly culpable for the economic calamity of the 1930s. But neither can he be safely extracted from the ruin that followed his presidency. Quite the contrary. Coolidge was the pre-eminent cheerleader for the economic nostrums that led to the crash. His opposition to regulation allowed Wall Street and the banks to engage in rampant speculation and insider trading, practices that were not curbed until Joseph Kennedy was appointed head of the new Securities and Exchange Commission by Franklin Roosevelt to ban the very practices he himself had employed. So deep was Coolidge's antipathy to any form of government action that he even viewed his gifted secretary of commerce and successor Herbert Hoover with a measure of contempt, calling him the ''wonder boy'' because he fell into the progressive Republican camp.
With yet another tribute about to appear -- ''Why Coolidge Matters,'' by the former Claremont Institute fellow Charles C. Johnson, will be published in March -- Coolidge will surely continue to enjoy a comeback on the right. Yet his actual record shows that he was an extraordinarily blinkered and foolish and complacent leader, no less than George W. Bush before the stock market plummeted in 2008. The bogus nostrums that Coolidge touted have directly led either to enormous deficits during the Reagan era or to outright catastrophe during the Bush era. Shlaes never stops to ponder the abundant literature chafing at and exposing the conformity and avarice of the Roaring Twenties, but the prosperity offered by Calvinism has always proved as elusive as the promise of the green light that Jay Gatsby watches at the end of Daisy's dock. Conservatives may be intent on excavating a hero, but Coolidge is no model for the present. He is a bleak omen from the past.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: March 4, 1925: Calvin Coolidge is sworn in as president by the chief justice, and former president, William Howard Taft. (PHOTOGRAPH FROM THE NEW YORK TIMES PHOTO ARCHIVE) (BR16)
 PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH OF CALVIN COOLIDGE FROM ASSOCIATED PRESS) (BR17) GRAPHIC (GRAPHIC BY THE HEADS OF STATE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); WRITERS (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (76%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (76%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (75%); HISTORY (73%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (72%); RELIGION (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); BUDGETS (71%); TAX LAW (71%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (68%); GREAT DEPRESSION (64%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (64%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (57%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2013



632 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; BIG DEAL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1339 words

HEADLINE: The Quick-Change Artist

BYLINE: By ALEXEI BARRIONUEVO

 BODY:
MIAMI BEACH -- High-end neighborhoods come and go, though few swing from blighted status to the height of luxury living in just one decade.
But in Miami Beach just about anything seems possible. There is no shortage of dreamers and visionaries, and men with the tenacity to battle to the bitter end for what they envision will play out -- someday.
That's what happened in the South of Fifth Street neighborhood, where the city took on an ambitious German real estate investor in the struggle to redefine an area that criminals and castoffs had all but taken over.
Almost implausibly, South of Fifth has emerged as the most expensive section of Miami Beach. A string of high-rise condos along the water, which were at the center of the struggle over the city's development 15 years ago, are selling apartments for record prices. 
Last year, a penthouse at one of two Continuum towers sold for $25 million, then the highest sale for an apartment in Miami Beach. In late December, a penthouse at the neighboring Icon tower sold for just under $21 million, a record for a bay-facing apartment in the city. A lower-rise 50-unit development, One Ocean, has yet to start construction, but has only three apartments that are not spoken for.
Today the area's streets are clean, the vagrants are gone and the lower-lying Art Deco buildings the city fought to preserve by establishing a historic district have been upgraded. More than a dozen restaurants, including several considered the most exclusive in Miami Beach, have opened in the neighborhood, which is also home to the 18-acre South Pointe Park.
Of all the high-end stories of rapid urban renewal and massive accumulation of wealth I have encountered around the world in the past year, the area South of Fifth Street stands out for the sheer pace of its transformation.
''What happened there in less than a decade is absolutely mind-boggling,'' said William Cary, the city's assistant planning director, who drew up the historic district.
Dating to 1912, South of Fifth Street was the first subdivision of Miami Beach to be developed. The brothers James and John Lummus set out to create an affordable seaside community for the ''proletariat,'' Mr. Cary said. They plotted lots 50 feet wide, small enough that even people with modest incomes could afford to buy land and build homes, Mr. Cary said.
The area served as the industrial and transportation hub of the city back then, with railyards and oil tanks.
Buildings of three stories or less continued to be built in an Art Deco style until 1954 when the Fontainebleau Hotel opened farther north. With 1,504 rooms and multiple restaurants, theaters, arcades and coffee shops, it began to ''suck all the energy out of South Beach,'' Mr. Cary said.
South of Fifth became desolate. Conditions worsened after 1980, when the Mariel boatlift dropped 125,000 Cubans in Florida. South of Fifth was disproportionately affected, city officials said. The area became known for drug dealing, and the streets were considered unsafe at night. It decayed into a zone of abandoned warehouses, seedy efficiency hotels and boarded-up properties. Mr. Cary recalled seeing vagrants living in the then-vacant Brown's Hotel on Ocean Drive, lighting the rooms with candles.
Then, while on vacation in early 1992, Thomas Kramer, a German businessman, took a helicopter ride over South Beach and had a vision: to create a version of New York's Battery Park City on the southern tip of Miami Beach.
Before German reunification, Mr. Kramer had started a fund to invest in East German real estate. The fund soon went bankrupt. But he had also married into a wealthy German family.
With a reputation for knowing how to get things done quickly, Mr. Kramer spent more than $100 million to buy real estate in Miami Beach, including 45 acres south of Fifth Street. The area was then called South Pointe; the dilapidated buildings served as chic locations for fashion model shoots.
''Everyone thought he was crazy,'' said Saul Gross, the president of Streamline Properties and then a city commissioner. ''He wanted to buy whatever he could, and he was willing to pay whatever people were asking; he wasn't even negotiating.''
Mr. Kramer invited 11 architectural firms to develop plans for the area. After six days of discussions, ''Miami Beach's original city center was ready for its most spectacular facelift,'' he said.
But Mr. Kramer was not a developer by trade, and after starting work on the Portofino Tower, he ran into financing problems. In 1995 he turned to Jorge Pérez of the Related Group, a developer who had been focusing on building affordable living units. Mr. Pérez eventually bought 22.5 acres in the South Pointe area from Mr. Kramer for $125 million, re-branding it South of Fifth. The one parcel Mr. Pérez missed out on was where a Coast Guard station had been. Mr. Kramer sold that to Bruce Eichner, the New York developer, and it became the site of Continuum Towers.
Back then there were no height restrictions. When Mr. Kramer and developers like Donald J. Trump -- who in the mid-1990s proposed a 100-story hotel-casino with residences where the Continuum now stands -- announced plans to fill the area with large condo towers, residents began to react. A ''Save Miami Beach'' campaign resulted in a referendum to rein in uncontrolled development.
While Mr. Kramer saw the older buildings as a slum not worth saving, city officials created a historic district in 1996 to protect the low-rise Art Deco structures at a remove from the beach. The referendum passed in 1997 and put in place height restrictions for future developments.
Mr. Cary gerrymandered the historic district around half a dozen towers that had already been approved, including the Murano, the Apogee and the Icon. Mr. Pérez developed all of them. He also has the last site left for development, on which he plans a 32-residence condo at prices expected to average $3 million.
In the end the towers gave the neighborhood a distinctive character. Some residents gripe that more infrastructure -- like grocery stores -- is still needed, but the increase in prices is stunning. Consider that in the mid-1990s it was still possible to buy a one-bedroom on Ocean Drive for under $100,000. Today finding something for under $1 million -- in a new development, certainly -- would be a feat.
Before construction finished in 2002, the Continuum's south tower was selling apartments for $650 a square foot. Recently units there have been averaging more than $1,500 a square foot, with penthouses selling for over $3,000 a square foot, said Dora Puig, a broker with PuigWerner. Ms. Puig has Mr. Eichner's penthouse on the market for $39 million.
Even lower-lying developments that once struggled are now luxury properties South of Fifth. Ocean House, expanded from an Art Deco building on Ocean Drive, has become an exclusive enclave that Ms. Puig likened to the Hamptons, with private beach access and cozy sitting rooms. iStar Financial took it over during the downturn when sales were slow.
Ms. Puig is selling the seventh-floor Ocean House penthouse owned by the restaurateur Myles Chefetz for $18.5 million. Mr. Chefetz, a New Jersey native, has opened several restaurants in the neighborhood, including Prime One Twelve, Big Pink and Prime Italian, as well as the Prime Hotel.
Ocean House is just half a block from two of Mr. Chefetz's restaurants. He bought the 4,176-square-foot penthouse for $7.2 million in 2009. He said he spent three years and $5 million renovating it. Features include 5,200 square feet of outdoor space with a pool area and an outdoor kitchen with eight Viking refrigerators and wine chillers. Not to mention the $14,000 ''bird-suppression'' system -- a fancy term for a rotating reflective device meant to protect the deck from droppings.
It's another stunning example of the neighborhood's turnaround, and a far cry from the Lummus brothers' original vision. In the Miami Beach of 2013, Mr. Cary concluded, ''the proletariat can no longer afford to live'' south of Fifth Street.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A view of the South of Fifth neighborhood in Miami Beach. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DIANA ZALUCKY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (RE1)
The South of Fifth area in Miami Beach has high-rises along the water and low-rises in the center. A penthouse at Ocean House, above left, is on the market for $18.5 million. Miami Beach in 1964, above right. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DIANA ZALUCKY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 CITY OF MIAMI BEACH HISTORICAL ARCHIVES) (RE6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CITIES (89%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (88%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (86%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); THEATER (76%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (75%); CONDOMINIUMS (75%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (74%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (70%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); RESTAURANTS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (94%) FLORIDA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2013



633 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Straight Sets)

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2013

SECTION: SPORTS; tennis

LENGTH: 606 words

HEADLINE: San Jose Says Goodbye to a Beloved Tournament

BYLINE: NICHOLAS MCCARVEL


HIGHLIGHT: Two of the tallest and hardest-serving players in tennis headlined the SAP Open in San Jose this week, but the story line that rose above John Isner, Milos Raonic and all others is the departure of this event after 125 years in the Bay Area. 

 BODY:
Two of the tallest and hardest-serving players in tennis headlined the SAP Open in San Jose this week, but the story line that rose above John Isner, Milos Raonic and all others was the departure of this event after 125 years in the Bay Area.
A variety of factors -- including the absence of American tennis stars on top, a frustrating economy and a growing yearning for the sport elsewhere -- have been blamed for dislodging the event from its Northern California roots, where it originated in 1889 and has featured champions like Fred Perry, Rod Laver, Jimmy Connors, Arthur Ashe, John McEnroe, Andre Agassi, Pete Sampras and Andy Roddick. 
Fingers continue to be pointed as to what the cause of the departure was (the tournament will move to Memphis, and the Memphis event will move to Rio de Janeiro). In the region that for so long has cherished a sport many of its residents play, a sense of mourning had overtaken the HP Pavilion throughout the week.
"It's bittersweet," the tournament director Michael T. Lehr said in an interview Wednesday. "This tournament has been here forever - 125 years, which is a long time. Sometimes you have to remove the emotion of it and focus on the business."
Business aside, it's an emotional farewell for a tournament so embedded in the sporting history of its region.
"Our members are disappointed; they truly enjoyed this event," said Steve Leube, the director of the Northern California section of the United States Tennis Association. "For our tennis community, it's a big loss for us. We hate to see it go."
Said Isner, who won his first ATP World Tour match of the year on Wednesday: "It's sad to see this tournament go. I know I always enjoy coming back here." 
He added that the lack of a Grand Slam champion in the United States didn't help.
"Every American is working to do his best," he said. "It does hurt the marketability of the sport, especially in this area. This is a great area for tennis, but that's not going to be the case after this year."
Isner's fellow American Michael Russell, a 16-year veteran on the tour, said he was also sad to see the event depart.
"It's disappointing; It's great to play events in the States," Russell said after beating his fellow American Donald Young on Wednesday afternoon inside a mostly empty arena. "It's so unique being able to play in a hockey arena of this size. It's a great event."
The volunteer tournament driver and usher Jan Williams entered her final week after 13 years in San Jose.
"I'm very sad," Williams said. "I've taken a week of vacation every year to work, to volunteer. It's been amazing. I had an occurrence last year where I had a player come up to me and said, 'I've missed you! I haven't seen you for a whole year!' That stuff makes you smile."
Wednesday evening at the HP Pavilion, fans streamed in to see the big-serving Isner. A buzz around the corridors filled air that was heavy with tennis anticipation but also a sense of nostalgia.
"After a 125-year run, to lose it hurts," said Leube, his volunteers nearby at a recruiting table. "I wish that if it really was an economical reason that they would have reached out to our section at least and say, 'Hey, look, we're not getting the reception we want. Do you want to partner with us? Or do you have someone who you think might be interested?' We were never given that opportunity because it was a done deal when we found out. That's the sad part about it."

        
At SAP Open, a Showcase for the Next Generation
        
Remembering a Pioneer in Fields Far Beyond His Sport
        
Australian Open Notebook: Top Seeds Rule Play
        
Q. and A. With the WTA's Stacey Allaster
        
For Federer, Anger Goes Only So Far

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); TENNIS (90%); SPORTS (90%); TOURNAMENTS (88%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); SPORTS MARKETING (73%) San Jose (Calif); Tennis

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (96%) San Jose (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2013



634 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2013

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 385 words

HEADLINE: Taming the Runaway U.S. Budget

BYLINE: ALBERT R. HUNT


HIGHLIGHT: To assure markets and reign in what will be a disastrous deficit over the long-term, action needs to be taken soon. But cuts do not have to take place immediately. 

 BODY:
WASHINGTON - If Democrats and Republicans can't agree on a deficit reduction plan, in two weeks automatic budget cuts will kick in that could severely weaken the U.S. economy and the American military. 
As I write in my latest Letter From Washington, there are sensible ways to avoid this, though it is far from certain dysfunctional Washington can achieve them. 
One reason is that so much of spending is now hard-wired into the system. 
Representative John Dingell of Michigan is the only current member of Congress who served in 1962. Yet he would hard-pressed to recall the federal budget of a half century ago.
 In those days, more than two-thirds, 67.5 percent, of spending was discretionary, meaning it had had to be appropriated annually. Almost half the budget went to defense and about 18 percent went to discretionary domestic programs.
 Mandatory spending, or entitlements, was only a little more than a quarter of the budget, and more than half of that went for Social Security.
 That picture is turned upside down in the current fiscal year. Almost 60 percent of the budget is mandatory spending with one $1 of every $5 going to Social Security and $1 in $7 to Medicare and Medicaid. Defense is almost 19 percent, a fraction of what it was in 1962, and domestic discretionary programs, at a little more than 16 percent, takes a smaller proportional bite out of the federal budget than they did a half century ago despite the creation of so many new initiatives.
 This isn't going to change. "Regardless of who is president, what will be spent in any given year will be determined by laws that are already set, some decades earlier," says Stan Collender, an expert on the federal budget.
 Despite the large budget deficits in recent years, interest on the debt payments, at 6.5 percent this year, is almost precisely what it was a half century ago. These payments, however, are expected to climb steadily over the next 50 years. Under current projections, Mr. Collender says, they are on track to become the fastest-growing area of the federal budget.

        
How Much Are Americans Willing to Spend to Defend Europe?
        
China Assails U.S. Over Alliance With Japan and Possible F-16 Sales to Taiwan
        
U.S. Spends Too Much, Taxes Too Little. Neither Candidate Has Offered a Real Solution

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (94%); BUDGETS (94%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); MEDICARE (70%); MEDICAID (51%) Federal Budget (US); Page Two

PERSON: JOHN DINGELL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); TAIWAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2013



635 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2013

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: In Singapore's Immigration Debate, Sign of Asia's Slipping Middle Class?

BYLINE: DIDI KIRSTEN TATLOW


HIGHLIGHT: Immigration is controversial everywhere. But does a recent protest in Singapore point to a deeper problem: a weakening middle class in Asia, with similar sentiments in Hong Kong, too? What do you think? 

 BODY:
BEIJING - Immigration is a hot-button issue nearly everywhere in the world, though the contours of the debate vary from place to place. In the United States, sweeping changes to the law may offer legal residency for millions of people who have entered the country illegally, my colleague Ashley Parker reports.
In Singapore, the debate looks somewhat different: The government plans to increase the population from just more than five million to a possible high of nearly seven million by 2030, via regulated, legal immigration, and this is provoking opposition. 
So much so that on Saturday, about 3,000 people turned out for what some commentators said was one of the biggest demonstrations in the nation's history. (If the number seems small, it reflects the tight political control exerted over Singapore life by the People's Action Party, which has run the country for about half a century and discourages public protest.)
What are the contours of the debate in Singapore?
Concern over booming immigration, often focused on new arrivals from increasingly rich China, has been simmering in the nation, with many feeling that the immigrants do not play by the same rules, that their manners are poor and that they are pushing up prices. That feeling crystallized last year when a wealthy Chinese man driving a Ferrari at high speed killed three people (including himself) in a nighttime accident.
(Similar sentiments are found in Hong Kong, as my colleagues Bettina Wassener and Gerry Mullany wrote.)
Vividly illustrating the resentment, Singaporeans sometimes call the wealthy immigrants "rich Chinese locusts," according to an article in the Economic Observer's Worldcrunch.
So the Singapore government's Population White Paper that passed in Parliament earlier this month, just before Chinese New Year, was bound to stir things up.
The government is presenting the rise in immigration as a target that is needed if Singapore, where immigrants already make up about 40 percent of the population, and which has the highest concentration of millionaires in the world, is to continue to flourish, reports said. Singaporeans just are not having enough children, said the prime minister, Lee Hsien Loong.
"In my view, in 2030, I think six million will not be enough to meet Singaporeans' needs as our population ages because of this problem of the baby boomers and bulge of aging people," Mr. Lee said in Parliament, adding that 6.9 million was not a target but a number to be used to help plan for infrastructure.
"Do we really need to increase our population by that much?" wrote a person called Chang Wei Meng in a letter to The Straits Times, according to Reuters. "What happened to achieving the Swiss standard of living?"
Gilbert Goh, a main organizer of the rally Saturday at Singapore's Speaker's Corner in a public park, said the protesters had a message: "They want to tell the government, please reconsider this policy. The turnout is a testimony that this policy is flawed and unpopular on the ground," The Associated Press quoted Mr. Goh as saying.
Yet amid the familiar rhetoric about immigrants, heard around the world - they don't fit in, they're rude, they're different - might something more important be going on here?
In a blog post on Singapore News Alternative, Nicole Seah, a politician who has run for Parliament and comments on social issues, wrote: "Along with many other Singaporeans, I oppose the White Paper."
Why? She is looking for "a society that lives in harmony, rather than tense and overcrowded conditions," she writes.
"Not the Singapore Inc. that has been aggressively forced down our throats the past few years - a Singapore which is in danger of becoming a transient state where people from all over, come, make their fortunes, and leave."
Not "a Singapore that has become a playground for the rich and the people who can afford it. A Singapore where the middle class is increasingly drowned out because they do not have the social clout or sufficient representatives in Parliament to voice their concerns."
Ms. Seah's statements raise an interesting question: Is this part of a phenomenon that the columnist Chrystia Freeland has written about so ably for this newspaper, the ascendancy of a wealthy, "plutocrat" class and the slipping status of the middle class
As Ms. Freeland wrote last week: "The most important fact about the United States in this century is that middle-class incomes are stagnating. The financial crisis has revealed an equally stark structural problem in much of Europe." Is it hitting Asia, too, and does Singapore's protest speak, at least in part, to this? Hong Kong's dissatisfaction too?

        
Asia Is Rising When It Comes to Expatriates' Costs, Too
        
Attention Expats: Singapore Is Better Than Hong Kong
        
Macau's Gaming Take: Sign of Chinese Emigration?
        
One Country, Two Systems? Not Lately
        
Mainlander Shoppers Met With Protests in Hong Kong

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); TRENDS (77%); CHINESE NEW YEAR (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); LIVING STANDARDS (76%); POLITICS (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); CHILDREN (71%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (71%); BABY BOOMERS (71%); HISTORY (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (50%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Immigration and Emigration; Hong Kong; Singapore; Featured; View From Asia

PERSON: LEE HSIEN LOONG (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (74%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) SINGAPORE (99%); HONG KONG (94%); ASIA (94%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%) Hong Kong; Singapore

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2013



636 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1344 words

HEADLINE: The Cherokees Free Their Slaves

BYLINE: MELINDA MILLER and RACHEL SMITH PURVIS


HIGHLIGHT: How the Indian nation navigated emancipation - and how its decisions resonate today. 

 BODY:
Following on the heels of the Emancipation Proclamation, in February 1863 the Cherokee Nation declared that all slaves within its limits were "forever free." In 1983, the descendants of these slaves, known as the Cherokee Freedmen, were removed from tribal membership rolls and prohibited from voting in Cherokee elections. A series of protracted legal battles over Freedmen citizenship ensued and continue today. 
Questions on the status of the Cherokees' former slaves in tribal life originated in the complicated landscape of the Civil War in Indian Territory, a story of an internal civil war within the larger conflict. Although the Cherokee Nation had initially joined the Confederacy, Principal Chief John Ross and his supporters began discussions with Northern forces during the summer of 1862. These loyal Cherokees convened a meeting of the National Council at Cowskin Prairie and produced two distinct emancipation acts, documents that reverberate in today's controversies over the legal standing of the Cherokee Freedmen. 
Ross had originally rebuffed attempts to become engaged in the war, writing in June 1861: "I have already signified my purpose to take no part in it whatever." But neutrality proved untenable, and the Cherokees signed a treaty of alliance with the Confederacy in October 1861. The nation raised two regiments; one was under the command of Ross's nephew-in-law John Drew, while Stand Watie, Ross's long-time political opponent, led the other. 
By 1862, Ross had become disillusioned with the Confederate government. The first major military engagements in Indian Territory proved disastrous for both the Confederacy and the Cherokees. Retreating from Indian Territory, the Confederacy left the Cherokees open to Union advances and without supplies for Cherokee troops and destitute civilians. Although Ross believed the Confederacy was shirking its treaty promises, the Confederate colonel Douglas H. Cooper called upon Ross to fulfill his obligations by ordering all Cherokee men of fighting age to "take up arms to repel invasion." 
Union Capt. Harris S. Greeno was aware of Ross's dissatisfaction with the Confederacy, and he ordered the arrest of Ross and his family at their plantation home, Rose Cottage, in present-day eastern Oklahoma. They were quickly paroled and escorted to Union territory, and they retreated to his wife's family home in Philadelphia. Ross would spend the remainder of the war attempting to convince the Lincoln administration of the Cherokee's loyalty and commitment to the Union cause. 
With Ross absent from from Indian Territory, southern Cherokee leaders moved quickly to elect Stand Watie as principal chief and reaffirmed the Cherokee Nation's treaty with the Confederacy. But in the winter of 1863, Col. William Phillips escorted Union Cherokees into the Cherokee Nation. There, they held a meeting of the National Council to affirm that they, and not Watie and his followers, were the true government of the Cherokee people. This 1863 loyal council opened by denouncing the Cherokee treaty with the Confederacy and insisting they were pressured into the alliance due to a lack of federal protection in Indian Territory. They then quickly moved to address the issue of slavery in the Cherokee Nation. Within the four-day period from Feb. 18 to Feb. 21, 1863, the Cherokee Council passed two separate emancipation acts. 
The slavery issue was of such great importance they tackled it first: before they removed Stand Watie and other Confederates from office, before discussing how to deal with the utter devastation the Cherokee people faced in their war-torn country and before John Ross was appointed to represent the Cherokee Nation in discussions with the United States government. 
The prominent place of slavery at these council meetings reflected a keen understanding of the nature of emancipation policy within the Lincoln administration. As the Cherokee Nation severed ties with the Confederacy and hoped to rejoin the Union, they were certainly aware of another government that had recently done exactly that: on Dec. 31, 1862, President Lincoln welcomed West Virginia into the Union, with its statehood conditional on its newly written constitution's including an abolition clause. 
The Emancipation Acts themselves further demonstrated the Cherokee Council's acute awareness of President Lincoln's policies. They first called for a Cherokee delegation to negotiate with the United States government to emancipate their slaves "upon the Principle of Compensation." During the initial years of the Civil War, Lincoln had proposed ending slavery in the border states through a gradual dissolution of the peculiar institution, with compensation offered to slave owners for their financial losses. He again endorsed a plan for gradual and compensated emancipation in his annual address to Congress on Dec. 1, 1862. The Cherokee Council's first Emancipation Act, passed on Feb. 18, was an attempt to take Lincoln up on this offer. 
What is surprising, then, is how quickly the Cherokee council issued a second Emancipation Act that specified universal emancipation without compensation. On Feb. 20, the council declared: "Any person or Persons, who may have been held in Slavery are, hereby, declared to be forever free." Why did Cherokee leaders change such a fundamental aspect of their emancipation plans? 
Between Lincoln's endorsement of compensated emancipation in his annual address and the Cherokees' plan for compensated emancipation, a watershed had occurred. On Jan. 1, 1863, President Lincoln signed the Emancipation Proclamation. This action forever altered the parameters of freedom in the United States, and Lincoln would cease his offers of compensated emancipation. The Cherokee Nation had missed its opportunity to receive payment for freeing slaves. Strengthening ties with the Union would require the Cherokees to adjust to Lincoln's new emancipation policies. 
The Cherokees, however, differed from Lincoln and his cabinet over one key issue. There was no serious discussion or consideration of freedmen's citizenship in the Cherokee Nation. Instead, on Nov. 14, the Cherokee Council passed an act that explicitly denied citizenship to former slaves and required freed slaves remaining in the Nation to obtain work permits. The incorporation of the former slaves of Cherokee masters into the Cherokee citizenry would wait until the 1866 Treaty between the Cherokees and United States. 
In the aftermath of freedom, the United States incorporated freed people into the body politic with constitutional amendments outlining their citizenship rights. In the 1866 treaty, federal officials also required Cherokee leaders to grant former slaves and their descendants "all the rights of native Cherokees." This particular phrase is important, because it did not explicitly state what these rights were - and has been a source of tension between Cherokee leaders and the Cherokee Freedmen ever since.
 Follow Disunion at twitter.com/NYTcivilwar or join us on Facebook. 
 Sources: Clarissa Confer, "The Cherokee Nation in the Civil War"; William McLoughlin, "After the Trail of Tears"; Melinda Miller, "Essays on Race and the Persistence of Economic Inequality; Cherokee Nation, 1863 Emancipation Acts and Treaty of 1866; James Oaks, "Freedom National"; Rachel Smith Purvis, "'Maintaining intact our homogenousness': Race, Citizenship, & Reconstructing Cherokee"; United States Government, The War of the Rebellion: a Compilation of the Official Records of the Union and Confederate Armies. 
 Melinda C. Miller, a visiting assistant professor of economics at Yale and an assistant professor of economics at the United States Naval Academy, studies the economic status of the Cherokee freedmen during the decades following the Civil War. Rachel Smith Purvis, a postdoctoral associate at Yale, is revising her manuscript on the Cherokee Nation during the Reconstruction era. 

        
Captivity in Black and White
        
'Hurrah for Old Abe'
        
The Two Julias
        
A Capitalist Case for Emancipation
        
America's Moral Volcano

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); SLAVERY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (88%); ELECTIONS (77%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (69%); ARMED FORCES (64%); PAROLE (61%) Cherokee Indians; Civil War (US) (1861-65); Emancipation Proclamation (1863); Slavery; Disunion

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2013



637 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 341 words

HEADLINE: Economic Reports for the Week of Feb. 18

 BODY:
ECONOMIC REPORTS Economic data to be released include the Producer Price Index for January and housing starts for January (Wednesday); and weekly jobless claims, the Consumer Price Index for January, used home sales for January, the Philadelphia Fed index for February and leading economic indicators for January (Thursday). 
CORPORATE EARNINGS Companies scheduled to released quarterly earnings reports include Medtronic, Dell and Marriott International (Tuesday); Dish Network and Toll Brothers (Wednesday); Safeway, Wal-Mart, American International Group, Hewlett-Packard and Nordstrom (Thursday); and Interpublic Group (Friday).
IN THE UNITED STATES On Monday, financial markets, government offices and most businesses will be closed in observance of the Presidents' Day holiday.
On Tuesday, a judge in New York will hear arguments about the right of Apple shareholders to vote on the issuing of preferred shares; the Supreme Court hears arguments about how patent law applies to self-replicating products in a case involving an Indiana farmer who grew soybeans using seeds from plants that were grown from genetically modified seeds from Monsanto; and a trial begins in New York State Court on whether Macy's can force Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia to break a sales agreement with J. C. Penney.
On Wednesday, the Federal Communications Commission will vote on whether to propose rules to open more airwaves for Wi-Fi use; and the Federal Reserve will release minutes of its Jan. 29-30 meeting.
OVERSEAS On Monday, Mario Draghi, the president of the European Central Bank, will speak at a quarterly hearing on the central bank at the European Parliament; and Herman von Rompuy, the president of the European Union, will speak to the European Parliament about the bloc's proposed budget.
On Tuesday, the International Trade Commission will announce whether it will review a judge's ruling that cleared Apple of an accusation that infringed a patent owned by Google.
On Friday, the European Commission will publish new forecasts for the euro zone economy.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRODUCER PRICES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); HOUSING STARTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (79%); EURO ZONE (79%); EXISTING HOME SALES (79%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (79%); BUDGETS (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (76%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (75%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (74%); JUDGES (74%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (74%); PATENT INFRINGEMENT (73%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (73%); PATENT LAW (73%); PREFERRED STOCK (73%); PATENTS (73%); SUPREME COURTS (69%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED CROPS (69%); MONETARY UNIONS (69%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (69%); CENTRAL BANKS (69%); AGRICULTURAL BIOTECHNOLOGY (67%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (65%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (65%); APPEALS (53%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (84%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (82%); MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC (72%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (71%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (71%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (58%); MEDTRONIC INC (57%); DISH NETWORK CORP (57%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (57%); MARTHA STEWART LIVING OMNIMEDIA INC (55%); MONSANTO CO (55%); GOOGLE INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (55%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (54%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (84%); MAR (NYSE) (72%); IPG (NYSE) (71%); AIG (NYSE) (71%); 8685 (TSE) (71%); MDT (NYSE) (57%); DISH (NASDAQ) (57%); HPQ (NYSE) (57%); MSO (NYSE) (55%); MON (NYSE) (55%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (84%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (84%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (84%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (84%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (72%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (72%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (71%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (71%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (71%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (71%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (58%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (58%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (57%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (57%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (57%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS512191 TELEPRODUCTION & OTHER POSTPRODUCTION SERVICES (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (55%); NAICS423220 HOME FURNISHING MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (55%); NAICS332215 METAL KITCHEN COOKWARE, UTENSIL, CUTLERY & FLATWARE (EXCEPT PRECIOUS) MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS327110 POTTERY, CERAMICS & PLUMBING FIXTURE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (55%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (55%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (55%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) EUROPE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2013



638 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BITS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 485 words

HEADLINE: Locating Singles By Neighborhood

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
At Trulia, a residential real estate Web site, the analysts are constantly crunching data - home and apartment listings, prices, school ratings, crime rates and other numbers.
With Valentine's Day coming this week, Jed Kolko, Trulia's chief economist and head of analytics, decided to sift through household, gender, city and neighborhood data in America. If you're looking for someone single of the opposite sex, where are your chances best and worst, statistically speaking? 
He posted his findings on the Trulia Trends site on Monday.
According to Trulia's analysis, men living alone most outnumber women living alone in Las Vegas; Honolulu; Palm Bay, Fla.; Gary, Ind.; and San Jose, Calif.
Women most outnumber men in Bethesda, Md.; Washington; Boston; New York; and Raleigh, N.C.
At the broader metropolitan level, Mr. Kolko said in an interview, labor markets are typically the determining factor. Men outnumber women in regions that have a higher proportion of technology, manufacturing and construction jobs. Women outnumber men most in places with more professional services jobs and in bigger cities.
The data sets for many thousands of ZIP codes, Mr. Kolko explained, all came from the 2010 census and were downloaded onto a laptop, then sliced, diced and manipulated using Stata data analysis and statistical software.
The data was massaged a bit. Only people living alone were counted; an earlier survey showed singles prefer to date someone who lives alone. And this time, Mr. Kolko factored out the gay and lesbian population, using the assumption that the share of gay or lesbian singles in neighborhoods would be roughly equal to same-sex couples living in those neighborhoods. (Last year, Mr. Kolko did an analysis of the ZIP code neighborhoods with the highest shares of gays and lesbians.)
Local industries may play a large role in gender populations for cities as a whole. But neighborhoods, Mr. Kolko said, are a more genuine reflection of where people want to live. So for each of the 10 largest metropolitan areas, he calculated the ZIP codes with the highest ratio of men to women, and women to men.
Men, Mr. Kolko observed, tend to settle near downtown or in recently redeveloped neighborhoods like the Waterfront in Boston or Long Island City in New York. Women are more likely to live in residential areas, including the Marina in San Francisco and Queen Anne in Seattle, and neighborhoods that are seen as safe and are more affluent, like the Upper East Side of New York and Upper Connecticut Avenue in Washington.
More women in high-income neighborhoods? Is this another sign of the much-discussed trend of women doing better than men? Mr. Kolko did not push the data that far. "It probably says more about where men and women choose to live in a given city rather than which gender is more successful," he said.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); MEN (89%); TRENDS (89%); GAYS & LESBIANS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CRIME RATES (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (77%); CITIES (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (68%); SCIENTIFIC SOFTWARE (51%)

COMPANY: TRULIA INC (91%)

TICKER: TRLA (NYSE) (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); GARY, IN, USA (79%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (56%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2013



639 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; METROPOLITAN DIARY; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1278 words

HEADLINE: 

 BODY:
DEAR DIARY:
Feb. 10 was the day after the big snowstorm's visit to New York City, but it was Sunday, so I had to attend Mass at 8:30 a.m. at St. Bartholomew's Roman Catholic Church in Elmhurst, Queens, almost full despite the slippery streets.
I found a seat near the front on the left-hand side of the church, which has three rows; the middle one has the most benches. As soon as I arrived, the music and singing started, and the procession, led by the celebrant, followed by two altar boys and the lector, marched toward the altar.
I was deeply engrossed in the ritual until the lector began the first reading, when from the corner of an eye I saw a young man of about 14 or 15. He was bent down low, crouching in his seat, leaning to one side by the aisle in the middle row opposite mine. 
At first I thought he was sick; but wait a minute ... no ... with both hands and four fingers, he was texting! I became so amused and distracted by his demeanor that my attention got divided between him and the Mass. This went on until Holy Communion, when he stood up like the rest of us, approached the altar and received communion.
Back in his seat and on his way out in the recession, he continued doing it. Was he sending messages to God? And was He texting back?
Nelia I. Camargo
Dear Diary:
I attended a funeral Mass in December, at St. Joseph's Church on East 87th Street, for a homeless man named Jose Perez.
For several years, Mr. Perez had wheeled a shopping cart to a corner on 87th Street near a supermarket. The cart was packed with belongings and, on top of a blanket, was Shorty, a small dog of indeterminate mixture, one part of which was Corgi.
After I'd make a contribution to Mr. Perez's cup, we'd talk baseball. He was a big Yankee fan and read the sports section of a donated newspaper every day. The relationship was not one-sided. When he learned that my son was a Yankee fan, he gave me a World Series scorecard to send to him.
And once he gave me a beautiful tool, whose parts fit like a little jigsaw puzzle, when I told him I was a retired engineer.
I always gave Shorty a good belly scratching, and when he saw me coming his little tail would wag prestissimo.
Around Thanksgiving, the cart failed to appear. I was worried when a week passed. Then I saw three women at his usual spot, in agitated conversation. From them I learned that Jose Perez had died, and no one knew what had happened to Shorty.
Within days, the area became a kind of shrine. Flowers were tacked to the wall, sympathy cards, handwritten notes of farewell. And an announcement of the Mass on Dec. 22 at St. Joseph's.
When a neighbor and I arrived, we wondered how many people might attend. We were pleased to see about 30 people on the sidewalk, gathered about Shorty, who was wearing a warm woolen sweater. When he saw me, Shorty came over and let me scratch his ears. Then he went from person to person, greeting every one.
A friend of Jose Perez told me he was taking care of Shorty.
After the service began, I looked around. There were at least 200 mourners. The priest saying the Mass spoke of Christ's attitude toward the poor, the inheritors of the Earth.
And he interrupted the Mass to go to Shorty in the front pew and pet him fondly.
Larry Eisenberg
Dear Diary:
How do I say goodbye to Manhattan on my last night after 25 years in the city of opportunity? I felt a pull to the hotel that was my initial platform of immersion in Manhattan, the Hotel Martha Washington for Women, on East 30th Street.
In April 1987, I arrived at the Port Authority and, after a few calls to find a room, I decided to sleep one night for $35 plus taxes at the Martha Washington. The next morning, I paid two weeks' rent of $292.40 for Room 504 with its own toilet in a clothes closet (the shower was down the hall). That left me less than $200 cash.
Once settled that rainy day, I walked along Madison Avenue and passed a test to get a temporary assignment as a secretary for Traveler's Insurance. I walked two miles to Wall Street to see if I could save the $1 subway fare each way (I couldn't; it was too far). The next week, I knew I needed more money and took a temporary job at Hertz that paid $15 an hour; I stayed there for over a year.
Living at the hotel offered me stability until I was in a position to rent an apartment and later buy my two-bedroom co-op on the Upper West Side. And that is why I decided to spend my last night in Manhattan at the Martha Washington, which is currently known as the King and Grove. When I checked in at the front desk, I showed the clerk the brochure I had in 1987. He was so impressed that he upgraded my room and called his manager.
As I was leaving for a JetBlue ride cross-country, I said to myself: ''Goodbye, Martha Washington. I will always remember you.''
P.S. When I left the Martha Washington in April 1988, I took a picture off the wall with me; it is still in good condition today.
P.P.S. Oh! And one bath towel.
Leigh Henderson
Dear Diary:
Some people wear their heart on their sleeve; one subway passenger wore his on a cardboard sign over his winter coat.
It was a typical morning on the B train until a handsome 20-something man -- with a large sandwich-board sign around his neck -- entered the train and began to speak.
''I don't want money; I want advice,'' the man began, his voiced filled with despair. ''My girlfriend just broke up with me. How can I get her back?'' The sign he wore featured a large photograph of him being kissed by a beautiful young woman, and boldly headlined: ''I LOVE THIS GIRL!''
He moved from passenger to passenger, offering a felt-tip marker, asking each to write a few words of advice on his sign. Many were touched by his plea, writing comments like: ''Good guys deserve to be happy. You'll find love soon.'' The outpouring of support was impressive -- both sides were soon filled with the advice of helpful strangers.
The real magic began when my fellow passengers who, in typical New York fashion, had ignored one another before, spontaneously began to talk, a lively exchange sparked by the universal human experience of the agony of love lost. All of us spoke candidly about the spectacle we had just witnessed, for sure, but mostly about first loves and recovery from breakups and second chances.
The animated conversation continued all the way uptown.
If you're wondering (like the song) what becomes of the brokenhearted, I don't know. He got off at the next stop.
Susan LaRosa
Dear Diary:
I overheard this one evening while walking down the subway steps. I found it to be very enlightening and so very true.
Young girl: ''Excuse me, can I get a MetroCard and talk to an attendant down there?''
Older woman: ''You can get a MetroCard, but there's no more booth attendant.''
Young girl: ''O.K., as long as I get a MetroCard. I've been away from New York for eight years and just got back. I'm so happy I could hug everyone. Have you ever lived outside of New York and come back again?''
Older woman: ''Sure, a few times.''
Young girl: ''Yeah, you know I've schlepped stuff in many cities, but schlepping here in New York is the best. I don't know why I moved away.''
Older woman: ''Well, real New Yorkers always come home.''
Doreen Bartholomew
Observations for this column may be sent to Metropolitan Diary at diary@nytimes.com or to The New York Times, 620 Eighth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10018. Please include your name, mailing address and daytime telephone number; upon request, names may be withheld in print. Submissions become the property of The Times and cannot be returned. They may be edited, and may be republished and adapted in all media.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY VICTOR KERLOW) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (77%); TEXT MESSAGING (72%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (69%); BASEBALL (66%); HOMELESSNESS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2013



640 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: Bill Eadington, 67, a Scholar of Gambling

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY

 BODY:
Bill Eadington, an economist who was one of the first academics to study gambling, as both a force for economic development and a challenging social problem, died on Feb. 11 in Crystal Bay, Nev. He was 67.
The cause was cancer, said his colleague and friend Richard Schuetz.
Professor Eadington first visited Las Vegas in the late 1960s, and the trip began profitably. While his brother-in-law placed bets at a blackjack table at the Aladdin Casino, he stood behind him counting cards. Soon, they had won about $1,000. Professor Eadington, a math whiz, was pursuing his doctorate in economics at the time and briefly considered applying his skills as a professional gambler. Then he started losing -- and he went back to graduate school in California. 
Yet over time, he recalled in 2003, he became ''a different kind of gambling addict.''
Professor Eadington was the longtime director of the Institute for the Study of Gambling and Commercial Gaming at the University of Nevada, Reno. When he arrived in Reno in 1969 to join the university's economics faculty, he recalled, he expected to find a library ''filled with scholarly tomes dedicated to the nuances of gambling.'' Few existed.
When he proposed the school's first course on gambling economics in 1972, one of his guest speakers, a Reno casino pioneer, showed up armed and inebriated.
In 1974, Professor Eadington hosted the first National Conference on Gambling and Risk Taking. It drew not only gambling critics and academics but also casino executives. Known within the industry as the Eadington Conference and originally held annually, it has become one of the field's most wide-ranging events, featuring international speakers, business school experts, poker players, anthropologists and advocates for gambling addicts.
''He arrived on campus in 1969 and, for all intents and purposes, invented the field of gambling studies,'' said Bo Bernhard, a sociologist who is executive director of the International Gaming Institute at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas. ''As subfields began to emerge, he had a hand in those as well.''
He said Professor Eadington had the academic independence to navigate what might seem like conflicting worlds, doing consulting work for governments in South Africa and South Korea on the economic potential of gambling even as he served on the board of the National Council on Problem Gambling, which gave him a lifetime achievement award last year.
''Everybody went to him because he was the smartest guy,'' Professor Bernhard said. ''And he was completely unafraid of being critical of anyone or anything.''
Professor Eadington argued that groups with differing opinions about gambling would make more progress if they worked together, rather than reactively criticizing one another.
''There is still much heated rhetoric that argues on one hand that commercial gaming is 'nothing more than a modern form of entertainment,' and on the other that it is 'one of the most pernicious evils to be thrust onto an unsuspecting public,' '' he wrote in 2003. ''However, the reality clearly lies between these extreme public relations positions.''
William Richard Eadington was born on Jan. 1, 1946, in Fullerton, Calif., and grew up in nearby Brea. He received bachelor's degrees in mathematics and economics from Santa Clara University and was just 23 when he completed his course work for a doctorate in economics at Claremont Graduate School.
He is survived by his wife of 45 years, the former Margaret Dean; a daughter, Diana Eadington-Reed; a son, Michael; and three grandchildren.
In 2011, Professor Eadington was elected to the American Gaming Association's Hall of Fame, a small and eclectic group that includes Wayne Newton, Donald J. Trump and David Copperfield.
He often cited lessons he learned from a Methodist minister, Gordon Moody, who helped establish Gamblers Anonymous in Britain in the 1960s.
''I was struck,'' Professor Eadington once wrote, ''by Gordon's disdain for other members of the cloth who were so judgmental about gambling, but who really had nothing to offer for those who suffered as a result of it, or for the policy makers who had to figure out how to balance the demands of a general public who wanted to gamble with the legitimate concerns about the negative side effects that result from making gambling available to large segments of the population.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bill Eadington (PHOTOGRAPH COURTESY OF THERESA DANNA-DOUGLAS/ UNIVERSITY OF NEVADA, RENO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); GAMING (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); CARD GAMES (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); CASINOS (78%); POKER (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); SOCIOLOGY (78%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); EXECUTIVES (68%); CONSULTING SERVICES (63%); CANCER (57%); AWARDS & PRIZES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RENO, NV, USA (94%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (93%) NEVADA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2013



641 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 672 words

HEADLINE: President Correa Easily Wins Re-election in Ecuador

BYLINE: By WILLIAM NEUMAN; Maggy Ayala contributed reporting from Quito, Ecuador.

 BODY:
CARACAS, Venezuela -- President Rafael Correa of Ecuador swept to re-election on Sunday in a vote that showed the broad popularity of his government's social programs and support for the poor in a country to which he has brought stability after years of political and economic turmoil.
With about three-quarters of the ballots counted on Sunday evening, Mr. Correa had received 56 percent of the votes cast. Guillermo Lasso, a banker, the closest of his seven opponents, had 23 percent. 
Thousands of supporters in the main square in Quito, the capital, began celebrating shortly after voting finished at 5 p.m., when television stations announced the result of exit polls showing Mr. Correa as the runaway winner.
''Many thanks for this immense trust,'' Mr. Correa said from the balcony of the presidential palace. ''We have never failed you, and we never will fail you.''
Critics of Mr. Correa have worried that such a strong mandate would embolden him to further concentrate power and proceed with policies that could limit press freedom and quash dissent.
Following the re-election last fall of President Hugo Chávez in Venezuela, Mr. Correa's victory ratified the lasting appeal in the region of leftist governments that have used revenues from booming oil and mining industries to finance social welfare programs aimed at redistributing wealth and curbing inequality.
Now, with Mr. Chávez battling cancer, Mr. Correa could raise his profile as one of the most vocal leaders on the Latin American left.
Mr. Correa told reporters that he would continue policies aimed at ending poverty and diminishing inequality, saying the challenge of the next four years ''is go faster and deeper in the same direction.''
His victory also highlighted the weakness of the political opposition in Ecuador. He faced a raft of opponents from across the political spectrum who split the vote from a fractured opposition that was unable to coalesce behind a single candidate or project a unified message.
Mr. Correa also won points from voters for bringing stability to Ecuador, a country that had seven presidents in the decade before he took office and was buffeted by severe economic problems. According to the new Constitution that was passed at his urging in 2008, Mr. Correa cannot run again when his new term ends in 2017.
Mr. Correa, an economist who studied at the University of Illinois, has improved access to education and health care for the poor and has built or improved thousands of miles of roads and highways. In a new term, he has pledged to continue signature social programs and to pass laws covering the news media, land reform and the penal code.
But he has governed with aggressive tactics that critics say undermine democracy by expanding presidential power; weakening the independence of the courts; and lashing out often at perceived enemies, including political opponents, the media and, at times, the United States.
''You have to trust Correa because he has done a lot that other governments never did in all these years,'' said Rita Bastidas, a 42-year-old nurse, after voting for the president in the south of Quito. ''Correa came along, and, in very little time, everything changed for the better.''
She added, ''They accuse him of being authoritarian and arrogant, but this country needed someone like that to change things.''
An employee at the Ministry of Health said he voted against Mr. Correa because he did not like the way the president managed the health system, adding that qualified personnel had been pushed into retirement and replaced by members of Mr. Correa's party.
''I want better days where they govern for everyone and not just for the greens,'' he said, referring to the color used by the president's party, Alianza País. The man spoke anonymously because he feared reprisals at work if it were known that he voted against the president.
Domingo Paredes, the president of the National Electoral Council, said Sunday that officials had detected an attack on electoral computer systems but that it was not successful.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Rafael Correa, left, and Vice President Jorge Glass celebrated at the presidential palace in Quito on Sunday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RODRIGO BUENDIA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (77%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); NEWS REPORTING (72%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (69%); CRIMINAL LAW (60%); MINES & MINING (50%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%) ECUADOR (95%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (93%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2013



642 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: To Practice Law, Apprentice First

BYLINE: By JOHN J. FARMER Jr.. 
John J. Farmer Jr., a former attorney general of New Jersey and senior counsel to the 9/11 Commission, is the dean of Rutgers School of Law in Newark.

 BODY:
NEWARK
THE American Bar Association, which sets the standards for accrediting law schools, met recently in Dallas at a time of existential crisis for legal education. The job market for law school graduates is collapsing; some schools have been misleading, or even fraudulent, in reporting admissions and employment data; tuition and student debt have reached record levels. Some question legal education itself: What is its mission? What value does it add?
Those are legitimate questions. But to answer them for legal education, we also need to ask them of the profession. 
Consider this: Nearly half of those who graduated from law school in 2011 did not quickly find full-time, long-term work as lawyers. Yet the need for legal representation has never been greater. In New Jersey, where I teach law, 99 percent of the 172,000 defendants in landlord-tenant disputes last year lacked legal counsel.
Nationwide, judges decry not a surplus of lawyers, but a lack of competent representation for those who aren't rich individuals and corporations.
Lawyers cost too much in part because of rates established during the economic bubbles of the past 15 years. No less than in the dot-com or real-estate or derivatives markets, the cost of legal services became unsustainable. The recession worsened, but did not cause, the predicament now: a mountain of student debt and dearth of legal jobs, even as there is a crying need for legal services.
Legal education has not so much failed the profession as mirrored it. Law schools have trained students for a profession that has left a huge part of the public unable to afford representation -- especially the middle class -- and at a cost that perpetuates the problem.
There is a way out. Law schools and the legal profession could restore a vibrant job market by making representation easier to obtain. In doing so, they would revive their historic commitment to the balance between acquiring wealth and promoting civic virtue.
The New York State courts took a step in that direction recently by requiring pro bono service as a condition for admission to the bar. That is laudable, but many law schools already encourage or require pro bono service. That proposal doesn't address the deeper problem: the disconnect between cost and need.
That disconnect relates to how lawyers are hired. Big firms have been hiring a few graduates from a few select schools, and paying them exorbitantly. The result: These law-firm associates provide services, like document review or memo drafting, at rates that their competence and experience don't merit. In a recession, clients resist paying the rates; now, firms resist hiring new lawyers.
Let's scrap this system. We need, at its entry level, the equivalent of a medical residency. Law school graduates would practice for two years or so, under experienced supervision, at reduced hourly rates; repaying their debts could be suspended, as it is for medical residents.
Law firms would be able to hire more lawyers, at the lower rates, and give talented graduates of less prestigious institutions a chance to shine. The firms, at the end of the residencies, could then select whom to keep. Even for those who don't make the cut, the residency will have provided valuable experience. The law firms should be required, under this proposal, to offer stipends to help those residents who don't make the cut but have debt burdens.
In theory, there would be no restriction on the types of matters residents could undertake. At Rutgers, where I teach, students in clinics work on commercial transactions as well as criminal cases. Many states restrict the activities of law students; but residents, as new lawyers, would be able to litigate and give legal advice without restriction.
This scheme would reduce the cost of legal services; rates would vary according to the attorneys' experience levels and the clients' abilities to pay.
Every form of legal practice could benefit, not just pro bono work. The largest firms would use the legal residents on large institutional matters and use the savings to lower hourly rates for clients. Large and small firms could afford to serve people who can't afford legal services but don't qualify for pro bono aid: the middle class. (Many of the indigent already qualify for free representation.)
Schools are already experimenting: Mine is about to start a postgraduate, nonprofit law clinic/firm staffed by recent graduates, under supervision, to represent lower-middle-class clients.
The greatest benefit, however, would be the recovery of an ethic of legal practice that has been greatly diminished. At its best, law protects the vulnerable, safeguards liberty and serves the public. By embracing a residency model, the profession can rebalance the tension between profit and service.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW SCHOOLS (92%); LEGAL EDUCATION (92%); LAWYERS (92%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (90%); STUDENT EXPENSES (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); ACCREDITATION (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PERSONAL DEBT (89%); PRO BONO LAW (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); STUDENT LOANS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); TUITION FEES (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); ADMISSION TO PRACTICE LAW (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); LAW FIRM ATTORNEY RECRUITMENT (74%); RENTAL PROPERTY (73%); REAL ESTATE (73%); LANDLORD & TENANT LAW (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (67%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (89%) NEW JERSEY, USA (89%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (89%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2013



643 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; POLITICAL ECONOMY; Pg. 

LENGTH: 975 words

HEADLINE: Valid Worries About the Cost of Easy Money

BYLINE: By HUGO DIXON | REUTERS

 BODY:
The Bundesbank, the German central bank, is not crazy. In a world where it is increasingly fashionable to call for central banks to print money, the Bundesbank is one of the last bastions of orthodoxy. Although its stance is extreme, it is a useful antidote to the theory that easy money is a cost-free cure for economic ills.
The bank is hostile to anything that smacks of monetary financing -- printing money to finance governments' deficits. It is worried that central bank independence is getting chipped away as economic weakness drags on in much of the developed world; it thinks that the European Central Bank should not respond to the recent rise in the euro by loosening monetary policy further; it is always concerned about the potential for inflation; and it thinks that spraying cheap money around can allow governments to shirk their responsibilities. 
To many people, these attitudes seem old-fashioned. Surely central banks should bend the rules to get the world economy out of its current rut, they say. A few go even further and advocate ''overt monetary financing'', as Lord Turner, chairman of the British Financial Services Authority, did in a seminal speech earlier this month.
Overt monetary financing involves governments' deliberately running fiscal deficits and openly funding them by borrowing from central banks.
Mr. Turner made it clear that this was a policy that should be reserved for the most intractable deflationary recessions, the ones in which monetary policy cannot work (because businesses and households are already so clogged up with debt that they do not want to borrow more) and fiscal policy cannot do the trick either (because governments are over-indebted, too). While he advocated the medicine for Japan, he was wary about giving it to Britain, the euro zone or the United States.
The European Central Bank, it should be added, is not engaging in overt monetary financing. That is forbidden under the Maastricht Treaty, which led to the euro. But it is arguably engaging in the covert variety. This is the source of most of the friction between Mario Draghi, president of the European Central Bank, and Jens Weidmann, the Bundesbank boss -- both of whom are based in Frankfurt.
The biggest clash was over Mr. Draghi's promise last year to buy potentially unlimited amounts of government bonds from peripheral euro zone countries. Mr. Weidmann unsuccessfully opposed the plan. Mr. Draghi was right. If he had not pledged to do ''whatever it takes'' to save the euro, the single currency might well have collapsed.
That said, all such operations have a cost. Mr. Draghi's drug may have taken some of the pressure off governments to make their economies more competitive.
Mr. Weidmann and Mr. Draghi clashed again this month over the Irish ''bailout'' by its central bank. The extremely complex transaction involved the Irish central bank's receiving &#x20ac;25 billion, or about $33.5 billion, worth of extremely long-term Irish government bonds after IBRC, a nationalized bank, was liquidated. Dublin did not itself have the cash to fill the hole in IBRC's balance sheet. It has effectively borrowed the money, equivalent to 15 percent of the Irish gross domestic product, cheaply from its central bank.
Mr. Weidmann would have preferred that euro zone governments lend Dublin the money via their bailout fund, the European Stability Mechanism. But other governments were not rushing to provide the cash and Dublin was not eager to use it either, as the interest rate would have been higher than issuing bonds to its central bank.
Although the Irish bailout was a deal between Dublin and its central bank, the European Central Bank could have blocked it. But to do so, two-thirds of its governing council would have had to vote against the operation -- and Mr. Weidmann did not have enough support.
Mr. Draghi, meanwhile, did not actually back the deal. He merely ''noted'' it. The European Central Bank concluded that the new arrangements for supporting IBRC were preferable to the previous program -- which many observers also thought amounted to monetary financing.
As with Mr. Draghi's bond-purchasing promise, the effect has been hugely positive. Irish 10-year government bond yields are now 3.7 percent. Investors now view the country as on the road to recovery.
But the Bundesbank is, understandably, worried about precedents. The next time a bank gets into trouble in the euro zone, what is to stop a government from bailing it out the Irish way -- by getting its central bank or the European Central Bank itself to print the necessary money?
The pressure to engage in such monetary financing may be particularly strong, given that the European Central Bank is about to take over responsibility for supervising lenders. That means that if and when there are future banking blowups, the European Central Bank will be criticized for having failed to monitor them properly and could then be browbeaten to prop them up. The Irish, Spanish and Dutch central banks have all been accused of lapses in supervision during the crisis -- as, indeed, has Mr. Draghi himself following the recent troubles at Monte dei Paschi di Siena, an Italian bank.
A further difficulty is that the euro zone does not yet have a fund for bailing out banks. The nearest thing it has is the stability mechanism, whose decisions require unanimity. Just one government can veto a bailout. This means that if there is a standoff between the European Central Bank and governments over who should prop up an ailing bank, the European Central Bank may blink first.
Covert monetary financing may sometimes be the least of several evils. But if it becomes too common and transparent, there is a risk of debauching the currency.
The Bundesbank's constant warnings are a healthy counterpoint to that temptation.
Hugo Dixon is editor at large of Reuters News.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENTRAL BANKS (94%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MONETARY UNIONS (89%); EURO ZONE (89%); EURO (89%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); DEFLATION (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); RECESSION (75%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (73%); SECURITIES LAW (72%); BONDS (69%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (69%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (72%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (57%); FINANCIAL SERVICES AUTHORITY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) EUROPE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); GERMANY (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2013



644 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1186 words

HEADLINE: Students Receive Subsidized Studies in Hungary -- for a Price

BYLINE: By PETER TEFFER

 BODY:
BUDAPEST -- Daniel Szabo and Gergo Birtalan are both optimistic about their job prospects in their native Hungary, which has a low unemployment rate for college and university graduates. But the two Hungarian students are in totally different situations.
When Mr. Szabo, 24, graduates soon from law school, he will be free to go wherever in the world he wants. But Mr. Birtalan, 18, was required to sign a contract at the beginning of his first year as a sociology major because of a new rule introduced in September. As a beneficiary of the state-funded university system, he will be obliged to work for two years in Hungary for every year of his subsidized studies.
Such contracts, the only ones of their kind in Europe, have met with broad opposition and street protests from both high school and university students.
If Mr. Birtalan finishes a typical three-year degree, his movements will be restricted for six years after graduation, when he will be in his late 20s, or even older if he pursues post-graduate studies domestically. The rule applies to all students at state universities, as well as those at state-funded places in private institutions. 
If Mr. Birtalan finds a good overseas opportunity before his allotted time, he will have to pay back his tuition. A three-year undergraduate degree would cost him about 900,000 Hungarian forint, or about $4,100. A two-year master's degree in communications would be another 900,000 forint.
While those sums pale in comparison with tuition at state-funded schools in the United States or Britain, they are considered significant in Hungary, where the average monthly salary, after taxes, is 140,000 forint, and where citizens are accustomed to subsidized education.
Officials said it was not an unreasonable amount for Hungarian students who studied free under the state and then found lucrative work in Western Europe.
''It's not impossible,'' Ferenc Kumin, a representative of the prime minister's office, said of repayment. ''A salary in Norway or in Great Britain could finance the payback of this tuition fee.''
Still, students were not convinced.
''I signed it, but I felt really bad and angry about it,'' Mr. Birtalan, the sociology student, said in a small Budapest cafe near the Danube River, which serves as the unofficial headquarters for HaHa, a student movement that has demanded the removal of the contracts.
In December, several months after the contracts were initiated, about 2,000 students held a demonstration against the new rules, according to local news reports.
After the demonstrations, the Ministry of Human Resources began a series of roundtable talks with teachers, student groups and Chamber of Commerce representatives in late January.
HaHa was not invited, and Mr. Szabo said that if their demands were not met, they would protest with civil disobedience. According to local news reports, about 30 to 40 students occupied the faculty of humanities at Eotvos Lorand University in Budapest last Monday. The faculty was occupied at least until Friday, and HaHa leaders said they had more protests planned.
The Hungarian government sees the contracts as necessary means to combat ''brain drain,'' said Zoltan Balog, the government minister in charge of human resources, referring to graduates' choosing to work abroad.
''How can it be that we are training several hundreds of doctors every year -- which costs the taxpayers a whole lot of money -- who after graduation immediately go to Norway, to Sweden, to England?'' Mr. Balog said in an interview.
''I don't want to enslave them,'' he said of Hungarian students. ''I want to have a balance between the individual interest and the national interest. This country is investing in higher education, so whoever graduates should also use their knowledge to further the interest of the country.''
According to the government, more than 73 percent of full-time university students in Hungary attend institutions where the tuition is funded by the government. Mr. Kumin said this was a big change since the end of Communist rule in Hungary in 1989, when ''it was a kind of privilege to get into the university.''
Today, students have ''a kind of strategy to stay as long as they can in university,'' he continued. ''These are free programs. You can stay as long as you want, and it costs a lot of money for the taxpayers and the budget. This tendency had to be stopped.''
Agnes Urban, an assistant professor at the faculty of business administration at Corvinus University of Budapest, said she thought the government's tough stance toward students was driven by the possibility of electoral gains.
''It is really populist, and it is really working. It is a potential winning strategy among the voters,'' she said.
Jozsef Temesi, director of the Corvinus Center for International Higher Education Studies, said the government was portraying the protesting students ''as unreliable, lazy persons who just demand from the society and do not want to perform.''
At one point, the government considered withdrawing state funding from some fields of study -- like the humanities and international relations -- that were not seen as being as market-friendly. But after student demonstrations in December and negotiations in January, the government withdrew the plan.
Dr. Temesi said the government lacked a comprehensive strategy on higher education. ''My view is that there are too many ad hoc measures,'' he said.
He also said that there had been little evidence that administrative or tax-related measures worked to stop brain drain. ''There is a need for positive actions, like generating jobs, increasing salary levels,'' he said.
While the law requiring the contracts was passed by the Hungarian Parliament, and is already in force, there is the question of whether the European Union -- which Hungary joined in 2004 -- would allow it, since the freedom of movement of labor is guaranteed in the European Union.
Mr. Balog, the government minister, said the contract was compatible with E.U. law.
''I think it could be possible to establish a legal formula that complies with the idea of free movement of labor and with the interest of the state,'' he said. ''It's actually not obligatory to study free of charge at the university.''
In an e-mailed response, Dennis Abbott, a European Commission representative, said only that talks were continuing with the Hungarian authorities on the issue.
The first students who signed the contract are not expected to graduate until 2015. Depending on the outcome of Hungary's parliamentary election next year -- or various other factors like continued protests or an E.U. decision -- the contracts might be annulled before then.
If the opposition Hungarian Socialist Party manages to win power over Fidesz, the governing conservative party, it will abolish the contract system, the opposition leader, Attila Mesterhazy, said in an interview.
The Hungarian Socialist Party, which ruled in a coalition government from 2002 to 2010, had tried to introduce tuition fees to reduce the budget deficit. But in a 2008 referendum, voters decided they wanted free higher education to return.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); TUITION FEES (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); SOCIOLOGY (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (77%); STUDENT ACTIVISM (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (73%); LAW SCHOOLS (73%); CIVIL DISOBEDIENCE (68%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (65%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (60%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BUDAPEST, HUNGARY (93%) HUNGARY (98%); EUROPE (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORWAY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (78%); WESTERN EUROPE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2013



645 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1319 words

HEADLINE: Europeans Take a More Cautious Approach Toward Online Courses

BYLINE: By D.D. GUTTENPLAN

 BODY:
LONDON -- What if they held a MOOC and nobody came?
Ever since the German computer scientist Sebastian Thrun sent out an e-mail in 2011 announcing that his ''Introduction to Artificial Intelligence'' course at Stanford University in California would be available free online, the education world has been both enthralled and terrified by the advent of massive open online courses, or MOOCs.
The size of the potential audience was a revelation: More than 160,000 students from 190 countries signed up, prompting Dr. Thrun to quit his day job and start his own online learning company, Udacity.
Udacity; Coursera, founded by two other Stanford professors; and edX, formed by Harvard and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, are the three big names in online learning. 
Of the 248 students who received a perfect score in Dr. Thrun's course, not one came from Stanford, prompting some to wonder whether elite American universities were missing out on potential talent. And universities that did not have their own MOOCs worried about missing the boat.
That anxiety was on view this month at a conference at the University of London, which has been in the distance learning business since 1858, as Adrian Smith, the university's new vice chancellor, reminded his audience. Pointing out that there are 52,000 students enrolled in the university's international programs -- who take the same exams as their counterparts in Bloomsbury and receive a University of London degree -- Mr. Smith said ''there has been an incredible amount of hype'' about the online courses.
''However, you ignore them at your peril,'' he said. ''The challenges they pose to the traditional classroom model of knowledge transmission are obvious. The question is no longer whether we should consider MOOCs, but how quickly to get involved.''
While the atmosphere around the open courses in the United States resembles the early stages of an oil boom, the reaction in Europe seems distinctly cautious.
William Lawton, the director of the Observatory on Borderless Higher Education, the British research group that organized the conference, said that MOOCs had grown out of the movement for open educational resources.
''Originally, the ideal was about widening access to elite courses,'' he said. ''But can it still be about widening access when it's increasingly about finding new business models and competitive advantage?''
Many of the delegates shared Dr. Lawton's skepticism. John Zvereff, an administrator at the Universitat Oberta de Catalunya in Barcelona, said that his university, which has offered all its classes online since 1995, thought the rush to the open online courses was premature.
''Europe is desperately playing catch-up,'' he said. ''The European Association of Distance Teaching Universities is pushing for a European MOOC platform. This seems to be all about the business model.''
''I think we should be responding to challenges to the learning model,'' Mr. Zvereff said. ''At U.O.C., our philosophy is based on accompaniment -- each student is assigned a tutor who stays with him or her all the way through till graduation. None of the MOOCs I've seen offer anything like that.''
Drummond Bone, the master of Balliol College at Oxford University, told the conference that his university ''was very strongly associated with face-to-face, and very expensive, one-to-one learning,'' and was unlikely to change.
But for other European universities, even well-established ones, the temptation to jump on the open-course bandwagon has been irresistible. The University of Edinburgh, founded in 1583, may be young compared with Oxford. But with 12 applicants for every place, it has no shortage of students.
According to Sarah Gormley, the director of distance education, Edinburgh's first six open online courses went live on Coursera on Jan. 28. A week later, 295,000 students had signed up for courses that included philosophy (60,000 students) and equine nutrition (20,000).
The effort has so far cost ''somewhere in six figures -- less than seven figures -- mostly in faculty time,'' she said.
For Edinburgh, the initial investment has paid off handsomely, if only as a marketing exercise. But that has not always been the case.
As Dr. Lawton noted in a paper distributed to participants, Fathom, an $18 million for-profit online learning venture started by Columbia University in New York in 2000 -- with partners like the London School of Economics and Political Science, Cambridge University Press, and the British Library -- was dissolved in 2003 because of a lack of interest.
In Britain the government put £20 million, or about $31 million, of public money into UKeU, a platform that had managed to sign up a grand total of 900 students when the plug was pulled in 2004.
A more recent stumble at the Georgia Institute of Technology, which only a few days before the conference had to withdraw a Coursera MOOC that was, perhaps coincidentally, titled ''Fundamentals of Online Education,'' after technical problems prevented students from gaining access to course materials, also underlined the risks involved.
As several conference participants pointed out, whether a university is trying to broaden access, advertise the quality of its lecturers or identify potential fee-paying students, the appeal of the open courses relies on actually generating a large response. Anything less risks public embarrassment and financial loss -- which may be why schools seem to prefer to join existing consortiums.
Veronica Campbell, the dean of graduate studies at Trinity College Dublin, said her school had no open online courses, nor plans to offer them, but ''there is a fear of being left behind, so we are considering what to do.''
There was widespread interest at the conference in Futurelearn, a British entrant backed by the Open University in London, which has experience in both distance learning and open educational resources, but whose MOOC effort so far consists of little more than a Web site and a press release.
Along with interest there is also suspicion. European universities moved relatively quickly to join the open courseware movement, putting thousands of lectures and course material online free. The Web site of theOpenCourseWare Consortium has versions in Chinese, English, French, Japanese, Korean and Spanish; there are 22 institutions in Spain alone that belong.
But for some Europeans, the big online courses represent a step back from the idealism of open courseware to the values of the marketplace.
Udacity is backed by the venture capital firm Andreessen Horowitz, early investors in Skype and Twitter. And though Udacity courses remain free, the company recently announced a partnership with the education company Pearson to give students the option of paying $80 for a proctored exam. Coursera, which like Udacity is a for-profit company backed by a Silicon Valley venture capital firm, in this case Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, could generate income by licensing its members' courses to other schools.
The day after the London conference, the American Council on Education approved five Coursera offerings for college credit.
For Hugh Starkey, a professor at the Institute of Education, University of London, the talk about access was just a bait-and-switch.
Open online courses, he said, are being promoted by ''corporations like Pearson who want to bust open the monopoly universities have always had on accreditation and put in their own feeble multiple-choice tests.''
''I don't think anyone at Pearson would agree with that,'' said Jeff Borden, Pearson's director of online learning, who gave a talk on innovation that drew enthusiastic applause from the delegates.
But it was Dr. Campbell of Trinity College Dublin who spoke for many of the institutions trying to decide whether this was a movement they could afford to join -- or to miss. ''If everyone jumps into MOOCs, will MOOCs still exist?'' she asked.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ONLINE SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); DISTANCE LEARNING (90%); COMPUTER BASED TRAINING (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (89%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (74%); ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE (72%)

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (91%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); BARCELONA, SPAIN (51%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) EUROPE (91%); UNITED STATES (90%); GERMANY (88%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); SPAIN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2013



646 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; LETTER FROM WASHINGTON; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1025 words

HEADLINE: A Sensible Deal Can Avert a 'Sequester' Disaster

BYLINE: By ALBERT R. HUNT | BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Democrats and Republicans in Washington agree: It would be a disaster if the ''sequester,'' with its more than $1 trillion of cuts to U.S. defense and domestic spending, took effect on March 1, as scheduled.
Defense Secretary Leon E. Panetta says the reductions to the Pentagon budget would undermine national security; the cuts to already pared-down domestic spending will set back critical needs like cancer research; Head Start, the preschool program for low-income children; and funding for the Border Patrol. The U.S. economic recovery would be impeded, at a cost of as many as 750,000 jobs. 
President Barack Obama says the cuts ''are a really bad idea.'' In a rare display of accord, the House speaker, John A. Boehner, says the ''meat ax'' approach would ''weaken'' the nation's defense. Mr. Obama and Mr. Boehner were two of the authors of the 2011 sequester agreement, figuring a sensible alternative would have emerged by now.
It has not, and the sequester could kick in on March 1, even if only temporarily. It is a textbook case of Washington dysfunction.
Both sides created this debacle, but there is no equivalency of blame today. Any alternative must emphasize cuts in mandatory entitlement programs and add revenue. Mr. Obama, publicly and privately, has left no doubt that he will surrender the Democrats' political trump card and accept cuts in entitlement programs like Medicare, which offers health coverage to the elderly and disabled. Republican leaders insist that they will not give any ground on new revenue, without which there can be no deal.
An impasse would be unsettling to markets and the economy in the long run, even if deficit hawks exaggerate the severity of the crisis.
''The 10-year budget outlook remains tenuous,'' says Bill Gale, director of economic studies at the Brookings Institution. ''Even if seemingly everything goes right -- in economic terms and political terms -- we are still on the edge of dangerously high debt and deficit levels.''
It is not hard to devise a feasible alternative, if the irrational politics are put aside. First, any deficit-reduction plan should wait two years. That is because, as broke as Washington is, the deficit has already been narrowed by almost $2.5 trillion over the coming decade. In the short term, the government needs to bolster the shaky recovery by spending more on infrastructure and other projects.
Then, it should put in place a long-term $1 trillion deficit-reduction package, half of which is achieved through entitlement cuts, one-third through tax increases and the rest by shrinking discretionary programs, chiefly defense, which are funded through annual appropriations from Congress. That would send an encouraging sign to markets and help the economy, but only if it is a long-term plan, rather than the one-year fix that Senate and House Democrats are proposing.
Entitlements or mandatory programs like Medicare and Social Security, the government retirement system, make up almost 60 percent of the U.S. budget and are the engine of chronic deficits. Getting $500 billion over 10 years would not be pain-free, though it does not have to hurt those who can least afford to sacrifice.
The president has said he would go along with the scope of the Bowles-Simpson deficit commission's proposed cuts to Medicare. That is about $350 billion. It would not require cuts for the most needy but would contain a means test for more affluent senior citizens. A sensible deal would not increase the eligibility age and would introduce more stringent cost controls and hit up drug companies for a little more.
Half the remaining savings could come from changing the formula for the cost-of-living increases for Social Security and other inflation-adjusted entitlements. That is a realistic proposal if protections are carved out for the very poor and the very elderly. The Center for American Progress has offered workable specifics. The rest could come from cutting agricultural subsidies and other entitlement programs.
The White House would buy this, and it has been the dream of Republicans for years.
On taxes, Republicans contend that the fiscal cliff deal in January, which raised taxes on the wealthy by $600 billion, means any further revenue-raisers are off the table.
A number of party leaders also pay lip service to the Bowles-Simpson recommendations, which proposed $1 of new revenue for every $2 of spending cuts, after eliminating former President George W. Bush's high-end tax cuts. If these Republicans have their way and the sequester or any alternative to it is exclusively spending cuts, that ratio would be more than four to one.
The easiest way to get those revenues would be a plan resembling the administration's proposal to limit deductions to the 28 percent rate and then exclude charitable deductions from that cap. That would raise more than $300 billion.
The other Republican argument is that any tax changes should await broad tax reform. But limiting deductions would not narrow their options or dash their hopes of using changes to the tax code as a vehicle for lowering rates.
There are endless possibilities for curbing tax breaks in a revenue-neutral measure that also lowers rates, such as scaling back big-ticket items like the home mortgage deduction, the health care exclusion or the preferential treatment for capital gains. Other changes are politically appealing, like ending the carried-interest loophole for rich investors or the tax breaks for the oil and gas industries.
What should not be cut is nondefense discretionary spending, like veterans' programs, medical and scientific research and education. Even without the sequester, these programs are headed toward their lowest level, as a percentage of the economy, since the Eisenhower administration.
An entitlements and revenue-based deal, however, would approximate the Bowles-Simpson targets, and engender confidence in markets and businesses. The politicians could then turn to tax reform, immigration, gun violence, maybe a modest climate-change measure, and substantive oversight.
As a bonus, a successful deal might also lessen public cynicism about Washington.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); APPROPRIATIONS (77%); DEFENSE SPENDING (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (76%); MEDICARE (75%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (75%); POOR POPULATION (75%); POLITICS (74%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); ONCOLOGY (71%); BUDGET FORECASTS (71%); BORDER CONTROL (71%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (71%); SENIOR CITIZENS (64%); HEALTH INSURANCE (64%); TAX LAW (60%); CANCER (56%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); JOHN BOEHNER (73%); LEON E PANETTA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2013



647 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1171 words

HEADLINE: When Being Jobless Is a Barrier to Finding a Job

BYLINE: By WINNIE HU

 BODY:
The sign outside the diner said help wanted. But when Albert Mango said he was out of work, he was told there was no opening there.
Kevin Johnson tells people he works off the books rather than admit to being unemployed, because he fears being seen as lazy and unmotivated.
And Barbara Brown, a former office manager, has learned that a telltale sign that she is not getting a job is when she is asked why she has been job hunting for a year and a half.
These Bronx residents are among the growing ranks of New Yorkers who say they are trapped in a vicious circle of unemployment -- rejected time and time again for jobs that could put food on the table, resurrect stalled careers and pull them out of a downward spiral of debt. 
Despite their qualifications and experience, these job seekers contend that they have not been given a fair shot because of one counterintuitive reason: They are already unemployed.
''I'll do anything -- but somebody has to be willing to hire me,'' said Mr. Mango, 43, who has not worked in nine months and said he lost his home because he could not pay the rent. ''If you're not working, that's already Strike 1 against you.''
New York City appears likely to adopt a law that would allow unsuccessful job applicants to sue businesses who they believe hold their unemployment status against them in making hiring decisions. The measure is widely seen as the toughest step yet in a flurry of recent efforts by the Obama administration and elected officials in at least 18 states, including New York, to help the long-term unemployed.
The District of Columbia passed a law last year that made it illegal for employers to refuse to consider or hire candidates because they were out of work, and barred advertisements from suggesting that the unemployed need not apply. Laws prohibiting discrimination in job listings have also been adopted by New Jersey and Oregon; a similar measure in California was vetoed by the governor.
Though businesses are reluctant to acknowledge bias in their hiring practices, some human-resource managers and consultants say privately that unemployment can be a red flag on a résumé, signaling that a worker may have outdated skills, or may be a short-timer who is desperate enough to take any work now but will leave when something better comes along. The National Employment Law Project, a nonprofit advocacy group, reported that companies across the country often posted job notices explicitly excluding applicants who are unemployed.
Such discrimination against the unemployed is becoming more widespread as jobs are in short supply and employers can have their pick of applicants, according to labor and community leaders. They say it has created a blacklist of the unemployed, many of whom were laid off in recession-driven downsizing rather than because of performance issues.
In New York City, on average, 372,000 people were unemployed in 2012, 38 percent for a year or longer, according to the United States Bureau of Labor Statistics. Blacks and Hispanics accounted for disproportionately large shares of the long-term unemployed.
''It's the ultimate kick in the tuchis and completely unfair,'' Christine C. Quinn, speaker of the City Council, said in an interview. Ms. Quinn, a leading Democratic contender for mayor, rallied council members to adopt the unemployment bill by a vote of 44 to 4 last month. ''We want to do everything we can to help people work.''
But the measure has been criticized by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, who has called it ''misguided'' and intends to veto it. He and other opponents, including many business leaders, say that an employer has a right to consider what a person was doing before applying for a job, and that the legislation could spur numerous lawsuits by unsuccessful applicants and deter companies from hiring anyone at all. In a rare public split with Mr. Bloomberg, Ms. Quinn said she had enough support to override a mayoral veto.
The law, if enacted, could take effect as soon as this summer. It would allow unsuccessful applicants to sue a business for discrimination, or file a complaint with the city's Human Rights Commission, which would be authorized to impose penalties on an offending business, including fines up to $250,000, and require that an applicant be hired.
The law would also bar discrimination in job ads, like those that say only those with jobs need apply.
The fight over the unemployment bill has reverberated through job lines, soup kitchens and shelters across the Bronx, where the number of people looking for work has remained high despite public and private efforts to provide job counseling and training, and to develop new businesses. The Bronx unemployment rate is 11.9 percent -- the highest in New York -- compared with 8.8 percent citywide, and 8.2 percent statewide.
Many unemployed workers and their advocates said the measure was long overdue in shedding light on a hidden barrier to getting hired, but even some of these supporters questioned how often, in reality, it would actually lead to jobs.
Jaime Rodriguez, 38, said he had interviewed unsuccessfully with at least eight companies since being laid off in May from a $79,000-a-year job as a purchasing manager at SUNY Maritime College. He was also, he said, facing eviction after falling three months behind on rent and defaulting on his credit cards.
Mr. Rodriguez, a former Marine and a father of four who has a master's degree in business administration, said employers usually did not give a specific reason for rejecting an applicant.
''They reply back, 'We find your résumé interesting, but we've decided to pick someone else,' '' he said. ''I don't think there's a way to enforce the law.''
Ms. Brown, the former office manager, said employers could, and would, deduce from her résumé that she had been unemployed for a year and a half.
''It's going to be the same thing,'' she said. ''You can come up with 101 reasons not to hire someone. They're never going to say it's because you've been out of work for so long.''
But other unemployed workers said they hoped the measure would persuade employers to give them another look by sending a message that they were no less qualified or worthy than those already holding jobs.
Mr. Johnson, 42, said he felt more frustrated with each day that he remained jobless. He was laid off in September from a cleaning company where he had worked for five years, earning about $25,000 annually. ''The more you stay out of work, the harder it is to get work because people don't trust you as being responsible,'' he said.
Mr. Johnson said that even when he went into interviews with his best suit and a positive attitude, he could not avoid the dreaded questions. Why was his search taking so long? What had he been doing with his time? Was he sitting at home watching Jerry Springer?''You know it's going to go badly as soon as they say 'How long have you been out of work?' '' he said. ''I don't think that should be part of the process. It should be whether you're qualified and can fill the spot.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jaime Rodriguez, volunteering above, said he had interviewed unsuccessfully with at least eight companies since being laid off.
 A cleaning company laid Kevin Johnson off in September. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KARSTEN MORAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); HUMAN RESOURCES (76%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (76%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); LEGISLATION (74%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (69%); VETO (65%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2013



648 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: Raise That Wage

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
President Obama laid out a number of good ideas in his State of the Union address. Unfortunately, almost all of them would require spending money -- and given Republican control of the House of Representatives, it's hard to imagine that happening.
One major proposal, however, wouldn't involve budget outlays: the president's call for a rise in the minimum wage from $7.25 an hour to $9, with subsequent increases in line with inflation. The question we need to ask is: Would this be good policy? And the answer, perhaps surprisingly, is a clear yes. 
Why ''surprisingly''? Well, Economics 101 tells us to be very cautious about attempts to legislate market outcomes. Every textbook -- mine included -- lays out the unintended consequences that flow from policies like rent controls or agricultural price supports. And even most liberal economists would, I suspect, agree that setting a minimum wage of, say, $20 an hour would create a lot of problems.
But that's not what's on the table. And there are strong reasons to believe that the kind of minimum wage increase the president is proposing would have overwhelmingly positive effects.
First of all, the current level of the minimum wage is very low by any reasonable standard. For about four decades, increases in the minimum wage have consistently fallen behind inflation, so that in real terms the minimum wage is substantially lower than it was in the 1960s. Meanwhile, worker productivity has doubled. Isn't it time for a raise?
Now, you might argue that even if the current minimum wage seems low, raising it would cost jobs. But there's evidence on that question -- lots and lots of evidence, because the minimum wage is one of the most studied issues in all of economics. U.S. experience, it turns out, offers many ''natural experiments'' here, in which one state raises its minimum wage while others do not. And while there are dissenters, as there always are, the great preponderance of the evidence from these natural experiments points to little if any negative effect of minimum wage increases on employment.
Why is this true? That's a subject of continuing research, but one theme in all the explanations is that workers aren't bushels of wheat or even Manhattan apartments; they're human beings, and the human relationships involved in hiring and firing are inevitably more complex than markets for mere commodities. And one byproduct of this human complexity seems to be that modest increases in wages for the least-paid don't necessarily reduce the number of jobs.
What this means, in turn, is that the main effect of a rise in minimum wages is a rise in the incomes of hard-working but low-paid Americans -- which is, of course, what we're trying to accomplish.
Finally, it's important to understand how the minimum wage interacts with other policies aimed at helping lower-paid workers, in particular the earned-income tax credit, which helps low-income families who help themselves. The tax credit -- which has traditionally had bipartisan support, although that may be ending -- is also good policy. But it has a well-known defect: Some of its benefits end up flowing not to workers but to employers, in the form of lower wages. And guess what? An increase in the minimum wage helps correct this defect. It turns out that the tax credit and the minimum wage aren't competing policies, they're complementary policies that work best in tandem.
So Mr. Obama's wage proposal is good economics. It's also good politics: a wage increase is supported by an overwhelming majority of voters, including a strong majority of self-identified Republican women (but not men). Yet G.O.P. leaders in Congress are opposed to any rise. Why? They say that they're concerned about the people who might lose their jobs, never mind the evidence that this won't actually happen. But this isn't credible.
For today's Republican leaders clearly feel disdain for low-wage workers. Bear in mind that such workers, even if they work full time, by and large don't pay income taxes (although they pay plenty in payroll and sales taxes), while they may receive benefits like Medicaid and food stamps. And you know what this makes them, in the eyes of the G.O.P.: ''takers,'' members of the contemptible 47 percent who, as Mitt Romney said to nods of approval, won't take responsibility for their own lives.
Eric Cantor, the House majority leader, offered a perfect illustration of this disdain last Labor Day: He chose to commemorate a holiday dedicated to workers by sending out a message that said nothing at all about workers, but praised the efforts of business owners instead.
The good news is that not many Americans share that disdain; just about everyone except Republican men believes that the lowest-paid workers deserve a raise. And they're right. We should raise the minimum wage, now.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINIMUM WAGE (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); BUDGETS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); MINIMUM WAGE LAWS (76%); RENT CONTROL (72%); PRODUCTIVITY (71%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (70%); LIBERALISM (70%); RENTAL PROPERTY (68%); AGRICULTURE (68%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (68%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (64%); EVIDENCE (63%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2013



649 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1042 words

HEADLINE: The Second-Mortgage Shell Game

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH M. LYNCH. 
Elizabeth M. Lynch is a lawyer at MFY Legal Services, a New York City organization that provides free civil legal aid.

 BODY:
IN January, federal regulators announced an $8.5 billion agreement with 10 mortgage servicers to settle claims of foreclosure abuses, including bungled loan modifications and the wrongful evictions of borrowers who were either current on their payments or making reduced monthly payments.
Under the deal, announced by the Federal Reserve and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the mortgage servicers will pay $3.3 billion to borrowers who went through foreclosure in 2009 and 2010 and an additional $5.2 billion to reduce the principal or the monthly payments of borrowers in danger of losing their homes. 
Those numbers might look impressive, but the deal is far too modest to be a credible deterrent to reckless foreclosure practices.
Consider the last big mortgage settlement. Last February, the federal government and 49 state attorneys general reached a $25 billion deal with the country's five largest mortgage servicers -- Bank of America, JPMorgan Chase, Wells Fargo, Citibank and Ally Financial (formerly GMAC). They promised to help save homeowners from unnecessary foreclosure.
A year later, it's clear that the settlement hasn't worked as planned. Banks have dragged their feet in modifying first mortgages, much less agreeing to forgive part of the principal on homes that are underwater. In fact, the deal contained a few flaws. It has allowed banks to push homeowners into short sales, an alternative to foreclosure whereby the distressed homeowner sells the property for less than the debt that is owed. Not all short sales are bad -- some homeowners are happy to walk away with the debt cleared -- but as a matter of social policy, the program has failed to keep people in their homes.
A lesser-known but equally grave problem is that banks have been given a backdoor mechanism to continue foreclosures at the same pace as before.
The problem involves second mortgages, which millions of homeowners took out during the housing bubble. It's estimated that as much as a quarter of all mortgage debt in the United States is in the form of second mortgages. Some of these loans were taken out to finance home improvements; others were part of a subprime product known as an ''80/20 mortgage,'' in which 80 percent of the purchase price was covered by a first, adjustable-rate mortgage, and the remainder by a second mortgage, often with a much higher interest rate.
The second mortgages have given the banks a loophole: each dollar a bank forgives goes toward fulfilling its obligation under last year's settlement. But many lenders have made it a point to almost exclusively modify secondary loans while all but ignoring the troubled, larger primary mortgages.
It's a real problem: when it comes to keeping your home, it's the first mortgage that counts.
Take Tiberio Toro, a Queens resident who took out an 80/20 mortgage in 2006 when he purchased his home, and who now owes far more to the bank than his house is currently worth. Recently, Wells Fargo told him that it completely forgave his second loan. But at the same time, it declined to modify his first mortgage -- an adjustment Mr. Toro needs to get his monthly payment to a level he can afford.
Why would a bank forgive a second mortgage completely but move forward with foreclosure on the first mortgage?
Surprisingly, such a tactic often makes sense for banks. When a lender forecloses on a first mortgage, the house in question is typically sold at auction. If the house is worth less than the loan amount, the bank gets only part of its money back. But after the sale, of course, there's no asset left to pay off any of the second loan. The holder of that second loan -- which has lower priority than the holder of the first -- gets nothing.
So a lender can forgive a second mortgage -- which in the event of foreclosure would be worthless anyway -- and under the settlement claim credits for ''modifying'' the mortgage, while at the same time it or another bank forecloses on the first loan. The upshot, of course, is that the people the settlement was designed to protect keep losing their homes.
The five banks covered under last year's settlement are wiping out second mortgages in record numbers. In New York State, for example, during the first six months of the settlement period, three times as many homeowners received second-mortgage forgiveness (2,933) as received permanent modifications on first mortgages (967).
In New York State, 36.2 percent of the banks' credits under the settlement have been related to second loans, compared with only 18.2 percent for first mortgages.
In 2011, the five banks that are subject to last year's settlement sent 230,678 pre-foreclosure notices to New York State homeowners, according to data I obtained from the Finance Department through the Freedom of Information Law.
As is well known, many of those at greatest risk of losing their homes are African-American or Latino. Under the settlement, banks get more credit for forgiving mortgages that they own (''portfolio loans'') than those they sold to Wall Street and currently only service. These portfolio loans are largely conventional loans; those sold to Wall Street were subprime. It was these notorious subprime loans that were marketed, often through predatory lending practices, to black and Latino borrowers during the housing bubble.
There is a lesson to be learned from the deficiencies of the National Mortgage Settlement. And the new deal reached by the Fed and the comptroller of the currency provides an opportunity to get right what the 49 attorneys general got wrong. At a Senate Banking Committee hearing on Thursday, Senator Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts, called on regulators to take tough enforcement actions and not settle for negotiated agreements with banks.
To do that, the government must clearly require that relief be given in the form of first-mortgage modifications. In addition, the settlement should direct the banks to provide relief in the ZIP codes hardest hit by predatory lending.
Finally, we need real transparency to monitor the new settlement. That means that the public should easily be able to determine who is getting relief, and how. Until that's done, as we've seen, banks are likely to keep playing the same old shell game.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MARK ALLEN MILLER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); FORECLOSURE (90%); MORTGAGE SERVICING (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EVICTION (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); SECOND MORTGAGES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); MORTGAGE RATES (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (78%); HOUSING BUBBLE (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); HOUSING MARKET (75%); HOME PRICES (75%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (73%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (70%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (91%); ALLY FINANCIAL INC (91%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (83%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF THE COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY (58%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (91%); BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); JPM (NYSE) (83%); JPM (LSE) (83%); 8634 (TSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (91%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2013



650 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 537 words

HEADLINE: From the Bottom Up

 BODY:
President Obama was right about the need to increase the federal minimum wage, but it was too bad that he pulled his punches in calling on Congress to lift the wage only to $9 an hour by the end of 2015, from $7.25 an hour, where it has been since 2009. 
His proposal would boost the annual pay of an employee working full time at the minimum wage from $14,500 now to $18,000, which is still very low. Several economic measures -- including purchasing power, average wages and productivity gains -- indicate that the minimum wage should be at least $10 an hour today, not $9 an hour three years from now. In 2008, Mr. Obama campaigned on raising the minimum wage to $9.50 an hour.
Politically, the lowball proposal is understandable. Congressional Republicans are bound to oppose any increase. Representative John Boehner, the House speaker, lashed out against the proposal the day after the president's State of the Union address, a stance that will very likely further alienate important constituencies from the Republican Party, including women, who represent more than half of the estimated 18 million people currently working at or near the minimum wage, and Hispanics, who represent one-fourth.
Combined with tax credits for the working poor, Mr. Obama's proposal could lift a minimum wage worker who is currently below the poverty line ($18,498 for a family of three in 2012) out of poverty. But the minimum wage is more than an antipoverty program. In fact, most workers at or near the minimum wage live in households with moderate family incomes above poverty levels but below the national median of roughly $60,000. For them, and for the broader economy, an adequate minimum wage can help ensure fair pay and stimulate the economy by putting more money in consumers' wallets.
Opponents of an increase in the minimum wage argue that it will harm small businesses, but that fear is exaggerated. Research shows that the extra cost is offset by lower labor turnover, small price increases or other adjustments. In addition, many low-wage workers at small businesses are tipped workers whose employers have been shielded for decades from minimum wage increases, and thus have room for an increase.
Over all, the argument that a higher wage will kill jobs has been debunked by a range of studies showing that a higher minimum wage boosts pay without measurably reducing employment, while improving productivity. One study from the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago found that a $1 increase in the minimum wage results, on average, in $2,800 in new spending by affected households in the following year, in large part because the increase helps workers accumulate down payments to buy cars. Owning a car, in turn, helps workers to keep their jobs.
On Wednesday, Congressional Democrats said they would introduce bills to gradually raise the wage to $10.10 an hour. Both Mr. Obama and Democratic lawmakers have also called for annual inflation adjustments, an important change that would be made better by adjusting the minimum wage to keep it in line with increases in average wages, rather than with consumer prices. A higher minimum wage would be good for workers and for the economy. The challenge is to get it through Congress.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINIMUM WAGE (94%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); POOR POPULATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (85%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (78%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (78%); FAMILY (75%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (75%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); TAX LAW (73%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (61%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (61%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN BOEHNER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2013



651 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1513 words

HEADLINE: Obama Faces Risks in Pipeline Decision

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER, CLIFFORD KRAUSS and IAN AUSTEN; Matthew L. Wald contributed reporting.

 BODY:
President Obama faces a knotty decision in whether to approve the much-delayed Keystone oil pipeline: a choice between alienating environmental advocates who overwhelmingly supported his candidacy or causing a deep and perhaps lasting rift with Canada.
Canada, the United States' most important trading partner and a close ally on Iran and Afghanistan, is counting on the pipeline to propel more growth in its oil patch, a vital engine for its economy. Its leaders have made it clear that an American rejection would be viewed as an unneighborly act and could bring retaliation.
Secretary of State John F. Kerry's first meeting with a foreign leader was with Canada's foreign minister, John Baird, on Feb. 8. They discussed the Keystone pipeline project, among other subjects, and Mr. Kerry promised a fair, transparent and prompt decision. He did not indicate what recommendation he would make to the president.
But this is also a decisive moment for the United States environmental movement, which backed Mr. Obama strongly in the last two elections. For groups like the Sierra Club, permitting a pipeline carrying more than 700,000 barrels a day of Canadian crude into the country would be viewed as a betrayal, and as a contradiction of the president's promises in his second inaugural and State of the Union addresses to make controlling climate change a top priority for his second term. 
On Sunday, thousands rallied near the Washington Monument to protest the pipeline and call for firmer steps to fight emissions of climate-changing gases. Groups opposing coal production, nuclear power and hydraulic fracturing for natural gas were prominent; separate groups of Baptists and Catholics, as well as an interfaith coalition, and groups from Colorado, Toronto and Minneapolis joined the throng.
One speaker, the Rev. Lennox Yearwood, compared the rally to Martin Luther King's 1963 March on Washington for civil rights, but, he said, ''while they were fighting for equality, we are fighting for existence.'' In front of the stage was a mock-up of a pipeline, looking a bit like the dragon in a Chinese new year parade, with the motto, ''separate oil and state.''
Michael Brune, executive director of the Sierra Club, predicted that Mr. Obama would veto the $7 billion project because of the adverse effects development of the Canadian oil sands would have on the global climate.
''It's rare that a president has such a singular voice on such a major policy decision,'' Mr. Brune said. ''Whatever damage approving the pipeline would do to the environmental movement pales in comparison to the damage it could do to his own legacy.''
Mr. Brune was one of about four dozen pipeline protesters arrested at the White House on Wednesday, in an act of civil disobedience that was a first for the 120-year-old Sierra Club.
So far, Mr. Obama has been able to balance his promises to promote both energy independence and environmental protection, by allowing more oil and gas drilling on public lands and offshore while also pushing auto companies to make their vehicles more efficient. But the Keystone decision, which is technically a State Department prerogative but will be decided by the president himself, defies easy compromise.
''This is a tricky political challenge for the president,'' said Michael A. Levi, an energy fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. ''The reality is everyone has defined the stakes on Keystone in such absolute terms that it is borderline impossible to see a compromise that will satisfy all the players.''
The proposed northern extension of the nearly 2,000-mile Keystone XL pipeline would connect Canada's oil sands to refineries around Houston and the Gulf of Mexico, replacing Venezuelan heavy crude with similar Canadian grades.
Proponents say its approval would be an important step toward reducing reliance on the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries for energy. Opponents say that the expansion of oil production in shale fields across the country has already reduced the need for imports. Environmentalists have singled out the pipeline because it would carry oil derived from tar sands, in a process that is dirtier than other forms of oil production and that releases more carbon dioxide.
The State Department appeared poised to approve the pipeline in 2011, but Mr. Obama delayed a decision based on concerns about its route through vulnerable grasslands in Nebraska. The pipeline company, TransCanada, submitted a revised route, and the governor of Nebraska approved the plan last month, sending the final decision to Washington.
The Keystone pipeline is treated mainly as a domestic issue in Washington. But for Canada's Conservative government, which has its power base in the oil-rich province of Alberta, it represents a crucial moment in Canada's relationship with its most vital foreign partner even if the oil sands are also a divisive issue within Canada. Mr. Obama and Prime Minister Stephen Harper are not close, and the two make a portrait of contrasts in style and substance. While Mr. Obama comes from the liberal wing of his party and is known for stirring speeches, Mr. Harper is conservative even by the standards of his own Conservative Party and can be stiff in public. His political base, the province of Alberta, is the heart of the Canadian oil patch.
Mr. Obama's recent expressions of concern about climate change contrast starkly with Mr. Harper's stated priorities. Under Mr. Harper, Canada formally withdrew from the Kyoto Protocol on climate change, which was agreed to by a previous Liberal government. (The United States never ratified the protocol.)
Still, the amount of Canadian oil that the United States imports daily -- 2.4 million barrels, roughly twice what it imports from Saudi Arabia -- points up a cornerstone of Mr. Obama's goal to decrease dependence on oil from the unstable Middle East and unreliable sources like Venezuela. The Keystone pipeline would increase Canadian oil imports by more than 700,000 barrels a day, the equivalent of roughly two-thirds of Venezuelan imports.
Canadian leaders are cautious not to threaten the Obama administration directly, but they suggest that if the pipeline is not permitted, the close relationship between the countries will be damaged and Canada forced to look elsewhere, particularly to China, for new energy markets.
''The signal of a rejection of a permit by the president would be a significant change in the Canada-U.S. relationship,'' said Greg Stringham, the Canadian Association of Petroleum Producers' vice president for oil sands and markets. ''Canada, right now, with our potential growth in energy, is looking for security of demand wherever that might be throughout the world.''
Choosing his words carefully, Gary Doer, the Canadian ambassador to the United States, said the two countries had come to expect each other's support on critical issues.
''Sometimes the call comes from a U.S. president to a Canadian prime minister, and sometimes it comes the other way,'' he said. ''So the decision has to be made on merit and not noise. And if people in Canada perceive that the decision is made on noise, there will be extreme disappointment.''
Experts who follow United States-Canada relations say that they do not expect Ottawa to retaliate overtly if the Keystone project is not approved, but that a rejection could influence future decisions on purchases of American F-35 fighter jets and other trade and border matters.
Canada has powerful allies in the United States labor movement, which is pushing for the pipeline because proponents say it would generate tens of thousands of jobs, and in big oil companies like Exxon Mobil and Chevron that are heavily invested in the oil sands fields.
The rapid expansion of oil sands production has made oil critical to the Canadian economy. Canada has invested more than $100 billion in the oil sands over the last 10 years, shifting economic and political power westward to Alberta. Production is tied to 75,000 jobs nationwide, a number that is expected to multiply over the next 25 years, and nearly all of the country's oil exports go to the United States.
The shortage of pipeline capacity has produced localized supply gluts, forcing the price of Canadian crude well below American and international benchmarks. If the Keystone pipeline is not completed, energy experts say, weak prices will make the economics of future oil sands projects questionable.
The Canadian Association of Petroleum Producers estimates that the country's current production of 3.2 million barrels of oil a day will reach 6.2 million barrels a day by 2030, with oil sands representing an overwhelming share of the increase.
The producers and Canadian officials insist that more Canadian oil will reach United States markets one way or another, even if the Keystone project is not approved -- most likely through a combination of rail, barges, trucks and pipelines once used to transport natural gas.
''We hope Keystone will go through,'' said Lorraine Mitchelmore, president of Shell Canada, ''but it's not the only option.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A protest on Sunday against the Keystone oil pipeline, a project that Canada is counting on and that environmentalists oppose. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MANUEL BALCE CENETA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B1)
 A protester on Sunday near the Washington Monument. Thousands of people rallied to call for action on climate change. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD CLEMENT/REUTERS) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (90%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); EXECUTIVES (79%); VETO (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); EMISSIONS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); OIL SANDS (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (75%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (74%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (73%); HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (73%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (69%); RELIGION (68%); CIVIL RIGHTS (67%); CIVIL DISOBEDIENCE (64%); CHINESE NEW YEAR (60%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (50%); COAL INDUSTRY (50%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SIERRA CLUB (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (58%) COLORADO, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (58%) UNITED STATES (96%); CANADA (95%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2013



652 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 780 words

HEADLINE: Reaganism After Reagan

BYLINE: By RAMESH PONNURU. 
Ramesh Ponnuru is a columnist for Bloomberg View and a visiting fellow at the American Enterprise Institute.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON
TODAY'S Republicans are very good at tending the fire of Ronald Reagan's memory but not nearly as good at learning from his successes. They slavishly adhere to the economic program that Reagan developed to meet the challenges of the late 1970s and early 1980s, ignoring the fact that he largely overcame those challenges, and now we have new ones. It's because Republicans have not moved on from that time that Senators Marco Rubio and Rand Paul, in their responses to the State of the Union address last week, offered so few new ideas.
When Reagan cut rates for everyone, the top tax rate was 70 percent and the income tax was the biggest tax most people paid. Now neither of those things is true: For most of the last decade the top rate has been 35 percent, and the payroll tax is larger than the income tax for most people. Yet Republicans have treated the income tax as the same impediment to economic growth and middle-class millstone that it was in Reagan's day. House Republicans have repeatedly voted to bring the top rate down still further, to 25 percent. 
A Republican Party attentive to today's problems rather than yesterday's would work to lighten the burden of the payroll tax, not just the income tax. An expanded child tax credit that offset the burden of both taxes would be the kind of broad-based middle-class tax relief that Reagan delivered. Republicans should make room for this idea in their budgets, even if it means giving up on the idea of a 25 percent top tax rate.
When Reagan took office, he could have confidence in John F. Kennedy's conviction that a rising tide would lift all boats. In more recent years, though, economic growth hasn't always raised wages for most people. The rising cost of health insurance has eaten up raises. Controlling the cost of health care has to be a bigger part of the Republican agenda now that it's a bigger portion of the economy. An important first step would be to change the existing tax break for health insurance so that people would be able to pocket the savings if they chose cheaper plans.
Conservative views of monetary policy are also stuck in the late 1970s. From 1979 to 1981, inflation hit double digits three years in a row. Tighter money was the answer. To judge from the rhetoric of most Republican politicians, you would think we were again suffering from galloping inflation. The average annual inflation rate over the last five years has been just 2 percent. You would have to go back a long time to find the last period of similarly low inflation. Today nominal spending -- the total amount of dollars circulating in the economy both for consumption and investment -- has fallen well below its path before the financial crisis and the recession. That's the reverse of the pattern of the late 1970s.
Trying to boost economic growth through looser money is usually a mistake, as Reaganites rightly argued. They were right, too, to think that the Federal Reserve should make its actions predictable by adhering to a rule rather than improvising depending on its assessment of current conditions. The best way to put those impulses into practice is to require the Fed to stabilize the growth of nominal spending. That rule would allow looser money only when nominal spending is depressed. Keeping nominal spending on track is more or less what the Fed did from 1984 through 2007, a period that Republicans sometimes call the Reagan boom (since they see Bill Clinton as having largely kept his policies) and that economists generally call the Great Moderation. Relatively stable nominal spending growth promoted relatively stable economic growth, and it can again.
The Republican economic program of the 1980s also fought against government-imposed restrictions on economic activity: decontrolling energy prices, for example. Today we should target different restrictions. Software patents have become a source of unproductive litigation that entrenches large tech companies and inhibits creativity. Republicans shouldn't support those patents. Economic growth has to trump corporate executives' campaign donations.
Conservatives should retain their skepticism about government intervention, the preference for letting markets direct economic resources and the zeal for ending government-created barriers to economic growth that they inherited from Reagan. In his first Inaugural Address, Reagan famously said that ''government is not the solution to our problem; government is the problem.'' The less famous yet crucial beginning of that sentence was ''in our present crisis.'' The question is whether conservatism revives by attending to today's conditions, or becomes something withered and dead.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (85%); INFLATION (85%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); BUDGETS (77%); CORPORATE TAX (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); CONSUMPTION (72%); MONETARY POLICY (70%); HEALTH INSURANCE (67%); BANKING & FINANCE (60%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (92%); MARCO RUBIO (58%); RAND PAUL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2013



653 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 620 words

HEADLINE: Luring Foreign High-Tech Workers

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''America's Genius Glut,'' by Ross Eisenbrey (Op-Ed, Feb. 8):
Finally someone has written accurately about the supposed shortage of scientists, engineers and mathematicians in the United States. Organizations clamoring for more H-1B visas for high-tech workers do not need more access to highly skilled workers. As Mr. Eisenbrey points out, plenty of such workers are already available. What these organizations want is ready access to these workers who will work for lower wages.
Further, these organizations do not truly want scientists. Instead, they want highly skilled technicians who are trained to use the latest technologies in exactly the manner dictated by the organization. Five years later when the technology changes, they will be discarded. They will be replaced by the newest crop of workers, who are trained in the latest technologies and, best of all, will work for lower wages than the previous crop. 
STEVEN L. VONDERFECHT Monrovia, Calif., Feb. 8, 2013
To the Editor:
Intellectual protectionism, like all forms of protectionism, helps some people at the expense of the rest of society. According to a paper by the Georgetown University Center on Education and the Workforce, half of all Silicon Valley start-ups from 1995 to 2005, and one-quarter of all tech companies, were founded by foreign-born workers. One does not need to be one of the geniuses that Ross Eisenbrey would like to keep out of the United States to see that America will benefit from admitting more scientifically gifted people.
MARK L. GREEN Santa Monica, Calif., Feb. 8, 2013
The writer is a professor of mathematics at the University of California, Los Angeles.
To the Editor:
I read Ross Eisenbrey's article with great interest, having recently spent four years in New York as a foreign student (from Greece) obtaining my Ph.D. in computer science. One of the pillars of Mr. Eisenbrey's argument is that foreign students who obtain advanced degrees in the United States will usually find a way to stay. But many prefer to leave rather than go through a long and painful immigration process. I know, because I am one of them.
Though I'd rather live in New York, upon graduation I moved to Sweden where, as a European citizen, I didn't have to worry about unreasonable immigration rules. As the economic opportunities in China and India continue to improve, more and more foreign students will make the same choice I did and refuse to jump through the hoops of a dysfunctional immigration system.
In the United States, more than a third of doctoral degrees in the sciences and more than half of those in engineering are awarded each year to foreign students. Congress needs to allow American society to reap the benefits of the American higher education system.
Forget about the H-1B program, whose problems are correctly pointed out in Mr. Eisenbrey's article. Simply let science, technology, engineering and mathematics, or STEM, graduates with advanced degrees stay by giving them green cards.
MICHAEL LAMPIS Stockholm, Feb. 8, 2013
To the Editor:
I was frankly amused by Ross Eisenbrey's baseless hypothesis that we have a glut of genius engineers, and that deep-pocketed tech giants like Microsoft and I.B.M. are importing thousands of foreign professionals on H-1B visas only to use them as bonded labor at below-market rates.
Contrary to his view that H-1B visas somehow ''darken job prospects for America's struggling young scientists and engineers,'' American STEM graduates have far better job prospects than their liberal arts counterparts, thank you very much, and they are hardly struggling even in current dismal economic conditions.
AMIT SARKAR Scarsdale, N.Y., Feb. 8, 2013
The writer is a former Wall Street banker.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY VINCENT MAHÉ) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN LABOR (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (89%); EMPLOYMENT VISAS (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (87%); WRITERS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); ENGINEERING (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); MATHEMATICS (74%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (72%); LABOR SHORTAGES (72%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); IMMIGRATION LAW (65%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

ORGANIZATION: GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (79%); INDIA (79%); GREECE (53%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2013



654 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 200 words

HEADLINE: Revamp Job Training

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''More Jobs, Higher Pay'' (editorial, Feb. 5):
Leveling up is a great need in today's labor market. No one should be stuck in a low-paying, dead-end job for his or her working life. That outlook should be important in President Obama's second term. In addition to the changes listed, legislation should facilitate the development of job ladders by providing money to promote the upgrading of employees. 
Job training needs an overhaul. While much is spent on it, its results are limited. Closer, direct ties to employers and job possibilities are needed.
How, then, to move the public and legislators to improve the job scene for too many people? Publicizing the low wages of major employers would help as well as more attention to the low-wage scene. Union members, present and past, might tell how their unions made a crucial difference in their lives. My parents' retirement years were eased by the pensions they received through their unions.
Improving wages and working conditions will not be easily won. But it is a crucial effort.
S. M. MILLER Sarasota, Fla., Feb. 5, 2013
The writer, professor emeritus of sociology at Boston University, is a board member of United for a Fair Economy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (52%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON UNIVERSITY (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); SARASOTA, FL, USA (75%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2013



655 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 317 words

HEADLINE: At Mass, Texting With God

BYLINE: By NELIA I. CAMARGO

 BODY:
Dear Diary:
Feb. 10 was the day after the big snowstorm's visit to New York City, but it was Sunday, so I had to attend Mass at 8:30 a.m. at St. Bartholomew's Roman Catholic Church in Elmhurst, Queens, almost full despite the slippery streets. 
I found a seat near the front on the left-hand side of the church, which has three rows; the middle one has the most benches. As soon as I arrived, the music and singing started, and the procession, led by the celebrant, followed by two altar boys and the lector, marched towards the altar.
I was deeply engrossed in the ritual until the lector began the first reading, when from the corner of an eye I saw a young man of about 14 or 15. He was bent down low, crouching in his seat, leaning to one side by the aisle in the middle row opposite mine.
At first I thought he was sick ... but wait a minute ... no ... with both hands and four fingers, he was texting! I became so amused and distracted by his demeanor that my attention got divided between him and the Mass. This went on until Holy Communion when he stood up like the rest of us, approached the altar and received Communion.
Back in his seat and on his way out in the recession, he continued doing it. Was he sending messages to God? And was He texting back?
Read all recent entries and our updated submissions guidelines. Reach us via e-mail diary@nytimes.com or follow @NYTMetro on Twitter using the hashtag #MetDiary.
Observations for this column may be sent to Metropolitan Diary at diary@nytimes.com or to The New York Times, 620 Eighth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10018. Please include your name, mailing address and daytime telephone number; upon request, names may be withheld in print. Submissions become the property of The Times and cannot be returned. They may be edited, and may be republished and adapted in all media.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY VICTOR KERLOW) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (90%); TEXT MESSAGING (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2013



656 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(India Ink)

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2013

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 1900 words

HEADLINE: Thomas Friedman Answers Your Questions

BYLINE: HEATHER TIMMONS


HIGHLIGHT: The NYT columnist responds to readers' queries about India. 

 BODY:
 New York Times op-ed columnist and author Thomas L. Friedman recently wrapped up a week-long trip to India, where he met with business executives, government ministers and other officials, entrepreneurs and development groups. Even as India's economy has slowed considerably, Mr. Friedman remains a big believer in what he calls the "miracle of India.''
 Earlier we asked India Ink readers for their questions for Mr. Friedman about India's changing role in the world economy. Here are his answers to a select few:
 Q. 
By far the most popular reader question was: Is the world still flat?
 A. 
I wrote the "World Is Flat" in 2004.
I have to confess, I now realize the book was wrong. The world is so much flatter than I thought.
When I wrote "The World Is Flat," Facebook didn't exist, Twitter was still a sound, the cloud was still in the sky, 4G was a parking place, LinkedIn was a prison, applications were what you sent to college, Big Data was a rap star and Skype was a typo. All of that came after I wrote "The World Is Flat."
And so what it tells you is all those trends have actually taken us from a connected world to what we're now in, which is a hyper-connected world. It's a difference of degree. It's a difference in kind.
I believe it is changing every job, every industry and every market.
The trends I identified have only intensified in every direction, enabling individuals to complete, connect and collaborate so much faster, farther cheaper and deeper.
 Q. 
Venkat from N. J. said: "The globalization of business is basically finding a way to justify exploitation of labor," resulting in an "enormous concentration of wealth in fewer hands." The majority of "labor working for low-end manufacturing work in pathetic conditions," while workers in the U.S. face layoffs, particularly the elderly. "Who is paying for this social cost,"and should globalization be regulated, somehow? 
 A. 
The first thing you need to understand about globalization is that it is everything and its opposite. So it is take it with one hand and give it with another hand.
On the one hand it is automating more things faster. On the other hand I met with young Indian entrepreneurs who are leveraging the cloud, open-source tools and very small amounts of capital, and are able to invent companies that can complete globally like never before.
So, who is the exploiter and who is the exploitee in this system? If horses could vote, there never would have been cars.
What we're getting here is rapid change. The question the reader raises, though, is a very important one, because something has changed which we have not figured out how to adjust to. This is a point that Erik Brynjolfsson and Andrew McAfee make in their book "The Race Against the Machine," which I wrote my last column about. 
The point they make is that over the last 200 hundred years, three things grew together: productivity, median income and employment. Whether you were an Indian or an American, productivity grew, median income grew and employment grew, and inequality tended to shrink.
That's a good thing.
Once we hit the flattening of the world, and now the hyper-flattening of the world, those three things are splitting apart. And that's what the reader is, rightly, concerned about.
I'm concerned about it too.
So what happens when the world gets this hyper-connected? Well, first of all, the returns to education grow enormously. To be able to use these new technologies properly, you need to be educated.
In America today, unemployment for people with four-year college degrees is 3.6 percent, basically nothing. Unemployment for someone who dropped out of high school is now infinity. I exaggerate but you get the point.
It's called skills-bias polarization.
If you want to have a factory job in America today, doing high-end manufacturing, you need to know algebra and calculus. It's not just a repetitive motion any more, you need to program the robot.
Second thing is the returns to capital are so much more than the returns to labor. If I have a lot of capital and I can buy a lot of machines, the returns are so much more than if I hire a lot of people.
The third thing causing this phenomenon is in a hyper-connected world, the returns to superstar talent are just staggering. If you are, say, Madonna, well, every Indian kid who has an iPad can now download your songs. That wasn't the case 10 years ago. You couldn't reach this market.
So all three of these things are creating much bigger income gaps, much lower employment for people with lower skills, yet much higher productivity and great wealth for owners of capital.
That's the big change.
The challenge for every developed and developing society is how do you maintain a middle class in such a world. That's what I'm thinking about for the topic of my next book.
 Q. 
D.C. Agrawal from Princeton, New Jersey, asks: "How would you rate India on governance and public institutional structures compared to other democratic countries?''
 A. 
Let's look at the countries I visited in the last six months: India, China and Egypt. India in my mind has relatively weak governance in terms of delivering services, but a very strong civil society -- very vibrant active, social movements, whether it's Anna Hazare or reaction to the rape case.
China has a very muscular government, in terms of delivering infrastructure and education, but a very weak civil society, although it is getting stronger. And Egypt has a very flabby, overweight government and a very weak civil society. That's why when the government collapsed -- you got the Muslim Brotherhood taking advantage of the revolution, not strong-rooted democratic movements.
I think India's governance will improve. The government here is not utterly ineffective. It does do some things very well, but clearly it has weaknesses around policing, infrastructure building and providing consistent education. It holds elections very well, it does the census very well.
Let's remember it is still a billion people. I don't want to be too hard on it, but people want more, they want better.
India today has, because of hyper-connection of the world, and diffusion of technology, experienced the pushing down to lower and lower income levels more technology empowerment and education. That's why India today seems like it has a 300 million-person middle class and a 300 million-person virtual middle class.
These are people who now have available to them, whether it's a cell phone or other technologies, things that you would normally have to have a middle-class income to have. And they have access to certain learning opportunities.
So they're actually in their minds middle class, thinking like middle class and putting middle-class demands on the government. I think the young woman who was raped in this terrible tragedy was a member of that virtual middle class - the tools she had, what she was doing, expectations of the government.
That's a big change. It's putting more pressure on the government. And the government will eventually respond because it has to.
 Q. 
Jason Richardson-White from Bethlehem, Georgia, said: Studies indicate that equal treatment between the sexes is important to slowing the birth rate. I don't see that globalization is contributing significantly to that end in India. An argument can be made that globalization has made it possible for the people who are most likely to start egalitarian families to leave India for the West?
 A. 
First let me make a general response:
I did not invent globalization. I promise you. I just wrote about it.
I wrote about the upsides and the downsides. I didn't start it and I can't stop it. I have my own problems with it.
Having said that, I profile in my column an N.G.O. that is providing cell phone-based SMS messaging to alert women about their menstrual cycle, on when exactly they are fertile and when they should not be having unprotected sex, if they want to do family planning.
This is totally based on cloud computing. Without globalization it doesn't exist. It allows a woman in a remote place to do this. There's privacy to it. You do one interview on the phone to set it up.
People need to keep in mind, globalization giveth and globalization taketh. The biggest revolution about to hit India, in the next two years, is distance learning. Any woman from any village who knows English will be able to take courses from Harvard, Stanford and M.I.T.
Do you know what this means for women in conservative families, who don't want them to go to school? It's going to be a revolution. I'm very excited about the kind of educational empowerment that is going to be coming the way of Indian women that will give them greater earning power, greater control over their own bodies and greater ability to negotiate with their sexual partners.
 Q. 
Anand Kumar from Chicago, Illinois, asks: Tom, China may not be loved in the West, but is respected and admired for its accomplishments. How do you think India ranks on the loved vs. respected and admired spectrum?
 A. 
What an interesting question.
I think India's brand remains very strong around the world. I appreciate India's democracy.
What if 1 billion 50 million Indians were living like Syria today? The whole world would be different. Literally, the whole world would feel different today.
So to me India is a miracle. One billion fifty million people holding free and fair elections, just about every day, in the country. We now take it for granted because it has gone on for so long. I think it's amazing. 
I can't generalize about the whole world, but I'm still enormously optimistic about what I see here.
 Q. 
Zaigum Kashmiri from Clarence, New York, asks: Tom, I know you are an Indophile and write great things about India. But, honestly, how can anybody be hopeful about India's economic and social progress, keeping in view the lawlessness, dysfunctional government, corrupt police, a huge incompetent and corrupt bureaucracy and poverty?
 A. 
I think the important thing to always remember when you look at India is not the snapshot, but the slope of the change.
If you take a snapshot, those will be some of the things you see.
But if you came with me tomy meeting with NASSCOM [National Association of Software and Services Companies, India's technology industry association] this week, you'd see eight young entrepreneurs leveraging the flat world to start global businesses that not only contribute to the world but that make Indians unpoor. 
They're amazing.
So you always have to keep these things in balance. What excites me most about India today is the trend line. Every time I come here, I see more and more Indians starting things, collaborating on things and inventing things to make Indians unpoor. And to me that's the most important thing you have to keep in mind.
By the way, everything the reader cited there, you could say that about America. We have all that, plus guns.
No country is a paradise. Everyone is a work in progress. You have to think about where the thrust is.
I'd like to think that with all our problems in America, we're still tilted in a positive direction. I'd like to say the same about India.
 (Interview has been lightly edited and condensed.) 

        
A Conversation With: India's Chief Climate Change Negotiator
        
India and China Deepen Economic Ties
        
China and India Top List of International Students Attending U.S. Colleges
        
Happy First Birthday, India Ink
        
Signs of an Asian Arms Buildup in India's Missile Test

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); WRITERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (89%); TRENDS (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); GLOBALIZATION (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (73%); FACTORY WORKERS (69%); BIG DATA (67%); OPEN SOURCE SOFTWARE (67%); LAYOFFS (50%) China; Economic Conditions and Trends; Hazare, Anna; India; McAfee, Andrew P; Unemployment; United States

COMPANY: INDIA INK (57%); FACEBOOK INC (56%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2269 FINISHERS OF TEXTILES, NEC (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%)

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (91%) Hazare, Anna; McAfee, Andrew P

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (92%); ASIA (79%) China; India; United States

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2013



657 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2013

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 501 words

HEADLINE: IHT Quick Read: Feb. 18

BYLINE: THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE


HIGHLIGHT: Obama's plan for illegal immigrants; fears of a guerrilla war in Mali; a suicide epidemic among the elderly in South Korea; publishers strike a deal with Google in France; London fashion week; and sports lose luster in an era of doping. 

 BODY:
 NEWS Millions of Chinese sacrifice heavily for their children's education, but as college graduates saturate a slowing job market, the security they seek is increasingly elusive. Keith Bradsher reports from Hanjing, China. 
A plan by President Barack Obama for an overhaul of the immigration system would put illegal immigrants on a path to citizenship that could begin after about eight years and would require them to go to the back of the line behind legal applicants, according to a draft of the legislation that the White House has circulated in the administration. Michael D. Shear and Julia Preston report.
An epidemic of suicides among the elderly is the counterpoint to South Korea's runaway economic success, which has worn away at the Confucian social contract that formed the bedrock of culture for centuries. Choe Sang-Hun reports from Seoul.
President Obama faces a knotty decision in whether to approve the much-delayed Keystone oil pipeline: a choice between alienating environmental advocates who overwhelmingly supported his candidacy or causing a deep and perhaps lasting rift with Canada. John M. Broder, Clifford Krauss and Ian Austen report.
Militants' infiltration into freed areas of Mali, in a string of neighboring villages along the Niger River, is what enabled last Sunday's attack in the heart of Gao, a town of about 86,000. Peter Tinti reports from Gao, Mali, and Adam Nossiter from Dakar, Senegal.
Pope Benedict XVI asked the tens of thousands of people who had flocked to St. Peter's Square on Sunday for one of his last public appearances to pray for him and his successor. Elisabetta Povoledo reports from Vatican City.
Nearly a year after word leaked about an S.E.C. investigation into possible corrupt practices in the China film trade, there is a still a chill over dealings between Hollywood and China. Michael Cieply reports from Los Angeles.
Publishers in France say they have struck an agreement with Google on the use of their content online. Their counterparts elsewhere in Europe, however, say the French gave in too easily. Eric Pfanner reports from Paris.
 EDUCATION Issues involving online courses were the subject at a conference at the University of London, which has been in the distance-learning business since 1858. D.D. Guttenplan reports from London.
 FASHIONMary Katrantzou's show was one of those heart-stopping moments when fashion goes beyond the commercial or the attractive to embrace art. Suzy Menkes reviews the shows in London.
 ARTS Which movies in 2012 had the best-designed titles? Alice Rawsthorn writes from London.
 SPORTS Retroactive has become the new active in this polluted, convoluted sports era, in which you can too rarely be sure whether the race or game or shot-put contest you just watched was legitimate. Christopher Clarey reports.
Arsenal was eliminated from the English F.A. Cup in its own stadium against a second-division side, the first time that has happened since Arsène Wenger took over the team in 1996. Rob Hughes on soccer.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (89%); FASHION DESIGN (84%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (79%); ONLINE SCHOOLS (78%); DISTANCE LEARNING (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (77%); CORRUPTION (72%); EMPLOYMENT (71%); FILM (68%); FASHION DESIGNERS (66%); FASHION & APPAREL (64%); RELIGION (64%); FASHION SHOWS (64%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (60%); COMPUTER BASED TRAINING (60%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (60%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (53%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (50%) IHT Rendezvous

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (53%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); POPE BENEDICT XVI (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); DAKAR, SENEGAL (54%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) MALI (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); FRANCE (90%); HOLY SEE (86%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NIGER (79%); SENEGAL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2013



658 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2013

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 274 words

HEADLINE: At Mass, Texting With God

BYLINE: NELIA I. CAMARGO


HIGHLIGHT: Metropolitan Diary: A parishioner spies a teenage boy who doesn't let Sunday Mass get in the way of his text messages. 

 BODY:
Dear Diary:
Feb. 10 was the day after the big snowstorm's visit to New York City, but it was Sunday, so I had to attend Mass at 8:30 a.m. at St. Bartholomew's Roman Catholic Church in Elmhurst, Queens, almost full despite the slippery streets. 
I found a seat near the front on the left-hand side of the church, which has three rows; the middle one has the most benches. As soon as I arrived, the music and singing started, and the procession, led by the celebrant, followed by two altar boys and the lector, marched towards the altar.
I was deeply engrossed in the ritual until the lector began the first reading, when from the corner of an eye I saw a young man of about 14 or 15. He was bent down low, crouching in his seat, leaning to one side by the aisle in the middle row opposite mine.
At first I thought he was sick ... but wait a minute ... no ... with both hands and four fingers, he was texting! I became so amused and distracted by his demeanor that my attention got divided between him and the Mass. This went on until Holy Communion when he stood up like the rest of us, approached the altar and received Communion.
Back in his seat and on his way out in the recession, he continued doing it. Was he sending messages to God? And was He texting back?
 Read all recent entries and our updated submissions guidelines. Reach us via e-mail diary@nytimes.com or follow @NYTMetro on Twitter using the hashtag #MetDiary. 

        
5 Firehouses Recognized as City Landmarks
        
Caught (on Video) With Hand in Other's Pocketbook
        
Missed Connection on the R Train
        
For Sotomayor, Bronx School's Closing Prompts Heartache - and Memories
        
A Long Island Accent in London

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RELIGION (94%); TEXT MESSAGING (92%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (72%) Cellular Telephones; E-Mail; Queens (NYC); Roman Catholic Church; Metropolitan Diary

ORGANIZATION: Roman Catholic Church

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Queens (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2013



659 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 851 words

HEADLINE: Preschool Economics

BYLINE: NANCY FOLBRE


HIGHLIGHT: It makes good economic sense, as well as good public policy, to expand early-childhood education and defend early-childhood programs against budget-cutters, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Nancy Folbre is an economics professor at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst. She recently edited and contributed to "For Love and Money: Care Provision in the United States." 
Even a 4-year-old can understand the case for early-childhood education. It's fun, you learn things, you make it easier for Mom and Dad to earn a decent living, and when you grow up you will be better able to earn a decent living yourself. At that point, you will start paying taxes that return the favor, helping finance the retirement and health care of the generation that invested in your education. 
President Obama's proposal to help states develop and expand high-quality early-education programs has won verbal support from across the political spectrum, including David Brooks. More tangible evidence of political viability comes from Oklahoma and Georgia, two traditionally red states that now provideuniversal voluntary preschool for 4-year-olds. 
Still, conservative opposition remains fierce. The loudest complaint is that public programs have not been shown to be cost-effective. But a wealth of research by highly respected economists shows that well-designed, high-quality early-childhood education programs offer a positive payback. At National Public Radio you can listen to the University of Chicago economist James Heckman reiterate this point - as he has been doing for many years. 
Timothy Bartik of the Upjohn Institute offers great running commentary on debates over technical issues (such as whether small, demonstrably successful programs can be effectively scaled up) at his Investing in Kids blog.

Academics aren't the only ones on board. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce published a report last year explaining "Why Business Should Support Early-Childhood Education." 
But the case for a public commitment to early-childhood education extends well beyond any cost-benefit analysis of child outcomes. It would help parents meet their child-care needs and reconcile the conflicting demands of wage employment and family care. 
As a report published by the Center for American Progress emphasizes, preschool enrollment rates are already high among 4-year-olds in particular. But high costs mean that participation is highest among the poor, who qualify for Head Start, and the affluent, who can afford to pay out of pocket. 
Even parents who currently rely on informal child-care arrangements would benefit from more dependable public provision. Many are just one family member, friend or neighbor away from a child-care crisis that could endanger their jobs. At Forbes, Bryce Covert makes a case for emphasizing the positive employment impact of the proposed policy. 
Women's labor-force participation rates in the United States were once relatively high by international standards. In 1990, we ranked sixth among 22 countries of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. By 2010, our rank had fallen to 17th. Francine Blau and Lawrence Kahn of Cornell University estimate that about 29 percent of the decrease in women's labor-force participation relative to other countries is attributable to those countries' adoption of more "family friendly" public policies than those in the United States. 
Improvements in children's future productivity and greater opportunities for productive employment for everyone will shape the future of the United States economy. Conservatives enjoy their strongest support among older white voters, many of whom have already raised their children. 
Both young parents and young children are far more ethnically diverse than the population over age 65. 
But as the journalist Ronald Brownstein points out in an article memorably titled "The Gray and the Brown," the very structure of our social programs makes the generations dependent on one another: 
Today's minority students will represent an increasing share of tomorrow's workforce and thus pay more of the payroll taxes that will be required to fund Social Security and Medicare benefits for the mostly white Baby Boomers. Many analysts warn that if the U.S. doesn't improve educational performance among African-American and Hispanic children, who now lag badly behind whites in both high school and college graduation rates, the nation will have difficulty producing enough high-paying jobs to generate the tax revenue to maintain a robust retirement safety net. 
These are linkages that voters sorely need to understand. In coming months both Social Security and Medicare are likely to withstand the budgetary pressures imposed by the threat of sequestration. On the other hand, programs directed at children - including support for early-childhood education - are likely to come under the deficit-cutting knife. 
In the long run, that knife will cut both ways, bleeding our system of intergenerational transfers. 
Which is one more reason why it's important for President Obama and his supporters to wrestle it out of conservative hands. 

        
The Uneven Progress of Equal Opportunity
        
Public Job Creation
        
Women's Unemployment Surpasses Men's
        
The Supreme Court and the Next Fiscal Cliff
        
When the Deficit Will Be Fixed

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (93%); CHILDREN (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); CHILD CARE (88%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); WOMEN (78%); CONSERVATISM (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (69%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (66%); LABOR FORCE (66%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (64%) Education (Pre-School); Federal Budget (US); Women and Girls; Today's Economist

COMPANY: NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (84%); NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515111 RADIO NETWORKS (55%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2013



660 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 407 words

HEADLINE: The Great Dollar Decline

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Mostly not about us. 

 BODY:
Matt O'Brien is covering the continuing Scarborough freakout over bearded prophets of non-doom; better him than me. I would say that JoScar is making progress. He seems to have graduated from frantic appeals to imagined authority -- nobody else is saying what that guy says! -- to efforts to make his case with actual data. Unfortunately, you really need some background knowledge -- actually, quite a lot of background knowledge -- before you try using economic data to tell stories, a point O'Brien makes abundantly clear. 
But this particular episode jogged me into doing something I've been meaning to do for a while: talk about the causes of the big decline in the dollar during the Bush years. As O'Brien says, it's ludicrous to blame this pre-crisis decline on deficits that only ballooned after the crisis struck; it's also bizarre to think of the dollar's decline as a tragedy, when it actually took place in the context of mostly low inflation and a growing economy. Still, what was actually going on?
First, we need some perspective. Here's the 40-year history of the real dollar:
What you see right away is that the dollar fluctuates a lot, so impressions of big decline depend a lot on your starting point. Think of it this way: maybe the question isn't why the dollar fell so much during the Bush years, but rather why it was so strong during the late Clinton years. (The tech boom/bubble is an obvious answer). 
It's also interesting to ask who the dollar declined against. And the main answer is Canada and Europe, which together account for more than a third of the overall dollar index. Here's the exchange rate against the euro and the exchange rate against the loonie; both are nominal, not real rates, but since Canadian and European inflation rates are low and close to ours, that's not a problem:
So: the euro was extraordinarily weak in the early 2000s (which I remember from a wonderful bike trip in Burgundy), reflecting teething troubles with the new currency. It recovered, and has stayed strong despite the crisis because of the refusal of the European Central Bank to match the easing of other central banks. Canada, meanwhile, saw its currency rise along with a great commodity boom. 
In short, it's not me, it's you -- the decline in the dollar under Bush probably had more to do with what was going on in our trading partners than with what was going on here. And in any case, again, it was not a problem for America.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US DOLLAR (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); EXCHANGE RATES (88%); EURO (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (75%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); INFLATION (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (91%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2013



661 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 463 words

HEADLINE: Reader's Digest Files for Bankruptcy, Again

BYLINE: MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED


HIGHLIGHT: The magazine's parent company filed for Chapter 11 protection late on Sunday in another attempt to cut down the debt that has plagued the pocket-sized publication for years. 

 BODY:
Executives at Reader's Digest must be hoping that the magazine's second trip to bankruptcy court in under four years will be its last.
The magazine's parent, RDA Holding, filed for Chapter 11 protection late on Sunday in another effort to cut down the debt that has plagued the pocket-size publication for years. The company is hoping to convert about $465 million of its debt into equity held by its creditors. 
In a court filing, Reader's Digest said it held about $1.1 billion in assets and just under $1.2 billion in debt. It has provisionally lined up about $105 million in financing to keep it afloat during the Chapter 11 case.
This week's filing is the latest effort by the 91-year-old publisher, whose magazine once resided on many American coffee tables, to fix itself in a difficult economic environment. 
"After considering a wide range of alternatives, we believe this course of action will most effectively enable us to maintain our momentum in transforming the business and allow us to capitalize on the growing strength and presence of our outstanding brands and products," Robert E. Guth, the company's chief executive, said in a statement.
Reader's Digest last filed for bankruptcy in 2009, emerging a year later under the control of lenders like JPMorgan Chase.
That reorganization substantially cut the publisher's debt, and afterward the company worked to further shrink its footprint. It jettisoned nonessential publications in a series of deals, including the $180 million sale of Allrecipes.com and the $4.3 million sale of Every Day With Rachael Ray, both to the Meredith Corporation.
Most of the money from those transactions went to pay down a still significant debt burden. But the company remained pressured by what it described in a court filing as steep declines that still bedevil the media industry. Last year, the publisher began negotiating with its lenders, including Wells Fargo, about amending some of its debt obligations. That process eventually led to a "pre-negotiated agreement" with creditors, which will be put into effect by the bankruptcy filing. 
This time, Reader's Digest is hoping to spend even less time in court. Mr. Guth said in a court filing that the publisher aims to emerge from bankruptcy protection in about four months.
The company's biggest unsecured creditors include firms represented by Luxor Capital. The Federal Trade Commission also contends that it is owed $8.8 million in a settlement claim. 
Reader's Digest is being advised by Evercore Partners and the law firm Weil, Gotshal & Manges.
Reader's Digest bankruptcy petition (2013) by 
Declaration by Reader's Digest Chief Executive by 

        
Several Former Partners Ask Judge to Reject Dewey's Bankruptcy Plan
        
Despite Reorganizations, Scant Signs of Change in Airline Industry

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (94%); NEWS BRIEFS (92%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (91%); PARENT COMPANIES (90%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (79%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (78%); PETITIONS (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (78%); LAWYERS (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (68%); AIRLINES (50%) Bankruptcies; Reader's Digest Assn Inc; Media; Restructuring & Bankruptcy; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: READER'S DIGEST PTY LTD (90%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (83%); MEREDITH CORP (66%); WELLS FARGO & CO (64%); WEIL GOTSHAL & MANGES LLP (51%); EVERCORE PARTNERS INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Reader's Digest Assn Inc

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (83%); JPM (LSE) (83%); 8634 (TSE) (83%); MDP (NYSE) (66%); WFC (NYSE) (64%); EVR (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (66%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (66%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (66%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (66%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (66%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (64%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (51%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (51%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%)

PERSON: RACHAEL RAY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2013



662 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 376 words

HEADLINE: The Myth of Reagan's Miracle

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Misplaced Republican nostalgia. 

 BODY:
Ramesh Ponnuru has a rather sad piece in today's Times, urging Republicans to revitalize themselves by emulating Reagan's spirit rather than his specifics. Actually, it's sad on two fronts. 
First, Ponnuru wants the GOP to recognize the reality of growing inequality that has eliminated the connection between economic growth and middle-class incomes, to shift its focus away from tax cuts for the rich, and to drop the fixation with inflation and hard money in favor of a pragmatic approach. Well, there's a name for people willing to be flexible in this way: they're called Democrats. Think of the known views of Paul Ryan, who is undoubtedly his party's intellectual leader (a fact that in itself tells you a lot about the party), and ask how he could conceivably accept any of this without admitting that he has spent his entire career being wrong about everything.
But it's also really sad to see the continuing dominance of Reaganolatry. It's not just that Reaganomics was a long time in the past -- his big tax cut was 33, count them, 33 years ago. It's also that Reaganomics was not a success! 
Look at median family income. The basic story of postwar America is one of big gains in the first generation, near-stagnation in the second and after, with fluctuation due to the business cycle. And Reagan did not break that pattern:
If you want a better assessment, you can look at growth between business cycle peaks. (Peaks are much more similar than troughs; all happy economies are alike, each unhappy economy is unhappy in its own way.) Here's what you get (treating the 1979-82 double dip as a single recession):
These periods don't match up neatly with presidential terms. Still, if Reaganomics had been such a spectacular success, you would have expected the results by 1990 to have been families doing better than in the horrible 1970s; actually, not. The only clear things we see here are that the Clinton era was pretty good, while the Bush era was lousy even before the crisis.
So as I said, it's sad: Ponnuru hopes to get Republicans to accept policies they'll never accept, and the only way he knows to make his case is to invoke the memories of a politician from the quite distant past whose policies weren't all that successful in the first place.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (71%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2013



663 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2013

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 1084 words

HEADLINE: The 2014 SS: Chevrolet Answers a Question, but Was Anybody Asking?

BYLINE: STEVEN COLE SMITH


HIGHLIGHT: Chevrolet shows Nascar fans its first rear-drive performance sedan since the 1996 departure of the Impala SS. 

 BODY:
DAYTONA BEACH, Fla. - Blame booming Chevrolet, which has more new vehicles to introduce than it knows what to do with, that the all new 2014 Chevrolet SS rear-drive performance sedan was introduced to the public and the media in the infield of Daytona International Speedway hours before the Nascar version of the SS was to debut on track in the first race of the season, a preliminary to the Daytona 500.
Chevrolet, you will recall, had the new Corvette and Silverado truck line to promote at the Detroit auto show. At the Chicago auto show, it introduced the 2014 Cruze Turbo Diesel, the company's first diesel-powered car in nearly 30 years. There is a full slate of introductions scheduled for the New York auto show, which starts March 29, including the first look in the United States at the next-generation Corvette convertible.
So Chevrolet packed up its top executives and shipped them to Daytona, where the SS - the company's first rear-drive performance sedan since the 1996 departure of the Impala SS - was shown to enthusiastic Nascar fans surrounding a cordoned area in the Daytona fan zone infield. 
The Nascar connection is important because 2013 marks the debut of all-new body styles for the Nascar Sprint Cup series. Over the last six years, Nascar had homogenized the looks of the Nascar Chevrolet Impala, Ford Fusion and Toyota Camry to the point where the only difference was head- and taillight decals. The manufacturers insisted on cars that looked more like their road-going counterparts - after all, Nascar and the manufacturers have long embraced the "Win on Sunday, Sell on Monday" mentality, and that was viable when the on-track cars were, or at least resembled, converted street cars.
So Chevrolet took the opportunity to change its Nascar racer from the front-drive Impala to the rear-drive, V-8-powered SS, and for 2013, Nascar allowed the three manufacturers enough design latitude to race cars that actually resemble the models they are ostensibly based on. These Gen 6 cars - or the sixth generation since Nascar started in 1949 - should bring some brand identity back to the sport.
The SS is the first Chevrolet to wear the SS, or Super Sport, name as its lone moniker, having for decades been paired with higher-performance models like the Impala SS and Camaro SS. The 2014 SS is a one-size-fits-all model, loaded with such standard equipment as leather upholstery, a nine-speaker Bose sound system, heads-up data display, a color touch-screen navigation system and parking assist, which has sensors that allow for hands-free parallel parking.
The engine is a 415-horsepower, 6.2-liter V-8, and the transmission is a six-speed automatic with TAPshift technology, meaning you can change gears using paddle switches on the steering wheel. Big Brembo disc brakes sit inside forged aluminum wheels. Tires are Bridgestone Potenzas - 245/40ZR-19 up front, 275/35ZR-19 in the rear. The weight, just under two tons, is lightened a bit by an aluminum hood and deck lid.
Inside, there is plenty of room for four 6-footers, with decent room for a fifth passenger. Instruments and controls are plain, but easy to read and access. Pedals are covered with drilled aluminum plates. The trunk is huge.
The price (as well as a presumably grim E.P.A. fuel-economy rating) has not been revealed, and won't be until the fourth-quarter sales effort begins, but expect it to be about $45,000, a little more with a sunroof, the lone option.
Development of the SS has been largely under the radar, mostly because the car wasn't developed in the United States. The SS is a product of Holden, G.M.'s Australian division. Whether American consumers care is mostly unknown: The list of Australian-built cars sold in the United States is short and not particularly distinguished. It includes the Mercury Capri roadster, which arrived in 1991 with the unenviable mission of taking on the red-hot Mazda Miata. Also, some Mitsubishi Diamantes came from Down Under.
In 2004, Pontiac revived the GTO, adapting the Holden Monaro as a $35,000 V-8-powered coupe that suffered slightly from jet lag: the position of the fuel tank, for instance, required that in order to pass American standards, Pontiac had to weld a partition in the trunk that cut cargo space in half. Improvements were made quickly, and the 2006 model was a very good car, but it came too late and production ended then.
Pontiac again turned to Holden in 2008, rebadging a Holden Commodore as a Pontiac G8 rear-drive sedan, with V-6 or V-8 power, and was planning to import a trucklike version similar to the Chevrolet El Camino, as well as a station wagon, when the Pontiac brand was shut down amid G.M.'s financial crisis. The 2009 G8s were the last.
The fact that General Motors in the United States has not forgotten its Australian affiliate can be traced directly to Mark Reuss, the G.M. president and a mechanical engineer. He served as Holden's chairman and managing director in 2008 and 2009, and it was no coincidence that shortly after his return to the United States, it was revealed that Chevrolet would import a rear-drive dedicated police car from Australia called the Caprice PPV, for police patrol vehicle. While, like the SS, it's a rear-drive sedan, Mr. Reuss stresses that the SS is not a civilian cop car, the way the last rear-drive Impala SS was - the SS and the considerably larger PPV are built on separate Holden platforms. But there's no arguing that in terms of making a business case for importing cars from Holden, it made sense that the more cars you can load on the boat for America, the better.
All that said, Chevrolet is not looking at the SS as a major mass-market possibility, though the Holden factory can crank out as many as Chevrolet wants. Annual sales of 20,000 would be good, and 25,000 would be spectacular for what amounts to a niche, one-brand vehicle, since there are no plans for other American G.M. brands to share the SS.
"This is our flagship," said Mr. Reuss, obviously proud. To be really proud, though, it needs to sell in the showrooms, and win on the track. The last part should be easy: Kevin Harvick won in his SS in the Sprint Unlimited Nascar race hours after the SS debut, and Danica Patrick qualified her SS on the pole for Sunday's Daytona 500.

        
Chevrolet Unveils Nascar Version of New SS Sedan
        
Danica Patrick Wins Pole for Daytona 500
        
Coming Soon, a Rear-Wheel-Drive Chevrolet Sedan With Evocative Initials
        
Wheelies: The Starting Grid Edition
        
Monday Motorsports: Dakar Rally Staggers to a Pause

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: AUTO RACING (95%); NASCAR RACING (92%); SEDANS (92%); NEW CAR MODELS (91%); SPORTS FANS (90%); CAR ENTHUSIASTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE RECALLS (73%); BRANDING (50%) Chevrolet SS; Daytona International Speedway; General Motors; Nascar; Harvick, Kevin; Patrick, Danica; Automobile Racing; Automobiles; Daytona 500 (Auto Race); Nascar Sprint Cup Series; New York International Auto Show; North American International Auto Show; Bose Corp; Chevrolet Division of General Motors Corp; Mazda Motor Corp; National Assn of Stock Car Auto Racing; Pontiac Division of General Motors Corp; Daytona Beach (Fla); General Motors|GM|NYSE; New Cars

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL SPEEDWAY CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Bose Corp; Chevrolet Division of General Motors Corp; General Motors; Mazda Motor Corp; National Assn of Stock Car Auto Racing; Pontiac Division of General Motors Corp

TICKER: ISCA (NASDAQ) (58%) General Motors; GM; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS711219 OTHER SPECTATOR SPORTS (58%); NAICS711212 RACETRACKS (58%); SIC7948 RACING, INCLUDING TRACK OPERATIONS (58%)

PERSON: DANICA PATRICK (71%) Harvick, Kevin; Patrick, Danica

GEOGRAPHIC: DAYTONA BEACH, FL, USA (90%) FLORIDA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) Daytona Beach (Fla)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2013



664 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1848 words

HEADLINE: A Reputation, Once Sullied, Acquires a New Shine

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSS SORKIN


HIGHLIGHT: Steven L. Rattner's re-emergence as a power player is well under way. 

 BODY:
How do you describe Steven L. Rattner
Up until three years ago, he was typically referred to in these pages as a former journalist turned successful financier - the vice chairman of the investment bank Lazard and then a co-founder of the Quadrangle Group, the private equity firm.
With much fanfare, he then became the White House auto czar assigned to fix General Motors and Chrysler, after years of trying to become part of the Washington firmament like so many on Wall Street who have wanted to make the leap.
He was the ultimate consigliere to power. Then, it all fell apart. 
He was accused of using "pay to play" practices while raising money from a New York state pension fund when he was still at Quadrangle. In 2010 he paid more than $16 million to Andrew M. Cuomo, who was then New York's attorney general, and the Securities and Exchange Commission to settle the civil cases without admitting or denying wrongdoing.
He was "banned from appearing in any capacity before any public pension fund within the State of New York for five years" and for "associating with any investment adviser or broker dealer" for two years, according to the suits. As the case proceeded, he stepped down from his position in the Obama administration.
Among the cocktail party circuit in Manhattan, Mr. Rattner was Topic A. And the schadenfreude was thick. Mr. Rattner, the narrative developed, had become Wall Street's Icarus, flying too close to the sun. The New Republic headlined one article: "Rattner Hoisted on His Own Petard." The question was asked: Would he ever eat lunch in this town again? And what about Washington?
Now, two years later, Mr. Rattner is lunching all over town. And, in truth, he may have never stopped.
As Mr. Rattner sat across from me in Midtown Manhattan two weeks ago, his re-emergence as power magnate was well under way. He is the overseer of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's fortune of billions of dollars - you could call Mr. Rattner a money manager but that doesn't capture the scope of it. He has appeared as a pundit about the economy on television (MSNBC's "Morning Joe," ABC's "This Week" and "Fox News Sunday," among others) and in newspapers (The Financial Times, Politico and The New York Times). And to take the story full circle, the Obama administration, which had eased Mr. Rattner out of his role, appears to have re-embraced him, even using him to campaign for the president last fall.
"It was the worst thing that ever happened in my professional life," Mr. Rattner, who had taken off his trademark tortoise-rim glasses, said of the accusations and the settlement. "If you asked me, do I wish I had done some things differently about this whole situation, of course I wish I had done some things differently." More on that in a moment, but he also has clearly worked unremittingly to move on. "Looking back, it was a bit like the half life of a radioactive isotope. Every few months the intensity of what happened seemed to go down by half," Mr. Rattner added, as he sipped English Breakfast tea.
If there was a question about his current status - and whether the chattering classes had moved on - the guest list of his 60th birthday party this last summer, overlooking Rockefeller Center, may provide the answer: Mr. Bloomberg, Barry Diller, Jamie Dimon, Harvey Weinstein, Senator Charles E. Schumer, Ralph Lauren, Brian Roberts and Fred Wilpon, among others, were all in attendance.
When Vice President Biden held his holiday party in December, Mr. Rattner was there. And at the home of Hillary Clinton last month for her farewell party from the State Department, where Mr. Rattner's wife, Maureen White, works, he was there, too. (His wife was the finance co-chairwoman of the Hillary Clinton for President campaign.)
In a city where powerful figures are dropped at the whiff of trouble - and rarely return to positions of significant influence despite efforts at comebacks - Mr. Rattner's narrative of a meteoric rise to embarrassing scandal and back again is notable.
His re-emergence may also be a telling commentary about the way the nation's elite flock to people with power - and those with powerful friends.
Some of his friends, many of whom declined to comment on the record, said they were willing to overlook his past transgressions because they felt he had paid for them, through the fines and the negative publicity. Others said that he had always been honest with them. Still, there are other friends who say they have distanced themselves from him but haven't cut him off entirely for fear of alienating themselves from other people in his circle.
Mr. Diller, the chairman of IAC, counts himself among Mr. Rattner's friends. "Whatever complications there were, I never thought he was culpable." He added, "When you get anybody who is up there, then the takedown is going to have a pile-on effect. It is the nature of public life."
That may be a truism. But at the time of the scandal, Mr. Cuomo used particularly pointed language: "Steve Rattner was willing to do whatever it took to get his hands on pension fund money including paying kickbacks, orchestrating a movie deal, and funneling campaign contributions."
In the S.E.C.'s case, David Rosenfeld of the New York regional office said then that Mr. Rattner "delivered special favors and conducted sham transactions that corrupted the Retirement Fund's investment process."
Before we go any further, some disclosures are in order: It is well documented that Mr. Rattner is a longtime friend and confidant of the publisher of this newspaper, Arthur Sulzberger Jr. (Mr. Sulzberger was in attendance at Mr. Rattner's birthday party, too.) Mr. Rattner was a reporter for The Times in the late 1970s and early 1980s. He also now writes a monthly Op-Ed column in The Times, arguably providing him with a powerful platform that increases his influence. I purposely haven't discussed anything about Mr. Rattner with Mr. Sulzberger before writing this column. Now that that's done, let's continue.
Mr. Rattner's re-emergence was not assured.
"There were some people inevitably who I thought were my friends who I found out were more fair weather and especially some in the political world," he said. "I'm sure they said to themselves, let's just keep a little space here and see what happens to Steve as opposed to let's embrace Steve and say he's my friend."
One friend who never left was Mr. Bloomberg. When news of Mr. Cuomo's case against him first broke, Mr. Rattner sent him an e-mail to give him a heads-up about the situation. Mr. Bloomberg's reply? "The only thing wrong with you is your golf game."
In an interview, Mr. Bloomberg said, "Steve is a good friend. You stick by your friends. And I don't worry about what people say." And despite all the chatter about Mr. Rattner, Mr. Bloomberg added, "I never heard anyone say they wouldn't invite Steven Rattner to a party because of what was happening."
The White House was less forgiving. While the Obama administration and Mr. Rattner portrayed his exit from Washington in July 2009 as a natural time to leave since his role helping G.M. through a government supported bankruptcy was finished, the president clearly made no effort to keep him, given the investigation hanging over him.
On the merits of the case that Mr. Rattner settled with Mr. Cuomo - which Mr. Rattner once described as "close to extortion" - he still has strong views. He and several other private equity firms, including the Carlyle Group, were accused of using Hank Morris, a political consultant, to help the firms obtain hundreds of millions of dollars to manage for the New York state pension fund.
Mr. Morris pleaded guilty to a felony count of violating the Martin Act for paying kickbacks and went to prison. Mr. Rattner was also accused of influencing a film distribution company that Quadrangle owned to secure a DVD distribution deal for a low-budget movie called "Chooch" that was produced by a pension fund official's brother.
Mr. Rattner said: "I can't imagine that any of the many firms that hired Hank Morris wouldn't do that differently, given what he turned out to be. I appreciate clearly how important it is to avoid even the appearance of impropriety."
Mr. Rattner and Mr. Cuomo chose to settle the case on what some lawyers described as benign terms given the penalty of a $26 million fine and a lifetime ban from the securities industry that Mr. Cuomo originally sought. Mr. Rattner settled for $10 million and a ban from working with New York State pension funds for five years, none of which has prevented him from continuing his role of managing Mr. Bloomberg's money.
Unusually, Mr. Cuomo even agreed that Mr. Rattner's settlement would include none of the usual language about admitting or denying wrongdoing, which allows Mr. Rattner to deny he ever broke the law. Mr. Rattner said he chose to settle the case, rather than fight what he said he expected to be a drawn-out court battle, because he wanted to move on with his life. He also paid $6.2 million to settle the S.E.C. case.
He clearly feels a sense of regret about some his actions, but declined to discuss the accusations in detail, citing the settlements.
A spokesman for Governor Cuomo declined to comment.
Mr. Rattner said he discovered a unique indicator to measure the impact of the scandal, which might just prove his theory that he should be compared with a radioactive isotope.
Right after the settlement, Mr. Rattner, who has long been active in political fund-raising for Democrats, said nobody would take his money. In fact, one politician, whom he declined to name, sent back a $500 donation from 2011. Several months later, he began to receive solicitations from politicians looking for his help in raising funds, he said. But does that say more about the state of Washington politics or Mr. Rattner?
Despite his past, the White House called him last fall and talked about his campaigning for the president in Ohio, where the auto bailout was an important issue. (Mr. Rattner published a book in September 2010 about his experience in trying to fix Detroit called "Overhaul: An Insider's Account of the Obama Administration's Emergency Rescue of the Auto Industry.")
David Axelrod, who was President Obama's senior strategist for his re-election campaign, said in an e-mail of Mr. Rattner, "Whatever happened in New York didn't obviate the great service he rendered." He added: "Steve did an extraordinary job for the administration and the country in helping to shape the auto plan, which was a clear success."
So will Mr. Rattner ever have a chance to work in government again? For years, his name was always part of the parlor game of potential nominees for Treasury secretary.
He had a quick answer about returning to Washington: "Probably not." He said now that he had worked in the capital and lived in the glare of the spotlight, he better appreciates the upside and downside. He said: "I had a great experience, but I also found out how thankless and frustrating it can be."

        
Behind New York's Pension Changes, a Quest for Higher Returns
        
Bloomberg Defends Rattner in Pension Fund Scandal

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WRITERS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PENSION FUNDS (88%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); PRIVATE EQUITY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); MAYORS (74%); SECURITIES LAW (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (69%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (68%) Bloomberg, Michael R; Cuomo, Andrew M; New York City; Obama, Barack; Rattner, Steven L; Washington (State); DealBook Column; Legal/Regulatory; Private Equity; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (81%); FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (62%); QUADRANGLE GROUP LLC (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (81%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (81%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (62%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (62%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%)

PERSON: STEVEN RATTNER (92%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); ANDREW CUOMO (86%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (73%) Bloomberg, Michael R; Cuomo, Andrew M; Obama, Barack; Rattner, Steven L

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; Washington (State)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2013



665 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1244 words

HEADLINE: In Scotch Business, the Big Owners Are Foreign

BYLINE: By STEPHEN CASTLE

 BODY:
BALLINDALLOCH, SCOTLAND -- George S. Grant markets malt whisky made in the shadow of the snow-capped Ben Rinnes, the same spot where, five generations ago, his family bought a distillery in 1865 for £511.
Nowadays the family's Glenfarclas malt is produced in a modern, highly automated plant, and is exported to the United States, Taiwan and other countries. But the profit returns here to the valley of the River Spey in the heart of Scotland's whisky country. And that repatriated money is what makes Glenfarclas such a rarity.
''Within a 20-mile radius of where we are now, there are 35 distilleries,'' said Mr. Grant, the director of sales at Glenfarclas. But only a handful of the operations within that 30-kilometer radius remain in Scottish hands. The rest are owned by big multinationals -- most notably Diageo, based in London, and the French company Pernod Ricard -- which book their profits and employ many of their staff members elsewhere. 
In fact Mr. Grant, 36, says he knows of no other whisky maker apart from Glenfarclas that has its sales and marketing operation based at the distillery in this scenic part of Scotland. Though he says relations with the big non-Scottish players are good -- they buy some of Glenfarclas's output for their blended whiskies, after all -- Mr. Grant notes that what sets his family's company apart is its place in the community and the fact that ''we've been here forever.''
To be sold as Scotch whisky, the liquor must be produced in Scotland. The rest of the business can be elsewhere, though, and it often is.
Non-Scottish companies control about four-fifths of the £4.2 billion, or $6.5 billion, global market for Scotch, which is being driven by growth from emerging markets. The United States is still the biggest export market by value, at £600 million last year. But Scotch whisky exports to Brazil grew 48 percent last year, those to Taiwan 45 percent and to Venezuela 33 percent, according to the Scotch Whisky Association.
John Kay, a prominent economist and former economic adviser to the Scottish government, says that too little of the money from those exports ends up in the Scottish economy.
He has proposed a £1 ''bottle tax,'' levied on all Scotch production, which would be paid by the distillers. The precise value of such a tax is hard to predict, but the Scotch Whisky Association says that about 1.3 billion bottles were exported last year, representing about 95 percent of total production.
But much of the monetary benefit goes to governments that impose duties on the product wherever it is sold.
''A lot of money is being made out of this product by foreign governments and foreign companies,'' Mr. Kay said. The bottle tax, he said, would be a way to keep some of that money in Scotland.
With a referendum looming next year on Scottish independence, the idea has prompted a new debate about the country's economic assets. It has even prompted comparisons between the North Sea natural gas and oil extracted from Scotland's coastal waters and the Scotch distilled on its heather-covered moorlands and windswept islands.
Whisky supports about 10,000 jobs in Scotland, including those of people working in bottling plants, and in total about 36,000 in Britain across the whole of the economy, including haulers and packaging companies, the Scotch Whisky Association says. But the distilleries themselves are not big job creators. Although the most modern ones operate 24 hours a day, they tend to employ no more than a dozen people.
Patrick Harvie, a member of the Scottish Parliament for Glasgow who is responsible for enterprise for the Scottish Green party, said it was ''good to see others starting to question the benefits to Scotland of allowing our national assets to be controlled by global corporations.''
Mr. Harvie drew a parallel with a debate over the tax liability of companies, like Starbucks, that use their multinational status to reduce corporate tax bills. Diageo says that it pays about 18 percent of tax on its profit on average but does not say where those taxes are paid.
''Our most famous whisky brands are registered abroad and the owners' tax arrangements are less than clear,'' Mr. Harvie said.
For all that, though, there is little indication that the Scottish government plans to adopt the bottle tax. For one thing, it is already fighting legal challenges to a plan to place minimum prices on alcohol as a way of discouraging binge drinking.
A bottle tax plan would very likely set off a separate, titanic legal and political fight with one of Scotland's biggest industries. The tax idea ''only has merit for those who wish to undermine the Scotch whisky industry's competitiveness in the global market and undermine its growth prospects,'' said Campbell Evans, director of government and consumer affairs at the Scotch Whisky Association.
''Apart, perhaps, from the oil and gas sector, nobody else is investing in Scotland'' as this industry is, Mr. Evans said.
Big companies like Diageo and Chivas Brothers, owned by Pernod Ricard, are happy to show off their investments in Speyside and argue that the economic effects are felt beyond distillery payrolls.
Diageo's ultramodern Roseisle plant, which produces each year about 10 million liters, or 2.6 million gallons, of spirit -- the alcohol from which whisky is made -- employs only about 10 frontline staff members to keep operations running continuously at its five-story complex.
But the company points to wider economic benefits: to farmers who provide barley, to local contractors who help equip and service the plant, and to small businesses that benefit from the tens of thousands of tourists who visit distilleries in the region each year.
''Diageo sustains over 4,000 direct jobs in the Scottish economy across 50 sites, many of which are in remote and rural areas of Scotland,'' Peter Lederer, director of Diageo in Scotland, said in a statement.
''We also make a major indirect contribution to the Scottish economy,'' he added, saying that Diageo was the biggest single purchaser of grain from Scottish farmers and purchased £400 million of goods from each year from suppliers based in Scotland.
A bottle tax, he said, would be ''potentially deeply damaging to the industry and to the prospects for investment and growth in the future.''
At Glenfarclas, which produces about 3.5 million liters of spirit a year, Mr. Grant argues that a £1 bottle tax would hit Scottish-owned operations as much as foreign ones.
For him, the big multinationals are both a blessing and a curse. On the one hand they use their sheer size to negotiate better deals with suppliers and retailers, driving down their own costs in ways Glenfarclas does not have the clout to match, and dominating British supermarket shelves.
But Glenfarclas also sells some of its production to the multinationals, which they use for blended whisky -- a mix of malt whisky, made from malted barley, with whisky that can be made from wheat or other grains.
The big companies have also helped to open new export markets, promoting whisky to a younger generation of drinkers in Asia and Latin America and enabling smaller distilleries to capitalize on a boom they never could have created on their own.
So far, swimming nimbly with the big fish has enabled Glenfarclas to remain a family firm. And despite blank-check offers from multinationals, Mr. Grant said, the operation is not for sale.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Glenfarclas malt is produced in an automated plant, then exported. (B1)
 Above, stills at Glenfarclas. Below left, George S. Grant, director of sales at Glenfarclas. Below right, the distillery is one of the handful of locally owned plants in the country. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KIERAN DODDS FOR THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISTILLED LIQUORS (92%); DISTILLERIES (91%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (78%); MALT MFG (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (73%); INDUSTRIAL AUTOMATION (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%)

COMPANY: PERNOD RICARD SA (83%); DIAGEO PLC (56%)

TICKER: RI (PAR) (83%); DGE (PAR) (56%); DGE (LSE) (56%); DEO (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (83%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (83%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (56%); SIC2085 DISTILLED & BLENDED LIQUORS (56%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) SCOTLAND (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); TAIWAN (93%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); FRANCE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2013



666 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 916 words

HEADLINE: Nascar Drivers Speak Up, Aiming to Attract New Fans

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
NASCAR had come a long way from the days when it was dismissed as Southerners driving around in circles turning left. There was rising attendance at tracks, increasing television ratings for races and growing demand from marketers to be sponsors.
But all that was halted -- and even reversed -- by a brutal one-two punch from the recession and changing demographic trends. The economic recovery, sluggish as it has been, is helping Nascar on the financial front. But there remains a crucial issue: attracting the next generation of fans, adding to the existing loyal base -- primarily older, rural white men -- people who are younger, urban and multicultural. 
Nascar has been working since 2009 on plans to stimulate long-term growth, which involved studies, focus groups and a change in advertising agencies. The longtime incumbent, the Jump Company in St. Louis, was replaced in July by a Madison Avenue giant, Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide, known for sophisticated work for blue-chip brands like American Express, Dove and I.B.M.
''I don't think people saw that coming,'' Kim Brink, managing director for brand, consumer and series marketing at Nascar, said of the choice.
Nascar is not as far afield for Ogilvy & Mather as it might have seemed, said John Seifert, chairman and chief executive at Ogilvy & Mather North America, because it is ''an iconic brand, bigger than a sport,'' as well as ''a client who wants to transform itself and not be irrelevant in the future.''
Since the selection, Ms. Brink said, the agency's flagship New York office has been developing ''a new brand direction and a new creative platform'' for Nascar, which are to include commercials in Spanish and more emphasis on Nascar's online offerings like nascar.com and the 2013 edition of Fantasy Nascar.
The initiative is to be formally introduced on Sunday during coverage of the Daytona 500 on Fox. Nascar drivers are to contact fans and followers this week in social media like Facebook and Twitter to alert them the effort is coming.
Creating the ads ''was unbelievable fun,'' Mr. Seifert said. ''We did everything short of bringing a Nascar in, which we plan to do in a week or two.''
That feeling comes through in the initial elements like television commercials presenting drivers in larger-than-life poses. They deliver brief, emotional comments directly to the camera, often finishing one another's sentences.
For instance, in a spot called ''Rivals,'' Brad Keselowski says, ''In order to finish first ...'' The thought is completed by Clint Bowyer, who declares, '' ... somebody's got to finish second.'' Kasey Kahne chimes in, ''I hate second.''
The spot finishes with Jimmie Johnson saying, ''Love your rivals ...'' and Mr. Keselowski concluding, '' ... 'cause you need someone to beat.''
In a commercial called ''We Are,'' the drivers offer pithy phrases that are meant to pique interest in their personalities. ''We are mad scientists,'' says Kevin Harvick, who is followed by Austin Dillon asserting, ''We're outlaws turned heroes''; Matt Kenseth saying, ''We're part athlete''; Ty Dillon declaring, ''Part astronaut''; and Carl Edwards stating, ''And all show-off.''
The commercial ends with Juan Pablo Montoya describing Nascar as ''the loudest party on earth.'' Mr. Harvick says, ''We live on the corner ...'' and Mr. Edwards completes the thought with '' ... of Mayhem and Main.'' Dale Earnhardt Jr. gets the last word: ''Where anything can happen. And usually does.''
A version of ''We Are'' in Spanish features Mr. Montoya, Nelson Piquet Jr. and Daniel Suarez. Some comments they make echo those made by the drivers in the English-language version. And some remarks are original to their spot, as when Mr. Montoya calls Nascar drivers ''gladiators on asphalt'' and says, ''And although we are from different nations, we all share the same flag'' -- i.e., a racing flag.
There are, all told, 43 drivers appearing in the first stages of the campaign. They are the stars, said Terry Finley, senior partner and group creative director at Ogilvy & Mather New York, because ''the way into the sport is the driver.''
The goal is to draw ''a new line in the sand, if you will,'' he added, and counter stereotypes about drivers as ''dumb rednecks.'' To underscore that, one commercial, titled ''Chess,'' compares the strategies of drivers to moves by chess players.
Another goal is to infuse the campaign with ''authenticity,'' Mr. Finley said, through touches like interspersing archival film amid moments from contemporary races and including in ''Rivals'' a pair of famous long-ago competitors, Bobby Allison and Cale Yarborough.
Also to that end, the drivers were encouraged to deviate from the commercials' scripts and ''ad-lib a little,'' said Dan Langlitz, account director at Ogilvy & Mather New York, because ''that's when you get true color from them.''
Including the Spanish-language aspects of the initiative, Nascar is expected to spend more this year than in previous years on marketing in traditional, digital and social media. Nascar also receives free commercial time during the races covered by its broadcast and cable partners like Fox, Fox Deportes, ESPN, Speed and TNT.
According to the Kantar Media unit of WPP, Nascar spent $24.3 million to advertise in major media during the first nine months of last year, compared with $16.1 million in the same period of 2011. The full-year total for 2011 was $24.1 million, Kantar Media reported; ad spending totaled $22.9 million in 2010 and $40.6 million in 2009.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Brad Keselowski is among 43 Nascar drivers appearing in the sport's new campaign. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NASCAR RACING (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); AUTO RACING (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (85%); SPONSORSHIP (79%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (77%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (77%); FOCUS GROUPS (77%); BRAND EQUITY (75%); TRENDS (73%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (72%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (71%); SOCIAL MEDIA (67%); EXECUTIVES (66%)

COMPANY: OGILVY & MATHER WORLDWIDE (84%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (55%); FACEBOOK INC (52%)

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (55%); FB (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (55%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (55%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2013



667 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THE APPRAISAL; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 940 words

HEADLINE: 'Organic' Dry Cleaners Can Serve as Barometer Of Gentrification

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH A. HARRIS

 BODY:
At the base of Crescent Street in Long Island City, Queens, you will hear the hum of traffic heading to and from the Queensboro Bridge and the rattle of subway cars hustling over elevated tracks, the same rumblings heard in that spot 20, 40 or 60 years ago. But if you look around, you will see signs of a neighborhood changed.
A glassy condominium project is on one corner, two new rental buildings are right down the block and a small flower shop has orchids arranged in the window. There is also a dry cleaner that has been operating in the neighborhood for over 40 years, which, on its Web site, proudly advertises a relatively new service: organic dry cleaning. 
''People started asking for it,'' said Jose Rojas, a manager at Packard Square Cleaners, nestled at the base of a recently constructed rental building. So to oblige new customers, he said, the cleaners started offering it.
Dry cleaners in the United States first began to avoid traditional chemicals and embrace words like ''green,'' ''natural'' and ''organic'' about 15 years ago, and they have since blanketed the affluent sections of Manhattan, from the Upper East Side down to TriBeCa. In recent years, they have crept farther afield, up to Harlem and out to places like Greenpoint and Bushwick in Brooklyn, joining the head-to-tail butchers and the boutique bike shops as an unofficial marker of gentrification in New York.
''We've gone way beyond organic food, and Starbucks is passé,'' Mitchell Moss, a professor of urban policy and planning at New York University, said of two prototypical signposts that your rent is about to rise. ''Organic cleaners have become a barometer.''
Traditional dry cleaning (called ''dry'' because, while not actually dry, it does not use water) involves a chemical called perchloroethylene, or perc. Although the Environmental Protection Agency does not classify clothing laundered in perc as posing a health risk, the agency says the chemical does pose environmental risks and is a ''likely human carcinogen.''
So in recent years, less hazardous alternatives have become available, including liquefied carbon dioxide and a process called, yes, wet cleaning, which uses water, said Peter Sinsheimer, executive director of the Sustainable Technology and Policy Program at the University of California, Los Angeles. But some other alternatives to perc, including a liquid silicone called GreenEarth and petroleum-based compounds called hydrocarbons, a common choice, have their own problems, Mr. Sinsheimer said.
And though a dry cleaner may be more environmentally friendly than his brethren, industry experts say that popular buzzwords like ''organic'' and ''natural'' do not tell you anything specific about what is going on your clothes.
''It's not coming from the ground,'' Alan Spielvogel, the technical director of the National Cleaners Association, said of any alternative solvent that is described as natural. ''It's a chemical.''
Search engines and user-review Web sites like Yelp show the highest concentration of green-washed dry cleaners in more affluent neighborhoods, especially in Manhattan, and a sprinkling of them throughout the five boroughs. But there appear to be vast bare patches, especially in the Bronx and on Staten Island, and calls to dry cleaners in many areas to inquire about eco-friendly options yielded the same answer, various versions of ''Huh?''
''We use perc,'' a manager at Jose's Cleaners in the Tremont section of the Bronx said. Asked if customers ever requested organic cleaning instead, she answered: ''In this area? No.''
But in Kew Gardens, Queens, which has had an increase in families moving from other parts of the city in recent years, Jimmy Im, owner of Joy S. Organic Dry Cleaners, said some of the new neighbors made that request.
''Most of the old customers who have been coming here for years, they don't care; they just want the cheapest thing,'' Mr. Im said. ''But the neighborhood changed, and more people became concerned.''
In many cases, proprietors who offer green dry-cleaning options in gentrifying areas are not new to the neighborhood; they have been in business for years and simply decided to make the switch. In interviews, some said they did so out of concern for their own health, or because it was time to replace old machines. But even if the decision came from factors within the store's four walls, plenty of owners said they took the opportunity to re-brand with an environmentally friendly face. No evidence required.
In 2010, Councilwoman Jessica Lappin, now a candidate for Manhattan borough president, introduced a bill that would have obligated dry cleaners who call themselves green to meet certain criteria and apply for a license.
''Organic dry cleaners are popping up everywhere, and unlike if you go buy a tomato that says 'organic,' you have no sense of what it means,'' Ms. Lappin said last week. ''It's not regulated in any way, and it doesn't necessarily mean anything.''
In the face of questions about enforcement and city resources, her bill never made it out of committee. Even some proprietors of ''organic'' dry cleaners -- many take their cues on the buzzwords from the machine manufacturers and solvent distributors -- say the word can be misleading. They also acknowledge that in many cases their patrons simply ignore it.
''Some customers insist that their clothes are cleaned organic,'' said Sunny Yun, who owns Green and White Cleaners (formerly White and White Cleaners) in Long Island City. But he said that in truth, most did not care.
''They don't care if you clean with chemicals or water,'' he said, ''just as long as they get their clothes back.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In neighborhoods like Greenpoint, Brooklyn, some customers prefer that dry cleaners forswear potentially hazardous chemicals. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY LIFE (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); DRY CLEANERS & LAUNDRIES (89%); REAL ESTATE (77%); RETAILERS (75%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (74%); CONDOMINIUMS (71%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (71%); ORGANIC FOODS (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); CARCINOGENS (67%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (66%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (61%); WEB SITES (55%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2013



668 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 759 words

HEADLINE: Incumbent Is Likely Victor In Vote for Armenian Leader

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

 BODY:
MOSCOW -- Armenians went to the polls on Monday in an election that seemed certain to return President Serzh Sargsyan to office for a second five-year term, and to maintain stability in a country that has become an increasingly important, if uneasy, United States ally in monitoring Iran's nuclear ambitions.
A veteran politician, Mr. Sargsyan, 58, is generally viewed as having presided over modest economic improvements in recent years, even as the country has struggled because of closed borders with Turkey and Azerbaijan, its enemy in a continuing war over the disputed territory of Nagorno-Karabakh. 
But while Mr. Sargsyan's victory has been predicted for months, there have been some unexpected developments in the campaign. One challenger, Andreas Ghukasian, a political commentator who manages a radio station in the capital, Yerevan, has been on a hunger strike, demanding that the incumbent be removed from the ballot.
Another challenger, Paruir A. Airikyan, was shot in the shoulder in late January in what the authorities described as an assassination attempt, although there was no known motive. He is a former Soviet dissident who promoted Armenian independence and has run unsuccessfully for president several times.
Mr. Airikyan briefly considered invoking a constitutional provision to delay the election for two weeks as a result of his injury, but he ultimately decided to allow the balloting to proceed.
Mr. Sargsyan's expected second term will be watched closely for any sign of progress in resolving the war with Azerbaijan and for any indication that Armenia would reduce support for economic sanctions against Iran, as they make life more difficult in both countries.
The conflict over Nagorno-Karabakh continues at a low simmer with periodic violence along the line of contact, including frequent exchanges of gunfire and occasional casualties. Peace talks led by the so-called Minsk Group, which is led by the United States, Russia and France, have mostly stalled.
Armenia has traditionally relied heavily on Iran as an economic partner, but those ties are now constrained by the sanctions over Iran's nuclear program. Iran insists its purposes are peaceful, but Western powers accuse Tehran of seeking the technology to build nuclear weapons and have imposed a broadening array of United States, United Nations and European Union sanctions.
Armenia has supported the measures, while continuing to engage in some trade that circumvents them, like swapping its electricity for natural gas from Iran with no money changing hands.
''Having Iran as your economic lifeline is not a good position to be in,'' said one senior Western diplomat, who asked not to be identified to avoid creating any tension with players in the region.
''They have been very, very careful, very, very good, at some cost to Armenia, to honor international U.N., U.S. and E.U. sanctions against Iran,'' the diplomat said. ''But it's increasingly difficult for them to do that.''
International election observers have fanned out across Armenia in recent days. Initial reports suggested that Mr. Sargsyan's party had made some inappropriate use of government resources to promote his candidacy, a common criticism of incumbent candidates in former Soviet republics. But observers say the overall political climate has improved, with opposition candidates, for instance, enjoying better access to coverage by the news media.
Still, Armenia faces a peculiar problem when it comes to potential election fraud because of the hundreds of thousands of Armenian citizens who live abroad, including in the United States -- one of the largest percentage diasporas in the world given Armenia's population of 3.1 million, according to the World Bank.
With few exceptions, absentee balloting is not permitted. That means the Armenian election rolls are filled with the names of people who will not appear in person to vote, creating the potential for fraudulent use of those names.
Mr. Sargsyan faced relatively weak competition after his two strongest potential challengers and their parties announced last year that they would not compete -- former President Levon Ter-Petrossian of the Armenian National Congress and Gagik Tsarukyan of the Prosperous Armenia Party. Mr. Tsarukyan is a wealthy businessman, lawmaker and the head of Armenia's national Olympic committee.
Mr. Sargsyan and his wife, Rita, paused Monday to speak with reporters after voting in Yerevan. ''I have voted for the security of our citizens and our families,'' he said, according to aysor.am, an Armenian news site.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Serzh Sargsyan of Armenia voting on Monday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MAXIM SHIPENKOV/ EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); BALLOTS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (74%); ASSASSINATION (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (71%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (66%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (60%); PEACE PROCESS (51%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (73%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); ARMENIA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); AZERBAIJAN (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%); BELARUS (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (77%); IRAN (73%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2013



669 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1269 words

HEADLINE: Can Bronx Be a Destination? The Hope Is for Nights at a Time

BYLINE: By WINNIE HU

 BODY:
Luxury touches like flat-screen televisions and hand towels twisted into swans await guests in each stately bedroom.
Down the hall, there is a grand piano for evenings in the parlor, an oak-paneled library with a marble fireplace, and not one but three ballrooms recalling the heydays of this sprawling Italian Renaissance mansion. But perhaps the most surprising feature of this boutique hotel is the view, which overlooks, of all places, the Bronx.
The Andrew Freedman, a faded landmark named after the philanthropist who commissioned it, was reinvented in December as an upscale 10-room hotel charging between $130 and $250 for a night's stay in the heart of a borough that is better known for crippling poverty and crime than tourism. And though it has struggled to draw guests, it is part of a crop of new hotels planned for the Bronx in the next few years that seeks to bring Manhattan-style comforts, at lower prices, to a borough that many visitors have historically overlooked -- if not avoided. 
The Empire Hotel Group, which operates seven boutique hotels in Manhattan, is moving into the South Bronx with a $10 million transformation of a historic opera house into a 60-room hotel with terrazzo floors and a mezzanine level serving complimentary breakfast and afternoon tea and coffee. Marriott will open a Bronx outpost next year with a 125-room Residence Inn in a commercial complex under construction in the Pelham Bay area.
The fancy hotels are the most notable example yet in an effort by Bronx officials, community activists and residents to try to turn around their struggling borough, one cornerstone at a time. So a gritty urban landscape infamous for burning, abandoned buildings in the 1970s is being slowly remade with a design-award-winning green apartment complex in the South Bronx and a Donald Trump golf course in Ferry Point Park in hopes that such developments will make the Bronx a destination.
The Bronx follows other struggling urban areas, including Buffalo and Detroit, that have sought to revitalize with shiny, new hotels and convention centers, often with limited success over the long run. Still, local leaders have embraced the new hotels as a sign of their borough's improving fortunes -- one that they hope will generate jobs. There are now 14 lodgings in the Bronx -- up from just 2 in 2006 -- compared with 341 in Manhattan, 90 in Queens, 52 in Brooklyn, and 9 on Staten Island, according to NYC & Company, the city's marketing and tourism arm. (One of those Bronx hotels, a Howard Johnson Express Inn, landed in the news last year when a tourist was followed there and raped by a man she encountered on the subway in Manhattan.)
Developers said they have started to give the Bronx another look because of its relatively low real estate prices, availability of large commercial sites, accessibility to subways, and rich cultural history, among other factors. Some hotels are hoping to draw tourists who cannot afford the hefty prices of Manhattan hotel rooms, while others are aiming for Yankees fans and people with a reason to be in the Bronx, like visiting local hospitals and colleges. Douglas Brookman, who is overseeing the project at the Bronx Opera House Hotel, said that celebrities like Harry Houdini, George Burns and the Marx Brothers once performed in the ornate building on East 149th Street. The hotel will open in April, with 300-square-foot rooms with soundproof walls and windows, custom furnishings, microwaves and small refrigerators. Room rates start around $130 a night.
Mr. Brookman said the hotel expected to hire at least 20 employees, giving preference to Bronx residents. ''We really believe in the Bronx, we believe in where it's going,'' Mr. Brookman said. ''We're hoping we start the movement in this area.''
The hotels have stirred some resentment among poor and unemployed residents who say they do little to resolve the more pressing problems of their lives, like a shortage of affordable housing, and worry they are harbingers of gentrification. ''Who's going to pay $130 a night?'' said Natalie Brye, 35, a stay-at-home mother of two. ''We're poor up here. I could buy food with that. I could pay my cable bill with that.''
But elected officials, community activists and young professionals, many of whom are Manhattan transplants, contend that the Bronx must invest in ambitious projects like the hotels and cultivate new opportunities if it is to break free of the cyclical poverty the borough is known for.
Ruben Diaz Jr., the Bronx borough president, is pursuing a plan to replace an underused parking garage near Yankee Stadium with the borough's first full-service hotel and conference center. And local developers have proposed other projects, including a boutique hotel off Arthur Avenue, which is known for Italian restaurants and groceries.
The Andrew Freedman is on the Grand Concourse, a broad avenue lined with once-elegant apartments that have started to attract some middle-class families in recent years. The mansion is owned by the Mid-Bronx Senior Citizens Council, a community development organization that hopes to parlay the hotel into a training ground for local students seeking careers in hospitality.
''There's a transformation going on in the Bronx, and we want to be part of it,'' said Marcia Fingal, marketing director for the council. ''It is no longer this burnt-out place. That's the old story.''
In 1984 the council took over the Andrew Freedman, a 117,200-square-foot mansion built between 1922 and 1924 as a retirement home for wealthy people who fell on hard times. It eventually relocated the remaining residents, and used part of the building for its services, including a day care and thrift shop.
Two years ago, the council's leaders heard that Marriott was interested in leasing the mansion, which is across from the Bronx Museum of the Arts and within walking distance of Yankee Stadium. They decided they could better serve the community by opening their own hotel.
So they spent $325,000 to renovate the bedroom wing, using an in-house maintenance crew and local artists to recycle items left behind in the rooms by previous residents. Cheap tin dressers were refinished to resemble oak. Chairs were upholstered in plush fabrics, and antique snow globes dusted off for display. The library, which retains its original collection of books, has a first edition of Truman Capote's ''In Cold Blood.''
But since the Andrew Freedman opened, only five people have checked in, four of whom were from Seattle visiting a relative in the Bronx. Another five reservations are on the books for the next month.
Council leaders said they had considered reducing room rates, but decided they did not want the Freedman to be seen as cheap in quality. Instead, they are working to find reasons for people to visit, like hosting a reception for the high-end Armory Show in March and installing seven artists in residence who will display their work on the premises.
''It isn't easy because of what the Bronx was known for back then,'' said Princess Alexander, the manager of the Freedman. ''But we soften people up. Once you give them a visual of the rooms, they're able to digest it.''
Willis Kettrell, 62, said he decided to splurge on a two-night stay at the Freedman in December to get away with some friends. Mr. Kettrell, an unemployed charter school operations director who lives with his wife and four sons in the Bronx, said he got a lot for his money.
''You can relax in a great big mansion,'' Mr. Kettrell said. ''And the bigger picture is it's an economic catalyst for the neighborhood and you want the Bronx to grow.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''There's a transformation going on in the Bronx,'' said Marcia Fingal of the Mid-Bronx Senior Citizens Council, which owns the Andrew Freedman hotel.
 The library, above, and exterior, left, of the Andrew Freedman Home, which was reopened in December as a boutique hotel. Located on the Grand Concourse, it has struggled to draw guests. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (92%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (89%); CITY LIFE (88%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (76%); HOTEL CHAINS (76%); REAL ESTATE (74%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (74%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (73%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (72%); HOME PRICES (72%); CONSTRUCTION (69%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (66%); GOLF (62%); JOB CREATION (50%)

COMPANY: RESIDENCE INN (57%); EMPIRE HOTEL (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (55%)

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2013



670 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 895 words

HEADLINE: Long-Shot Mayoral Run Is Planned From the Bronx

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN

 BODY:
For Adolfo Carrión Jr., the magic number in the 2013 mayor's race is not 40 (the percentage of primary votes needed to avoid a runoff), or $6.7 million (the maximum that candidates who receive public financing can spend).
Instead, Mr. Carrión, a former Bronx borough president who says he will run for mayor this year, is fixated on 71: the percentage of New Yorkers who did not vote in 2009, because, in his view, ''they think the electoral books are cooked.'' 
''There is a silent majority here,'' said Mr. Carrión, who left the Democratic Party in November and is now unaffiliated. ''Part of this candidacy is to awaken that sleeping giant.''
Mr. Carrión, who said he expected to formally declare his candidacy in the next two weeks, said he was hoping for a boost on Wednesday, when the Independence Party is expected to endorse him, guaranteeing him a spot on the November general election ballot. And Mr. Carrión said he was still optimistic that he could persuade Republican Party leaders to allow him to compete in their primary, even though there are multiple registered Republicans seeking the party's nod.
In an interview, Jacqueline S. Salit, the political strategist for the Independence Party, said that Mr. Carrión shared many of her party's goals, including nonpartisan elections in New York City. And she said that Mr. Carrión promised to throw a ''wrench into the standard political playbook'' by ''putting a new kind of independent progressivism on the table for New Yorkers.''
''This campaign will be fierce, it will be competitive and it will surprise'' the old guard, Ms. Salit said.
''We're movement builders, we're nonpartisan reformers, and we think that Adolfo Carrión is going to be a great partner in all of that,'' she said. ''And that's why we're supporting him.''
Mr. Carrión, 51, spent the last few years working as the head of the White House's Office of Urban Affairs, then as a regional director of the Obama administration's housing agency. In the course of a 45-minute interview, he mentioned ''national gridlock and paralysis'' at least four times in explaining why he wanted to run for mayor.
He said he understood that some people will criticize his candidacy, and his decision to leave the Democratic Party to secure a path to the ballot. And he said he realized that one of his career's low points was fair game: a $10,000 fine from the city's Conflicts of Interest Board for a renovation project on his home which relied on an architect who was involved a major development project requiring his approval.
Still, Mr. Carrión believes that the time is right for an independent candidate who can offer a moderate alternative to Democrats who could be viewed as too liberal and tied to labor, and to Republicans who could be viewed as unsympathetic to the needs of middle-class residents of boroughs beyond Manhattan.
''If it's a three-way race, we can win this,'' he said.
Mr. Carrión said he would emphasize four issues: public education (where Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has ''moved the needle'' in a positive direction, he said); housing for low-income and working-class families; infrastructure investment in the wake of Hurricane Sandy; and a ''five-borough economic development program.''
He said he viewed the much-debated stop-question-and-frisk practice as ''strong and smart policing'' that had made the city safer. But he also said that the practice should include one more element: stop, question, frisk and ''respect.''
Asked about Mr. Bloomberg, Mr. Carrión said that he liked ''his independent style and forceful approach about getting things done.'' But he also said that he was uncomfortable with the mayor's ''nanny state'' tendencies.
To many political analysts, Mr. Carrión is a long-shot, little known outside of the Bronx, who might simply be hoping to raise his profile for a future run or political appointment, and could function as a spoiler in the race. But analysts said it was unclear whether Mr. Carrión would hurt the Democratic or Republican nominee more: conventional wisdom holds that Republicans, who are outnumbered in the city, need the Independence ballot line to win, and Mr. Carrión appears likely to prevent that, but most of Mr. Carrión's base is made up of Latinos, who have traditionally voted for Democrats.
Jefrey Pollock, president of Global Strategy Group, who has advised Mr. Carrión in the past but is staying neutral in the mayor's race, said that Mr. Carrión would face ''a major-league lift'' to persuade Latino Democrats not to vote on the Democratic line.
''There will be people in the Latino community rallying hard to support the Democratic standard-bearer,'' he predicted.
But Mr. Carrión is not deterred. He already has $878,000 in his coffers from a 2009 account that he established when he was contemplating a bid for comptroller. He has connected with his past supporters. He has even begun the P90x workout that has been all the rage on Capitol Hill.
But Mr. Carrión said he knew that his bid to become the city's first Latino mayor without being affiliated with either major political party is ''obviously a high-risk proposition.'' And already, his rhetoric sounds at times like the first draft of a concession speech.
''If we can move the needle on the important issues that affect people's lives and force every candidate to discuss those issues, then the electorate wins,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Adolfo Carrión Jr., a former Bronx borough president, at the National Conference of Independents in Manhattan on Saturday. He says New Yorkers might want a moderate option for mayor. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (92%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); POLITICS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (65%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (60%)

PERSON: ADOLFO CARRION JR (92%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2013



671 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 905 words

HEADLINE: Little Red Beacon for Immigrant Laborers Shines On

BYLINE: By JULIE TURKEWITZ

 BODY:
The story of the Bay Parkway Community Job Center in Brooklyn can be charted in numbers.
First, 8 by 12: the width and length, in feet, of the wooden structure that housed the center. Then, 5,000: the approximate number of day laborers who have found work through the organization since its creation in 2001.
And finally, 120: the estimated number of feet the shack traveled on Oct. 29, when Hurricane Sandy sent it hurtling into a nearby parking lot, battering the already sagging, tired structure. 
In the post-Hurricane Sandy period, New York's immigrant day laborers have emerged as a vital resource. The mold and detritus might not have been cleared away without them, and the rebuilding process has once again sent residents clamoring for their muscle power. Few realize, however, that one of the most established day labor resources in the region was nearly toppled by the storm, at the moment when it would be needed the most.
The Bay Parkway Community Job Center lives in a red and yellow shack at the edge of Gravesend Bay in Bensonhurst, a pint-size shelter in the shadow of looming commercial titans, a Toys ''R'' Us and a Kohl's store. The center has served not only as a physical space where immigrants find work, but also as a rare symbol of empowerment in a city where day laborers, usually illegal immigrants, often find themselves tethered to the lowest rung of the social totem pole.
''This center has provided for me,'' said Victoriano de la Cruz, 35, who first came to the job center 10 years ago. ''We didn't want it to disappear.''
When the center started, it housed a small group of workers, who gathered by the water to discuss their rights. At the time, nearly all had been seeking work at a crowded corner on 18th Avenue and 69th Street, where they would wait at the intersection, then rush to climb into a would-be employer's truck.
The system was rife with problems. Workers sometimes went unpaid, and had no way to track down their employers. Contractors knew little about the skills of the people they hired. Business owners around the neighborhood complained about the men that loitered in their parking lots.
The group at Gravesend Bay became one of the first in the region to employ an experimental hiring model that it learned was taking hold in Los Angeles. The workers abandoned the street corner, set up a structure to shield them from the weather and got the employers to come to them. Employers would sign a contract, leaving their name and phone number, and agreeing to the wages set by the workers. The center would vouch for the employees' skills.
Today, workers earn $120 to lay brick for eight hours, $150 for demolition and $180 for roof work. ''Let's say that 95 percent of contractors stick to this,'' said Yadira Sanchez, a community organizer at the Worker's Justice Project, which manages the center.
In the intervening years, the center has served as an anchor for some men, and a few women, whose fate has shifted rapidly with the economy. During the construction boom of the early 2000s, New York City's day labor market ranked among the fastest growing in the nation. Mr. de la Cruz said 60 to 120 laborers would wait outside the center, negotiating for work. The center grew out of a simple white tent to include the red shack, which was originally designated for storage; the tent was eventually replaced by a small trailer.
But by 2008, ''there were weeks in which there was no work,'' said Sergio Ajché, 29, ''and being so many people, sometimes we just played fútbol.'' The group could no longer afford to keep the trailer, so the storage shack became the principal meeting space. On cold mornings, 15 people would gather inside, drinking coffee and reviewing English lessons.
At the same time, the job center model spread throughout the city. Today, at least 12 similar centers exist in the New York City region, according to Hector Cordero-Guzman, a professor at Baruch College who studies low-wage workers.
When Hurricane Sandy hit, Ms. Sanchez, who is married to a former day laborer, could think only of the red and yellow hut. It survived, sort of. In the days after the storm, workers showed up to move the building back to its original perch by the water. Others scavenged around in the trash at a nearby Wendy's, found a couple of scuffed floorboards, and reoutfitted the sagging edifice. But it was clearly nearing its final hour.
Then, a few grants came through. With $20,000 gathered from three foundations, the Worker's Justice Project could buy a trailer that would serve as the new center.
On a recent weekday, the 40-foot trailer arrived on the back of an even larger truck. Mr. de la Cruz stood outside. ''Ya llegó,'' he yelled. ''It's here.'' Others quickly emerged from the predawn darkness.
By the afternoon, workers were gathered by the trailer, rattling off new numbers to track its future: 3 buckets of paint used to coat the structure in the same cherry red as the old shack; 21 names on a list inside the trailer, all new students, for a course on scaffolding safety. And Ms. Sanchez revealed an ambitious new figure -- $70,000 -- the amount she wants to raise to begin a new worker's collective focused on commercial cleaning.
She is also plotting the demise of the original storage shack. ''The house means that there are many things that we can do together,'' she said. ''Only when the other one is ready, then this old one is going to be completely destroyed.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: For years, the Bay Parkway Community Job Center has lived in a red and yellow shack at the edge of Gravesend Bay in Brooklyn.
 Yadira Sanchez and Reyna Vega took pictures of Victoriano de la Cruz in the doorway of the new job center, a 40-foot trailer. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL KIRBY SMITH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (89%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (89%); HURRICANE SANDY (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2013



672 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 940 words

HEADLINE: No Country for Old Age

BYLINE: By MARK W. FRAZIER. 
Mark W. Frazier, a professor of politics at the New School, is the author of ''Socialist Insecurity: Pensions and the Politics of Uneven Development in China.''

 BODY:
AMERICANS who fret about the wave of baby-boomer retirements should consider this: Since 2009, when China enacted a nationwide program of rural pensions, some 325 million Chinese have been promised retirement benefits. That's more than the entire population of the United States.
The change is astounding. When the program was getting started, a Chinese villager told me: ''Sixty years after liberation, and finally we get pensions!'' 
He was noting the fact that the Chinese Communist Party, which ''liberated'' peasants through land reform in the early 1950s, was at last providing a guaranteed income for those reaching retirement. Most urban dwellers have been eligible for pensions since 1951, but rural pensions weren't enacted until much later; as in all developing countries, rural families lived off the land and were supported by relatives.
But rapid urbanization and rural land grabs have jeopardized the retirement security of elderly Chinese in the countryside. The share of China's population over the age of 60 is now 185 million, and will nearly double by 2030. A recent study estimated that over the next 20 years, the government will have accumulated $10.9 trillion in pension liabilities.
In the late 1990s and the early part of the last decade, tens of thousands of residents protested unpaid pensions. Retirement insecurity could become an even greater source of unrest than official corruption and malfeasance are today. Little wonder, then, that propaganda authorities directed media outlets in December not to ''sensationalize'' a quasi-official annual report on pensions.
Pension spending is growing rapidly, but remains under 3 percent of gross domestic product -- well under the levels in mature welfare states. (Social Security represents about 4.9 percent of G.D.P. in the United States.)
The United States has a stake in this. Entitlement programs like retirement benefits will inevitably force China into a trade-off between social expenditures and domestic security and military spending. Policy makers concerned about China's rising military spending would do well to monitor China's social spending.
But the obstacles to pension reform are in fact more political than fiscal.
First is the absence of a centralized pension agency like the Social Security Administration in the United States. Instead, China's safety net for the elderly resembles what Americans had before the New Deal: a patchwork of state-based programs with uneven rules and few provisions for people who crossed state lines for work or retirement. In China, roughly 2,500 county and city governments run pension funds, not just for government employees but for all workers, including temporary migrants.
Second, local governments have been piling on debt. After fierce protests by unpaid pensioners, local governments began ''borrowing'' from mandatory retirement accounts that had been established for individual workers and were meant to be walled off. A report in December put the size of the empty accounts at 2.2 trillion yuan ($353 billion).
It's true that China has a National Social Security Fund, often touted as the world's largest sovereign wealth fund. But it is still small relative to G.D.P. and it does not pay pensioners or collect from current workers. The roughly $140 billion in the fund cannot cover the pension debt being run up by local governments.
Centralization would not replenish empty accounts. But it would at least create a nationwide mechanism to pay benefits from current revenues. It would also prevent local officials from doing what their counterparts do in other countries: create unsustainable benefit levels, often for politically well-connected groups, and then mismanage the money through risky investments.
A third obstacle to reform comes from wealthy cities and powerful state-controlled enterprises. Cities like Shanghai and Shenzhen insist on operating their own pensions. It took a big scandal in 2006 to bring Shanghai authorities to heel after they long flouted prohibitions against investing in stocks and riskier asset classes, like real estate. State-owned enterprises have resisted pressures to convert some of their shares and profits into pension-fund assets, saying that dividends and profits belong to shareholders. A counterargument -- made recently, and forcefully, by Dai Xianglong, the head of the National Social Security Fund -- is that since the government is a shareholder, state enterprises have some obligation to help finance pensions.
A final obstacle, paradoxically, is the Chinese themselves, who (like Americans) strongly oppose an increase in the age at which retirees become eligible for full benefits. Chinese officials often argue that early retirement helps make room for young workers. But the current retirement age -- 55 for women (50 for those in blue-collar jobs) and 60 for men -- adds to the demographic burden. The one-child policy means that an ever-shrinking share of workers is paying the taxes that finance pensions and health care -- the demographic phenomenon that causes the Chinese to fear ''growing old before getting rich.'' Beijing could make a deal: phase in later retirement ages while ending the one-child policy.
An enduring source of inequality in China has been the curse of geography: where you were born, lived and worked has largely determined the level and even existence of your retirement benefits. Reducing the urban-rural gap -- as China this month announced a plan to do -- is essential, as is saving elderly citizens from poverty.
China has the wherewithal to make the bold reforms to meet this basic social obligation. Does it have the will?

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ADRIÀ FRUITÓS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); AGING (88%); FARM LABOR (78%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); RETIREMENT AGE (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (78%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (78%); BABY BOOMERS (78%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); CIVIL SERVICES (77%); ANNUAL REPORTS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); URBANIZATION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (73%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (73%); MISCONDUCT (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); CITY LIFE (69%); CITIES (69%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%); DEFENSE SPENDING (66%); CORRUPTION (64%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2013



673 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3123 words

HEADLINE: China's Army Seen as Tied To Hacking Against U.S.

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER, DAVID BARBOZA and NICOLE PERLROTH

 BODY:
On the outskirts of Shanghai, in a run-down neighborhood dominated by a 12-story white office tower, sits a People's Liberation Army base for China's growing corps of cyberwarriors.
The building off Datong Road, surrounded by restaurants, massage parlors and a wine importer, is the headquarters of P.L.A. Unit 61398. A growing body of digital forensic evidence -- confirmed by American intelligence officials who say they have tapped into the activity of the army unit for years -- leaves little doubt that an overwhelming percentage of the attacks on American corporations, organizations and government agencies originate in and around the white tower.
An unusually detailed 60-page study, to be released Tuesday by Mandiant, an American computer security firm, tracks for the first time individual members of the most sophisticated of the Chinese hacking groups -- known to many of its victims in the United States as ''Comment Crew'' or ''Shanghai Group'' -- to the doorstep of the military unit's headquarters. The firm was not able to place the hackers inside the 12-story building, but makes a case there is no other plausible explanation for why so many attacks come out of one comparatively small area. 
''Either they are coming from inside Unit 61398,'' said Kevin Mandia, the founder and chief executive of Mandiant, in an interview last week, ''or the people who run the most-controlled, most-monitored Internet networks in the world are clueless about thousands of people generating attacks from this one neighborhood.''
Other security firms that have tracked ''Comment Crew'' say they also believe the group is state-sponsored, and a recent classified National Intelligence Estimate, issued as a consensus document for all 16 of the United States intelligence agencies, makes a strong case that many of these hacking groups are either run by army officers or are contractors working for commands like Unit 61398, according to officials with knowledge of its classified content.
Mandiant provided an advance copy of its report to The New York Times, saying it hoped to ''bring visibility to the issues addressed in the report.'' Times reporters then tested the conclusions with other experts, both inside and outside government, who have examined links between the hacking groups and the army (Mandiant was hired by The New York Times Company to investigate a sophisticated Chinese-origin attack on its news operations, but concluded it was not the work of Comment Crew, but another Chinese group. The firm is not currently working for the Times Company but it is in discussions about a business relationship.)
While Comment Crew has drained terabytes of data from companies like Coca-Cola, increasingly its focus is on companies involved in the critical infrastructure of the United States -- its electrical power grid, gas lines and waterworks. According to the security researchers, one target was a company with remote access to more than 60 percent of oil and gas pipelines in North America. The unit was also among those that attacked the computer security firm RSA, whose computer codes protect confidential corporate and government databases.
Contacted Monday, officials at the Chinese embassy in Washington again insisted that their government does not engage in computer hacking, and that such activity is illegal. They describe China itself as a victim of computer hacking, and point out, accurately, that there are many hacking groups inside the United States. But in recent years the Chinese attacks have grown significantly, security researchers say. Mandiant has detected more than 140 Comment Crew intrusions since 2006. American intelligence agencies and private security firms that track many of the 20 or so other Chinese groups every day say those groups appear to be contractors with links to the unit.
While the unit's existence and operations are considered a Chinese state secret, Representative Mike Rogers of Michigan, the Republican chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, said in an interview that the Mandiant report was ''completely consistent with the type of activity the Intelligence Committee has been seeing for some time.''
The White House said it was ''aware'' of the Mandiant report, and Tommy Vietor, the spokesman for the National Security Council, said, ''We have repeatedly raised our concerns at the highest levels about cybertheft with senior Chinese officials, including in the military, and we will continue to do so.''
The United States government is planning to begin a more aggressive defense against Chinese hacking groups, starting on Tuesday. Under a directive signed by President Obama last week, the government plans to share with American Internet providers information it has gathered about the unique digital signatures of the largest of the groups, including Comment Crew and others emanating from near where Unit 61398 is based.
But the government warnings will not explicitly link those groups, or the giant computer servers they use, to the Chinese army. The question of whether to publicly name the unit and accuse it of widespread theft is the subject of ongoing debate.
''There are huge diplomatic sensitivities here,'' said one intelligence official, with frustration in his voice.
But Obama administration officials say they are planning to tell China's new leaders in coming weeks that the volume and sophistication of the attacks have become so intense that they threaten the fundamental relationship between Washington and Beijing.
The United States government also has cyberwarriors. Working with Israel, the United States has used malicious software called Stuxnet to disrupt Iran's uranium enrichment program. But government officials insist they operate under strict, if classified, rules that bar using offensive weapons for nonmilitary purposes or stealing corporate data.
The United States finds itself in something of an asymmetrical digital war with China. ''In the cold war, we were focused every day on the nuclear command centers around Moscow,'' one senior defense official said recently. ''Today, it's fair to say that we worry as much about the computer servers in Shanghai.''
A Shadowy Unit
Unit 61398 -- formally, the 2nd Bureau of the People's Liberation Army's General Staff Department's 3rd Department -- exists almost nowhere in official Chinese military descriptions. Yet intelligence analysts who have studied the group say it is the central element of Chinese computer espionage. The unit was described in 2011 as the ''premier entity targeting the United States and Canada, most likely focusing on political, economic, and military-related intelligence'' by the Project 2049 Institute, a nongovernmental organization in Virginia that studies security and policy issues in Asia.
While the Obama administration has never publicly discussed the Chinese unit's activities, a secret State Department cable written the day before Barack Obama was elected president in November 2008 described at length American concerns about the group's attacks on government sites. (At the time American intelligence agencies called the unit ''Byzantine Candor,'' a code word dropped after the cable was published by WikiLeaks.)
The Defense Department and the State Department were particular targets, the cable said, describing how the group's intruders send e-mails, called ''spearphishing'' attacks, that placed malware on target computers once the recipient clicked on them. From there, they were inside the systems.
American officials say that a combination of diplomatic concerns and the desire to follow the unit's activities have kept the government from going public. But Mandiant's report is forcing the issue into public view.
For more than six years, Mandiant tracked the actions of Comment Crew, so named for the attackers' penchant for embedding hidden code or comments into Web pages. Based on the digital crumbs the group left behind -- its attackers have been known to use the same malware, Web domains, Internet protocol addresses, hacking tools and techniques across attacks -- Mandiant followed 141 attacks by the group, which it called ''A.P.T. 1'' for Advanced Persistent Threat 1.
''But those are only the ones we could easily identify,'' said Mr. Mandia. Other security experts estimate that the group is responsible for thousands of attacks.
As Mandiant mapped the Internet protocol addresses and other bits of digital evidence, it all led back to the edges of Pudong district of Shanghai, right around the Unit 61398 headquarters. The group's report, along with 3,000 addresses and other indicators that can be used to identify the source of attacks, concludes ''the totality of the evidence'' leads to the conclusion that ''A.P.T. 1 is Unit 61398.''
Mandiant discovered that two sets of I.P. addresses used in the attacks were registered in the same neighborhood as Unit 61398's building.
''It's where more than 90 percent of the attacks we followed come from,'' said Mr. Mandia.
The only other possibility, the report concludes with a touch of sarcasm, is that ''a secret, resourced organization full of mainland Chinese speakers with direct access to Shanghai-based telecommunications infrastructure is engaged in a multiyear enterprise-scale computer espionage campaign right outside of Unit 61398's gates.''
The most fascinating elements of the Mandiant report follow the keystroke-by-keystroke actions of several of the hackers who the firm believes work for the P.L.A. Mandiant tracked their activities from inside the computer systems of American companies they were invading. The companies had given Mandiant investigators full access to rid them of the Chinese spies.
One of the most visible hackers it followed is UglyGorilla, who first appeared on a Chinese military forum in January 2004, asking whether China has a ''similar force'' to the ''cyber army'' being set up by the American military.
By 2007 UglyGorilla was turning out a suite of malware with what the report called a ''clearly identifiable signature.'' Another hacker, called ''DOTA'' by Mandiant, created e-mail accounts that were used to plant malware. That hacker was tracked frequently using a password that appeared to be based on his military unit's designation. DOTA and UglyGorilla both used the same I.P. addresses linked back to Unit 61398's neighborhood.
Mandiant discovered several cases in which attackers logged into their Facebook and Twitter accounts to get around China's firewall that blocks ordinary citizen's access, making it easier to track down their real identities.
Mandiant also discovered an internal China Telecom memo discussing the state-owned telecom company's decision to install high-speed fiber-optic lines for Unit 61398's headquarters.
China's defense ministry has denied that it is responsible for initiating attacks. ''It is unprofessional and groundless to accuse the Chinese military of launching cyberattacks without any conclusive evidence,'' it said last month, one of the statements that prompted Mandiant to make public its evidence.
Escalating Attacks
Mandiant believes Unit 61398 conducted sporadic attacks on American corporate and government computer networks; the earliest it found was in 2006. Two years ago the numbers spiked. Mandiant discovered some of the intrusions were long-running. On average the group would stay inside a network, stealing data and passwords, for a year; in one case it had access for four years and 10 months.
Mandiant has watched the group as it has stolen technology blueprints, manufacturing processes, clinical trial results, pricing documents, negotiation strategies and other proprietary information from more than 100 of its clients, mostly in the United States. Mandiant identified attacks on 20 industries, from military contractors to chemical plants, mining companies and satellite and telecommunications corporations.
Mandiant's report does not name the victims, who usually insist on anonymity. A 2009 attack on Coca-Cola coincided with the beverage giant's failed attempt to acquire the China Huiyuan Juice Group for $2.4 billion, according to people with knowledge of the results of the company's investigation.
As Coca-Cola executives were negotiating what would have been the largest foreign purchase of a Chinese company, Comment Crew was busy rummaging through their computers in an apparent effort to learn more about Coca-Cola's negotiation strategy.
The attack on Coca-Cola began, like hundreds before it, with a seemingly innocuous e-mail to an executive that was, in fact, a spearphishing attack. When the executive clicked on a malicious link in the e-mail, it gave the attackers a foothold inside Coca-Cola's network. From inside, they sent confidential company files through a maze of computers back to Shanghai, on a weekly basis, unnoticed.
Two years later, Comment Crew was one of at least three Chinese-based groups to mount a similar attack on RSA, the computer security company owned by EMC, a large technology company. It is best known for its SecurID token, carried by employees at United States intelligence agencies, military contractors and many major companies. (The New York Times also uses the firm's tokens to allow access to its e-mail and production systems remotely.) RSA has offered to replace SecurID tokens for customers and said it had added new layers of security to its products.
As in the Coca-Cola case, the attack began with a targeted, cleverly fashioned poisoned e-mail to an RSA employee. Two months later, hackers breached Lockheed Martin, the nation's largest defense contractor, partly by using the information they gleaned from the RSA attack.
Mandiant is not the only private firm tracking Comment Crew. In 2011, Joe Stewart, a Dell SecureWorks researcher, was analyzing malware used in the RSA attack when he discovered that the attackers had used a hacker tool to mask their true location.
When he reverse-engineered the tool, he found that the vast majority of stolen data had been transferred to the same range of I.P. addresses that Mandiant later identified in Shanghai.
Dell SecureWorks says it believed Comment Crew includes the same group of attackers behind Operation Shady RAT, an extensive computer espionage campaign uncovered in 2011 in which more than 70 organizations over a five-year period, including the United Nations, government agencies in the United States, Canada, South Korea, Taiwan and Vietnam were targeted.
Infrastructure at Risk
What most worries American investigators is that the latest set of attacks believed coming from Unit 61398 focus not just on stealing information, but obtaining the ability to manipulate American critical infrastructure: the power grids and other utilities.
Staff at Digital Bond, a small security firm that specializes in those industrial-control computers, said that last June Comment Crew unsuccessfully attacked it. A part-time employee at Digital Bond received an e-mail that appeared to come from his boss, Dale Peterson. The e-mail, in perfect English, discussed security weaknesses in critical infrastructure systems, and asked the employee to click a link to a document for more information. Mr. Peterson caught the e-mail and shared it with other researchers, who found the link contained a remote-access tool that would have given the attackers control over the employee's computer and potentially given them a front-row seat to confidential information about Digital Bond's clients, which include a major water project, a power plant and a mining company.
Jaime Blasco, a security researcher at AlienVault, analyzed the computer servers used in the attack, which led him to other victims, including the Chertoff Group. That firm, headed by the former secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, Michael Chertoff, has run simulations of an extensive digital attack on the United States. Other attacks were made on a contractor for the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency, and the National Electrical Manufacturers Association, a lobbying group that represents companies that make components for power grids. Those organizations confirmed they were attacked but have said they prevented attackers from gaining access to their network.
Mr. Blasco said that, based on the forensics, all the victims had been hit by Comment Crew. But the most troubling attack to date, security experts say, was a successful invasion of the Canadian arm of Telvent. The company, now owned by Schneider Electric, designs software that gives oil and gas pipeline companies and power grid operators remote access to valves, switches and security systems.
Telvent keeps detailed blueprints on more than half of all the oil and gas pipelines in North and South America, and has access to their systems. In September, Telvent Canada told customers that attackers had broken into its systems and taken project files. That access was immediately cut, so that the intruders could not take command of the systems.
Martin Hanna, a Schneider Electric spokesman, did not return requests for comment, but security researchers who studied the malware used in the attack, including Mr. Stewart at Dell SecureWorks and Mr. Blasco at AlienVault, confirmed that the perpetrators were the Comment Crew.
''This is terrifying because -- forget about the country -- if someone hired me and told me they wanted to have the offensive capability to take out as many critical systems as possible, I would be going after the vendors and do things like what happened to Telvent,'' Mr. Peterson of Digital Bond said. ''It's the holy grail.''
Mr. Obama alluded to this concern in the State of the Union speech, without mentioning China or any other nation. ''We know foreign countries and companies swipe our corporate secrets,'' he said. ''Now our enemies are also seeking the ability to sabotage our power grid, our financial institutions, our air-traffic control systems. We cannot look back years from now and wonder why we did nothing.''
Mr. Obama faces a vexing choice: In a sprawling, vital relationship with China, is it worth a major confrontation between the world's largest and second largest economy over computer hacking?
A few years ago, administration officials say, the theft of intellectual property was an annoyance, resulting in the loss of billions of dollars of revenue. But clearly something has changed. The mounting evidence of state sponsorship, the increasing boldness of Unit 61398, and the growing threat to American infrastructure are leading officials to conclude that a far stronger response is necessary.
''Right now there is no incentive for the Chinese to stop doing this,'' said Mr. Rogers, the House intelligence chairman. ''If we don't create a high price, it's only going to keep accelerating.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: This 12-story building on the outskirts of Shanghai is the headquarters of Unit 61398 of the People's Liberation Army. China's defense ministry has denied that it is responsible for initiating digital attacks. (A9) MAPS: Headquarters building of P.L.A. Unit 61398 (Source: Google Earth)
 CHART: Industries Targeted by the Hackers: A new study by Mandiant, an American computer security firm, identified more than 140 organizations that have been compromised over the past six years by a single hacking group, called "Comment Crew'' or "Shanghai Group.'' Mandiant has assembled a circumstantial case that links Comment Crew to Unit 61398 of the People's Liberation Army. (Source: Mandiant) (A9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (91%); MILITARY BASES (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); COMPUTER NETWORK SECURITY (88%); ARMED FORCES (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); INFORMATION WARFARE (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); COMPUTER CRIME (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); RESTAURANTS (72%); MASSAGE SERVICES (72%); FORENSICS (71%); INTERVIEWS (69%); EXECUTIVES (64%); EVIDENCE (56%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES CO (84%); COCA-COLA CO (50%)

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (84%); KO (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (84%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (84%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (84%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (94%) EAST CHINA (93%); SHANXI, CHINA (73%) UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (94%); ASIA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2013



674 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 864 words

HEADLINE: U.K. Asks India to Open Its Trade Doors Wider

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
MUMBAI -- Prime Minister David Cameron of Britain arrived in India on Monday asking his hosts to open up their economy because Britain had done the same for Indian companies.
''Britain is an open economy, and we encourage that investment,'' he said. ''I think, in return, we should be having a conversation about opening up the Indian economy, making it easier to do business here, allowing insurance and banking companies to do more foreign direct investment.''
He said that he was proud that Indian companies like Tata, the owner of the British carmaker Jaguar Land Rover, had such a strong foothold in the British economy but that he expected a reciprocal arrangement. 
Mr. Cameron's trip, his second visit to India as prime minister, comes days after a similar trade mission by President François Hollande of France, underlining how Europe's debt-stricken states were competing to tap into India, which has one of the world's fastest-growing economies.
Mr. Cameron's delegation, which includes representatives of more than 100 companies, is the biggest taken abroad by a British prime minister. It includes four ministers and nine members of Parliament.
Companies with executives traveling with Mr. Cameron include BAE Systems, BP, De La Rue, Diageo, the British unit of EADS, HSBC, JCB, Lloyd's, the London Stock Exchange, London Underground, Rolls-Royce and Standard Chartered.
Mr. Cameron will meet his Indian counterpart, Manmohan Singh, as well as the Indian president, Pranab Mukherjee.
Mr. Cameron's office said business deals to be announced during the trip would create 500 British jobs and safeguard an additional 2,000.
Investors have been clamoring for years for India to open up to more foreign investment, and Mr. Cameron complained Monday that India still had outdated rules and regulations.
But the entreaties have been resisted by Indian opposition groups worried about potential damage to home-grown businesses.
At a time when the British government is struggling to get its economy growing, officials see India as a key strategic partner in what Mr. Cameron has called a ''global race.''
''India is going to be one of the leading nations in this century, and we want to be your partner,'' Mr. Cameron told Indian workers at Hindustan Unilever, a unit of the British-Dutch consumer products giant Unilever.
Mr. Cameron's visit to India, which won independence from Britain in 1947 and whose colonial history remains a sensitive subject for many Indians, will include stops in Mumbai and New Delhi.
Mr. Cameron has said the two countries enjoy a ''special relationship,'' a term usually reserved for Britain's ties with the United States, but it is a relationship undergoing profound change. The Indian economy is forecast to overtake Britain's in size in the decades ahead. In a nod to how the relationship is evolving, Britain will stop giving India aid after 2015.
Mr. Cameron is expected to lobby India to do more to allow foreign retailers like Tesco, which sells food and consumer goods, to open stores in the country. New Delhi changed the rules last year to allow foreign chains to operate in India but attached conditions including requirements over local sourcing of items and investment in local infrastructure, and restrictions on what goods could be sold.
India is expected to spend $1 trillion in the next five years on infrastructure, and Mr. Cameron said he wanted British companies to help India develop new cities and districts along a corridor stretching 1,000 kilometers, or 620 miles, from Mumbai to Bangalore, generating investment projects worth up to $25 billion.
Some British companies have run into problems in the past. The mobile phone operator Vodafone has repeatedly clashed with the Indian authorities over taxes, and the oil company Royal Dutch Shell has asked the British government to raise a tax dispute it has with India during Mr. Cameron's visit.
Mr. Cameron promised Monday to try to revive Indian interest in the Eurofighter even though New Delhi has chosen a French-made rival and as a graft scandal is engulfing a military deal that involves a British-Italian company.
India said Friday that it wanted to cancel a $740 million contract for a dozen helicopters made by AgustaWestland, the British-Italian subsidiary of Finmeccanica of Italy, over bribery claims.
That will not make Mr. Cameron's job of persuading India to buy more civil and military hardware easier, and Indian officials have told the local news media they intend to press Mr. Cameron for ''a fully-fledged report'' on what Britain knows about the scandal.
Britain has said it wants to wait until the end of the Italian investigation before commenting in full, but has given India an interim report on the subject. ''This is something for the Italian and Indian authorities to deal with, and I'm sure they will,'' Mr. Cameron said Monday, saying issues had been raised that needed to be settled.
Mr. Cameron said he would tell the Indian government that the Eurofighter jet, which is partly built in Britain, remained an attractive option if India decided to review a multibillion-dollar deal to buy 126 French-made Rafale fighters. New Delhi rejected the Eurofighter last year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (78%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (77%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (76%); AUTOMAKERS (70%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (70%); STOCK EXCHANGES (68%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (67%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (63%); JOB CREATION (63%); HISTORY (60%)

COMPANY: BAE SYSTEMS PLC (57%); DIAGEO PLC (55%); EUROPEAN AERONAUTIC DEFENCE & SPACE CO EADS NV (55%); HINDUSTAN UNILEVER LTD (51%)

TICKER: BA (LSE) (57%); DGE (PAR) (55%); DGE (LSE) (55%); DEO (NYSE) (55%); EAD (PAR) (55%); EAD (MCE) (55%); HINDUNILVR (NSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336413 OTHER AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (55%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (55%); SIC2085 DISTILLED & BLENDED LIQUORS (55%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (55%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (51%)

PERSON: DAVID CAMERON (90%); PRANAB MUKHERJEE (79%); FRANCOIS HOLLANDE (72%); MANMOHAN SINGH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%) INDIA (99%); UNITED KINGDOM (95%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2013



675 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 

LENGTH: 596 words

HEADLINE: Anxious Whispers in Tripoli

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER S. CHIVVIS

 BODY:
TRIPOLI -- Over the weekend, Libya celebrated the second anniversary of the outbreak of the revolt that toppled Muammar el-Qaddafi. The violence many had feared was avoided, but this should not be cause for complacency.
The clock is ticking for Libya's future. Libya's government is dysfunctional, armed militias control much of the country, and the population is increasingly frustrated with the pace of postwar progress. Libyans and international actors must act now to stave off a slide back into civil war.
Walking the streets of Tripoli, the threats to Libya's security can easily seem exaggerated. You can enjoy a coffee at a picturesque Mediterranean café. The tanks and guns are out of sight. 
But asking the wrong questions at that café can get you nabbed by a militia. At the Parliament, armed former revolutionaries intimidate legislators, reminding them of the power of the street.
When they speak of the situation in Benghazi, Libyans -- including members of Parliament -- are markedly pessimistic. Ansar al-Shariah, the militia responsible for the attacks on the U.S. diplomatic facility in that city, is still strong and carries a powerful appeal to unemployed youth.
If the government has a little control over security in Tripoli, it has none outside it. Last fall, the government was powerless to stop the fighting as nearby Bani Walid was besieged by militias from Misurata. Tribes are battling over turf in the south, and when the defense minister flew in to negotiate a peace, he was attacked in his hotel. As insurgents retreat from Mali ahead of advancing French forces, they will likely make the situation more dangerous.
The government has imposed martial law and declared the border closed. But lacking an army, these pronouncements are hardly enforceable. The borders are porous and easterners report a recent influx of ''foreigners'' with suspicious agendas. At the same time, extremists have found fertile ground for recruitment among disillusioned youths.
Several Libyans with whom a colleague and I recently spoke, including members of the Parliament, acknowledged that a group of radicals were entrenched outside the town of Derna, east of Benghazi. In Benghazi, the situation is only marginally better. Ansar al-Shariah remains strong despite protests against it by the local population. Press reports have linked eastern extremists to Mokhtar Belmokhtar's terrorist attacks in Algeria in January.
A legislator from the eastern region told us that the police in his city dare not go outside in uniform. Attacks on officials in Benghazi have metastasized from settling old scores from the Qaddafi era into what could be a coordinated attempt to further destabilize the situation.
The longer these conditions persist, the more entrenched the extremists will become. Restoring security in the east admittedly will be difficult given the woeful capacity of the Libyan government and the growing constraints on foreign diplomats who are under constant threat of attack. Nevertheless, a new push to co-opt as many of the militias and tribal leaders as possible, restore the credibility of the Tripoli government, tighten control over borders and improve economic conditions in the region needs to start now.
The longer it takes to do this, the greater the chances for Libya to become mired in a long-term cycle of violence and political chaos. This would be disastrous for Libyans and for all who helped bring Qaddafi's rule to an end.
Christopher S. Chivvis is a senior political scientist at the RAND Corporation and author of the forthcoming ''Toppling Qaddafi.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (91%); ANNIVERSARIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TERRORISM (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (75%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (71%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (69%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (69%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (66%); POLICE FORCES (66%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (64%); PEACE PROCESS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRIPOLI, LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (94%) LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); ALGERIA (79%); FRANCE (76%); MEDITERRANEAN (76%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2013



676 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; INSIDE EUROPE; Pg. 

LENGTH: 984 words

HEADLINE: U.S. and E.U. Hope to Eliminate the Atlantic as a Trade Barrier

BYLINE: By ALAN WHEATLEY | REUTERS

 BODY:
LONDON -- Forthcoming trans-Atlantic trade talks might offer a fresh incentive for Europe to worry a bit less about protecting past economic gains and focus a bit more on securing sources of future prosperity.
The negotiations, announced last week and due to start in June, are also an important chance for the European Union to reinvigorate political ties with the United States as Washington pivots toward a rising Asia.
The talks will be tough. Successive attempts to pry open markets over the past 15 years made some progress but ultimately failed. 
This time around, extensive consultations have convinced officials that an agreement can be forged at a lower political cost.
One reason is that agriculture, a constant thorn in the side of negotiators, is less of a bilateral bugbear than it was even two years ago thanks to changes in the global market for farm produce, said Fredrik Erixon, director of the European Center for International Political Economy, a research institute in Brussels.
What is more, the two sides are eager to tap into new sources of growth. The United States and European Union estimate that by 2027 a comprehensive pact could add 0.5 percent a year to the Union's gross domestic product and 0.4 percent to U.S. output.
But the belief in Brussels and Washington that they will not have to cross too many negotiating red lines drawn by powerful vested interests will be quickly tested, Mr. Erixon said.
''It will become much clearer that you're not going to get an agreement that can deliver short and medium-term economic gains or longer-term dynamic gains unless you're willing to do supply-side reforms,'' he said.
Indeed, Mr. Erixon said, the European Commission, the Union's executive branch, sees the talks as an opportunity to try to push through some deep-seated changes to improve the economic performance of the 27-nation bloc.
Governments have shown a greater appetite for change in response to the global financial crisis, notably in pensions and labor markets. But Ben Noteboom, chief executive of Randstad, one of the world's largest global recruitment companies, said he would give Europe an overall mark of less than 6 out of 10.
He said Europe had no choice but to keep up the momentum of change, given the challenges it faces from an aging population and, especially, the hollowing-out of medium-skill jobs because of technological change and competition from emerging markets.
''As a society, we must come up with answers to prevent that from becoming both a social and economic problem,'' Mr. Noteboom said in an interview. ''The question is whether we will do it fast enough. We don't have a lot of time.''
The United States and Europe are considering a ''21st century'' agreement that as well as scrapping tariffs would sweep away many nontariff barriers, like differences in technical standards, that are annoying speed bumps in an age when goods that are produced around the globe cross borders at dizzying speed.
Yet earlier this month, the Union showed its 20th century face by concluding a budget for 2014-20 in which farm subsidies still gobble up by far the biggest share of spending. Agricultural handouts were cut, but France and other major farming nations thwarted attempts to shift a greater slice of E.U. spending toward steps to increase investment and competitiveness.
A similar problem is likely to be the Union's reluctance to lower its guard against U.S. biotechnological food like genetically modified plants or beef from cattle that have been fed hormones.
So even if the good will exists to put such issues on the sidelines, agriculture still has the potential to poison the talks, said Philip Whyte with the Center for European Reform, a research institute in London.
Simon Evenett, a professor of international trade at St. Gallen University in Switzerland, agreed that a way forward would have to finesse differences over agriculture for Washington and Brussels to grasp what both see as the big prize -- designing the next generation of business regulations and inducing the rest of the world, notably China, to sign on to them.
For example, jointly recognized rules on car safety or a single trans-Atlantic test for new drugs would cut costs for manufacturers and so should lower prices for consumers.
''That could have serious business payoffs,'' Mr. Evenett said.
Richard Baldwin, a professor of international economics in Geneva, said the fear of being excluded from global standard-setting and regulatory harmonization was a main reason why this round of trade talks might succeed.
Washington is negotiating a separate free-trade pact focused on Asia, the Trans-Pacific Partnership, which, if successful, would form the template for rules on ''behind-the-border barriers'' to trade that are crucial for the smooth functioning of integrated global supply chains, Mr. Baldwin said. These include regulations, the movement of capital, intellectual property rights and competition policy, as well as rules on foreign investment and state-owned enterprises.
''If T.P.P. is the only game in town, the starting point for multilateralization of these rules will be the T.P.P. rules, which are basically being written by the U.S.,'' Mr. Baldwin said in e-mailed comments. ''These rules are not specifically anti-E.U., but they are naturally slanted to please U.S. business, not E.U. business models and practices.''
Thus, the Union sees a trans-Atlantic pact as a geopolitical counter-balance to America's Pacific push, he added.
But no matter how solid the business and political case is for the so-called trans-Atlantic trade and investment partnership, Mr. Evenett said, selling an agreement to voters wary of globalization would not be easy.
''The benefits from trade reform are a bit like fitness training -- not felt immediately and often accompanied by pain. This partnership will be no different,'' he said.
Alan Wheatley is a Reuters correspondent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); EXECUTIVES (68%); AGING TRENDS (66%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (65%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (61%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (53%); AGING (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (73%) EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); BELGIUM (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2013



677 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 453 words

HEADLINE: Reader's Digest In Second Filing For Bankruptcy

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED

 BODY:
Executives at Reader's Digest must be hoping that the magazine's second trip to bankruptcy court in under four years will be its last.
The magazine's parent, RDA Holding, filed for Chapter 11 protection late on Sunday in another effort to cut down the debt that has plagued the pocket-size publication for years. The company is hoping to convert about $465 million of its debt into equity held by its creditors. 
In a court filing, Reader's Digest said it held about $1.1 billion in assets and just under $1.2 billion in debt. It has provisionally lined up about $105 million in financing to keep it afloat during the Chapter 11 case.
This week's filing is the latest effort by the 91-year-old publisher, whose magazine once resided on many American coffee tables, to fix itself in a difficult economic environment.
"After considering a wide range of alternatives, we believe this course of action will most effectively enable us to maintain our momentum in transforming the business and allow us to capitalize on the growing strength and presence of our outstanding brands and products," Robert E. Guth, the company's chief executive, said in a statement.
Reader's Digest last filed for bankruptcy in 2009, emerging a year later under the control of lenders like JPMorgan Chase.
That reorganization substantially cut the publisher's debt, and afterward the company worked to further shrink its footprint. It jettisoned nonessential publications in a series of deals, including the $180 million sale of Allrecipes.com and the $4.3 million sale of Every Day With Rachael Ray, both to the Meredith Corporation.
Most of the money from those transactions went to pay down a still significant debt burden. But the company remained pressured by what it described in a court filing as steep declines that still bedevil the media industry. Last year, the publisher began negotiating with its lenders, including Wells Fargo, about amending some of its debt obligations. That process eventually led to a "pre-negotiated agreement" with creditors, which will be put into effect by the bankruptcy filing.
This time, Reader's Digest is hoping to spend even less time in court. Mr. Guth said in a court filing that the publisher aims to emerge from bankruptcy protection in about four months.
The company's biggest unsecured creditors include firms represented by Luxor Capital. The Federal Trade Commission also contends that it is owed $8.8 million in a settlement claim.
Reader's Digest is being advised by Evercore Partners and the law firm Weil, Gotshal & Manges. Reader's Digest bankruptcy petition (2013) by
Declaration by Reader's Digest Chief Executive by
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (92%); NEWS BRIEFS (91%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (79%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (78%); PETITIONS (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (78%); LAWYERS (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (68%)

COMPANY: READER'S DIGEST ASSOCIATION INC (91%); READER'S DIGEST PTY LTD (90%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (83%); MEREDITH CORP (66%); WELLS FARGO & CO (64%); EVERCORE PARTNERS INC (51%); WEIL GOTSHAL & MANGES LLP (51%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (83%); JPM (LSE) (83%); 8634 (TSE) (83%); MDP (NYSE) (66%); WFC (NYSE) (64%); EVR (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (66%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (66%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (66%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (64%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (51%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (51%)

PERSON: RACHAEL RAY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2013



678 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 782 words

HEADLINE: How Not To Fix Climate Change

BYLINE: By JOE NOCERA

 BODY:
After much back and forth, James E. Hansen and I had agreed on a date to meet. Hansen, the director of NASA's Goddard Institute for Space Studies, is the scientist most closely associated with climate change activists like Bill McKibben, who has led the charge against the Keystone XL pipeline, and Michael Brune, the executive director of the Sierra Club. In Hansen's view, the country needs to start moving away from fossil fuels now, before the damage becomes irreversible.
As regular readers know, I believe the Obama administration should approve the Keystone pipeline, which would transport oil mined and processed from the tar sands of Alberta, Canada, to refineries in the Gulf of Mexico. Like it or not, fossil fuels are going to remain the world's dominant energy source for the foreseeable future, and we are far better off getting our oil from Canada than, say, Venezuela. And the climate change effects of tar sands oil are, all in all, pretty small. I had the strong sense that Hansen hoped that once we met, I would begin to see the error of my ways. 
The date we set was on Thursday, Feb. 14. The only glitch, he said, is that on the 13th, he was participating in an anti-Keystone demonstration in front of the White House led by his friend McKibben. The plan was they'd all try to get arrested. ''It is conceivable that we will be spending the night of the 13th in the clink, in which case it is not clear when I will arrive on the 14th,'' Hansen wrote in an e-mail. (He added, ''Yes, I know, the merits of this continuing activity may be dubious, but Bill is working his butt off so hard that I can't refuse.'') I postponed the meeting.
Suddenly, it appears, the Keystone XL pipeline, which President Obama temporarily blocked during his re-election campaign, is back in the news. The State of Nebraska, which had previously opposed the pipeline, recently dropped its opposition after TransCanada, the company hoping to build it, rerouted portions of it to avoid sensitive lands and aquifers. Canada, still miffed by Obama's rejection of the pipeline last year, is threatening to sell the oil to China if the United States says no again.
In fact, this should be a no-brainer for the president, for all the reasons I stated earlier, and one more: the strategy of activists like McKibben, Brune and Hansen, who have made the Keystone pipeline their line in the sand, is utterly boneheaded.
Brune and McKibben have been very clear about what they hope to accomplish. Oil companies have invested upward of $100 billion to extract the unconventional oil in the sands. A pipeline is the only way to export it. The Keystone pipeline is Canada's Plan A. Plan B is a pipeline to British Columbia, which would get the oil to China. If the president blocks Keystone, and the First Nation tribes continue their staunch opposition to the western pipeline, then Canada will have the second largest oil reserves in the world -- and no place to sell it. The assumption of the activists is that by choking off the supply of new oil sources like the tar sands, the U.S. -- and maybe the world -- will be forced to transition more quickly to green energy.
Can you see how backward this logic is? As Adam Brandt, an energy expert at Stanford University, pointed out to me recently, so long as the demand is there, energy producers are going to search for new supplies of fossil fuel -- many of them using unconventional means like tar sands extraction. ''With growing global demand, the economic pressure to develop unconventional resources is enormous and not going away,'' he said. ''Can environmental groups expect to win a series of fights for decades to come, when the economic forces are aligned very strongly against them in each round?'' The answer is obvious: no. The emphasis should be on demand, not supply. If the U.S. stopped consuming so much of the world's oil, the economic need for the tar sands would evaporate.
On Monday, I finally spoke to Hansen. His knowledge and sincerity are easy to admire, even if his tactics are not. He told me he would like to see oil companies pay a fee, which would rise annually, based on carbon emissions. He said that such a tax could reduce emissions by 30 percent within 10 years. Well, maybe. But it would also likely make the expensive tar sands oil more viable. If you really want to eliminate expensive new fossil fuel sources, the best way is to lower the price of oil, which would render them uneconomical. But, of course, that wouldn't exactly lower demand either.
In any case, McKibben, Hansen and others were arrested on Wednesday, as planned. They spent a few hours in jail and paid $100 fines. And that was it.
Until the next time, of course.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (90%); OIL SANDS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (77%); EXECUTIVES (73%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (68%); ELECTIONS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: SIERRA CLUB (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (78%); ALBERTA, CANADA (57%) CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2013



679 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; TIME AND PUNISHMENT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2629 words

HEADLINE: Prison and the Poverty Trap

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY

 BODY:
Washington -- Why are so many American families trapped in poverty? Of all the explanations offered by Washington's politicians and economists, one seems particularly obvious in the low-income neighborhoods near the Capitol: because there are so many parents like Carl Harris and Charlene Hamilton.
For most of their daughters' childhood, Mr. Harris didn't come close to making the minimum wage. His most lucrative job, as a crack dealer, ended at the age of 24, when he left Washington to serve two decades in prison, leaving his wife to raise their two young girls while trying to hold their long-distance marriage together.
His $1.15-per-hour prison wages didn't even cover the bills for the phone calls and marathon bus trips to visit him. Struggling to pay rent and buy food, Ms. Hamilton ended up homeless a couple of times. 
''Basically, I was locked up with him,'' she said. ''My mind was locked up. My life was locked up. Our daughters grew up without their father.''
The shift to tougher penal policies three decades ago was originally credited with helping people in poor neighborhoods by reducing crime. But now that America's incarceration rate has risen to be the world's highest, many social scientists find the social benefits to be far outweighed by the costs to those communities.
''Prison has become the new poverty trap,'' said Bruce Western, a Harvard sociologist. ''It has become a routine event for poor African-American men and their families, creating an enduring disadvantage at the very bottom of American society.''
Among African-Americans who have grown up during the era of mass incarceration, one in four has had a parent locked up at some point during childhood. For black men in their 20s and early 30s without a high school diploma, the incarceration rate is so high -- nearly 40 percent nationwide -- that they're more likely to be behind bars than to have a job.
No one denies that some people belong in prison. Mr. Harris, now 47, and his wife, 45, agree that in his early 20s he deserved to be there. But they don't see what good was accomplished by keeping him there for two decades, and neither do most of the researchers who have been analyzing the prison boom.
The number of Americans in state and federal prisons has quintupled since 1980, and a major reason is that prisoners serve longer terms than before. They remain inmates into middle age and old age, well beyond the peak age for crime, which is in the late teenage years -- just when Mr. Harris first got into trouble.
'I Just Lost My Cool'
After dropping out of high school, Mr. Harris ended up working at a carwash and envying the imports driven by drug dealers. One day in 1983, at the age of 18, while walking with his girlfriend on a sidewalk in Washington where drugs were being sold, he watched a high-level dealer pull up in a Mercedes-Benz and demand money from an underling.
''This dealer was draped down in jewelry and a nice outfit,'' Mr. Harris recalled in an interview in the Woodridge neighborhood of northeast Washington, where he and his wife now live. ''The female with him was draped down, too, gold and everything, dressed real good.
''I'm watching the way he carries himself, and I'm standing there looking like Raggedy Ann. My girl's looking like Raggedy Ann. I said to myself, 'That's what I want to do.' ''
Within two years, he was convicted of illegal gun possession, an occupational hazard of his street business selling PCP and cocaine. He went to Lorton, the local prison, in 1985, shortly after he and Ms. Hamilton had their first daughter. He kept up his drug dealing while in prison -- ''It was just as easy to sell inside as outside'' -- and returned to the streets for the heyday of the crack market in the late 1980s.
The Washington police never managed to catch him with the cocaine he was importing by the kilo from New York, but they arrested him for assaulting people at a crack den. He says he went into the apartment, in the Shaw neighborhood, to retrieve $4,000 worth of crack stolen by one of his customers, and discovered it was already being smoked by a dozen people in the room.
''I just lost my cool,'' he said. ''I grabbed a lamp and chair lying around there and started smacking people. Nobody was hospitalized, but I broke someone's arm and cut another one in the leg.''
An assault like that would have landed Mr. Harris behind bars in many countries, but not for nearly so long. Prisoners serve significantly more time in the United States than in most industrialized countries. Sentences for drug-related offenses and other crimes have gotten stiffer in recent decades, and prosecutors have become more aggressive in seeking longer terms -- as Mr. Harris discovered when he saw the multiple charges against him.
For injuring two people, Mr. Harris was convicted on two counts of assault, each carrying a minimum three-year sentence. But he received a much stiffer sentence, of 15 to 45 years, on a charge of armed burglary at the crack den.
''The cops knew I was selling but couldn't prove it, so they made up the burglary charge instead,'' Mr. Harris contended. He still considers the burglary charge unfair, insisting that he neither broke into the crack den nor took anything, but he also acknowledges that long prison terms were a risk for any American selling drugs: ''I knew other dealers who got life without parole.''
As it was, at the age of 24 he was facing prison until his mid-40s. He urged his wife to move on with her life and divorce him. Despondent, he began snorting heroin in prison -- the first time, he says, that he had ever used hard drugs himself.
''I thought I was going to lose my mind,'' he said. ''I felt so bad leaving my wife alone with our daughters. When they were young, they'd ask on the phone where I was, and I'd tell them I was away at camp.''
His wife went on welfare and turned to relatives to care for their daughters while she visited him at prisons in Tennessee, Texas, Arizona and New Mexico.
''I wanted to work, but I couldn't have a job and go visit him,'' Ms. Hamilton said. ''When he was in New Mexico, it would take me three days to get there on the bus. I'd go out there and stay for a month in a trailer near the prison.''
In Washington, she and her daughters moved from relative to relative, not always together. During one homeless spell, Ms. Hamilton slept by herself for a month in her car. She eventually found a federally subsidized apartment of her own, and once the children were in school she took part-time jobs. But the scrimping never stopped. ''We had a lot of Oodles of Noodles,'' she recalled.
Eleven years after her husband went to prison, Ms. Hamilton followed his advice to divorce, but she didn't remarry. Like other women in communities with high rates of incarceration, she faced a shortage of potential mates. Because more than 90 percent of prisoners are men, their absence skews the gender ratio. In some neighborhoods in Washington, there are 6 men for every 10 women.
''With so many men locked up, the ones left think they can do whatever they want,'' Ms. Hamilton said. ''A man will have three mistresses, and they'll each put up with it because there are no other men around.''
Epidemiologists have found that when the incarceration rate rises in a county, there tends to be a subsequent increase in the rates of sexually transmitted diseases and teenage pregnancy, possibly because women have less power to require their partners to practice protected sex or remain monogamous.
When researchers try to explain why AIDS is much more prevalent among blacks than whites, they point to the consequences of incarceration, which disrupts steady relationships and can lead to high-risk sexual behavior. When sociologists look for causes of child poverty and juvenile delinquency, they link these problems to the incarceration of parents and the resulting economic and emotional strains on families.
Some families, of course, benefit after an abusive parent or spouse is locked up. But Christopher Wildeman, a Yale sociologist, has found that children are generally more likely to suffer academically and socially after the incarceration of a parent. Boys left fatherless become more physically aggressive. Spouses of prisoners become more prone to depression and other mental and physical problems.
''Education, income, housing, health -- incarceration affects everyone and everything in the nation's low-income neighborhoods,'' said Megan Comfort, a sociologist at the nonprofit research organization RTI International who has analyzed what she calls the ''secondary prisonization'' of women with partners serving time in San Quentin State Prison.
Before the era of mass incarceration, there was already evidence linking problems in poor neighborhoods to the high number of single-parent households and also to the high rate of mobility: the continual turnover on many blocks as transients moved in and out.
Now those trends have been amplified by the prison boom's ''coercive mobility,'' as it is termed by Todd R. Clear, the dean of the School of Criminal Justice at Rutgers University. In some low-income neighborhoods, he notes, virtually everyone has at least one relative currently or recently behind bars, so families and communities are continually disrupted by people going in and out of prison.
A Perverse Effect
This social disorder may ultimately have the perverse effect of raising the crime rate in some communities, Dr. Clear and some other scholars say. Robert DeFina and Lance Hannon, both at Villanova University, have found that while crime may initially decline in places that lock up more people, within a few years the rate rebounds and is even higher than before.
New York City's continuing drop in crime in the past two decades may have occurred partly because it reduced its prison population in the 1990s and thereby avoided a subsequent rebound effect.
Raymond V. Liedka, of Oakland University in Michigan, and colleagues have found that the crime-fighting effects of prison disappear once the incarceration rate gets too high. ''If the buildup goes beyond a tipping point, then additional incarceration is not going to gain our society any reduction in crime, and may lead to increased crime,'' Dr. Liedka said.
The benefits of incarceration are especially questionable for men serving long sentences into middle age. The likelihood of committing a crime drops steeply once a man enters his 30s. This was the case with Mr. Harris, who turned his life around shortly after hitting 30.
''I said, 'I wasn't born in no jail, and I'm not going to die here,' '' he recalled, describing how he gave up heroin and other drugs, converted to Islam and went to work on his high school equivalency degree.
But he still had 14 more years to spend in prison. During that time, he stayed in touch with his family, talking to his children daily. When he was released in 2009, he reunited with them and Ms. Hamilton.
''I was like a man coming out of a cave after 20 years,'' Mr. Harris said. ''The streets were the same, but everything else had changed. My kids were grown. They had to teach me how to use a cellphone and pay for the bus.''
The only job he could find was at a laundry, where he sorted soiled linens for $8.25 an hour, less than half the typical wage for a man his age but not unusual for someone just out of prison. Even though the District of Columbia has made special efforts to find jobs for ex-prisoners and to destigmatize their records -- they are officially known as ''returning citizens'' -- many have a hard time finding any kind of work.
This is partly because of employers' well-documented reluctance to hire anyone with a record, partly because of former prisoners' lack of work experience and contacts, and partly because of their difficulties adapting to life after prison.
''You spend long enough in prison being constantly treated like a dog or a parrot, you can get so institutionalized you can't function outside,'' Mr. Harris said. ''That was my biggest challenge, telling myself that I'm not going to forget how to take care of myself or think for myself. I saw that happen to too many guys.''
'Crippled by Incarceration'
The Rev. Kelly Wilkins sees men like that every day during her work at the Covenant Baptist Church in Washington, which serves the low-income neighborhoods east of the Anacostia River.
''A lot of the men have been away so long that they're been crippled by incarceration,'' she said. ''They don't how to survive in the community anymore, and they figure it's too late for someone in their 40s to start life over.''
A stint behind bars tends to worsen job prospects that weren't good to begin with. ''People who go to prison would have very low wages even without incarceration,'' said Dr. Western, the Harvard sociologist and author of ''Punishment and Inequality in America.'' ''They have very little education, on average, and they live in communities with poor job opportunities, and so on. For all this, the balance of the social science evidence shows that prison makes things worse.''
Dr. Western and Becky Pettit, a sociologist at the University of Washington, estimate, after controlling for various socioeconomic factors, that incarceration typically reduces annual earnings by 40 percent for the typical male former prisoner.
The precise financial loss is debatable. Other social scientists have come up with lower estimates for lost wages after incarceration, but everyone agrees it's only part of the cost. For starters, it doesn't include wages lost while a man is behind bars.
Nor does it include all the burdens borne by the prisoner's family and community during incarceration -- the greatest cost of all, says Donald Braman, an anthropologist at George Washington University Law School who wrote ''Doing Time on the Outside'' after studying families of prisoners in Washington.
''The social deprivation and draining of capital from these communities may well be the greatest contribution our state makes to income inequality,'' Dr. Braman said. ''There is no social institution I can think of that comes close to matching it.''
Drs. DeFina and Hannon, the Villanova sociologists, calculate that if the mass incarceration trend had not occurred in recent decades, the poverty rate would be 20 percent lower today, and that five million fewer people would have fallen below the poverty line.
Ms. Hamilton and Mr. Harris have now risen above that poverty line, and they consider their family luckier than many others. Their two daughters finished high school; one went to college; both are employed. Ms. Hamilton is working as an aide at a hospital. Mr. Harris has a job as a security guard and a different outlook on life.
''I don't worry about buying clothes anymore,'' he said. He and his wife are scrimping to save enough so they can finally, in their late 40s, buy a home together.
''It's like our life is finally beginning,'' Ms. Hamilton said. ''If he hadn't been away so long, we could own a house by now. We would probably have more kids. I try not to think about all the things we lost.''
Accentuating the Positive
She and her husband prefer to accentuate the positive, even when it comes to the police and prison. They appreciate that some neighborhoods in Washington are much safer now that drug dealers aren't fighting on street corners and in crack dens anymore. They figure the crackdown on open-air drug markets helped both the city and Mr. Harris.
''If I hadn't been locked up, I probably would have ended up getting killed on the streets,'' Mr. Harris said. His wife agreed.
''Prison was good for him in some ways,'' Ms. Hamilton said. ''He finally grew up there. He's a man now.''
But 20 years?
''They overdid it,'' she said. ''It didn't have to take that long at all.''
TIME AND PUNISHMENT: A Family's Sentence

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Carl Harris rejoined his wife, Charlene Hamilton, and their two daughters after 20 years in prison. (D1)
Carl Harris, 47, whose days as a crack dealer ended at age 24, when he started two decades behind bars, playing with his dog at home in Washington. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARY F. CALVERT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
A cellblock at Lorton, a defunct prison near Washington where Mr. Harris served time in the 1980s. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC BROWN) (D6)
 With a new outlook on life, Carl Harris returned to his family in 2009. He works as a security guard. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARY F. CALVERT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D7) CHARTS: Trends in an Era of Mass Incarceration: About one in four black children has had a parent imprisoned at some point during childhood, and young black men without a high school diploma are more likely to be behind bars than to have a job. (Source: ''Collateral Costs: Incarceration's Effect on Economic Mobility,'' by the Pew Charitable Trusts) (D6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (91%); PRISONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); MEN (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); HOMELESSNESS (78%); MARRIAGE (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); PARENTS (77%); MINIMUM WAGE (76%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (75%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (71%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (70%); SOCIOLOGY (70%); HIGH SCHOOLS (66%); COCAINE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2013



680 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ON THE ROAD; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 821 words

HEADLINE: Fuel Surcharges Push Up International Airfares

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY. 
E-mail: sharkey@nytimes.com

 BODY:
IN the first week of January, I was talking about fluctuations in fares for trans-Atlantic travel with Orit Keren, the president of OKT Travel, and Aik-Meng Tan, the vice president for sales.
Ms. Keren suggested a drill. ''Just go online and see what the least expensive ticket is, J.F.K. to London, in coach,'' she said.
''Coach?'' I replied. ''I won't go on an international trip if you make me fly coach.'' 
Ms. Keren and Mr. Tan laughed, having heard that protest before. ''I'm from Singapore,'' Mr. Tan said. ''I fully understand about coach.'' Singapore, of course, is an 18-and-a-half-hour nonstop flight from New York.
''O.K.,'' Ms. Keren said, ''try business class, see what you get.''
I tapped away. Last-minute business-class fares between Kennedy Airport in New York and London Heathrow Airport seemed very cheap, considering that the last time I checked, more than a year ago, they were more than $8,000. ''I'm getting $3,100 to $3,500 on most airlines, round trip,'' I said.
Surprised at the prices, Ms. Keren and Mr. Tan tapped away and came up with same low fares. ''It's amazing,'' Mr. Tan said. ''But once in a while, the airlines will put out very low seven-day fares just to test the strength of the market. You check and double-check in the system and you see, this is for real. And then 10 days from now, you try it again and it's gone.''
''So I'd say it's time to take that trip to Europe,'' Ms. Keren said.
Well, talk is cheap, and back then in early January I wasn't going anywhere far from home, business or coach. But the other day, I checked back to see how the international market was faring, especially across the Atlantic, where carriers have been sharply reducing capacity on what have long been their most profitable routes. Whereas the financial industry bought many of those seats before the recession, the energy, minerals and fashion industries are now dominant, Ms. Keren said.
In fact, January seems to have been a watershed for the trans-Atlantic routes. Seat capacity for the month on Delta Air Lines was 10.4 percent lower than in January 2012. On United Airlines, it was down 8.2 percent, and it was 7.9 percent lower on both American Airlines and US Airways. Elsewhere, growth was sluggish on the once-booming Middle East routes, relatively stable on the Pacific routes but robust on the Latin American and Caribbean routes.
Let's stay with the trans-Atlantic market for now, because that's where fares have been fluctuating most as jet fuel prices rise to what the industry warns will be record levels this year. A sale that ended on Monday for British Airways's highly regarded Club World business class, for example, offered a fare of $3,408 round-trip between Atlanta and London Heathrow -- with $1,158 of that listed as a fuel surcharge.
On international trips, the fuel surcharge is becoming an ever more critical part of the fare calculation, even in coach. So, for example, a recent round-trip coach fare on Delta between Kennedy Airport in New York and London Heathrow was $842, including $458 in a ''carrier-imposed surcharge.''
As fuel prices rise and trans-Atlantic capacity is cut, the sharp discounts of early January are fading. So agencies like OKT Travel are scrambling to keep pace on discounts, including for last-minute business-class travel.
OKT Travel is a so-called consolidator, an agency that sometimes buys bulk fares from airlines as they become available. Consolidators are often nimble in capturing discounts on fare fluctuations and upgrade availabilities that always ripple through global reservations systems. They also work with businesses to use airline mileage points accumulated through corporate credit card spending to bump coach travelers into business-class cabins.
On Monday, a typical last-minute business-class fare on Delta between Kennedy and Heathrow was $4,777.50, including $1,110 in ''taxes and carrier-imposed fees,'' which included fuel surcharges. The coach fare was $842, including $638.30 in taxes and fees.
On the trans-Atlantic routes, the sharp capacity reduction has become ''a big factor'' in rising fares, Mr. Tan said on Monday. ''In the long run,'' he added, ''prices for international fares will be pushed up -- first class, business class and coach.''
Fares are rising even more on the Pacific routes, where demand is steady if not robust. ''For example, on Cathay-Pacific, sometimes the market was $3,000 to $4,000 nonstop round-trip New York to Hong Kong in business class,'' Ms. Keren said. ''Now, the least expensive we're seeing is $7,000 or $8,000.''
''It's kind of crazy right now,'' Mr. Tan added.
And likely to get crazier. Last week, jet fuel was $3.30 a gallon. By comparison, jet fuel was $2.05 a gallon in January 2010. And on Monday morning, with most business-class fares near $5,000 on the New York-to-London routes, a discount fare I saw on Orbitz.com was $2,302 on Icelandair. By noon, that fare had gone up -- to $3,114.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRIS GASH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIR FARES (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); TRAVEL TICKETS (90%); AIRLINES (89%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); RIVERS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (64%)

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (56%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (55%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (50%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (50%)

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (56%); LCC (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (58%) UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (73%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (50%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2013



681 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1843 words

HEADLINE: A Reputation, Once Sullied, Acquires A New Shine

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN

 BODY:
How do you describe Steven L. Rattner?
Up until three years ago, he was typically referred to in these pages as a former journalist turned successful financier - the vice chairman of the investment bank Lazard and then a co-founder of the Quadrangle Group, the private equity firm.
With much fanfare, he then became the White House auto czar assigned to fix General Motors and Chrysler, after years of trying to become part of the Washington firmament like so many on Wall Street who have wanted to make the leap.
He was the ultimate consigliere to power. Then, it all fell apart. 
He was accused of using "pay to play" practices while raising money from a New York state pension fund when he was still at Quadrangle. In 2010 he paid more than $16 million to Andrew M. Cuomo, who was then New York's attorney general, and the Securities and Exchange Commission to settle the civil cases without admitting or denying wrongdoing.
He was "banned from appearing in any capacity before any public pension fund within the State of New York for five years" and for "associating with any investment adviser or broker dealer" for two years, according to the suits. As the case proceeded, he stepped down from his position in the Obama administration.
Among the cocktail party circuit in Manhattan, Mr. Rattner was Topic A. And the schadenfreude was thick. Mr. Rattner, the narrative developed, had become Wall Street's Icarus, flying too close to the sun. The New Republic headlined one article: "Rattner Hoisted on His Own Petard." The question was asked: Would he ever eat lunch in this town again? And what about Washington?
Now, two years later, Mr. Rattner is lunching all over town. And, in truth, he may have never stopped.
As Mr. Rattner sat across from me in Midtown Manhattan two weeks ago, his re-emergence as power magnate was well under way. He is the overseer of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's fortune of billions of dollars - you could call Mr. Rattner a money manager but that doesn't capture the scope of it. He has appeared as a pundit about the economy on television (MSNBC's "Morning Joe," ABC's "This Week" and "Fox News Sunday," among others) and in newspapers (The Financial Times, Politico and The New York Times). And to take the story full circle, the Obama administration, which had eased Mr. Rattner out of his role, appears to have re-embraced him, even using him to campaign for the president last fall.
"It was the worst thing that ever happened in my professional life," Mr. Rattner, who had taken off his trademark tortoise-rim glasses, said of the accusations and the settlement. "If you asked me, do I wish I had done some things differently about this whole situation, of course I wish I had done some things differently." More on that in a moment, but he also has clearly worked unremittingly to move on. "Looking back, it was a bit like the half life of a radioactive isotope. Every few months the intensity of what happened seemed to go down by half," Mr. Rattner added, as he sipped English Breakfast tea.
If there was a question about his current status - and whether the chattering classes had moved on - the guest list of his 60th birthday party this last summer, overlooking Rockefeller Center, may provide the answer: Mr. Bloomberg, Barry Diller, Jamie Dimon, Harvey Weinstein, Senator Charles E. Schumer, Ralph Lauren, Brian Roberts and Fred Wilpon, among others, were all in attendance.
When Vice President Biden held his holiday party in December, Mr. Rattner was there. And at the home of Hillary Clinton last month for her farewell party from the State Department, where Mr. Rattner's wife, Maureen White, works, he was there, too. (His wife was the finance co-chairwoman of the Hillary Clinton for President campaign.)
In a city where powerful figures are dropped at the whiff of trouble - and rarely return to positions of significant influence despite efforts at comebacks - Mr. Rattner's narrative of a meteoric rise to embarrassing scandal and back again is notable.
His re-emergence may also be a telling commentary about the way the nation's elite flock to people with power - and those with powerful friends.
Some of his friends, many of whom declined to comment on the record, said they were willing to overlook his past transgressions because they felt he had paid for them, through the fines and the negative publicity. Others said that he had always been honest with them. Still, there are other friends who say they have distanced themselves from him but haven't cut him off entirely for fear of alienating themselves from other people in his circle.
Mr. Diller, the chairman of IAC, counts himself among Mr. Rattner's friends. "Whatever complications there were, I never thought he was culpable." He added, "When you get anybody who is up there, then the takedown is going to have a pile-on effect. It is the nature of public life."
That may be a truism. But at the time of the scandal, Mr. Cuomo used particularly pointed language: "Steve Rattner was willing to do whatever it took to get his hands on pension fund money including paying kickbacks, orchestrating a movie deal, and funneling campaign contributions."
In the S.E.C.'s case, David Rosenfeld of the New York regional office said then that Mr. Rattner "delivered special favors and conducted sham transactions that corrupted the Retirement Fund's investment process."
Before we go any further, some disclosures are in order: It is well documented that Mr. Rattner is a longtime friend and confidant of the publisher of this newspaper, Arthur Sulzberger Jr. (Mr. Sulzberger was in attendance at Mr. Rattner's birthday party, too.) Mr. Rattner was a reporter for The Times in the late 1970s and early 1980s. He also now writes a monthly Op-Ed column in The Times, arguably providing him with a powerful platform that increases his influence. I purposely haven't discussed anything about Mr. Rattner with Mr. Sulzberger before writing this column. Now that that's done, let's continue.
Mr. Rattner's re-emergence was not assured.
"There were some people inevitably who I thought were my friends who I found out were more fair weather and especially some in the political world," he said. "I'm sure they said to themselves, let's just keep a little space here and see what happens to Steve as opposed to let's embrace Steve and say he's my friend."
One friend who never left was Mr. Bloomberg. When news of Mr. Cuomo's case against him first broke, Mr. Rattner sent him an e-mail to give him a heads-up about the situation. Mr. Bloomberg's reply? "The only thing wrong with you is your golf game."
In an interview, Mr. Bloomberg said, "Steve is a good friend. You stick by your friends. And I don't worry about what people say." And despite all the chatter about Mr. Rattner, Mr. Bloomberg added, "I never heard anyone say they wouldn't invite Steven Rattner to a party because of what was happening."
The White House was less forgiving. While the Obama administration and Mr. Rattner portrayed his exit from Washington in July 2009 as a natural time to leave since his role helping G.M. through a government supported bankruptcy was finished, the president clearly made no effort to keep him, given the investigation hanging over him.
On the merits of the case that Mr. Rattner settled with Mr. Cuomo - which Mr. Rattner once described as "close to extortion" - he still has strong views. He and several other private equity firms, including the Carlyle Group, were accused of using Hank Morris, a political consultant, to help the firms obtain hundreds of millions of dollars to manage for the New York state pension fund.
Mr. Morris pleaded guilty to a felony count of violating the Martin Act for paying kickbacks and went to prison. Mr. Rattner was also accused of influencing a film distribution company that Quadrangle owned to secure a DVD distribution deal for a low-budget movie called "Chooch" that was produced by a pension fund official's brother.
Mr. Rattner said: "I can't imagine that any of the many firms that hired Hank Morris wouldn't do that differently, given what he turned out to be. I appreciate clearly how important it is to avoid even the appearance of impropriety."
Mr. Rattner and Mr. Cuomo chose to settle the case on what some lawyers described as benign terms given the penalty of a $26 million fine and a lifetime ban from the securities industry that Mr. Cuomo originally sought. Mr. Rattner settled for $10 million and a ban from working with New York State pension funds for five years, none of which has prevented him from continuing his role of managing Mr. Bloomberg's money.
Unusually, Mr. Cuomo even agreed that Mr. Rattner's settlement would include none of the usual language about admitting or denying wrongdoing, which allows Mr. Rattner to deny he ever broke the law. Mr. Rattner said he chose to settle the case, rather than fight what he said he expected to be a drawn-out court battle, because he wanted to move on with his life. He also paid $6.2 million to settle the S.E.C. case.
He clearly feels a sense of regret about some his actions, but declined to discuss the accusations in detail, citing the settlements.
A spokesman for Governor Cuomo declined to comment.
Mr. Rattner said he discovered a unique indicator to measure the impact of the scandal, which might just prove his theory that he should be compared with a radioactive isotope.
Right after the settlement, Mr. Rattner, who has long been active in political fund-raising for Democrats, said nobody would take his money. In fact, one politician, whom he declined to name, sent back a $500 donation from 2011. Several months later, he began to receive solicitations from politicians looking for his help in raising funds, he said. But does that say more about the state of Washington politics or Mr. Rattner?
Despite his past, the White House called him last fall and talked about his campaigning for the president in Ohio, where the auto bailout was an important issue. (Mr. Rattner published a book in September 2010 about his experience in trying to fix Detroit called "Overhaul: An Insider's Account of the Obama Administration's Emergency Rescue of the Auto Industry.")
David Axelrod, who was President Obama's senior strategist for his re-election campaign, said in an e-mail of Mr. Rattner, "Whatever happened in New York didn't obviate the great service he rendered." He added: "Steve did an extraordinary job for the administration and the country in helping to shape the auto plan, which was a clear success."
So will Mr. Rattner ever have a chance to work in government again? For years, his name was always part of the parlor game of potential nominees for Treasury secretary.
He had a quick answer about returning to Washington: "Probably not." He said now that he had worked in the capital and lived in the glare of the spotlight, he better appreciates the upside and downside. He said: "I had a great experience, but I also found out how thankless and frustrating it can be."
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Steven L. Rattner has appeared as a pundit about the economy on television. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CARLOS OSORIO/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PENSION FUNDS (88%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); MAYORS (74%); PRIVATE EQUITY (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (69%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (68%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (81%); FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (62%); QUADRANGLE GROUP LLC (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (81%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (81%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (62%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (62%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (53%); ANDREW CUOMO (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2013



682 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1007 words

HEADLINE: Stung by 'Argo,' Iran Backs Conference Denouncing 'Hollywoodism'

BYLINE: By THOMAS ERDBRINK

 BODY:
TEHRAN -- As the trailer for ''Argo,'' an Oscar contender and a thorn in the side of the Iranian government, played in a conference room in a hotel here this month, Mehdi Tondro shook his head in disapproval.
A self-described ''specialist in anti-Iranian and anti-Islamic films,'' he fumed over scenes of angry Iranians storming the gates of the American Embassy in Tehran in 1979. 
''We Iranians look stupid, backward and simple-minded in this movie,'' Mr. Tondro said. ''Hollywood is not a normal industry; it's a conspiracy by capitalism and Zionism. We need to come up with an answer to this and other films.''
Around him sat 130 foreign guests who had been brought to Tehran by the government to debate exactly that question. It would prove harder than expected. Introduced by their Iranian hosts as ''unsung heroes seeking truths,'' a diverse group of people promoting ''alternative thinking'' had gathered to discuss what they said was the hidden agenda behind major American movies -- an ideology they called ''Hollywoodism.''
Leftist activists, Muslim converts and a former American senator were interviewed by a stream of Iranian state television camera crews, which introduced them as Western ''professors, researchers and critics.''
Each participant had his own problems with Hollywood. E. Michael Jones, an American and the editor of Culture Wars, a conservative Christian magazine, said he was impressed by the way Iranians had managed to ban all exhibits of sexuality from their society. ''There was a reason Iranians burned their cinemas during the revolution,'' he said. ''Their desexualization of their culture has been so efficient; I am truly impressed by that.''
Others said they were there to build bridges. Mike Gravel, a former Democratic senator from Alaska, said Hollywood had brainwashed its audiences into thinking negatively about Iran. He said it was ''fundamental'' to discuss the American movie industry's ways of portraying Iran in order to prevent ''an insane war.''
But the Iranians had more straightforward complaints. ''Hollywood gets away with everything,'' said Nader Talebzadeh, an Iranian-American filmmaker who hosts a popular television show on state television called ''Secret.'' It has featured panel discussions on influential people not paying back huge loans, criticism of economic policies and an interview with Dennis J. Kucinich, the Ohio Democrat and former presidential contender -- a first for Iranian television.
To Mr. Talebzadeh, it was clear that ''Argo'' was part of a larger plan by the American entertainment industry to remind a younger generation of the 1979 Iranian hostage crisis. ''It's the only example of aggression they have against Iran,'' he said. '' 'Argo' just tears open the wounds in order to prepare the minds. This movie is no coincidence. Timing matters.''
Then Hassan Abbasi, an Iranian political strategist, took the stage. In Iran he is known as a provocative thinker, but outside the country he is mostly famous for his theory that the American cartoon figures Tom and Jerry are part of a Zionist conspiracy.
Mr. Abbasi said popular TV series like ''The Simpsons,'' ''Lost'' and ''South Park'' were part of a ploy to present famous Hollywood directors as new philosophers, pushing ''a mix of ideologies,'' which all accumulated in ''Hollywoodism,'' he said.
''They entertain us, but indoctrinate us at the same time,'' said Mr. Abbasi, who drew applause from Iran's minister of culture and Islamic guidance, Mohammad Hosseini. ''Hollywoodism'' revolved around sexual thoughts, he added.
On a screen, Mr. Abbasi showed an image of a book about sexual fantasies called ''Who's Been Sleeping in Your Head,'' by an American writer, Brett Kahr, and said that American movies caused sexual problems. ''The images you see pollute your sexual fantasies,'' he told the audience.
Then a group of teenage schoolgirls in black chadors took the stage to sing a song in English about their love of God. But their voices were drowned out by a male voice on a recording, because according to Shiite Islamic tenets, women's singing voices are arousing.
''We want to show the world that Iran is open to debates, we want to break the Western cultural embargo against us,'' said Mr. Talebzadeh, who was one of the organizers of the conference. He said he wished that Ben Affleck, the director of ''Argo,'' would come to Iran to see the country for himself. ''Be sure he would change his mind -- we are not what Hollywood says we are,'' Mr. Talebzadeh said. ''He is welcome.''
After lunch, the delegates again convened for a round-table debate on ''Argo,'' which Mr. Talebzadeh said was ''anti-Iranian''; ''Zero Dark Thirty,'' which he called ''outclassing Leni Riefenstahl's Nazi propaganda''; and ''Unthinkable,'' a 2010 film in which Samuel L. Jackson's character tortures an Iranian agent who is trying to set off nuclear weapons in three American cities.
''This is a class-A anti-Iranian movie,'' Mr. Talebzadeh said of ''Unthinkable.'' ''It is just a neocon fantasy.'' The other participants agreed.
''These movies are weapons of mass destruction against humanity,'' said Isabelle Coutant-Peyre, a French lawyer who married the terrorist Ilich Ramírez Sánchez, better known as Carlos the Jackal, in a prison ceremony in 2001. Franklin Lamb, an American lawyer known for his strongly pro-Palestinian views, said that lawsuits were the only way to rein in Hollywood. ''Hit them where it hurts: their pockets,'' he said, before allowing that he had not seen a movie in years.
A Muslim activist from Chicago, Abdul Alim Musa, urged the creation of satellite networks that adhere to Islamic values as the only way to counter the ''cultural invasion'' by Western movies.
''I used to be a big drug dealer,'' Mr. Musa said, saying the police pushed him to sell narcotics. ''Another way the government controls the people.''
Mr. Talebzadeh urged the participants to focus on solutions in other debates. ''We have lots of work to do,'' he said. ''We must enlighten the U.S. audience, tell them the truth.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (76%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (71%); VISUAL ARTISTS (71%); RELIGION (71%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (70%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (50%); HOSTAGE TAKING (50%)

PERSON: MIKE GRAVEL (52%); DENNIS KUCINICH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2013



683 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1387 words

HEADLINE: Yemen, Hailed as Model, Struggles for Stability

BYLINE: By ROBERT F. WORTH

 BODY:
SANA, Yemen -- The tents at the heart of this city's Change Square are now almost empty of protesters, and the canvas flaps quietly in the breeze. Two years after the start of its democratic uprising, Yemen has a new president and is in the midst of a lumbering transition process that has been held up by the Obama administration as a model for resolving Syria's bloody civil war.
In some ways, the transition here has achieved a relative calm, while Egypt and Syria are in violent upheaval. Yemen, having pulled back from the brink of war in 2011, is slowly embarking on a national dialogue aimed at reconciling its rancorous political factions, under the watchful eyes of Arab and Western monitors.
Yet many Yemenis now doubt that anything substantial has changed and fear that the much-hailed ''Yemen model'' is enshrining a fragile stability at a time when decisive action is needed. 
Beyond the capital, the country is more rudderless than ever. The south is in the grip of a surging independence movement, and sectarian tensions are rising dangerously in the north. The economy is a shambles. All of the same troublesome political players -- including the still-powerful former president, Ali Abdullah Saleh -- remain, and the new president, Abdu Rabbu Mansour Hadi, has struggled to assert himself against them.
''I have never felt the anxiety I feel now,'' said Sami Ghalib, a political analyst and former newspaper editor. ''There was always geographical conflict, but now it is turning ideological. There are assassinations taking place everywhere. And at the helm, we have a leader who behaves like Saleh but doesn't even have his political skills.''
Unlike his predecessor, Mr. Hadi is a virtual recluse who rarely speaks in public and has failed to offer a clear vision for addressing any of the crises afflicting the country. His fierce praise for the American drone-strike program, which is unpopular here, has further eroded his small base of public support. He is widely said to fear for his life and has appointed many family members and old allies to security positions.
Some progress has been made. A military campaign last year recaptured several southern towns from the jihadist militants who had controlled them for more than a year. But most of the fighters seem to have melted back into the population, and in the wake of the military's withdrawal, large areas of the south remain a checkerboard of mysterious armed groups with no government presence.
Meanwhile, Al Qaeda's Yemeni affiliate has adopted a new tactic: a ruthless campaign of assassinations that has left 74 military and intelligence officers dead since the start of last year, according to Interior Ministry officials. Almost all of the killings have been carried out by masked gunmen on motorcycles -- often with pistols equipped with silencers -- and only a few suspects have been arrested.
Mr. Hadi's supporters point out that he inherited a fearsome set of challenges. He took office a year ago under the terms of a phased transition plan brokered by the Gulf Cooperation Council, a Saudi-led regional body, with the support of the United States and other Western powers. He was the consensus candidate inside Yemen largely because he lacked an independent power base and was therefore inoffensive to the tribal and military chiefs who wield real influence. His primary task was to undermine those chiefs, whose corrupt systems of patronage constitute one of the main obstacles to any real change.
Some analysts and diplomats give Mr. Hadi credit for a slow, steady effort to disarm his rivals. ''He understood that the only way to undermine Saleh was by initially allying himself with Ali Muhsin,'' the powerful general who defected to the opposition during the 2011 protests, said a European diplomat who spoke on the condition of anonymity, under diplomatic protocol.
Mr. Hadi has removed a number of military commanders loyal to the former president. In December, he announced a broad restructuring of the military that reassigned both Mr. Saleh's son, Ahmed Ali Saleh, and Gen. Ali Muhsin al-Ahmar -- two of the most powerful military figures in Yemen. However, both men wield power mostly through networks of patronage and tribal influence. It remains to be seen whether Mr. Hadi, who lacks such networks, will follow through on his efforts to weaken them.
He must also contend with a southern independence movement that has grown so large over the past year that some Yemeni officials say they fear it will lead to war, if left unchecked. On Jan. 13, a rally in the southern coastal city of Aden drew tens of thousands of angry protesters. Although the movement's leaders are divided, they all reject the Gulf Cooperation Council's transition plan as a northern document, and almost all have refused to take part in the national dialogue.
Actual secession by the south -- which was a separate country until 1990 -- is unlikely in the absence of firmer leadership and foreign support. But the movement has grown more radical by the day, complicating efforts to restore governance.
In a paradox, Mr. Hadi is a southerner and was chosen in part on the premise that this would help him to placate the secessionists. Instead, he is widely hated in the south, in part because he is seen as a pillar of the northern political system after serving for 18 years as Mr. Saleh's deputy.
''Hadi could still win back the south, or at least calm the situation there, if he made the right gestures,'' said Abdel Ghani al-Iryani, an expert in Yemeni politics. ''But he is not a bold political actor.''
Another rising threat is the growth of an increasingly violent and sectarian confrontation between two of Yemen's largest political groups. One of those groups, known as the Houthi movement, is led by radical adherents of a variant of Shiite Islam and has been accused of receiving support from Iran. Its followers have clashed repeatedly with youths from Islah, Yemen's main Sunni Islamist party and the local equivalent of the Muslim Brotherhood.
This conflict has taken on aspects of a proxy war between Saudi Arabia -- which supports Islah -- and Iran, with troubling Sunni-Shiite overtones. The Houthis have grown increasingly strident, holding vast public rallies modeled after those of Hezbollah, the Lebanese Shiite movement. The two groups regularly malign each other in sectarian terms -- a new occurrence in Yemen -- and on several occasions, rallies have devolved into rock-throwing and even gun battles between members of the two camps.
''Everybody is worried about this,'' said Najib Ghalib, the chairman of the Jazeera Studies Center in Sanaa. ''Hadi needs to cool things down, but he hasn't.''
Instead, Mr. Hadi is said to be placing his energy and hopes in the national dialogue, an unwieldy political conference that was mandated in the transition plan.
The dialogue, which has been repeatedly delayed, will bring together 565 representatives of Yemen's various political groups, in numerous subcommittees and plenary sessions over a six-month period. The idea, diplomats say, is to undertake a group process that will itself be therapeutic, even if the dialogue yields few consensual decisions about Yemen's political future.
Skeptics abound, in part because some of the most intransigent political groups, like the Houthis and the southern separatists, refuse to participate.
Mr. Hadi, like his predecessor, appears to have paid little attention to the economy, despite some dire indicators. The deficit for the coming year is $3.17 billion out of a total budget of $12.6 billion. Half of that deficit remains unfinanced, and the government paid $2.8 billion in subsidies alone in 2012, mainly to offset the cost of fuel for Yemen's desperately poor population. Last year, Saudi Arabia donated $2 billion in fuel products, and ''that saved us,'' said one senior Finance Ministry official, speaking on the condition of anonymity. ''But can we count on that in the future?''
On a recent afternoon, a Yemeni political activist named Radhia al-Mutawakel watched as images of violent protesting in Egypt flared on a television screen.
''I envy the Egyptians,'' Ms. Mutawakel said. ''There, the independent activists at least have a voice. Here, we have none. There, they have a unified army. Here, everything is divided, and nothing has changed.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Yemenis gathered in Change Square in Sana this month. Two years after the start of the country's uprising, the square is almost empty of protesters.
A boy read beside portraits of President Abdu Rabbu Mansour Hadi of Yemen, left, and Ali Abdullah Saleh, the country's still-powerful former president, in the capital, Sana. Below, Houthi graffiti read in part, ''God is great, death to America, death to Israel.'' (A4)
 Abdul Majeed al-Zindani, the leader of Islah, Yemen's main Sunni Islamist party, during a news conference this month. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SAMUEL ARANDA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ASSASSINATION (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (78%); POLITICS (78%); 2011 SYRIAN UPRISING (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); CIVIL WAR (76%); SHOOTINGS (75%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (74%); APPOINTMENTS (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (71%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (67%); AL-QAEDA (64%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: YEMEN (95%); SYRIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); ISRAEL (79%); EGYPT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2013



684 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: Going Green Is Good for the Economy

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''It's Not Easy Being Green,'' by David Leonhardt (Capital Ideas, Sunday Review, Feb. 10), is a perfect primer for the coming political and economic discussions on reducing greenhouse gases.
His pessimism that Congress will again not address this national and global issue seriously makes depressing reading. To find new, timely solutions, Mr. Leonhardt proposes that the United States needs to ramp up its research and development on green energy, but notes that the critical impediment is lack of financing. 
Given the near impossibility in this economic environment of generating an extra $25 billion for research, as a recent report mentioned in the article recommended, I propose an alternative: a new fuel tax with full disclosure. A very small federal tax levied on all gas and diesel sold in the United States would raise a significant sum.
This tax is likely to be palatable to voters and politicians if it is clear that the receipts of this tax would be used only to search for new fossil fuel alternatives.
A small new fuel tax, whose proceeds are used only to discover and develop sustainable energy solutions under full transparency, will generate great discoveries, and potentially leave a legacy to future generations other than an overheating planet with rising sea levels and rogue climate events.
JAMES McCARTHY Noizay, France, Feb. 11, 2013
The writer is a founding member of the Skellig Foundation, which raises money to develop workshops on climate change and sustainability.
To the Editor:
David Leonhardt says a federal climate policy would fail to create a ''windfall of green jobs.'' But a federal climate policy is economically smart for other reasons, as he suggests.
In the long run, reduced carbon emissions would lower health care costs, save money for the Federal Emergency Management Agency because of reduced natural disaster intensity, and keep agricultural costs manageable by maintaining a level of weather predictability.
A well-crafted climate bill would also spur growth of mass transit systems around the country and eventually save families the enormous cost of car ownership.
SAM ROCKWELL South Royalton, Vt., Feb. 10, 2013
To the Editor:
Solutions to climate change are as much about economics as about the environment. California is working to achieve Gov. Jerry Brown's Renewable Portfolio Standard requiring 33 percent of energy to come from renewable sources by 2020. This policy is not only reducing pollution, but it is also creating jobs for unemployed construction workers still reeling from the Great Recession.
The International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers Local 569 represents electricians in San Diego and Imperial Counties in California. Imperial County routinely suffers from the highest unemployment in the state and sometimes the country, around 30 percent at the height of the recession. It is also rich in renewable resources like solar, wind and geothermal.
Today, thanks to clean energy policy, we have hundreds of members back on the job building renewable energy projects and new members coming in to learn the trade -- an economic success story that is also a win for the environment.
MICAH MITROSKY San Diego, Feb. 11, 2013
The writer is an environmental organizer for IBEW Local 569.
To the Editor:
The strongest argument for a government response to climate disruption is that we're paying staggering costs for more extreme weather events even now, that we're barreling toward a preventable, human-caused catastrophe, and that failing to avert that would be unconscionable.
Recent reports warning of temperatures rising 5 to 10 degrees Fahrenheit this century, including the draft National Climate Assessment, confirm the urgency of slashing emissions.
When renowned experts like James E. Hansen warn that we're running out of time, when farmland bakes and subways flood from surging seas, we can no longer let legislators who deny science hold the world hostage.
President Obama can block the toxic tar sands Keystone XL pipeline, cut carbon emissions from power plants and take other actions to leave a strong climate legacy. He must act courageously, and now.
DAVID A. SCOTT Vice President Board of Directors, Sierra Club Columbus, Ohio, Feb. 11, 2013

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY EMILIANO PONZI) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); FUEL TAX (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); WIND POWER PLANTS (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); RECESSION (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); WIND ENERGY (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); EMISSIONS (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (76%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (76%); FUNDRAISING (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); ENERGY RESEARCH (75%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (74%); BIOFUELS (74%); WRITERS (73%); DIESEL FUEL (69%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (69%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (63%); LABOR UNIONS (62%); NATURAL DISASTERS (62%); CONSTRUCTION (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (50%)

PERSON: JERRY BROWN (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (78%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2013



685 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1141 words

HEADLINE: For His Second Act, Japanese Premier Plays It Safe, With Early Results

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER

 BODY:
TOKYO -- Since taking office less than two months ago, Japan's outspokenly hawkish new prime minister, Shinzo Abe, has been in what some political analysts are calling ''safe driving mode.'' He has carefully avoided saying or doing anything to provoke other Asian nations, while focusing instead on wooing voters with steps to revive the moribund domestic economy.
So far, his approach seems to be working. His plans for public-works projects, stimulus measures called ''Abenomics,'' have sent the Tokyo stock market surging along with Mr. Abe's own approval rating, which is now at 71 percent, according to the latest poll by Yomiuri Shimbun. On Friday, he will seek to build on his strong start when he meets President Obama at a Washington summit meeting aimed at improving relations with the United States, which regards Japan as its most important ally in Asia.
Mr. Abe, 58, has said he wants to be what Japan has not seen in almost a decade: a steady-handed leader who lasts long enough in office to actually get things done. Analysts say his success hinges on whether he can lead his Liberal Democratic Party to victory in upper house elections in July, and end the split Parliament that undermined many of his predecessors. 
What is less clear is what he will do if he wins that election. One trait that makes Mr. Abe a bit of an enigma, some analysts say, is that he seems to have two sides: the realist and the right-wing ideologue. In analysts' view, if he does jettison some of his current caution, for instance by trying to revise Japan's antiwar Constitution to allow a full-fledged military instead of its current Self-Defense Force, he risks provoking a standoff with China over disputed islands, and possibly isolating Japan in a region still sensitive to its early-20th-century militarism.
''In his first six weeks, he has done everything he can to show he is a moderate,'' said Andrew L. Oros, director of international studies at Washington College in Chestertown, Md. ''But after July, he might feel he has a freer rein to do things that he thinks are justified.''
Part of the problem, Mr. Oros and others say, is that Mr. Abe faces conflicting political pressures. His base in the governing party's most conservative wing expects bold steps to end what it sees as Japan's overly prolonged displays of contrition for World War II. But he must also convince the broader public that he is a coolheaded, competent steward of a declining nation that also depends on China for its economic future.
There is also the ghost of his past failure. The last time he was prime minister, six years ago, he stepped down amid criticism that he had been ''clueless'' for having pursued a nationalistic agenda of revising the Constitution and history textbooks, and for not doing more to reduce unemployment and spur the economy.
This time, Mr. Abe is acting with the determined carefulness of a man given a second chance. He has focused on extricating Japan from its recession with steps that have quickly buoyed the country's economy, the world's third-largest. Since being named prime minister after his party's election victory in December, Mr. Abe has promised $215 billion in public works spending to create jobs and promote growth.
He has also publicly pressured the central bank, the Bank of Japan, to move more aggressively to end years of corrosive price declines known as deflation -- threatening, for example, to amend the law on the bank's independence if it does not reach its target of 2 percent inflation. The bank's governor, Masaaki Shirakawa, announced this month that he would step aside to allow Mr. Abe to appoint a new chief who will work more closely with the government by pumping more money into the economy to prompt banks to lend more and companies to spend more.
''Mr. Abe has clearly learned the lessons of his past failure,'' said Norihiko Narita, a political scientist at Surugadai University, near Tokyo. ''And the biggest lesson is that voters care more about the economy.''
Abenomics has already affected the yen, helping to drive down its value by 20 percent in just four months. This has strengthened Japan's struggling export industries by making their products cheaper abroad, but also led to warnings of a trade war in which other nations push down the values of their currencies.
However, the biggest criticism of Abenomics is that it will provide only a short-lived adrenaline shot for growth, while producing little more than superfluous bridges and roads, and adding to Japan's already stifling national debt. Economists say Mr. Abe's policies so far contain few of the deeper-reaching structural reforms that they say are needed to produce sustainable growth by encouraging competition in Japan's sclerotic economy.
They say the most symbolic step would be joining a Pacific-wide free trade pact that would force Japan to open sheltered domestic markets, like farm products. Mr. Abe appears to personally favor entering the pact, the Trans-Pacific Partnership, which the United States champions as a way of binding the economically vibrant region together. Japanese and American officials say Mr. Abe may even privately promise Mr. Obama that Japan will soon join the pact. But he cannot afford to say so in public for fear of alienating the farmers who have been strong supporters of the Liberal Democrats -- at least not until the July elections.
Similarly, fears of angering voters on Okinawa will also probably prevent Mr. Abe from offering progress on another issue that has long caused problems with the United States, the relocation of the unpopular American air base at Futenma. This has led some analysts to wonder what Mr. Abe's visit to Washington will actually be able to produce.
Plans for the summit meeting seemed to get off to a rocky start last month when the administration declined a Japanese request for a visit in January, saying the American side was not ready. This was reported as a snub in Japan's tabloid press. Perhaps to make amends, the Americans have increased the time that Mr. Abe will spend with Mr. Obama, adding a luncheon at the White House to the schedule.
For Mr. Abe, strengthening ties with the United States is crucial as Japan faces a growing challenge from China for control of the disputed islands, known as the Senkaku in Japan and Diaoyu in China. Analysts say Mr. Abe will probably tell Mr. Obama that he wants Japan to act as a fuller military partner with the United States, at a time when the Pentagon faces steep budget cuts. But it is unclear if more radical steps, like rewriting the Constitution, would sit well with the majority of Japanese voters who wish Mr. Abe to remain moderate.
''Mr. Abe is to the right of the mainstream,'' said Koji Nakakita, a politics professor at Tokyo's Hitotsubashi University, ''and that carries a huge potential risk for him.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, whose policies have sent the Tokyo stock market up, will visit Washington this week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TORU HANAI/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); WORLD WAR II (63%); INFRASTRUCTURE (57%)

PERSON: SHINZO ABE (93%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%) JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2013



686 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2013
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; MEMO FROM MEXICO CITY; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1351 words

HEADLINE: Unabated Violence Poses Challenge To Mexico's New Anticrime Program

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

 BODY:
MEXICO CITY -- The new Mexican president, Enrique Peña Nieto, campaigned on a promise to reduce the violence spawned by the drug trade and organized crime, and to shift the talk about his nation away from cartels and killings.
But even as he rolled out a crime prevention program last week and declared it the government's new priority, a rash of high-profile mayhem threatened to undercut his message and raise the pressure to more forcefully confront the lawlessness that bedeviled his predecessor.
The southwestern state of Guerrero, long prone to periodic eruptions of violence, has proved a challenge once again. Gang rapes of several women have occurred in and around the faded resort town of Acapulco, including an attack this month on a group from Spain that garnered worldwide headlines, and an ambush killed nine state police officers in a mountainous no-man's land. Out of frustration that the state was not protecting them, rural towns in Guerrero have taken up arms to police themselves.
Elsewhere, grenades were set off this month near the United States Consulate in the border town of Nuevo Laredo during a battle among gangs, and 17 members of Kombo Kolombia, a folk band in northern Mexico, were kidnapped and killed last month. 
The bloodshed continued despite some indications that the violence leveled off last year, according to a report released on Feb. 5 by the University of San Diego's Trans-Border Institute, which analyzed a range of government homicide statistics. Mr. Peña Nieto's government also released statistics this month that it said showed that homicides presumably related to organized crime had dipped from December to January, but analysts have long questioned how those numbers were compiled, given the chronic lack of criminal investigations.
Still, the appetite of criminal groups for shocking violence seems unabated and presents a challenge for the president. Can he manage to avoid being drawn into the iron-fisted approach of his predecessor and effectively change the focus of the national discussion to other matters, like the economy?
''They are trying to have the president not use the crime issue as his political priority,'' said Ana Maria Salazar, a security analyst who worked in the American government and now hosts a radio show here. ''But at the same time, it doesn't seem what they are talking about is confronting or going to have an impact on the current violence and criminal organizations.''
She added, ''They haven't laid out what they are going to do in the short term to retake Mexican territory in control of criminal organizations.''
Government officials have asked for patience, saying Mexico's crime problems cannot be solved overnight.
They have made it clear that they want to break with the approach of former President Felipe Calderón, who heavily enlisted the military and the federal police against crime gangs, but the new government has taken a similar tack in recent flare-ups, including sending a cadre of federal police officers to Acapulco after the attacks there. Government officials have pledged closer coordination between the federal police and the state authorities.
Officials are promoting the less militaristic crime prevention program introduced last week as a linchpin, with Mr. Peña Nieto personally announcing it and Interior Secretary Miguel Ángel Osorio Chong briefing reporters extensively on it. On Thursday, an under secretary presented a slick brochure on the program to foreign journalists and answered questions for 45 minutes.
''It's clear that we must put special emphasis on prevention, because we can't only keep employing more sophisticated weapons, better equipment, more police, a higher presence of the armed forces in the country as the only form of combating organized crime,'' Mr. Peña Nieto said in announcing the program in Aguascalientes, one of the more peaceful precincts in the country.
The program calls for creating an interagency commission that would spend $9 billion in the coming years in 250 of the most violent cities and towns, beginning with the worst. The plan envisions longer school days, drug addiction programs and other social efforts in addition to public works projects, but officials said specifics were still being worked out and would be detailed later.
It resembles a plan Mr. Calderón put in place a few years ago for Ciudad Juárez, one of the bloodiest cities in Mexico, but government officials said that while they studied that project, they believed that their plan differed in ambition and scope.
Few argue with the need for such programs and alternatives to crime for young people. But security analysts faulted Mr. Calderón for not attacking corruption by building effective, accountable local and state police and judicial institutions, a herculean task that Mr. Peña Nieto so far has not shown much sign of taking on either.
''I do not see anything in his nearly first three months that show he is taking on impunity,'' said Edgardo Buscaglia, a scholar of organized crime at Columbia University who has long studied Mexico and advised international panels.
Animal Politico, the political Web site, went as far as to post a discussion last week on whether Acapulco is lost and Guerrero a failed state, with most comments pointing to chronically weak institutions there that the administration has yet to address.
''The authorities should attack the root of the problem: the lack of efficient response from the institutions for security, investigation and imparting justice,'' said Carlos Heredia Zubieta, the director of international studies at the Center for Research and Teaching in Economics, a research group in Mexico City.
Some experts saw the rollout of the crime prevention program, with government officials' acknowledgment that it was still a work in progress, as more of a public relations move in the middle of a wave of violence than a well-crafted plan.
''It is not a program,'' said Alejandro Hope, a security analyst and former Mexican intelligence agent. ''It is generic instructions launched from the stratosphere.''
Mr. Peña Nieto has made other promises to improve security, including forming a paramilitary unit to police the worst of the lawless rural areas, but he has yet to announce details.
Some of the delay no doubt stems from the fact that nominees to main security posts have yet to be ratified by the country's Senate. On Thursday, the names of two top security officials expected to be involved in forming the new unit were formally submitted to the body.
American officials have so far hung back, giving the new president time to get his team in place before assessing how well they will work together. Representatives of Mr. Peña Nieto said they were in talks with American officials to discuss using some of the $1.9 billion in the Mérida Initiative, Washington's signature antidrug plan for crime prevention in Central America. The United States Embassy said in a statement Friday that it already supported crime prevention programs, but that it was continuing to discuss Mérida financing with the new government.
Guerrero presents a microcosm of the nation's problems as whole. There is the typical drug trafficking, as the state is crossed by traditional transport routes for cocaine from South America, and its mountainous terrain allows for plenty of hiding spots for marijuana and poppy production. But there are also many local gangs active in drug dealing, extortion, kidnapping and robbery in and around Acapulco, and as residents tell it, they are seeping into smaller villages as well.
''Part of the problem here is that there are different types of violence going on, and each require a different sort of response,'' said Chris Kyle, an anthropologist at the University of Alabama at Birmingham who has studied Guerrero's violence. ''There's probably been a decline in the violence associated with drug trafficking, which is the part of the equation most amenable to a federal solution. The street hooliganism and small kidnapping-extortion rackets are better addressed by local police forces, and these are ineffectual in Guerrero.''

CORRECTION-DATE: February 27, 2013 

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, the Memo From Mexico City article on Feb. 19, about a recent rash of violence in Mexico that threatens to undercut President Enrique Peña Nieto's campaign promise to confront lawlessness, gave an outdated reference to the Mérida Initiative, a United States antidrug crime prevention program. While it originally applied to Mexico and Central America, it now focuses just on Mexico.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A man guarding a roadblock at the entrance to Cruz Quemada, a rural town near Ayutla in the state of Guerrero. A recent spate of violence in the area has led communities to take up arms. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DARIO LOPEZ-MILLS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ORGANIZED CRIME (89%); CRIME RATES (89%); HOMICIDE (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (86%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); VIOLENT CRIME (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); SEX OFFENSES (78%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); CARTELS (77%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (74%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%); CRIME PREVENTION (73%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (73%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (73%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (68%); MILITARY WEAPONS (67%); STATISTICS (64%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (52%)

PERSON: ENRIQUE PENA NIETO (90%); FELIPE CALDERON (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (92%) NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); SOUTHWEST, USA (79%) MEXICO (97%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2013



687 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2013
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; MEMO FROM MEXICO CITY; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1349 words

HEADLINE: Unabated Violence Poses Challenge To Mexico's New Anticrime Program

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

 BODY:
MEXICO CITY -- The new Mexican president, Enrique Peña Nieto, campaigned on a promise to reduce the violence spawned by the drug trade and organized crime, and to shift the talk about his nation away from cartels and killings.
But even as he rolled out a crime prevention program last week and declared it the government's new priority, a rash of high-profile mayhem threatened to undercut his message and raise the pressure to more forcefully confront the lawlessness that bedeviled his predecessor.
The southwestern state of Guerrero, long prone to periodic eruptions of violence, has proved a challenge once again. Gang rapes of several women have occurred in and around the faded resort town of Acapulco, including an attack this month on a group from Spain that garnered worldwide headlines, and an ambush killed nine state police officers in a mountainous no-man's land. Out of frustration that the state was not protecting them, rural towns in Guerrero have taken up arms to police themselves.
Elsewhere, grenades were set off this month near the United States Consulate in the border town of Nuevo Laredo during a battle among gangs, and 17 members of Kombo Kolombia, a folk band in northern Mexico, were kidnapped and killed last month. 
The bloodshed continued despite some indications that the violence leveled off last year, according to a report released on Feb. 5 by the University of San Diego's Trans-Border Institute, which analyzed a range of government homicide statistics. Mr. Peña Nieto's government also released statistics this month that it said showed that homicides presumably related to organized crime had dipped from December to January, but analysts have long questioned how those numbers were compiled, given the chronic lack of criminal investigations.
Still, the appetite of criminal groups for shocking violence seems unabated and presents a challenge for the president. Can he manage to avoid being drawn into the iron-fisted approach of his predecessor and effectively change the focus of the national discussion to other matters, like the economy?
''They are trying to have the president not use the crime issue as his political priority,'' said Ana Maria Salazar, a security analyst who worked in the American government and now hosts a radio show here. ''But at the same time, it doesn't seem what they are talking about is confronting or going to have an impact on the current violence and criminal organizations.''
She added, ''They haven't laid out what they are going to do in the short term to retake Mexican territory in control of criminal organizations.''
Government officials have asked for patience, saying Mexico's crime problems cannot be solved overnight.
They have made it clear that they want to break with the approach of former President Felipe Calderón, who heavily enlisted the military and the federal police against crime gangs, but the new government has taken a similar tack in recent flare-ups, including sending a cadre of federal police officers to Acapulco after the attacks there. Government officials have pledged closer coordination between the federal police and the state authorities.
Officials are promoting the less militaristic crime prevention program introduced last week as a linchpin, with Mr. Peña Nieto personally announcing it and Interior Secretary Miguel Ángel Osorio Chong briefing reporters extensively on it. On Thursday, an under secretary presented a slick brochure on the program to foreign journalists and answered questions for 45 minutes.
''It's clear that we must put special emphasis on prevention, because we can't only keep employing more sophisticated weapons, better equipment, more police, a higher presence of the armed forces in the country as the only form of combating organized crime,'' Mr. Peña Nieto said in announcing the program in Aguascalientes, one of the more peaceful precincts in the country.
The program calls for creating an interagency commission that would spend $9 billion in the coming years in 250 of the most violent cities and towns, beginning with the worst. The plan envisions longer school days, drug addiction programs and other social efforts in addition to public works projects, but officials said specifics were still being worked out and would be detailed later.
It resembles a plan Mr. Calderón put in place a few years ago for Ciudad Juárez, one of the bloodiest cities in Mexico, but government officials said that while they studied that project, they believed that their plan differed in ambition and scope.
Few argue with the need for such programs and alternatives to crime for young people. But security analysts faulted Mr. Calderón for not attacking corruption by building effective, accountable local and state police and judicial institutions, a herculean task that Mr. Peña Nieto so far has not shown much sign of taking on either.
''I do not see anything in his nearly first three months that show he is taking on impunity,'' said Edgardo Buscaglia, a scholar of organized crime at Columbia University who has long studied Mexico and advised international panels.
Animal Politico, a political Web site, went as far as to post a discussion last week on whether Acapulco is lost and Guerrero a failed state, with most comments pointing to chronically weak institutions there that the administration has yet to address.
''The authorities should attack the root of the problem: the lack of efficient response from the institutions for security, investigation and imparting justice,'' said Carlos Heredia Zubieta, the director of international studies at the Center for Research and Teaching in Economics, a research group in Mexico City.
Some experts saw the rollout of the crime prevention program, with government officials' acknowledgment that it was still a work in progress, as more of a public relations move in the middle of a wave of violence than a well-crafted plan.
''It is not a program,'' said Alejandro Hope, a security analyst and former Mexican intelligence agent. ''It is generic instructions launched from the stratosphere.''
Mr. Peña Nieto has made other promises to improve security, including forming a paramilitary unit to police the worst of the lawless rural areas, but he has yet to announce details.
Some of the delay no doubt stems from the fact that nominees to main security posts have yet to be ratified by the country's Senate. On Thursday, the names of two top security officials expected to be involved in forming the new unit were formally submitted to the body.
American officials have so far hung back, giving the new president time to get his team in place before assessing how well they will work together. Representatives of Mr. Peña Nieto said they were in talks with American officials to discuss using some of the $1.9 billion in the Mérida Initiative, Washington's signature antidrug plan for crime prevention in Mexico. The United States Embassy said in a statement Friday that it already supported crime prevention programs, but that it was continuing to discuss Mérida financing with the new government.
Guerrero presents a microcosm of the nation's problems as whole. There is the typical drug trafficking, as the state is crossed by traditional transport routes for cocaine from South America, and its mountainous terrain allows for plenty of hiding spots for marijuana and poppy production. But there are also many local gangs active in drug dealing, extortion, kidnapping and robbery in and around Acapulco, and as residents tell it, they are seeping into smaller villages as well.
''Part of the problem here is that there are different types of violence going on, and each require a different sort of response,'' said Chris Kyle, an anthropologist at the University of Alabama at Birmingham who has studied Guerrero's violence. ''There's probably been a decline in the violence associated with drug trafficking, which is the part of the equation most amenable to a federal solution. The street hooliganism and small kidnapping-extortion rackets are better addressed by local police forces, and these are ineffectual in Guerrero.''

CORRECTION-DATE: February 27, 2013 

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, the Memo From Mexico City article on Feb. 19, about a recent rash of violence in Mexico that threatens to undercut President Enrique Peña Nieto's campaign promise to confront lawlessness, gave an outdated reference to the Mérida Initiative, a United States antidrug crime prevention program. While it originally applied to Mexico and Central America, it now focuses just on Mexico.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A man guarding a roadblock at the entrance to Cruz Quemada, a rural town near Ayutla in the state of Guerrero. A recent spate of violence in the area has led communities to take up arms. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DARIO LOPEZ-MILLS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ORGANIZED CRIME (89%); CRIME RATES (89%); HOMICIDE (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (86%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); VIOLENT CRIME (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); SEX OFFENSES (78%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); CARTELS (77%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (74%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%); CRIME PREVENTION (73%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (73%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (73%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (68%); MILITARY WEAPONS (67%); STATISTICS (64%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (52%)

PERSON: ENRIQUE PENA NIETO (90%); FELIPE CALDERON (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (92%) NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); SOUTHWEST, USA (79%) MEXICO (97%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2013



688 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1040 words

HEADLINE: Like the Ohio River, a Bridge Project Divides a Community

BYLINE: By BOBBY ALLYN

 BODY:
LOUISVILLE, Ky. -- Long ago, the Ohio River helped make this Rust Belt city a national pacesetter in manufacturing and transportation, providing it with an identity and an anchor. But as American life shifted toward the automobile, the river also became an impediment.
Now, after decades of planning, the city intends to begin construction on a $2.6 billion two-bridge project that is said to be the costliest in the state's history. 
Along the way, planners of the Ohio River Bridges Project scaled it back by $1.5 billion to make it financially palatable and had to clear a series of obstacles raised by residents and activists on both sides of the river. The opponents often quarreled among themselves as much as with elected officials.
Although friction about some aspects of the project still reverberates, including over its tolls and environmental impact, construction is scheduled to begin this summer, and the two new bridges linking Kentucky and southern Indiana are expected to open in 2016. One bridge will be in downtown Louisville, and the other will serve an area just east of downtown.
''If we didn't build this, we would become the bottleneck for the Southeastern United States,'' said Chad Carlton, the project spokesman. ''We think it could become the shape of things to come for infrastructure across Middle America.''
About $1 billion of the project will be financed by the two states, mostly through gas taxes. The exact amount of federal support, while substantial, is not known at this point. Tolls over the next 40 years are expected to generate around $10 billion.
''There's not a major bridge project in the country that doesn't involve the use of tolls and other creative financing mechanisms,'' Gov. Steven L. Beshear of Kentucky said in an interview. ''The project will employ thousands, and it's going to let the metropolitan areas of Kentucky and southern Indiana grow much faster and help jobs grow much faster.''
The project comes at a time when some cities are moving in the opposite direction, dismantling downtown bridges and expressways in favor of public transportation.
Hank V. Savitch, a professor of urban and public affairs at the University of Louisville, said that while some cities were shifting away from accommodating cars, Louisville's project signaled a declaration of faith in suburban-style growth.
''They're still fighting the last urban war, which was highway development -- but that's not the nature of the future of the city,'' Professor Savitch said. ''It will dissipate energy in the central city, where they should be concentrating investment, and instead draw capital to the outer metropolitan area.''
Among the most skeptical of the plan is the grass-roots group 8664, which has drawn nearly 12,000 supporters online. The group is asking that only part of the project be built and that Interstate 64, which runs along the river, be shifted to the edge of downtown so that the city's sprawling waterfront could be revitalized with ''Portland-style vibrancy.''
Under the current plan, the city intends to expand the riverfront highway, not dismantle it. It will also enlarge two other downtown expressways whose nexus with I-64 makes up what locals call Spaghetti Junction -- a snarl of highways and ramps that critics say unnecessarily gobbles up a sizable swath of riverside real estate within walking distance of downtown.
''We wanted to reverse the 20th-century vision that saw urban areas not as places to live, but places to pass through,'' said an 8664 co-founder, Tyler Allen, who ran for mayor in 2010, largely on the waterfront issue. ''There's stunning potential along the waterfront, but we ran into the buzz saw of power.''
Building only one new bridge -- a compromise favored by 8664 and other opponents of the project -- does not go far enough in making travel safer and easier, project planners said. For one thing, they say, the current bridges are already exceeding capacity, as put on vivid display when a crack was discovered on the double-deck I-64 bridge in 2011, closing it temporarily.
A settlement was reached recently between the two states and the National Trust for Historic Preservation and River Fields conservancy group, which has opposed the construction of the East End bridge because of concerns that it would not significantly improve traffic and safety issues downtown. A federal judge approved the settlement package ordering that the states set aside $1.7 million to help preserve and relocate some of the properties.
Though some Indiana residents continue to be at loggerheads with planners over bridge tolls, a primary source of the project's financing, most viewed the settlement as the smoothing out of the last substantial legal challenge. Groups have criticized the project on several fronts, including accusations that the tolls amount to a civil rights violation because they fall most heavily on low-income residents and that the effects of greenhouse gas emissions are not being adequately considered.
Supporters dismiss those notions, pointing out that the project has passed rigorous federal requirements and arguing that the bridges will improve quality of life by, among other things, relieving chronic traffic congestion.
But a 2011 study by economists at the University of Toronto concluded that expanding roads does not unclog traffic. In fact, the study found, it worsens it.
Matthew Turner, an economist and one of the study's authors, said that the bridge tolls that are part of the plan will help spread out the congestion, but that compared with other cities he has studied, congestion in Louisville is not that acute.
''If you take the average bundle of trips, you can do them faster in Louisville than most other places in the U.S.,'' Mr. Turner said. ''Dropping more than $2 billion on this huge expansion in a city which is not growing as fast as many others might not be the best use of public money.''
Mr. Carlton, the project spokesman, has a different perspective.
''As funding in Washington dropped off and our area continued to expand, we decided we do have a choice, rather than curse the darkness,'' Mr. Carlton said. ''Many states are now figuring out how to settle choking gridlock, and we think we've found the right solution.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Construction will start this summer in a $2.6 billion effort to build two new bridges between Louisville, Ky., and southern Indiana, with a completion date in 2016.
 Top, commuters inched toward the Clark Memorial Bridge during the rush in downtown Louisville. Above, a house in Prospect, Ky., was razed to make way for one of the new bridges. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TYLER BISSMEYER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRIDGES & TUNNELS (90%); CITIES (89%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (74%); HISTORY (71%); SUBURBS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); INTERVIEWS (62%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (60%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (60%)

PERSON: STEVE BESHEAR (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (96%) KENTUCKY, USA (96%); INDIANA, USA (93%); MIDWEST USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2013



689 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 

LENGTH: 897 words

HEADLINE: The End of Foreign Policy

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN

 BODY:
London
''IT is not going too far to say that American foreign policy has become completely subservient to tactical domestic political considerations.''
This stern verdict comes from Vali Nasr, who spent two years working for the Obama administration before becoming dean of the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies. In a book called ''The Dispensable Nation,'' to be published in April, Nasr delivers a devastating portrait of a first-term foreign policy that shunned the tough choices of real diplomacy, often descended into pettiness, and was controlled ''by a small cabal of relatively inexperienced White House advisers.''
Nasr, one of the most respected American authorities on the Middle East, served as senior adviser to Richard Holbrooke, Obama's special representative to Afghanistan and Pakistan until his death in December 2010. From that vantage point, and later as a close observer, Nasr was led to the reluctant conclusion that the principal aim of Obama's policies ''is not to make strategic decisions but to satisfy public opinion.'' 
In this sense the first-term Obama foreign policy was successful: He was re-elected. Americans wanted extrication from the big wars and a smaller global footprint: Obama, with some back and forth, delivered. But the price was high and opportunities lost.
''The Dispensable Nation'' constitutes important reading as John Kerry moves into his new job as secretary of state. It nails the drift away from the art of diplomacy -- with its painful give-and-take -- toward a U.S. foreign policy driven by the Pentagon, intelligence agencies and short-term political calculus. It holds the president to account for his zigzags from Kabul to Jerusalem.
It demonstrates the emasculation of the State Department: Vasr quotes Admiral Mike Mullen, former chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, telling him of Hillary Clinton that, ''It is incredible how little support she got from the White House. They want to control everything.'' And it paints a persuasive picture of an American decline driven not so much by the inevitable rise of other powers as by ''inconsistency'' that has ''cast doubt on our leadership.''
Nowhere was this inconsistency more evident than in Afghanistan. Obama doubled-down by committing tens of thousands more troops to show he was no wimp, only to set a date for a drawdown to show he was no warmonger. Marines died; few cared.
He appointed Holbrooke as his point man only to ensure that he ''never received the authority to do diplomacy.'' Obama's message to President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan was: ''Ignore my special representative.'' The White House campaign against Holbrooke was ''a theater of the absurd,'' Nasr writes. ''Holbrooke was not included in Obama's videoconferences with Karzai and was cut out of the presidential retinue when Obama went to Afghanistan.''
The White House seemed ''more interested in bringing Holbrooke down than getting the policy right.'' The pettiness was striking: ''The White House kept a dossier on Holbrooke's misdeeds and Clinton kept a folder on churlish attempts by the White House's AfPak office to undermine Holbrooke.''
Diplomacy died. Serious negotiation with the Taliban and involving Iran in talks on Afghanistan's future -- bold steps that carried a domestic political price -- were shunned. The use of trade as a bridge got scant attention. Nasr concludes on Afghanistan: ''We are just washing our hands of it, hoping there will be a decent interval of calm -- a reasonable distance between our departure and the catastrophe to follow.''
In Pakistan, too nuclear to ignore, the ultimate ''frenemy,'' Nasr observed policy veering between frustrated confrontation and half-hearted attempts to change the relationship through engagement. ''The crucial reality was that the Taliban helped Pakistan face down India in the contest over Afghanistan,'' Nasr writes. America was never able to change that equation. Aid poured in to secure those nukes and win hearts and minds: Drones drained away any gratitude. A proposed ''strategic dialogue'' went nowhere. ''Pakistan is a failure of American policy, a failure of the sort that comes from the president handing foreign policy over to the Pentagon and the intelligence agencies.''
In Iran, Nasr demonstrates Obama's deep ambivalence about any deal on the nuclear program. ''Pressure,'' he writes, ''has become an end in itself.'' The dual track of ever tougher sanctions combined with diplomatic outreach was ''not even dual. It relied on one track, and that was pressure.'' The reality was that, ''Engagement was a cover for a coercive campaign of sabotage, economic pressure and cyberwarfare.''
Opportunities to begin real step-by-step diplomacy involving Iran giving up its low-enriched uranium in exchange for progressive sanctions relief were lost. What was Tehran to think when ''the sum total of three major rounds of diplomatic negotiation was that America would give some bits and bobs of old aircraft in exchange for Iran's nuclear program''?
On Israel-Palestine, as with Iran, Obama began with some fresh ideas only to retreat. He tried to stop Israeli settlement expansion. Then he gave up when the domestic price looked too high. The result has been drift.
''The Dispensable Nation'' is a brave book. Its core message is: Diplomacy is tough and carries a price, but the price is higher when it is abandoned.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (94%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); ARMED FORCES (85%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%); RICHARD HOLBROOKE (77%); HAMAD KARZAI (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (91%); PAKISTAN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2013



690 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 405 words

HEADLINE: A Qualified Apology to Niall Ferguson

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: But there's a problem. 

 BODY:
So, several people, including NF himself, have written in to say that Ferguson actually did concede that I was right about deficits and interest rates. Indeed he did; I missed it. 
Unfortunately, there's a very disturbing aspect to this sort-of concession; even while admitting that he had been wrong, Ferguson completely misrepresented his own earlier position, in an attempt to make it sound more defensible. Here's his 2012 version:
FERGUSON: I think the issue here got a little confused, because Krugman wanted to portray me as a proponent of instant austerity, which I never was. My argument was that over ten years you have to have some credible plan to get back to fiscal balance because at some point you lose your credibility because on the present path, Congressional Budget Office figures make it clear, with every year the share of Federal tax revenues going to interest payments rises, there is a point after which it's no longer credible. But I didn't think that point was going to be this year or next year.
But here's what he actually said in our original 2009 debate:
You can't be a monetarist and a Keynesian simultaneously-at least I can't see how you can, because if the aim of the monetarist policy is to keep interest rates down, to keep liquidity high, the effect of the Keynesian policy must be to drive interest rates up.
After all, $1.75 trillion is an awful lot of freshly minted treasuries to land on the bond market at a time of recession, and I still don't quite know who is going to buy them. It's certainly not going to be the Chinese. That worked fine in the good times, but what I call "Chimerica," the marriage between China and America, is coming to an end. Maybe it's going to end in a messy divorce.
No, the problem is that only the Fed can buy these freshly minted treasuries, and there is going to be, I predict, in the weeks and months ahead, a very painful tug-of-war between our monetary policy and our fiscal policy as the markets realize just what a vast quantity of bonds are going to have to be absorbed by the financial system this year. That will tend to drive the price of the bonds down, and drive up interest rates, which will also have an effect on mortgage rates-the precise opposite of what Ben Bernanke is trying to achieve at the Fed. 
[Emphasis added.]
Points, then, for intellectual flexibility -- but major demerits for trying to flush one's own past statements down the memory hole.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); BONDS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); TREASURY SECURITIES (86%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); RECESSION (74%); MORTGAGE RATES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); BOND MARKETS (69%); BANKING & FINANCE (65%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (56%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2013



691 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 216 words

HEADLINE: Snark That Writes Itself

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Grand bargain, RIP and good riddance. 

 BODY:
Erskine Bowles tells a Politico event -- now that's a match made in heaven -- that 
The idea of a grand bargain is at best on life support.
OK, is there anyone whose immediate reaction isn't, "Let's convene a death panel!"
Look, a grand bargain right now is a terrible idea. The simple fact is that our political system isn't ready. Washington is divided between parties with utterly different visions of what our society should look like; Republicans, in particular, would wait maybe a minute before trying to renege on any bargain that raises rather than cuts taxes on the wealthy, and that leaves the basic structure of Medicare and Social Security intact. So grand-bargain negotiations are, in practice, just an attempt to create facts on the ground for future confrontations, not a good-faith effort to secure the nation's fiscal future.
Meanwhile, the Kabuki of grand bargain negotiations absorbs all of DC's political energy, making it impossible to talk seriously about the economic problems we have right now. And while it may be possible in principle to support stimulus now even while talking long-run austerity, as a practical matter all the debt rhetoric leads to short-run austerity too.
So let's disconnect that respirator, and let Bowles and Simpson spend more time with their families.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (75%); POLITICS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2013



692 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2013

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 1457 words

HEADLINE: One on One: Susan P. Crawford, Author of 'Captive Audience'

BYLINE: BRIAN X. CHEN


HIGHLIGHT: For Americans, getting on the Internet or using a cellphone keeps getting more expensive. But for service providers like AT&#038;T and Verizon Wireless, new technologies have made wireless data cheaper to deliver. So why the higher costs? Ms. Crawford explains. 

 BODY:
Using the Internet or a cellphone keeps getting more expensive. But for network providers like AT&T and Verizon Wireless, new technologies have made services cheaper to deliver. So why the higher prices?
Susan P. Crawford offers one point of view in her new book "Captive Audience: The Telecom Industry and Monopoly Power in the New Gilded Age." Ms. Crawford, a law professor who served as special assistant to President Obama for science, technology and innovation policy, says mergers in the American broadband and wireless industries have stifled competition, which hurts the consumer in the end.
In an interview, Ms. Crawford explained the highlights of her book. An edited version of the transcript follows.
 Q. 
 What is the main message behind your book, and why did you decide to write it? 
 A. 
I wrote "Captive Audience" because I saw that years of deregulation and a wave of mergers had left America with neither competition nor adequate oversight when it comes to high-speed Internet access. Based on how people actually use these connections and how much they are required to pay, we are being gouged: We are all paying too much for services that are both uncompetitive and second-class, and not enough Americans are being served adequately by reasonably priced, world-class services.
This problem isn't just affecting social equality and fairness, although those effects are important; the middle class is tightly squeezed and poor and rural people are relying on public libraries and McDonald's for free, inferior Wi-Fi access. Because high-speed Internet access is our century's version of electrification, it's also likely affecting our nation's economic growth.
I focused on the Comcast/NBCUniversal merger as a lens for the book because that gigantic deal touched on all parts of the telecommunications industry at the same time that it merely reflected how bad things had gotten. The monopoly power of local cable incumbents over wired access is striking. The big cable players, Time Warner Cable and Comcast, never enter each others' territories.
I wrote "Captive Audience" because we cannot afford to put this problem on the too-hard pile. We are slouching toward the past, and failures of government policy have gotten us in this position. Comcast, Time Warner Cable, Verizon Wireless, and AT&T aren't evil; they are serving their shareholders' interests by dividing markets, picking targets, and making more money from the same number of subscribers. But where are the policies that are going to unleash competition in urban areas and require world-class network coverage everywhere else? The book is aimed at encouraging leaders across the country to take on this challenge.
 Q. 
 What are the unique problems or challenges that the American wireless industry faces compared to other countries? 
 A. 
Wireless access is not only a separate market, it's also a highly concentrated market in America. Verizon Wireless and AT&T, who together account for about two-thirds of U.S. wireless subscribers, can raise prices with impunity and often appear to act in lockstep: Both companies introduced "share everything" plans within about a month of each other and announced they would phase out unlimited use data plans. Their average revenues per household or per user continue to climb; in Europe, where wireless carriers face much more competition, average revenues per user have fallen by 15 percent over the past five years.
To add color to this picture, the kinds of high-speed wired Internet access connections sold by cable incumbents aren't up to global standards. In Asian countries, Northern Europe, and even Australia, fiber optic connections to homes and businesses exist or are planned to carry virtually unlimited communications that are symmetrical, allowing for an equal ability to publish data as well as passively watch it. Our cable systems aren't built to provide that kind of equal upload capacity. We are paying much more than people in other countries for inferior service.
The wireless industry claims that there is extensive competition in the U.S., including four nationwide operators and seven providers, each serving more than four million subscribers, but that's like claiming that the New York Giants and the Tappan Zee High School team both play football. The players other than AT&T and Verizon Wireless aren't on the same level. Scale and spectrum holdings matter a great deal in this industry.
 Q. 
 Why do we face these issues? What happened? 
 A. 
In a word: Consolidation.
When the cellular phone emerged as a consumer product in the 1980s, it operated in 800 MHz frequencies, for which the F.C.C. initially gave away two licenses for 40 MHz of spectrum in each of the 306 market areas in the United States - one to a wireless provider and one to a wired provider. Small-market licenses frustrated the buildup of viable nationwide wireless infrastructure; companies in urban areas had only a few voice channels, which wasn't enough capacity to serve demand, and companies in rural areas couldn't produce enough revenue to survive. No one could operate at the scale needed to make the business worthwhile.
The 1980s licensing process led, predictably, to quick consolidation and market-division agreements among the applicants. This desirable "beachfront" low-frequency spectrum - so-called because these frequencies travel well over long distances and inside buildings, which means operators have to build just a third or a fourth as many towers as they do in areas where they're using higher frequencies - went to the corporate ancestors of today's AT&T and Verizon.
In some ways the wireless marketplace is even worse than the wired market: It has been a concentrated field since 1995, and it is growing more concentrated more quickly each year. Verizon (32%) and AT&T (31%) divide the vast majority of the market between them in terms of both spectrum holdings and revenues, with Sprint (17% market share) and T-Mobile (11%) barely hanging on as distant third and fourth players, with uncertain ability to constrain the prices charged by Verizon and AT&T.
 Q. 
 The carriers always seem to complain about a looming "spectrum crisis" threatening the quality of our wireless services. Is there truly a spectrum shortage threatening the quality of our services? 
 A. 
In my view, the duopoly players, Verizon Wireless and AT&T, have plenty of spectrum. If they wanted to increase data capacity, they'd build more towers and feed them with fiber. But that would be expensive, and it's in their interest to keep expectations low and scarcity in place. I'd like to see real nationwide competition; to get there, T-Mobile would need to have access to low-band spectrum. Wireless is just the last 50 feet of a wire, and what we really need is wholesale, reasonably priced fiber running deep into neighborhoods and business districts around the country. If that facility is in place, you'll see lots of wireless competition.
 Q. 
 There is chatter that you could be a potential successor to Julius Genachowski as the F.C.C. chair. What would you be seeking to change if you were given that role? 
 A. 
In any F.C.C. chair, we should be looking for someone who will vigorously fight for communications policy that can help us as a nation achieve our boldest aspirations. We need a bolder vision and bigger action for a brighter high-speed Internet access future. Over all, I think history will find that Julius Genachowski has done a good job. But if we really want to be the nation that leads the world in 21st century technologies, then we need a chairman - whoever that may be - who is willing to tackle the hardest of challenges and understands how to harness the power of competition, innovation, and investment to break through today's bottlenecks.
I think that means lowering barriers to the installation of wholesale fiber rings across the country, so that cities can use control over their rights-of-way to mandate the kind of inexpensive basic facility their citizens need. It means ensuring that competitive retail fiber providers are able to get access to these wholesale facilities and to programming they need to serve Americans. It means making low-interest, long-term financing available to new entrants, as well as subsidizing new facilities where appropriate in rural areas. The whole country needs a fiber upgrade. We need to ensure that everyone has cheap, fast, abundant connectivity, and without dramatic changes in policy we won't get there.

        
AT&T's FaceTime Restrictions Could Be Violating F.C.C. Rules
        
Shared Mobile Data Plans: Who Benefits?
        
Verizon Unveils Wireless Plans That Cover Several Devices
        
Opponents to Verizon Spectrum Deal Demand a Pause
        
Is Data Throttling a Necessary Evil for Cellphone Carriers?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WIRELESS INDUSTRY (91%); INTERNET & WWW (91%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); WRITERS (89%); BROADBAND (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); WIRELESS BROADBAND (78%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (77%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (77%); DEREGULATION (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (73%); LIBRARIES (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (50%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (50%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (50%) Crawford, Susan P; Cellular Telephones; Computers and the Internet; Telephones and Telecommunications; Wireless Communications; AT&T Inc; Federal Communications Commission; Verizon Communications Inc; AT&T Inc|T|NYSE; Verizon Communications Inc|VZ|NYSE

COMPANY: VERIZON WIRELESS INC (95%); AT&T INC (86%); COMCAST CORP (86%); TIME WARNER CABLE INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (84%) AT&T Inc; Federal Communications Commission; Verizon Communications Inc

TICKER: T (NYSE) (86%); CMCSA (NASDAQ) (86%); CCV (NYSE) (86%); TWC (NYSE) (52%) AT&T Inc; T; NYSE; AT&T Inc; T; NYSE; Verizon Communications Inc; VZ; NYSE

INDUSTRY: SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (95%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (86%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (86%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (86%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%) Crawford, Susan P

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2013



693 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 257 words

HEADLINE: Britain Names Head of New Bank Regulator

BYLINE: MARK SCOTT


HIGHLIGHT: Andrew Bailey, who had been interim chief executive of the Prudential Regulatory Authority, was appointed as the agency's full-time head on Tuesday. 

 BODY:
LONDON - Andrew Bailey was appointed on Tuesday as head of a new British regulator in charge of overseeing the country's largest banks. 
Mr. Bailey had been interim chief executive of the agency, the Prudential Regulatory Authority, which will operate as part of the Bank of England, the country's central bank.
The Prudential Regulatory Authority and the newly created Financial Conduct Authority, which will police market abuse in the British financial services industry, take over in April from the Financial Services Authority. Martin Wheatley will lead the Financial Conduct Authority.
The idea for the two regulators emerged in 2010 after the financial crisis. The Financial Services Authority has been widely criticized for failing to detect problems that led to British banks struggling under billions of dollars of debt in the build up to the financial crisis.
Many of the lenders, including Royal Bank of Scotland and the Lloyds Banking Group, received multibillion-dollar government bailouts to keep them afloat. 
Britain's financial industry also has come under scrutiny after a series of recent scandals.
Two of the country's largest banks, Barclays and Royal Bank of Scotland, have already agreed to pay large fines related to the manipulation of the London interbank offered rate, or Libor. Others, including HSBC and Standard Chartered, have paid large financial penalties connected to money-laundering allegations in the United States.

        
UBS Fined $47.5 Million in Rogue Trading Scandal
        
A How-To Guide for Banks Facing Libor Settlements

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (96%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (93%); FINES & PENALTIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); SCANDALS (90%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (90%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); BAILOUTS (76%); DEREGULATION (76%); MONEY LAUNDERING (73%); INTERBANK LENDING (51%) Bailey, Andrew; Financial Services Authority; Great Britain; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (92%); BANK OF ENGLAND (58%)

ORGANIZATION: FINANCIAL SERVICES AUTHORITY (93%) Financial Services Authority

TICKER: RBS (NYSE) (92%); RBS (LSE) (92%); RBS (AMS) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (58%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (58%)

PERSON: Bailey, Andrew

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) UNITED KINGDOM (95%); UNITED STATES (79%) Great Britain

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2013



694 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 1737 words

HEADLINE: This Week in Small Business: Dish Mobs

BYLINE: GENE MARKS


HIGHLIGHT: A $3 billion surplus? Slower growth in health costs? The top 10 most-taxed cities in America. And is your company planning to make a Harlem Shake video? 

 BODY:
What's affecting me, my clients and other small-business owners this week.
 The State of the Union: 'Incredibly Ambitious' 
The president delivers an "incredibly ambitious" State of the Union address. Republicans respond by taking anawkward water break and saying the speech dims hopes for a deficit-reduction deal. Here's a summary in graphs. Kent Hoover thinks President Obama gave little attention to small businesses, and John Tozzi explains what happened to his big plans. Preschoolers just find him boring. Here are 17 brilliant faces Joe Biden made during the speech. Professional employer organizations applaud the president's commitment to lifting burdens on small businesses. As mentioned in the speech, Apple will make Macs in the United States (but create only 200 jobs). The president and business groups differ on minimum wage, and a business coach explains why folksiness works in speeches.
 The Budget: Big Cuts 
The United States posts a $3 billion surplus for January and the slower growth of health costs is easing the deficit. Tax revenues are expected to double by 2023. Richard Kogan shows just how big the pending automatic sequestration cuts will be, and Catherine Clifford explains how the cuts could affect small businesses. 
 The Economy: A Gulf in Optimism 
The Bureau of Labor Statistics reports that job openings were little changed from the previous month. Gas prices hit a historic high. Small-business confidence is still low, and Catherine Rampell reports on the gulf in optimism between small and large businesses. Affluent Americans are downbeat on the economy, and even though there's some consumer optimism, Americans are struggling to save. Export price deflation continues, and Brian Lane investigates what's behind the declining number of factories. But machine-tool orders rose in December, and farmers enjoyed their strongest net income in 40 years. Retail sales increased for the third straight month.
 Marketing: Dish Mobs
American Express introduces a purchase-by-tweet service, and Emily Guy Birken explains how retailers manipulate their customers into spending. This is the best Final Jeopardy answer ever. G.B. Oliver has advice for getting blogs to mention your products. Here are three marketing tips for lawyers, and here are seven magical marketing lessons from Disney World. Prowling "dish mobs" aim to benefit local restaurants. Bobbi Klein says that your best friend may hold the keys to your next big client. And make sure you are not making these five sales mistakes.
 Your People: Plotting an Exit? 
And speaking of mistakes, here are four not to make when managing older employees. Bacardi Bottling faces penalties for alleged safety violations after a temporary worker's death. Warm weather makes it harder to think straight. A start-up reinvents the workplace with reclaimed pallets. Rob Toledo offers ways to collaborate with coworkers remotely. E-mail, surfing the Internet and watching TV are among the worst office-productivity killers. In a sign of economic recovery, more people are quitting their jobs, and Brian O'Connell warns that your best employees may be plotting an exit. A Canadian university's "puppy room" offers stress relief during exams.
 Men Versus Women: Socially Savvy 
Female-owned small and mid-size businesses are more upbeat and socially savvy than those owned by males. These are the jobs with the biggest (and smallest) pay gaps between men and women. Female entrepreneurs say search engine optimization and social media are the future of marketing. Anne Marie Slaughter, a former director of policy planning for the State Department, explains how companies can make life better for both women and men. Angel investors are looking to finance companies led by women in Ohio (and beyond). A leading mobile and online advertising company does a "data dive" and finds that men and women behave differently on the phone. A high school girl makes a shot that must be seen to be believed.
 Management: Five Hot Franchises
Justin Timberlake joins the "dumb creative director" hiring boom. Carnival customers experience another cruise-ship nightmare, and Will Ferrell handles security at a Lakers game. Rhonda Campbell says it's time to automate your business processes to save time and money. The owner of an auto-detail business explains the importance of details like calling people back on the same day. These are five hot franchises you may want to consider, and here's how doing a store makeover can take your business to the next level.
 Online: Social Media in 20 Minutes a Day 
Here are five W's that are instrumental to your Web site's success. Debbie Hemley lists 26 ways to market your business with Tumblr. Michael Boland explains what Google's enhanced campaigns mean for small- and mid-sized businesses: "Google is using the stick instead of the carrot." Google Plus is gaining ground with brand marketers. Chris Silver Smith says there are thousands of things small businesses can do to improve their ranking and appearance in search engine results, but the top S.E.O. tactic right now is to incorporate the author markup. Saman Kouretchian says there are four reasons your small business needs to be on YouTube. Amanda Jacobs has tips for managing your social media in 20 minutes a day. This guy puts an end to Harlem Shake videos.
 Red Tape: Most-Taxed Cities 
Virginia cuts its state employees' hours to avoid providing health care coverage. The Obama administration introduces a Smart Disclosure Data community to "empower Americans with the data and tools they need to make more informed choices in the marketplace." Here's why you should take advantage of government contracting opportunities. These are the 10 most taxed cities in the United States, and this is not a good way to watch an archery competition.
 S.B.A.: Karen Mills Steps Down 
The economic environment is turning around for America's small businesses, according to a new report released by the Small Business Administration. The S.B.A. recognizes Doreen Wade as the Massachusetts Small Business Person of the Year. It also announces one webinar series promoting entrepreneurship education and small-business growth and another about retirement savings plans for small-business owners and their employees. The S.B.A. also announces a program to train entrepreneurs in underserved communities. The National Small Business Innovation Research Conference is scheduled for May 14-16 in Washington. And Karen Mills steps down as head of the agency.
 Finance: Managing Receivables 
This is everything you need to know about offering trade credit. A Main Street lender raises $42 million. Meredith Wood says that "only accepting checks" is one of six ineffective ways to manage receivables. Matthew Toren outlines seven steps to ensure a successful online fundraising campaign. A panel discusses the secrets for start-ups looking to work with big corporations. Jeff Thomson says that there are signs that indicate when a small business needs a chief financial officer.
 Around the Country: Your Favorite Small Business
A Russian company opens a location in northern Kentucky, and zombies attack Montana. Joe Brancatelli believes that the the US Airways-American merger will "stink for business travelers, at least for a while." An unofficial spokesman for the Heart Attack Grill dies of a heart attack. Banana Joe wins big at the Westminster Dog Show. North Carolina approves steep benefit cuts for the jobless. A subcontracting school is introduced in Washington, D.C. A contest lets you nominate your favorite small business to win a $5,000 giveaway.
 Around the World: It's Raining Spiders 
Economist Mark J. Perry predicts an acceleration in global economic growth, the 30 most powerful bankers explain how to fix the world economy (hint: let the bond market do it), and Paul Krugman says Sweden has the answers to America's tax problems. The International Energy Agency trims its outlook on global oil demand. The European Union and United States are negotiating a potentially game-changing free trade deal. Industrial production in Europe increases more than expected but Germany's economy shrinks and Anthony Harrington wonders if Britain is going bust. But the London Stock Exchange is changing its rules to try to lure the next Google. Spiders rain down on Brazil. India's industrial output shrinks again, and its car sales are the worst in a decade. China tops the United States in global trade, while Japan's economy sinks deeper. Egypt bans YouTube for a month. Here's how long it takes to become a millionaire in various countries.
 Technology: Apple's New Products 
A privately held Dell may be a boon for entrepreneurs. Microsoft plans to introduce interactive TV shows before the end of the year. Bill Gates says he likes to "tour interesting things with my kids, like power plants, garbage dumps, the Large Hadron Collider, Antarctica, missile Silos." QuickBooks Online gets an iPad app to help small businesses do their books on the go. A tech analyst expects the small and medium-size business cloud market to grow. Apple has 100 people working on a wristwatch -- and a bunch of other interesting products reportedly in development. Here's everything you need to know about 3D printing, and here's what happens to those kids who win the Google Science Fair.
 Tweet of the Week 
@neiltyson - Times have changed: Kennedy: "Let's go to the moon." Obama: "Lets repair our infrastructure."
 The Week's Best 
Brad Farris says that giving honest, immediate feedback is a leader's first job: "Good feedback is future-oriented, giving people something to move toward, not something to move away from. When you tell someone, 'I never want you to say that again,' that says what not to do, but isn't very helpful about what he could or should be doing. Try offering your feedback in the form of 'I wish ' or 'I'd like to see ' or 'How could we ' These phrases offer a direction for the person to pursue."
 This Week's Question: Has your company made a Harlem Shake video? (Will you promise not to?)
 Gene Marks owns the Marks Group , a Bala Cynwyd, Pa., consulting firm that helps clients with customer relationship management. You can follow him on Twitter. 

        
S.B.A. Administrator Announces Resignation
        
This Week in Small Business: Free Furniture!
        
This Week in Small Business: Leave the Building
        
This Week In Small Business: 1,000 New Bankers
        
This Week in Small Business: Facebook Search

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (92%); BUDGETS (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); DEFLATION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); JOB CREATION (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); OLDER WORKERS (70%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (70%); MINIMUM WAGE (70%); BUSINESS COACHING & MENTORING (68%); RETAILERS (68%); FACTORY ORDERS (68%); RETAIL SALES (67%); GASOLINE PRICES (67%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (67%); OIL & GAS PRICES (67%); METALWORKING EQUIPMENT MFG (63%); MACHINE TOOLS (63%); RESTAURANTS (62%); FINES & PENALTIES (60%) Entrepreneurship; Federal Budget (US); Small Business; United States Economy; Dashboard

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (55%)

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (53%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%); JOE BIDEN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2013



695 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2013

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 805 words

HEADLINE: Readers Weigh In on Working Your Way Through College

BYLINE: RON LIEBER


HIGHLIGHT: Readers offer opinions on student loan debt aversion, the ramifications of too many working hours and the obligations of responsible and accountable parents. 

 BODY:
My article in the Sunday Business section two weekends ago, about the challenge of working your way through college these days without taking on any student loan debt or receiving any help from your parents, served as a Rorschach test of sorts for readers.
Some people were thrilled that I chose to focus on hard-working individuals who have managed to get themselves a degree (or close to it) without much debt and without much help. Others thought that by glorifying a handful of extraordinary individuals, I made their accomplishments appear all too easy to reproduce when, in fact, their stories represented the fringe of undergraduate financial reality. 
Since this was an article in the news pages, and not a Your Money column, I should probably not say who I think is right. If you missed the article, please go back and read it and let us know what you think in the comments.
All that said, there were three other points of view threaded throughout the hundreds of comments that I wanted to highlight.
First, MJ from Iowa reinforced a point that Esther Manogin, Appalachian State's director of financial aid, also made in the article. Here's what MJ said:
Oh, come on. As of late last fall, average student loan debt was about $26,500. That's for an education that will last you a lifetime, and we're complaining and fretting as if it represented the end of the world. Yet, when we spend the same, or more, on a car that will be last but a few years, nobody seems concerned. Let's have some perspective, people. This really is no big deal.
This is a good point, within reason, given the large economic return on obtaining a college degree. One prudent approach for undergraduates may be this: Borrow up to the federal loan limits but no more (which means no private loans from for-profit institutions). That way, you'll be eligible for the federal income-based repayment program after graduation, which will keep your debt payments reasonable and forgive the remaining debt after a certain period of time if you can't catch up with the remaining balance.
Readers differed on whether working a lot was, in fact, a strategy for success. Commenter "I" from Chicago, was skeptical:
Working your way through school is not realistic. You should be studying, joining interest groups and doing internships. People who "believe" one should work their way through school are holding onto some piece of ideology that stopped being applicable 15 years ago, when the cost of attending school outstripped one's earning capabilities.
Perhaps. But even those who fail to graduate debt-free after many hours of work may still have a different kind of reward waiting for them from employers like andrewk829 in California:
When in my corporate experience, I have had a role in hiring recent college graduates, I have looked very favorably on those who worked in college, especially those who worked in jobs where their feet were tired or their clothes were sweat-soaked at the end of the day. I was usually less interested in the kid who had "internships" starting freshman year, many scored by way of well-connected parents.
The ideal profile was the student who worked part time during the school year and full time during summers. Whether it is a job as a waiter or waitress, working at a water or theme park, at a moving company, at a retail store ... it's all good. I have found that such individuals have a greater appreciation for the comparative comforts of life in the "professional" world (and hence are less likely to complain) and are more likely to use time efficiently and can better juggle multiple projects simultaneously.
Finally, I wondered about the built-in assumptions of relatively affluent readers like Hozeking in Naperville, Ill.
And what about parents like me paying for full tuition & living expenses for my graduating sons to the tune of $300,000? Nobody or no government helped me and my wife. It came out of our pocket. The press NEVER writes about willing supportive parents that will have to work longer than they would like (I am 57). No whining, it's just the facts of living a responsible and accountable life.
Somewhere along the way, we came to an understanding as a nation (without ever really discussing it) that if you can possibly afford to pay for your children's college education, then you should. It became a "fact" for "responsible" people, so much so that many people who save or earn a bit less than Hozeking and his wife end up borrowing for their children's education to be "accountable."
At some point, even affluent parents will start to cry uncle, right? Perhaps it's already happening, and you'll tell me about it below.

        
More College Students Living at Home
        
Your College Savings Advice
        
Most Students Spared Big Cuts in Debt Bill
        
College Students Don't View Debt as Burden
        
How a Gift Card Can Cut Your Tuition Bill

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STUDENT LOANS (93%); STUDENT EXPENSES (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (78%); PERSONAL DEBT (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); PARENTING (73%) Colleges and Universities; Parenting; Student Loans; Working Hours

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2013



696 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(ArtsBeat)

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2013

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 1238 words

HEADLINE: More Season 3 Conversation With 'Downton Abbey' Creator Julian Fellowes

BYLINE: DAVE ITZKOFF


HIGHLIGHT: Julian Fellowes talks about his approach to writing Season 3 of "Downton Abbey," characters who may (or may not) be returning for Season 4, and other "Downton"-related projects he may (or may not) be working on. 

 BODY:
In the first installment of an interview with the "Downton Abbey" creator and writer Julian Fellowes, he discussed how some key departures from the series occurred in Season 3, and how he is starting to think about his own exit from the show.
In this final edited excerpt from that conversation, Mr. Fellowes talks about his approach to writing Season 3, characters who may (or may not) be returning for Season 4, and other "Downton"-related projects he may (or may not) be working on.
 Q. 
 Is there a tradition in Britain that Christmas specials -- like the one that was shown as the finale here in America -- are supposed to be more uplifting, given the spirit of the holidays, than a typical episode of the series? 
 A. 
 Not really, to be honest. Not here. Most of the soap operas always use the Christmas special to kill huge quantities of their characters. So they have trams coming off their rails, or cars slamming into each other or burning buildings. It's a general clear-out. The first Christmas special we did of "Downton," it was pretty Christmas-y. It was the proposal, which was very nice. But that isn't particularly the tradition of these Christmas shows here. In a way, they're supposed to be more dramatic than a ordinary episode of the series. So in that sense, we were fitting into the ethos. 
 Q. 
The theme of the series is always people confronting change whether they like it or not, but was it a conscious decision to make that theme even more explicit in Season 3?
 A. 
Yes, it was. We started the show in 1912, which was just before the Great War. When you get to the '20s, you get into a very much accelerated rate of change. But it wasn't completely clear how much the world had changed. There were new inventions of course, but at the same time, a lot of people, both rich and poor, were living in a pretty similar way to the way they'd lived before the war. But that was essentially a chimera, and underneath the surface, in fact, the economic realities were making it clearer and clearer that actually, the world for most people had changed substantially. It would in the end be the Second World War that was the coup de grace for these Crawley type people. Not all of them - there's still people with cooks and butlers. But as a way of life, enjoyed by a whole tier of society, that finished it off. And I like that. I like the febrile quality, particularly of the '20s. Was it the modern world or was it all the same? That seems to me to lend itself to drama. 
 Q. 
In the absence of major historical events this season -- the sinking of the Titanic or World War I -- you would focus on how more subtle developments affect the characters?
 A. 
I think we've always had a kind of house style, of concentrating on their reaction to big things that are happening elsewhere. Some series, you have the door opening and Lloyd George and Adolf Hitler and Ribbentrop all walk through it. We haven't done that. We're not saying that the Crawleys are ordinary - they live a life that was pretty unusual even then. But nevertheless, they're quite deliberately not people who are in the thick of things. Tearing a pheasant with the prime minister on one side and the Queen of Romania on the other. We've chosen not to do that. Which I think is actually one of the strengths of the show.
 Q. 
Shirley MacLaine appeared on "Downton" this season as the mother of Cora (played by Elizabeth McGovern). Where did the idea come from to cast her on the show?
 A. 
We wanted very much to show that Cora came from a different tradition to Robert. There were a lot of these very rich girls who came over and married into the English upper classes and they saved masses of houses, at least for a bit. Cora hasn't come from some elegant Long Island, Daughters of the Revolution thing. Her father made a lot of money, and now she's here. It gives her a robustness and it explains why increasingly, as the century goes on, she doesn't feel she has to constantly align herself with aristocratic prejudices and principles. Because that's not who she is. And we needed a mother who would make that instantly clear. We also needed someone who would be evenly weighted to Maggie Smith, so when they were on screen together, it wasn't like a featherweight against a heavyweight. They were matched. In that, Shirley completely fulfilled both requirements. When she's on screen with Maggie, you don't know which one you want to look at.
 Q. 
Will you have her back for Season 4?
 A. 
Oh, I hope we can. She's very busy, and she has a lot of film offers. I would love to have her back in Series 4. I think Shirley agreeing to be in the show was a real mark of how successful it was. We loved having her, she was great.
 Q. 
It's been reported that you're writing a "Downton Abbey" prequel that would chronicle the courtship of Robert and Cora. Is this something you're really working on?
 A. 
I gave a lecture last year, and someone stuck up their hand and said, "Would you ever" - horrible word - "novelize the series?" And I said, "The only novel I think you could write that wouldn't interfere with the series, would be the prequel - the back story of Robert and Cora falling in love and her coming over as an American heiress." Because we know he married her for her money but then he fell in love with her afterward. But we don't know how that happened. Well, by the time I got home, my agent had rung from L.A., saying, "Why didn't you tell me there was a prequel?" By the time I woke up the next morning, the prequel was in production and was being cast. As it happens, I think that book would be quite fun. But I haven't got any plans to write it at the moment.
 Q. 
"Downton" took some critical lumps in Season 2 for plot developments that viewers felt happened too quickly or seemed beyond the scope of the series. Did this influence your approach to writing Season 3?
 A. 
The British press had praised this to the skies throughout the first series. And when they do that, you know they're going to hammer you in the second. We knew that before the camera had turned on. I remember someone said, "Oh, but the second series is so much faster than the first series." It wasn't faster at all. It was exactly the same. I think one was two and a quarter years, the other was two and a half years, or something. There was one thing where they got very excited about Matthew's wound, and when he regained the use of his legs. That was a straight medical condition, which they could have looked up on the Internet. A lot of the diagnoses were made in tents on the edge of battlefields, by overworked doctors who hadn't slept for a week. They were sent back to England with a probable diagnosis, which of course in many cases proved to be true. But in quite a few, proved to be false. And the business of a severed spine being confused with a bruised spine, there were many instances of that. But the papers didn't want that. America doesn't, as a whole, seem to have a problem with success. But Britain does. And you just have to not let it get you down too much while it's going on. It's like a war of attrition. If you're still standing, then they stop beating you.

        
Julian Fellowes Discusses a Season of Comings and Goings at 'Downton Abbey'
        
Dan Stevens Has Something to Say About 'Downton Abbey'
        
A 'Downton Abbey' Prequel in the Works
        
Watch Out Dowager Countess, Shirley MacLaine to Join 'Downton Abbey' Cast
        
Theater Talkback: Familiar Faces in Two Dimensions

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); WRITERS (78%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); HISTORY (75%); WORLD WAR II (63%) Downton Abbey (TV Program); Fellowes, Julian; MacLaine, Shirley; McGovern, Elizabeth; Smith, Maggie; Television

PERSON: Fellowes, Julian; MacLaine, Shirley; McGovern, Elizabeth; Smith, Maggie

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2013



697 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1123 words

HEADLINE: Who Pays the Corporate Income Tax

BYLINE: BRUCE BARTLETT


HIGHLIGHT: With the prospect of a Congressional debate on corporate taxes, there is no agreement even among economists about the extent to which customers, workers or shareholders bear the ultimate cost when companies are taxed, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Bruce Bartlett held senior policy roles in the Reagan and George H.W. Bush administrations and served on the staffs of Representatives Jack Kemp and Ron Paul. He is the author of "The Benefit and the Burden: Tax Reform - Why We Need It and What It Will Take." 
The United States has had a corporate income tax since 1909, but in all the years since there is a major question about it that economists haven't been able to answer satisfactorily: who pays it? The possibility that Congress may act on corporate tax reform this year makes this a highly salient question. 
The problem, of course, is that people must ultimately pay all taxes. Corporations, contrary to the views of some Republicans, are not people. They are legal entities that exist only because governments permit them to and are artificial vehicles through which sales, wages and profits flow. Hence, the actual burden of the corporate tax may fall on any of the groups that receive such flows; namely, customers, workers and shareholders, the ultimate owners of the corporation.
Probably most people assume that the corporate income tax is largely paid by consumers of its products or services. That is, they assume that although the tax is nominally levied on the corporation as a whole, in fact the burden of the tax is shifted onto customers in the form of higher prices.
All economists reject that idea. They point out that prices are set by market forces and the suppliers of goods and services aren't only C-corporations, which pay taxes on the corporate tax schedule, but also sole proprietorships, partnerships and S-corporations that are taxed under the individual income tax. Other suppliers include foreign corporations and nonprofits.
Therefore, corporations cannot raise prices to compensate for the corporate income tax because they will be undercut by businesses to which the tax does not apply. It should also be noted that the states have substantially different corporate tax regimes, including some that do not tax corporations at all, and we do not observe that prices for goods and services vary from state to state depending on its taxation of corporations.
That leaves two remaining groups that may bear the burden of the corporate tax: workers and shareholders.
In 1962, the University of Chicago economist Arnold C. Harberger, published an important article arguing that the corporate tax was borne entirely by shareholders. This was unquestionably true in the first instance; that is, when the corporate income tax was first imposed. The tax simply reduced corporate profits and had to come out of the pockets of shareholders, given that it could not be shifted onto consumers.
But as time went by, some economists argued that a substantial portion of the corporate income tax was ultimately paid by workers in the form of lower wages. This resulted because the supply of capital would shrink in order to raise the rate of return on capital. A smaller capital stock would reduce the productivity of labor and cause real wages to be lower in the long run.
Most economists now agree that the burden of the corporate income tax falls on labor to some extent, but there is disagreement over the degree. This is important because the political prospects for cutting the statutory corporate tax rate, a goal shared by all tax reformers, may depend on the extent to which it can be shown that workers will benefit.
The just-published March 2013 issue of The National Tax Journal, the principal academic journal devoted to tax analysis, contains four articles by top scholars who have sought to clarify the incidence of the corporate income tax. Unfortunately, there is no consensus.
The first article, by a Reed College economist, Kimberly Clausing, supports the traditional idea that capital bears all of the corporate tax. She notes that large multinational corporations have a great deal of flexibility in determining where to locate production, incur costs and realize profits.
A company may borrow in one country and take the deduction for interest there, locate actual production facilities and employ workers in another country, and realize profits in a third country by transferring intellectual property such as patents there or by adjusting prices on internal sales among its foreign subsidiaries.
Moreover, Professor Clausing notes, corporate shareholders may live in many different countries, each facing a different tax regime with respect to the taxation of dividends and capital gains.
For these reasons, she argues that it is impossible for workers to bear any significant portion of the corporate tax in the form of lower wages. It all falls on capital. A second article, by Jennifer Gravelle, a Congressional Budget Office economist, agrees with this conclusion.
But a third article, by an Oxford University economist, Li Liu and a Rutgers economist, Rosanne Altshuler, argues in favor of the idea that labor bears most of the burden of the corporate tax.
They take advantage of the fact that different industries bear different tax burdens because of various provisions of the tax law, and also that concentration and competition varies among industries. They empirically examine wages among industries and conclude that labor bears about 60 percent of the corporate tax burden.
That is, a $1 increase in corporate taxes will reduce wages by about 60 cents.
Finally, four Treasury Department economists detail the method the Treasury uses to allocate the corporate tax in distribution tables. They have the advantage of access to actual corporate tax returns and far greater detail on corporate finances than available to private researchers.
The Treasury economists conclude that 82 percent of the corporate tax falls on capital and 18 percent on labor. This is very close to the methodology of the private Tax Policy Center, whose analyses are frequently cited in policy debates. It assumes that 80 percent of the corporate tax is borne by capital and 20 percent by labor.
Of course, all of these assumptions may be called into question when dealing with any specific tax reform proposal. For example, a change in depreciation allowances is mainly going to affect manufacturing companies, whereas a change in the taxes on foreign-source income will have an impact only on multinationals.
To build support for or opposition to particular changes in corporate taxation, many claims will be made about the constituencies that will benefit or be harmed. People should be aware that even the best academic economists disagree on the basics of who actually pays the corporate tax.

        
The Growing Corporate Cash Hoard
        
Are Manufacturers Really Special?
        
What Makes Manhattan Cost So Much
        
Health Care as an Economic Stabilizer
        
The Most Important Problem Facing Small Businesses

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CORPORATE TAX (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); INCOME TAX (91%); TAX LAW (90%); WRITERS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (88%); SHAREHOLDERS (87%); PRICE INCREASES (86%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); TAX REFORM (74%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); SOLE PROPRIETORSHIPS (71%); SMALL BUSINESS (64%) Corporate Taxes; Law and Legislation; United States Economy; Today's Economist

PERSON: RON PAUL (73%); GEORGE H W BUSH (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2013



698 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1103 words

HEADLINE: Equipping the Fed for a Future Crisis

BYLINE: BINYAMIN APPELBAUM


HIGHLIGHT: While some say the central bank's safety-net role has rightfully been scaled back, the head of the New York Fed argues that it should be expanded. 

 BODY:
The federal government has generally responded to the financial crisis by expanding the power of regulators, most of all the Federal Reserve. But in an interesting speech this month, William C. Dudley, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, argued that Congress has not gone far enough.
Mr. Dudley's concern is about a little-noticed piece of the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act that actually reduced the central bank's authority in one crucial area: its ability to provide emergency funding to strapped financial firms. 
The Fed arrested the 2008 financial crisis by using this authority to create a series of unprecedented programs that offered emergency financing not just to American banks - its traditional flock - but also to foreign banks, and not just to banks but to other kinds of financial companies as well, and indeed to other kinds of companies entirely.
Congress responded to this performance by making it difficult to repeat. Dodd-Frank imposed new restrictions on the Fed's ability to make emergency loans, or to keep money flowing, outside the banking industry. 
One basic reason was that Congress had never really intended to give the Fed such broad power in the first place. Rather remarkably, the authority that the Fed used to save the financial system in 2008 was granted by Congress in 1991 with almost no debate or public notice, a story I first told in The Washington Post in 2009. It was quietly slipped into a broader bill by former Senator Christopher Dodd of Connecticut, at the behest of Wall Street companies including Goldman Sachs. When it was first used almost two decades later, legislators like Representative Barney Frank confessed that they didn't know they had voted for it.
Furthermore, everyone agreed that the 1991 law didn't make much sense. It expanded the Fed's safety net without expanding its regulatory authority. Banks are backstopped and, at least in theory, carefully regulated. Backstopping the rest of the financial system without regulation was an invitation to excess. There's a reasonable argument that that contributed to the crisis.
But rather than expanding regulation, Congress decided to pull in the net.
This decision commanded broad support. Bailing out financial firms is not a popular spectator sport, and there is a general consensus in Washington that public policy should focus on minimizing the damage when firms fail.
"Many - myself included - have drawn from the financial crisis the conclusion that government safety nets should be drawn tightly so that only a very few, very tightly regulated firms get as little liquidity support as possible," Karen Shaw Petrou, a close watcher of financial regulation who drew my attention to Mr. Dudley's speech, wrote to clients of her firm, Federal Financial Analytics.
A more inclusive policy, she continued, "will open the safety net, wide, wide open to all sorts of actors who, smiling sweetly, will rob us blind."
Mr. Dudley takes the opposite view. He argued in his recent speech that it would make no sense to draw a line between banks and other kinds of financial firms if both were playing essentially the same role in the broader economy.
Both should be regulated, and both should be backstopped.
"If we believe that these activities provide essential credit intermediation services to the real economy that could not be easily replaced by other forms of intermediation, then the same logic that leads us to backstop commercial banking with a lender of last resort might lead us to backstop the banking activity taking place in the markets in a similar way," he told the New York Bankers Association.
Perhaps the most powerful argument for this view is that the absence of a broader backstop is the mechanism by which a housing crash became a financial crisis.
The government stabilized deposit funding through the creation of the Federal Reserve, as an emergency lender to strapped banks, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as a guarantor that depositors would get their money back.
But banks and other financial companies increasingly draw money from sources that do not have similar backstops, including the sale of commercial paper to money market funds and complicated arrangements called "triparty repos" that basically allow financial firms to borrow money by pledging assets as collateral.
These are short-term loans that must be renewed regularly, often daily. As a result, panic among investors can almost instantly undermine financial stability, which is exactly what began to happen in 2007: Panic spread, financing disappeared, and the global financial system came perilously close to complete collapse.
There is broad agreement that something should be done to improve the stability of money-market funds and the triparty repo market. So far, nothing much has happened, but one can't rule out the possibility that that will change.
Mr. Dudley favors many of these efforts, but his broader point is that they all are insufficient. There is no substitute for the role the Fed now plays in the banking system, as a lender of last resort - and not just the emergency authority granted to the Fed in 1991, but authority to serve as a permanent backstop.
Alternatively, he noted that regulators could instead choose to restrict the use of unstable funding sources, but that is a solution many regard as impractical.
Perry Mehrling, an economist at Barnard College, argued in a 2011 book, "The New Lombard Street," that it had never made sense to restrict the Fed's backstop to the traditional banking system, because banks had always been part of a broader system, all of which required the same regulation and support.
"The practical intertwining of money markets and capital markets is the defining institutional feature of the American system, and that feature requires a similarly integrated backstop by the central bank," Professor Mehrling wrote.
The only choice, he argued, was between planning carefully for the next crisis, or repeating the Fed's ad-hoc any-tools-available response in 2008.
Mr. Dudley appears to be in complete agreement with that view.
"The sheer size of banking functions undertaken outside commercial banking entities - even now, after the crisis - suggests that this issue must not be ignored," he said. "Pretending the problem doesn't exist, or dealing with it only ex post through emergency facilities, cannot be consistent with our financial stability objectives."

        
Lifting the Veil on the Fed's 2007 Discussions
        
An Institutional Flaw at the Heart of the Federal Reserve
        
Opening Up the Fed
        
Podcast: Mortgage Crisis, the Euro and the Fed
        
Fed Lashes Out at 'Errors' in Reporting

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (92%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (76%); SUBPRIME LENDING (67%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (59%) Banking and Financial Institutions; Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (2010); Dudley, William C; Federal Reserve System; Subprime Mortgage Crisis

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (91%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); WASHINGTON POST CO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (84%) Federal Reserve System

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); WPO (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (91%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (54%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (54%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (54%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (54%)

PERSON: BARNEY FRANK (79%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (79%) Dudley, William C

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2013



699 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Taking Note)

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 616 words

HEADLINE: The Sequester Is Not an Abstraction

BYLINE: DAVID FIRESTONE


HIGHLIGHT: As the president made clear today, indiscriminate spending cuts hurt people. 

 BODY:
President Obama's plea this morning to avert the $85 billion sequester before March 1 was instantly ridiculed by Mitch McConnell, the Senate Republican leader, as a "campaign event." That's presumably because the president spoke in front of a group of emergency responders whose livelihoods are threatened by the indiscriminate spending cuts, just as he often used middle-class Americans as backdrops on the campaign trail. 
Fine, the emergency workers were props, just like the people who have filled the first lady's box at State of the Union speeches for decades. But there's nothing wrong with the president using federal employees as illustrations, since workers are going to bear the brunt of the sequester's pain. He could just as easily have lined up a group of federal meat inspectors since they will be going on furlough in a few weeks, resulting in grocery shortages. Or a group of air traffic controllers. Or cancer researchers. Or Head Start teachers. Or prison guards.

All of them will be working less in the coming months if Congress does not avert the sequester, producing backups in their specific fields that will be felt by all Americans, as well as a slowdown in spending and financial activity that will have an asteroid-like impact on the economy. The president is driving Republicans a little crazy by holding these illuminated events, because they vividly undermine the basic Republican tenet that vastly reduced spending is good for society - getting government out of the face of Americans who hate it - and good for the economy.
Cancer researchers are American government, and if Republicans don't think their work should be supported by taxpayers, they are free to make their case publicly. But they won't do that, because the various government functions facing cuts are both necessary and popular. Instead they talk in dire but abstract terms about the debt threat, pretending there is no need to ever raise taxes, and hoping that voters won't remember what their dollars actually pay for.
"This is not an abstraction - people will lose their jobs," Mr. Obama said today. "The unemployment rate might tick up again."
When Republicans threatened to put the government in default in 2011 unless the Democrats agreed to slash spending, they didn't tell the public what that would really mean, for either regular discretionary spending or health-insurance programs like Medicaid and Medicare. They expected Mr. Obama to specify actual cuts, hoping he would then share the blame for unpopular reductions in government services. And when he came up with the deliberately onerous sequester plan in order to prevent a disastrous default, Republicans readily agreed rather than raise taxes a dime. (Twice, actually, if you count the failure of the "super-committee" for the same reason.)
So it's ridiculous for Republicans to claim the sequester is really Mr. Obama's idea, as if a kidnapper's relatives deserve blame for paying the ransom. ("The President's Sequester," as Speaker John Boehner now calls it.) Republicans love the idea of reducing spending but prefer to remain in the shadows when the cuts actually materialize. Even now, they won't even consider the Democratic alternative of balancing cuts with an equal amount of higher tax revenue from the rich and corporations, preferring instead diversionary rhetoric like this today from Mr. Boehner:
"To keep these first responders on the job, what other spending is the president willing to cut?"
Actually, the president has already agreed to cuts of $1.5 trillion. What, specifically, does Mr. Boehner want to cut now?

        
The Spending Brownout
        
Having It Both Ways
        
Showing Backbone on the Debt
        
How to Increase Poverty
        
On the Deficit

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US BUDGET CONTROL ACT OF 2011 (78%); US CONGRESSIONAL SUPER COMMITTEE (78%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); LAYOFFS (75%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (74%); CIVIL SERVICES (74%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (71%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); MEDICAID (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%); MEDICARE (69%); ONCOLOGY (67%); CANCER (67%); HEALTH INSURANCE (60%); MEAT INSPECTION (54%) Budget Control Act (2011); Federal Budget (US); Featured Posts

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); MITCH MCCONNELL (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2013



700 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1214 words

HEADLINE: 'Currency War' Is Less a Battle Than a Debate on Economic Policy

BYLINE: STEVEN M. DAVIDOFF


HIGHLIGHT: Big countries are responding to their own economic downturns by easing monetary policies, but emerging market economies cannot respond with similar effectiveness. 

 BODY:
Never mind about North Korea; the talk in some quarters is that the biggest threat to Asia and the rest of the world today may very well be a "currency war," in which countries race to devalue their currencies in a desperate attempt to stimulate growth.
Yet the reality is much different. It is really a debate about how industrialized countries will grow out of their economic malaise, and even the term "currency war" is being misused.
That catchy phrase was first uttered by Guido Mantega, the Brazilian minister for finance, in 2010. What he was referring to was actually something more complicated than countries racing to depreciate their currencies, which is what most people refer to today when they use the phrase.
Instead, Mr. Mantega was really talking about the United States. The huge quantitative easing undertaken by the Federal Reserve has created an environment of low interest rates and put downward pressure on the dollar while pushing the currencies of other countries up. 
As they say in physics, every action has an equal and opposite reaction, and the Fed's actions have pushed hot money into countries, mostly emerging markets like Brazil, with higher interest rates. This creates bubblelike asset prices and spurs inflation.
Normally, the response of Brazil or another such country would be to ease its monetary policy and possibly also lower interest rates in an effort to tamp down demand for its currency. The problem is that Brazil has stubbornly high inflation at 6 percent and can't respond the way the United States could.
And that is what is really going on with the world's currencies. Bigger, more mature countries are responding to their own economic downturns by adopting easy money policies. But the problem is that the emerging market economies can't respond with similar effectiveness because of their own economic or political issues.
Nonetheless, the currency war talk has been revived because of an alarming fall in the value of the Japanese yen, which is down more than 20 percent against the dollar since November. The decline has reaped billions of dollars for hedge funds betting against the currency. It's nice for these already rich traders, but there will also be yen losers, with potentially bigger consequences.
The slide in the yen is a product of an effort by Japan's new prime minister, Shinzo Abe, to revive the no-growth, no-inflation Japanese economy that has been mired in stagnation for more than two decades.
Mr. Abe is not only openly advocating an inflationary policy with a 2 percent target, and more stimulus, he is talking down the yen. And this week, Japan is expected to appoint a new head of the Bank of Japan. Whoever that may be is expected to be on board with Mr. Abe's plan for further stimulus and inflation, a course that is likely to result in further yen depreciation.
As a result, Japanese exports have suddenly become significantly cheaper. And when an exporting powerhouse like Japan devalues its currency that quickly, other nations suddenly find that their goods are much less competitive on the global marketplace.
And once again, the issue is not that every country will depreciate, but how emerging market economies respond. These countries could respond in the easiest manner by letting their currencies appreciate. Many economists would say this is the ideal. Both the United States and Japan would benefit by having a cheaper currency and more growth, while developing nations would benefit by having a stronger currency and ability to buy more goods for consumption.
For many emerging market countries, this is hard to do politically, because it will mean that in the short term, their goods will be less competitive and their manufacturing bases will decline, meaning lost jobs.
Instead, these countries are more likely to try to deal with the yen's depreciation by doing the exact opposite. They will try to halt the appreciation of their currency. Obviously, economic policy is complicated and economists love to disagree, so the responses of each country may vary, but there are three common policy ways to lower a currency rate: do a round of quantitative easing to expand the balance sheet of the central bank; lower interest rates; or impose capital controls.
The various possible responses show that the currency war is really about genuine policy disagreements between economies over how to address the easy money policies of the bigger industrialized countries, in light of the fact that many emerging market companies cannot respond with the same policies. The European Union has chosen another path by declining to adopt a stimulus approach.
This explains why the world's financial officials and central bankers have not taken much of a stand.
After Lael Brainard, an under secretary for the Treasury, decried the "loose talk about currencies" and said that the United States supported "efforts to reinvigorate growth and to end deflation in Japan," financial ministers of the Group of 20 nations released a communiqué.
It stated that their policy was not "to target our exchange rates for competitive purposes" and that "excess volatility of financial flows and disorderly movements in exchange rates have adverse implications for economic and financial stability."
This followed a slightly different statement from the Group of 7 nations saying that the countries "have been and will remain oriented toward meeting our respective domestic objectives using domestic instruments, and that we will not target exchange rates."
Bland prose like this is typical of these gatherings, yet the Group of 7 appeared to endorse Japan's efforts. But if you look at the statement from the Group of 20, which includes Brazil and South Korea, it was less favorable, saying merely that there would not be a competitive devaluation. And no surprise, these are the countries most effected by the actions of the United States and Japan.
Ultimately, though, talk of a true currency war, where countries competitively devalue their exchange rates in a zero sum game that recalls the old Matthew Broderick film "War Games," is overstated. Remember that in "War Games," just by playing, you lose.
The reason is that even for those countries that can devalue, too much is at stake in this game. Instead, we are more likely to get what Goldman Sachs in a recently released research report called a "global exchange rate mechanism, but in a new noncooperative variant."
Countries will act within bands based on their options and status, but no one country will take the same tack at the same time because of their different economic positions In other words, a country can't merely turn on a switch and start a currency war of the sort people are talking about. Some don't want to, others cannot and the rest are constrained in how they can act.
And while disruptions may happen from time to time, equilibrium is more likely to set in as each country responds slowly. So the currency game will play out in slow motion as each country adopts its preferred approach.
This is a game that has been going on for years. Instead of a currency war, what we are seeing is the everyday problems of a global economy where countries are highly connected and quite distinct.

        
The Economic Manifesto of Elliott's Paul Singer
        
Whalen: Why QE2 Is a Problem

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC POLICY (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); JAPANESE YEN (77%); US DOLLAR (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); DEVALUATION (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); APPOINTMENTS (71%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (65%); PRIME MINISTERS (62%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) Inflation (Economics); Interest Rates; Quantitative Easing; US Dollar (Currency); Yen (Currency); Deal Professor; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (50%)

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (50%)

PERSON: SHINZO ABE (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (94%); BRAZIL (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); ASIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2013



701 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 433 words

HEADLINE: Coalition to Apply Election Strength to Immigration Debate

BYLINE: JULIA PRESTON


HIGHLIGHT: A coalition of labor, Latino and other groups that helped re-elect the president hope to push the Senate to include a pathway to citizenship for those here illegally in its immigration overhaul. 

 BODY:
In a new nationwide campaign, groups that favor a path to citizenship for most of the nation's 11 million illegal immigrants will seek to mobilize the same coalition that helped to carry President Obama into his second term, while treading lightly enough to avoid disrupting the delicate immigration overhaul negotiations in the Senate. 
On Tuesday, a coalition of Latino, Asian, African-American, labor and church groups announced plans to throw their weight into the immigration debate, saying they want Congress to move quickly on the complex and volatile issues, with legislation introduced in the Senate as early as March. But they refrained from providing details about the path to citizenship for illegal immigrants that they favor, saying it would be "premature" to be specific when the thorny issue is still being discussed at the White House and by bipartisan groups of lawmakers in the Senate and in the House of Representatives.
Janet Murguía, the president of NCLR, one of the largest national Latino organizations, said an overhaul bill with a clear path to citizenship for most illegal immigrants in the country was "a matter of fundamental respect for the Latino community." 
But she said the groups' leaders were looking to lawmakers, particularly in the Senate, to chart the precise course those immigrants would follow. 
The coalition also includes the A.F.L.-C.I.O. and the Service Employees International Union, among other unions; the Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights, which includes many of the largest African-American civil rights groups; and a range of church groups, including evangelical Christians. 
The coalition is building on a record of mobilization from the elections in November. The labor unions and the Latino and Asian immigrant groups led efforts that turned out many thousands of voters in states like Colorado, Florida and Nevada, which were crucial to Mr. Obama's re-election. 
The groups said they would hold a series of street rallies in coming weeks, especially in states of the eight senators in the bipartisan group, leading up to a major rally in Washington on April 10. On Feb. 25, the groups will begin a national bus tour that will travel to 19 states. The service employees union will run a $250,000 Spanish-language radio ad this weekend in major markets in 25 states. 

        
Obama Speech Expected to Embrace Immigration Plan
        
Obama Works the Phones to Calm Tensions on Immigration Plan
        
On Immigration, a Campaign-Style Push in Hispanic Media
        
Economic Nudge for an Immigration Overhaul
        
In Reid's Tone, Hints at Senate's Path on Guns and Immigration

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (95%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (91%); LABOR UNIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); RELIGION (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (76%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (73%); BUSINESS LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT (71%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (68%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (60%) Illegal Immigrants; Immigration and Emigration; Organized Labor; Senate; Service Employees International Union; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (82%); AFL-CIO (54%) Senate; Service Employees International Union

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2013



702 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(T Magazine)

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2013

SECTION: T-MAGAZINE; culture

LENGTH: 386 words

HEADLINE: Iwan Baan's Inclusive Eye

BYLINE: BROOKE HODGE


HIGHLIGHT: A solo exhibition of Baan's lush large-scale images of cities and their people and buildings opens this week at the Perry Rubenstein Gallery in Los Angeles. 

 BODY:
It has been just eight years since Iwan Baan began photographing architecture, but the way he sees the world has already made him a big name. His striking aerial photograph of Manhattan divided by the post-Sandy power outage quickly became an iconic image. "The Way We Live," a solo exhibition of Baan's lush large-scale images of cities and their people and buildings, opens this week at the Perry Rubenstein Gallery in Los Angeles. 
Baan's grandmother gave him a camera for his birthday when he was 12. "I was completely fascinated by it. I sold a picture in that first week and got a better camera," he recalled. He started working with architects when a friend told him about an exhibition that Rem Koolhaas was presenting in a big round tent in Brussels. Baan, who is Dutch, had been making panoramic photos and offered to document the exhibition. Koolhaas's CCTV building was under construction in Beijing at the time, and Baan decided to follow its progress. "I wanted to see how these gigantic projects got built in China," he says. "The crews are enormous. Small cities are created on site because the workers come from far away. I was struck by the way people still seem to live normal lives even though they are sometimes completely disconnected from their surroundings."
That connection to the human side of architecture sets Baan apart from his peers. While he has photographed many well-known buildings, he is equally fascinated by the vernacular. His photographs of the Torre David in Caracas (for which he won a Golden Lion award at the Venice Architecture Biennale) are a focus of the exhibition. The skyscraper, built for Venezuela's largest bank, was left unfinished when its developer died in 1993 and Venezuelan banks collapsed the following year. Because of an acute housing shortage in the city, locals quickly moved in, fashioning their own living spaces from the partially constructed concrete shell. "The people made a completely vertical city," Baan says. "Because it's self-governed, it was very safe, except for the fact that there were often no handrails."

The exhibition is on view at Perry Rubenstein Gallery in Los Angeles through April 13. 

        
Design Bookshelf | Great Houses of Havana
        
Domesticities | Lieb House, Saved
        
The Many Mutations of Beck
        
Photo Ops
        
New Build | The Tel Aviv Museum of Art

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); CITIES (89%); PHOTOGRAPHY (78%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); POWER FAILURES (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (62%) Baan, Iwan; Architecture; Photography; Culture; Design

PERSON: Baan, Iwan

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (70%); BEIJING, CHINA (70%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); CHINA (92%); BELGIUM (70%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2013



703 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1163 words

HEADLINE: A Great Debate

BYLINE: GARY GUTTING


HIGHLIGHT: Is there a way to make genuine debates, in which politicians must do more than just repeat talking points, part of our political culture? 

 BODY:
This is the year of what should be a decisive debate on our country's spending and debt. But our political "debates" seldom deserve the name. For the most part representatives of the rival parties exchange one-liners: "The rich can afford to pay more" is met by "Tax increases kill jobs." Slightly more sophisticated discussions may cite historical precedents: "There were higher tax rates during the post-war boom" versus "Reagan's tax cuts increased revenues." 
Such volleys still don't even amount to arguments: they don't put forward generally accepted premises that support a conclusion. Full-scale speeches by politicians are seldom much more than collections of such slogans and factoids, hung on a string of platitudes. Despite the name, candidates' pre-election debates are exercises in looking authoritative, imposing their talking points on the questions, avoiding gaffes, and embarrassing their opponents with "zingers" (the historic paradigm: "There you go again."). 
There is a high level of political discussion in the editorials and op-eds of national newspapers and magazines as well as on a number of blogs, with positions often carefully formulated and supported with argument and evidence. But even here we seldom see a direct and sustained confrontation of rival positions through the dialectic of assertion, critique, response and counter-critique.

Such exchanges occur frequently in our law courts (for example, oral arguments before the Supreme Court) and in discussions of scientific papers. But they are not a significant part of our deliberations about public policy. As a result, partisans typically remain safe in their ideological worlds, convincing themselves that they hold to obvious truths, while their opponents must be either knaves or fools - with no need to think through the strengths of their rivals' positions or the weaknesses of their own.
Is there any way to make genuine debates - sustained back-and-forth exchanges, meeting high intellectual standards but still widely accessible - part of our political culture? (I leave to historians the question of whether there are historical precedents- like the Webster-Hayne or Lincoln-Douglas debates.) Can we put our politicians in a situation where they cannot ignore challenges, where they must genuinely engage with one another in responsible discussion and not just repeat talking points? 
A first condition is that the debates be focused on specific points of major disagreement. Not, "How can we improve our economy?" but "Will tax cuts for the wealthy or stimulus spending on infrastructure do more to improve our economy?" This will prevent vague statements of principle that don't address the real issues at stake. 
Another issue is the medium of the debate. Written discussions, in print or online could be easily arranged, but personal encounters are more vivid and will better engage public attention. They should not, however, be merely extemporaneous events, where too much will depend on quick-thinking and an engaging manner. We want remarks to be carefully prepared and open to considered responses. 
Here's one suggestion for an effective exchange. The debate would consist of a series of four half-hour televised sessions, carried out on successive days. In the first session, the Republican, say, presents a pre-written case for a particular position (say that tax-cuts are better for the economy than stimulus spending). The Democrat, who will have read the Republican's presentation beforehand, presents a 15-minute point-by-point response. In the second session, the Republican asks the Democrat a series of questions (no more than one minute per question and three minutes per response) on the debate topic. In the third session, the Democrat questions the Republican. In the fourth session, each side has 15 minutes to present a final argument. This, of course, is just one idea. I welcome readers' suggestions for refinements or alternatives.
Such debates will not end our political disagreements, but they will set much higher standards of discussion, requiring fuller explanations of positions and even modifications to make them more defensible. It's unlikely that either side would ever simply give up its view, but, politically, they would have to react to a strong public consensus if they had not made a respectable case. Further, the quasi-official status of the participants, as representatives chosen by their parties, would make the parties' politicians answerable to points the representatives have made. If Congressman X says at a press conference, "Lower rates have always produced higher tax revenues," reporters might point out the party's representative had to retreat to a more nuanced position. Such nuance might open the path to fruitful compromise.
The only major obstacle to implementing this proposal would be getting the parties to participate. Here, I suggest, shame would be a prime motivator. Given strong popular support for such debates, it's hard to see how the parties could answer the charge that they are shying away because they don't have confidence in their ability to make a convincing case. 
Of course, many people will not have the time, interest, or the ability to follow debates of this sort. But those who do - including the leading commentators and opinion-makers - will be among the most concerned and articulate, and their views will have a significant effect on the terms and tone of the general discussion.
Facts and reasoning will never settle political issues. All of us have fundamental commitments that are impervious to argument. If an argument seems to refute them, we take this as a refutation of the argument. And, of course, many of us are too ignorant, self-interested or prejudiced on certain issues to be moved by rational considerations. But rationality almost always has some role in our decisions, and more rationality in our political discussion will at a minimum help many to better understand what is at stake in our disputes and why their opponents think as they do. 
So why not give reason a chance? How about a televised debate in the next few weeks on some key differences in the Democratic and Republican budget proposals? Here's a concrete suggestion: Representative Paul Ryan and Senator Charles Schumer debating the question: Will tax cuts for the wealthy or stimulus spending on infrastructure do more to improve our economy?
It may not draw the number of viewers that "American Idol" does, but it would surely be an improvement on the status quo of our political debate. 
 Gary Gutting is a professor of philosophy at the University of Notre Dame, and an editor of Notre Dame Philosophical Reviews. He is the author of, most recently, "Thinking the Impossible: French Philosophy since 1960," and writes regularly for The Stone. He was recently interviewed in 3am magazine.

        
Political Intelligence
        
Demographics and the 2012 Election
        
How to Argue About Politics
        
The Party Spirit on Trial
        
The Latest in Anti-Politics

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); HISTORY (76%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (76%); TAX INCREASES (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (64%); SUPREME COURTS (64%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%) Debates (Political); Democratic Party; Philosophy; Republican Party; Speeches and Statements; United States Politics and Government; The Stone

ORGANIZATION: Democratic Party; Republican Party

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2013



704 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2013

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 187 words

HEADLINE: Student Crossword | The Great Recession

BYLINE: FRANK LONGO


HIGHLIGHT: The Great Recession, which began in Dec., 2007 and officially ended in June 2009, is the greatest economic downturn in the United States since World War II. Do our puzzle and see our related features to learn more. 

 BODY:
The Great Recession, (which, according to Economix blogger Catherine Rampell, "earned its title" by being the greatest economic downturn since World War II) began in Dec., 2007 and officially ended in June of 2009 - though since then we have been struggling through a "not-so-great recovery." 
Learn more about the Great Recession by playing our crossword, either or in print. You can find the answers here.
When you're done, you might:
-Consider one Op-Ed writer's take on the Great Recession's impact on young people by reading "The Go-Nowhere Generation."
- Answer our Student Opinion question, "Will the Millennial Generation Achieve the American Dream?"
-Try one of our lesson plans about the recession and its impact, including:

        
2013 | Making Do: Learning and Growing Through Adversity,
        
2012 | On the Road to Recovery? Analyzing Economic Indicators
        
2010 | Onward and Upward? Documenting Local Economic Conditions
        
2010 | Voices From the Crisis: Investigating Local Effects of Unemployment
Find our complete archive of Student Crosswords here.

        
Good News About the U.S. Economy?
        
Teaching 'The Grapes of Wrath' With The New York Times

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (92%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (91%); RECESSION (90%); WORLD WAR II (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); WRITERS (73%) Great Recession; Recession and Depression; Student Crossword

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2013



705 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1464 words

HEADLINE: Marco Rubio: The Electable Conservative?

BYLINE: NATE SILVER


HIGHLIGHT: The reason to watch Mr. Rubio carefully for 2016 is that, among the candidates who will be deemed reliably conservative by Republican voters and insiders, he may stand the best chance of maintaining a reasonably good image with general election voters. 

 BODY:
Some commentators have expressed surprise upon learning about the very conservative voting record of Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, who delivered the Republican response to the State of the Union address last week.
Since winning his Senate seat, Mr. Rubio has generally sided with other Republicans as part of a party that has steadily grown more conservative over the last three decades. (Mr. Rubio's recent support for immigration reform is more of an exception than his usual rule of sticking to the party line.)
Being reliably conservative, however, is hardly a liability for someone who might hope to win the Republican presidential nomination in 2016. Indeed, one reason to watch Mr. Rubio carefully is that, among the candidates who will be deemed reliably conservative by Republican voters and insiders, he may stand the best chance of maintaining a reasonably good image with general election voters.
How does Mr. Rubio's conservatism compare to the other men and women who might seek the Republican nomination in 2016 - and to other candidates, like Mitt Romney, that the G.O.P. has nominated recently? 
There are several statistical methods that seek to rate candidates' ideology on a left-right scale. FiveThirtyEight uses three of these methods in evaluating the ideology of Senate candidates as part of our technique for forecasting those races. The same methods can be applied to presidential candidates.
The first of these systems, DW-Nominate, is based upon a candidate's voting record in the Congress. The second method, developed by Adam Bonica, a Stanford University political scientist, makes inferences about a candidate's ideology based on the groups and individuals who have contributed to his campaign. The third method, from the Web site OnTheIssues.org, works by indexing public statements made by the candidate on a variety of major policy issues.
Not every rating system is available for every candidate: those who have never served in Congress have no DW-Nominate score, for example. And the methods sometimes disagree. The libertarian-leaning Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky is rated as being extremely conservative by DW-Nominate and by Mr. Bonica's method, which tend to give more emphasis to a candidate's record on economic issues. But he is rated as fairly moderate by OnTheIssues.org, which also evaluates his stances on social policy. Sarah Palin is also rated as extremely conservative by Mr. Bonica's system, but as relatively moderate by OnTheIssues.org. (Keep in mind that before being selected as John McCain's running mate, Ms. Palin had some history as a reform-minded governor of Alaska.)
Nevertheless, we can usually get a reasonably good objective measurement of a candidate's ideology by essentially taking an average of the three approaches. (Because the measures are not on the same scale, I normalize Mr. Bonica's scores and the OnTheIssues.org scores to give them the same mean and standard deviation as DW-Nominate.) The higher the score, the more conservative the candidate.
DW-Nominate scores normally run on a scale that goes from negative 1 for an extremely liberal candidate to positive 1 for an extremely conservative one. To make the result more legible, I have multiplied all scores by 100 - so that, for instance, a moderate Republican might have a score of 25 rather than 0.25. Mr. Rubio achieves a score of 51 by this method. What does that mean, exactly?
The last two Republican presidential nominees, John McCain and Mitt Romney, had a score of 39 by comparison, meaning that they were more moderate than Mr. Rubio. Mr. Rubio is also rated as being to the right of Ronald Reagan, who had a score of 44, and George W. Bush, who had a score of 46. Among Republican presidential nominees since 1960, in fact, only the extraordinarily conservative Barry Goldwater, who had a score of 67, rates as being more conservative than Mr. Rubio.
But Mr. Rubio stands out less when compared to Republicans of today. Whereas in 1980 the average Republican member of Congress had a score of 30, the average Republican in the most recent Congress had a score of 48, very close to Mr. Rubio's. Thus, my contention that Mr. Rubio is a good representative of the Republican Party as it stands today.
This is a potentially advantageous position for a Republican competing in the presidential primaries. In both parties, nominees have usually come from the center of their parties, rather than from the moderate or the "extreme" wings. There are exceptions: Mr. Reagan, although he would fit right into the Republican Party today, was much more conservative than most of his contemporaries in 1980. But in general, Mr. Rubio is pretty close to the sweet spot of where a presidential nominee might want to be.
There are some viable candidates to Mr. Rubio's right. The 2012 Republican vice-presidential nominee, Representative Paul D. Ryan, rates a score of 55, slightly more conservative than Mr. Rubio. Scott Walker, the governor of Wisconsin, rates a 57.
Mr. Rubio, however, has had net-positive favorability ratings among the general electorate in the most recent surveys, whereas the Republicans to his right usually have not. Mr. Ryan's favorability ratings, for example, wound up being about break-even after the 2012 campaign.
This is not to say that Mr. Rubio is extraordinarily popular. Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey has favorability ratings that are much stronger than Mr. Rubio's, for example. Mr. Christie rates as being far more moderate by these statistical methods, however, having broken with his party not just on immigration, but also on issues like gun control and environmental policy, which could be a problem for him with Republican primary voters. (If nominated by the Republicans in 2016, he might possibly be the most moderate major-party nominee since Dwight D. Eisenhower). 
Other potential candidates, including former Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida and Gov. Susana Martinez of New Mexico, are close to Mr. McCain and Mr. Romney on the ideological spectrum. 
Isn't it premature to draw attention to a candidate's popularity so far in advance of the primaries? Certainly, a great deal will change between now and 2016.
But long before Republican voters in Iowa and New Hampshire cast their ballots, the potential nominees will be competing against one another in the so-called "invisible primary." In this stage, which is already under way, they hope to persuade party insiders that they represent the best path forward for Republicans in 2016. The more successful they are at doing so, the more they will be rewarded with money, endorsements and the talent to run their campaigns, giving them a huge advantage once voting actually does begin three years from now.
Mr. Rubio's most persuasive pitch to Republican Party insiders may well be that he is more popular than other, ideologically similar candidates. Some of those candidates, like Mr. Ryan, can probably offer a richer intellectual defense of conservatism, or can claim to have been better vetted. Several others, like Gov. Bobby Jindal of Louisiana, have more executive experience. Mr. Rubio's relatively favorable public image represents his comparative advantage. (There are also the facts that Mr. Rubio is Hispanic and is from Florida, but these advantages boil down to electability as well: the possibility that he might help Republicans make gains with Latinos, and that he could give them a lift in an especially important swing state.)
What makes matters tricky for Mr. Rubio is that, at the same time he is hoping to persuade Republican party insiders that he deserves their support, he will also need to maintain a reasonably good image with the broader electorate lest his electability argument be undermined. This may lead to some strange positions, such as when Mr. Rubio recently critiqued President Obama's immigration proposal despite its many similarities to his own.
When the wider electorate learns that Mr. Rubio's positions are in fact hard to differentiate from those of other conservative Republicans, will his favorability ratings turn mediocre, as Mr. Ryan's now are?
This is not meant as a rhetorical question. One measure of political talent, and something that characterized both Mr. Reagan and Mr. Obama, is the ability to sell ideas to voters across a wide range of the political spectrum. Perhaps Mr. Rubio will prove to be such a talent. Otherwise, if Mr. Rubio holds a fairly ordinary (and conservative) set of Republican positions, his popularity ratings may wind up being ordinary as well.

        
There's Room for More G.O.P. Candidates
        
What Are Paul Ryan's Chances of Becoming President?
        
Why Hillary Clinton Would Be Strong in 2016 (It's Not Her Favorability Ratings)
        
A Guide to Super Tuesday Possibilities
        
Advantage Romney in February, but Risks Abound

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (94%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (72%); IMMIGRATION LAW (72%); STATISTICAL METHOD (66%); IMMIGRATION (56%) 2016; Chris Christie; conservative; favorability ratings; Marco Rubio; Paul Ryan; Republicans; Rubio, Marco; Conservatism (US Politics); Presidential Election of 2016; Primaries and Caucuses; Republican Party; Politics

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

PERSON: MARCO RUBIO (96%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); PAUL RYAN (79%); SARAH PALIN (58%); RAND PAUL (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%) Rubio, Marco

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2013



706 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 291 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths BUONGIORNO, JOSEPH A.

 BODY:
BUONGIORNO--Joseph A.,83, of Manhattan passed away on Monday, February 18, 2013. Born in Ridgewood, Queens on November 12, 1929 to Joseph N. and Vita Cassano Buongiorno, Joe attended the Brooklyn Technical High School and received a degree in Mechanical/Civil Engineering from Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, PA. He worked for Glenn L. Martin in Baltimore, Maryland, before returning to the New York City area to work for Republic Airlines. He earned a master's degree in Merchant Marine Science, specializing in international transportation management from the SUNY Maritime College. 
In the 1980s, he was a doctoral candidate in economics and international trade at Pace University. After retirement as president of Boyd, Weir, & Sewell, a tanker brokerage in Manhattan, he attended Touro Law School and was admitted to the New York State Bar in 2000. Since then he had been practicing law, specializing in intellectual property/product liability. An avid sailboat racer and tennis player, Joe was a member of the New York Athletic Club for more than 55 years and served as the Commodore of the NYAC Yacht Club. He was also a long time member of the Metropolitan Opera Club and New York Yacht Club. He was the vice president of New York City Lawyers chapter of The Federalist Society for Law and Public Policy Studies. Joe is survived by his son, Joseph A. Buongiorno of Pittsburgh, PA; and two grandchildren, Peter H. of Boston, MA, and Carolyn C. of Pittsburgh. Visitation Thursday from 2-4 and 7-9pm at John Krtil Funeral Home, Inc., 1297 1st Avenue, NYC (70th St). Mass of Christian Burial Friday 10am at St John the Evangelist Roman Catholic Church, 348 East 55th Street (1st Ave). Interment Maple Grove Cemetery, Kew Gardens, NY.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); RELIGION (86%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (84%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (77%); LAW SCHOOLS (77%); ENGINEERING (77%); CHILDREN (77%); LAWYERS (77%); MARINE VESSELS (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); ADMISSION TO PRACTICE LAW (74%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (72%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (68%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (68%); ATHLETES (67%); GRANDCHILDREN (65%); PRODUCT LIABILITY (53%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (53%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STATE BAR ASSOCIATION (56%); FEDERALIST SOCIETY FOR LAW & PUBLIC POLICY STUDIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (94%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2013



707 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 447 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths ZWEIG, MARTIN E

 BODY:
ZWEIG--Martin E. With profound sadness, we announce the passing of Martin (Marty) E. Zweig, 70, on February 18, 2013. Born in 1942 in Cleveland, Ohio, Zweig was a legendary investor, prolific writer and iconic teacher. Having begun trading stocks as a teenager, Marty began his more formal career in the 1970s writing investment newsletters while he was a Professor of Finance. One of the most highly regarded investment newsletters in the country, The Zweig Forecast was published for twenty-six years, from 1971-1997. Zweig's investment picks regularly outperformed the market. 
The Zweig Forecast ranked number one for risk-adjusted returns during the 15 years it was monitored by Hulbert Financial Digest. Zweig is credited with original and important statistical market research, including the creation of the put/call ratio, a technical measure of investor sentiment that is now a common market indicator. Zweig's creation of the put/call ratio was part of his ground breaking research for his Ph.D. in Finance. Zweig was also a frequent contributor to business magazines, including Barron's. Throughout the 1980s, Zweig was a regular guest on PBS's Wall $treet Week with Louis Rukeyser. During one such appearance in 1987, Zweig famously and accurately forecasted the October 1987 stock market crash. In 1992, he was voted into Wall Street Week's Hall of Fame. He authored two books on the financial markets, the best-selling Winning on Wall Street, (1986) and Winning with New IRAs, (1987). In 1984, he and Joe DiMenna founded Zweig-DiMenna Partners, their first of several long/short hedge funds. Zweig-DiMenna Partners is one of the longest-running and most successful of the flexible long/short hedge funds. Zweig also created two closed-end funds traded on the New York Stock Exchange, featuring his investment philosophy: The Zweig Fund in 1986 and The Zweig Total Return Fund in 1988. Martin Zweig graduated with a B.A. in Economics from The Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania in 1964. He later received an M.B.A. from the University of Miami and a Ph.D. in Finance from Michigan State University. Martin Zweig was a member of the Undergraduate Executive Board of The Wharton School and active in a number of charities. Zweig was an avid art and memorabilia collector. He was also an ardent salsa dancer, poker player, runner and student of baseball statistics. Marty was one of a kind. He is survived by his wife Barbara and sons Zack and Alex. There will be a celebration of his life with details to be announced. Donations can be made to the Zweig Family Center for Living Donation at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York City or the American Cancer Society.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); MARKET RESEARCH (75%); SECURITIES TRADING (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (72%); RANKINGS (70%); CANCER (69%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (69%); HEDGE FUNDS (68%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (65%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (64%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (64%); CHARITIES (63%); BASEBALL (60%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2013



708 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: Lone Star Blues

BYLINE: By RICHARD PARKER. 
Richard Parker writes for McClatchy-Tribune Information Services.

 BODY:
AUSTIN, Tex.
THE 2012 presidential race in Texas might as well have been in Mexico, so little did the Democrats campaign for the state's 38 electoral votes.
Yet during a fund-raising swing on a sweltering July day, President Obama let a political secret out of the bag for his rich donors. ''You're not considered one of the battleground states,'' he said, ''although that's going to be changing soon.''
Democrats are champing at the bit to turn Texas blue. ''People are now looking at Texas and saying: 'That's where we need to make our next investment. That's where the next opportunity lies,' '' one Democratic state senator told Politico. There's even optimistic chatter of Hillary Rodham Clinton's capturing the state in 2016 if she runs for president. 
But it's going to take more than money or a Clinton. The only constant in politics may be change, but turning Texas blue -- or even purple -- is going to be a lot harder than most folks imagine. It will require hard work, political infrastructure and a vision of Hispanic voters that goes beyond immigration reform.
Texas was reliably Democratic for more than a century, from Reconstruction through the Lyndon B. Johnson years. Johnson ably -- albeit cynically and sometimes illegally -- harnessed the Hispanic vote to keep his more reactionary opponents off balance in primaries.
But the liberal 1960s drove white conservatives into what was once a minuscule Republican Party. With the help of Rust Belt migrants in the 1970s, Republican strength grew under John G. Tower, Bill Clements and the elder George Bush.
In 1994, Mr. Bush's son George pushed that indomitable Texas Democrat, Ann W. Richards, from the governor's office, after which his consigliere, Karl Rove, engineered a generation of Republican domination. Meanwhile, the Democratic Party, though strong in southern Texas and in some cities, withered as a statewide organization.
Now, though, Democrats are hopeful that the immovable object -- the overwhelmingly male, conservative Republican power structure -- is about to meet the unstoppable force: demography. Texas is home to 9.5 million Hispanics, about 38 percent of the population, just seven points behind the non-Hispanic white population. In 2020, Hispanics will begin to surpass the white population and will outright dwarf it in 2030.
But the Hispanic vote is not monolithically Democratic, nationally or in Texas. In 2004, 40 percent of Texas Hispanics backed George W. Bush for re-election. In 2010, Rick Perry got almost 40 percent of the Hispanic vote statewide, and nearly half in South Texas, the purported base for Democratic growth.
Then there is the problem of Democratic infrastructure: there hasn't been one for years. In 1995, Ron Kirk forged a coalition of Hispanics and African-Americans to become the first black mayor of Dallas, but he could not do the same statewide; he lost a Senate race to John Cornyn in 2002.
That same year, the millionaire oilman Tony Sanchez, a Democrat running for governor, had money, a Mexican heritage and an ability to appeal to Mexican-American voters. For it, he still lost 35 percent of the Hispanic vote to Mr. Perry, who claimed the governor's mansion.
But the biggest problem is voter participation. Only about half of eligible Hispanic voters show up nationwide; this edged up slightly in 2012 to 53 percent. In Texas, just 4.1 million Hispanics are registered to vote, and only about half of them make it to the voting booth.
Why? There are a variety of explanations, including cultural ones. It's pretty easy to feel disenfranchised by a political system that talks about you as an ''immigrant'' or, worse, an ''alien.''
The Democrats have a few things working for them. The national Republican Party and its immigrant-bashing tendencies is one, of course. And it has hitched its outreach wagon to two senators -- Marco Rubio of Florida and Ted Cruz of Texas -- who are Cuban-American, a difference that may seem minor to non-Hispanics but that significantly diminishes their appeal to Texas' Latinos, who are primarily of Mexican heritage. (Indeed, the Canadian-born Mr. Cruz actually got fewer Hispanic votes last year than Mr. Cornyn did in 2008.)
It may be that the demographic wave makes all this beside the point, and that increasing turnout among Hispanics just a little might make a big difference.
But that requires ground troops, voter education and turnout efforts over a multicycle campaign. It also requires that Democrats stop assuming they're going to lose. ''If we start treating this as a purple state,'' said Matt Glazer of the activist group Progress Texas, ''we would be one that much sooner.''
That also assumes that Republicans continue on their present, self-destructive course. If they moderate their anti-immigrant message, they might cut into the gains that optimistic Democrats are taking for granted.
Aside from get-out-the-vote efforts and pro-immigrant posturing, the Democrats need to develop a better understanding of Texas Hispanics as more than just immigrants. Their No. 1 issue: jobs. Polling and focus groups by the University of Texas political scientist Daron Shaw suggest that economic themes -- including education and entrepreneurship -- may draw Hispanics to vote in greater numbers. But as long as both parties see voters as mere immigrants, he said, ''Hispanics are going to look at the candidate as just another politician.''
It has been 36 years since the Democrats last captured Texas in a presidential election. It could well happen again. But to make it happen, they have to look beyond demographics and start focusing on the hard, long road of party building first.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY KELSEY DAKE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (78%); POLITICS (77%); GOVERNORS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); IMMIGRATION (65%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); KARL ROVE (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); RON KIRK (58%); RICK PERRY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (91%) TEXAS, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2013



709 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: Incumbent Wins Easy Victory in Armenia

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

 BODY:
President Serzh Sargsyan of Armenia easily won re-election to a second five-year term, according to preliminary returns released on Tuesday by the Central Election Commission.
The returns showed Mr. Sargsyan with about 59 percent of the vote, enough to win the presidency outright and avoid a runoff. The former foreign minister, Raffi Hovanessian, was a distant second with about 37 percent, the returns showed.
Armenians went to the polls on Monday with Mr. Sargsyan heavily favored to win and maintain stability in a country that has become an increasingly important, if uneasy, United States ally in monitoring Iran's nuclear ambitions. 
A veteran politician, Mr. Sargsyan, 58, is generally viewed as having presided over modest economic improvements in recent years, even as the country has struggled because of closed borders with Turkey and Azerbaijan, its enemy in a continuing war over the disputed territory of Nagorno-Karabakh.
But while Mr. Sargsyan's victory has been predicted for months, there have been some unexpected developments in the campaign. One challenger, Andreas Ghukasian, a political commentator who manages a radio station in the capital, Yerevan, has been on a hunger strike, demanding that the incumbent be removed from the ballot.
Another challenger, Paruir A. Airikyan, was shot in the shoulder in late January in what the authorities described as an assassination attempt, although there was no known motive. He is a former Soviet dissident who promoted Armenian independence and has run unsuccessfully for president several times.
Mr. Airikyan briefly considered invoking a constitutional provision to delay the election for two weeks as a result of his injury, but he ultimately decided to allow the balloting to proceed.
Mr. Sargsyan's second term will be watched closely for any sign of progress in resolving the war with Azerbaijan and for any indication that Armenia would reduce support for economic sanctions against Iran, as they make life more difficult in both countries.
The conflict over Nagorno-Karabakh continues at a low simmer with periodic violence along the line of contact, including frequent exchanges of gunfire and occasional casualties. Peace talks led by the so-called Minsk Group, which is led by the United States, Russia and France, have mostly stalled.
Armenia has traditionally relied heavily on Iran as an economic partner, but those ties are now constrained by the sanctions over Iran's nuclear program. Iran insists its purposes are peaceful, but Western powers accuse Tehran of seeking the technology to build nuclear weapons and have imposed a broadening array of United States, United Nations and European Union sanctions.
Armenia has supported the measures, while continuing to engage in some trade that circumvents them, like swapping its electricity for natural gas from Iran with no money changing hands.
''Having Iran as your economic lifeline is not a good position to be in,'' said one senior Western diplomat, who asked not to be identified to avoid creating any tension with players in the region.
''They have been very, very careful, very, very good, at some cost to Armenia, to honor international U.N., U.S. and E.U. sanctions against Iran,'' the diplomat said. ''But it's increasingly difficult for them to do that.''
International election observers have fanned out across Armenia in recent days. Initial reports suggested that Mr. Sargsyan's party had made some inappropriate use of government resources to promote his candidacy, a common criticism of incumbent candidates in former Soviet republics. But observers say the overall political climate has improved, with opposition candidates, for instance, enjoying better access to coverage by the news media.
Still, Armenia faces a peculiar problem when it comes to potential election fraud because of the hundreds of thousands of Armenian citizens who live abroad, including in the United States -- one of the largest percentage diasporas in the world given Armenia's population of 3.1 million, according to the World Bank.
With few exceptions, absentee balloting is not permitted. That means the Armenian election rolls are filled with the names of people who will not appear in person to vote, creating the potential for fraudulent use of those names.
Mr. Sargsyan faced relatively weak competition after his two strongest potential challengers and their parties announced last year that they would not compete -- former President Levon Ter-Petrossian of the Armenian National Congress and Gagik Tsarukyan of the Prosperous Armenia Party. Mr. Tsarukyan is a wealthy businessman, lawmaker and the head of Armenia's national Olympic committee.
Mr. Sargsyan and his wife, Rita, paused Monday to speak with reporters after voting in Yerevan. ''I have voted for the security of our citizens and our families,'' he said, according to aysor.am, an Armenian news site.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (85%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (79%); VOTERS & VOTING (79%); BALLOTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (76%); EUROPEAN UNION (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (75%); ASSASSINATION (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (71%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (69%); WAR & CONFLICT (69%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (66%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (60%); PEACE PROCESS (50%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (57%) ARMENIA (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); AZERBAIJAN (92%); FRANCE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); BELARUS (79%); IRAN (57%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2013



710 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1163 words

HEADLINE: This Charleston Harbor Battle Is Over Impact of Cruise Ships

BYLINE: By KIM SEVERSON

 BODY:
CHARLESTON, S.C. -- In this Southern coastal city that runs on history and hospitality, a raucous civic debate belies a genteel veneer.
Like several communities that hug the nation's coastline, Charleston is struggling to balance the economic benefits of cruise ships against their cultural and environmental impact.
Last week's debacle aboard Carnival Cruise Lines' Triumph, in which an engine fire stranded 4,200 people in the Gulf of Mexico for five days, has done little to deter those civic leaders who believe that building a new $35 million cruise terminal will be a great boon for this port city.
But for people like Jay Williams, a homeowner in the historic district who writes a blog for Charleston Communities for Cruise Control, a preservationist group, the nightmare on the Triumph is one more piece of evidence in the case against a fast-growing form of travel. ''Cruise ships are sardine cans packed with passengers and crew, susceptible to horrific accidents that instantly can put thousands at risk for their lives,'' he wrote after the episode. 
Cruising has never been more popular or affordable, with its mix of easy travel, exotic locales and onboard amenities that include cooking schools and simulated surfing. In 2012, cruise ships carried 20 million passengers, the majority of them from the United States. With 14 new cruise ships entering the water in 2014, the number of passengers is expected to increase by as much as 8 percent.
But on the shores of the nation's most charming cities and towns, the relationship is complicated.
In Key West, Fla., voters will decide this fall whether to spend $3 million toward widening a channel that leads to the city's ports, where 350 cruise ships arrive each year. A deeper channel would allow a new, larger class of cruise ships to dock. Business owners and residents worry that the dredging would hurt fragile coral reefs and overwhelm the town.
In Alaska on Tuesday, state lawmakers rolled back tough wastewater standards mandated by voters in 2006. The bill, backed by Gov. Sean Parnell, will allow the 36 cruise ships that travel Alaska's waters each year to discharge wastewater with less treatment than it currently receives.
Michelle Ridgway, a marine ecologist who serves on the state science panel for cruise ships, watched as Alaska cruise ship traffic grew to about a million people a year and changed her hometown, Ketchikan. ''The pulp mill closed and the place turned into Disneyland,'' she said.
Charleston's cruise ship debate seems small by comparison, but it is deeply felt.
The Fantasy -- at 23 years old, the oldest ship in the Carnival fleet -- has been based in Charleston since 2010. It slides into port once or twice a week. Some 2,000 passengers, most of whom have driven in from nearby states, walk through an aging terminal, climb aboard and sail off to the Bahamas or the Caribbean for a few days or a week. Other cruise ships sometimes stop to visit the city, too.
The South Carolina Ports Authority wants to build a new ship terminal that port officials say will handle only one ship at a time, but the frequency of ships could increase.
Those dedicated to preserving a section of town whose buildings date to the 1700s worry that a new terminal will bring a damaging concentration of tourist traffic and larger cruise vessels.
''I can't believe they are doing this to Charleston,'' said Carolyn Dietrich, who lives just a few blocks from the terminal. ''I can hear the announcements from my house,'' she said. ''And that black smoke. It just tumbles out of that smokestack. You should see the dust in my car.''
Port officials point out that cruise ships are a tiny slice of the city's shipping traffic. More than 1,700 vessels use the port every year, and only 85 of those are cruise ships. And cruise traffic, they say, is worth $37 million a year to the region.
But this city takes its preservation seriously. The specter of more cruise ships has spawned three state and federal lawsuits and has placed the city's historic district on the World Monuments Fund's list of most endangered cultural sites.
The intensity of opposition has the usually composed mayor, Joseph P. Riley Jr., baffled and angry. ''This thing is hard to understand because it's not logical,'' he said. ''This is not a theme park. One of the authentic parts of Charleston is that we are an international port.''
He points out that the city will get a new waterfront park, and that it has an agreement with the port that caps the number of ships a year at 104.
People wary of cruise ship traffic want the limit to be legally binding. They also want the ships to plug into electrical power on shore, a newer technology only some ships have. (Shore power exists at some Alaska and California ports and is in the process of being adapted at the Brooklyn Cruise Terminal in Red Hook.)
But mostly, they want the port to consider two other spots along the waterfront, which the mayor and port officials say are unworkable.
Not that cruise ship passengers worry too much about the impact their vacations have on local communities. Battles over local or federal legislation, like the Clean Cruise Ship Act, which died in Congress in 2010, are not as interesting as which name-brand chef is going to open a restaurant on board.
''Our audience doesn't really respond to the municipal-level battles or the environmental stuff,'' said Dan Askin, senior editor at cruisecritic.com, a consumer Web site dedicated to cruise ships.
The cruise ship industry has less comprehensive oversight than the airline industry, which is regulated by the Federal Aviation Administration. Ships fly under foreign flags and their parent companies are incorporated overseas, leaving regulation to a patchwork of federal, state and, rarely, local laws.
That puts more responsibility on local communities that host cruise ships, said Marcie Keever, oceans and vessels program director at Friends of the Earth, an environmental group. ''They need to not just listen to the cruise ship industry or assume regulations are in place,'' she said. ''They need to talk to other cities that have gone through this.''
A cautionary tale might be found in Mobile, Ala., where Carnival Cruise Lines hauled the lifeless Triumph last week. Mobile would gladly take any cruise ship traffic at all. The port and the city romanced Carnival Cruise Lines for years. In 2004, after the city borrowed $20 million to build a terminal, Carnival finally agreed to the relationship and based a ship there.
In 2007, Carnival named Mobile its port of the year. Things were going so well that in 2009, Mobile spent $2.6 million on a new gangway. Two years later, Carnival left.
The location just wasn't popular enough, it said, and rising fuel costs made Mobile a less efficient port than New Orleans.
''It's a mobile fleet so they can move to a place that is giving them the best deal,'' Mr. Askin said. ''That's good for the companies, but bad things start to happen to cities when ships bail out.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Carnival Fantasy cruise ship passes the Charleston Battery. (A1)
A protest poster of a cruise ship smokestack was hung on a fence in Charleston's historic district. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHEN MORTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 The Celebrity Mercury cruise ship loomed over the port in Sitka, Alaska, in 2008. Alaska's waters host 36 cruise ships each year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BARTON SILVERMAN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRUISES (91%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (90%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); OCEANOGRAPHY (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); CITIES (78%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); VOTERS & VOTING (64%); EVIDENCE (54%); PULP MILLS (50%); PULP INDUSTRY (50%)

COMPANY: CARNIVAL CORP (92%)

TICKER: CCL (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4481 DEEP SEA TRANSPORTATION OF PASSENGERS, EXCEPT BY FERRY (92%)

PERSON: SEAN PARNELL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (96%); KEY WEST, FL, USA (79%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (96%); ALASKA, USA (94%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); GULF OF MEXICO (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2013



711 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; COMMENTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 705 words

HEADLINE: 

BYLINE: By JULIA MOSKIN

 BODY:
The Kit Is Served (Or Maybe Not)
My article last week on dinner kits (''Everything but the Cook,'' Feb. 13), about home-delivered boxes with measured fresh ingredients and a recipe for a meal, drew impassioned comments online. Like a cake mix or TV dinner, the kits are designed to limit kitchen drudgery while providing a pleasing simulation of home cooking. Some readers saw it as a helpful tool for busy or aspiring cooks. But most were critical, saying the kits reflect a decline in self-reliance and basic domestic skills. JULIA MOSKIN
Are you kidding me? Cooking is simple. Cooking is easy. Cooking is fun. Cooking is central to one's quality of life. Buy local. Buy fresh. Build your meals around what is in season and available. Stay rooted in one basic cuisine, and you'll know how to treat just about every piece of meat, fish or vegetable crossing your path. Keep the basic staples of the pantry stocked, and you'll be able to throw together a meal at a moment's notice. Take a half-hour. Take an hour. If you don't have that kind of time, then you need to ask yourself some basic questions about life. GC, Brooklyn 
My husband and I work full time and have four kids and a dog -- this sounds like a dream come true. Time for shopping? Time for cooking? I don't have it.
Suzanne, New York
Consider the fossil fuel that goes into each of these meals. Not only do the trucks deliver one meal at a time, but sending out 2 tablespoons of oil in their own individual cup is outrageous. Unless there's a way to return all the packaging back to be reused, this sounds horribly wasteful. HannahB, New York
Planning and preparing a good meal from scratch can be one of life's most satisfying experiences -- from thinking about what to cook to ransacking recipes, going to the market, modifying the menu depending on what looks good, laying it all out in the kitchen, using your hands and your sense of smell, sight and taste, experimenting a little, perhaps coming up short, perhaps succeeding triumphantly -- and knowing, finally, that you gave yourself (and others) pleasure out of your own imagination and skills. Charles Michener, Cleveland
I don't find cooking to be ''kitchen drudgery.'' What would one use the time saved for, watching television? Now that's not only drudgery, but also punishment.
Descarado, Las Vegas
I am a widowed working mom with two young children. One FreshDirect kit can feed all three of us, is healthy and makes my day much easier. At one point in my life it was all farmers' markets and new recipes. Not now! Mycomment, Philadelphia
Why is it O.K. for people to complain about chores like laundry or cleaning the bathroom but not about cooking? To me, cooking is simply another kind of chore: a claim on my time to produce something not very good. Can't Make It Work Either, N.J.
I am in the target demographic (young, married, urban professional with no time who FreshDirects and orders in/eats out every day). If this was cheaper, I would do it in a heartbeat. But I can't justify paying about $15 a plate for something that I still have to cook and clean up. I'd rather pay a little more and get something fully prepared. M, Brooklyn
There's an entire layer of community contact and choice and interaction that gets stripped away by the services in this article, and we're already isolated enough at our computer keyboards. This kind of narrow-focus, precision supply is undoubtedly great for some folks, but I'm not one of them.
Lady T, Chicago
Why is everyone assuming that this is something people will choose as a way of life? When I read this article, I thought it would be nice to get this for a special occasion. Or maybe learning a recipe or trying something new without investing in all of the ingredients that will just sit on our shelf. (Talk about waste!) Cheeky, Queens
If so many people actually liked shopping, chopping and cooking (healthy) meals, we would not have an obesity epidemic. I applaud the companies starting this business for coming up with a solution. BellaC, New York
Incredible that this could work in a depressed economy. Will it fly outside N.Y.C.? Sad anyway, frankly, and ecologically unsound for numerous reasons. Learn to cook and freeze, people.
Latin Major, Ridgewood, N.J.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EVAN SUNG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COOKING & ENTERTAINING (90%); WORKING MOTHERS (78%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (77%); CHILDREN (72%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (65%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (64%)

COMPANY: FRESHDIRECT LLC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2013



712 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 925 words

HEADLINE: Dire Forecast on Effects of Budget Cuts, but Timing Is Disputed

BYLINE: By MICHAEL D. SHEAR and MICHAEL COOPER; Michael D. Shear reported from Washington, and Michael Cooper from New York.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama on Tuesday painted a dire picture of federal government operations across the United States should automatic budget cuts hit on March 1: F.B.I. agents furloughed, criminals released, flights delayed, teachers and police officers laid off and parents frantic to find a place for children locked out of day care centers.
''Federal prosecutors will have to close cases and let criminals go,'' Mr. Obama said, flanked by law enforcement officers at the White House. ''Tens of thousands of parents will have to scramble to find child care for their kids.'' 
While the effects may ultimately be significant, many are unlikely to be felt immediately, officials said Tuesday after the president's remarks. Rather, they will ripple gradually across the federal government as agencies come to grips in the months ahead with across-the-board cuts to all their programs.
Administration officials insisted that government contractors and state governments will begin receiving word quickly about programs that must be reduced or terminated. The Defense Department is planning to give notice to 800,000 civilian workers on Wednesday that furloughs might be necessary if the automatic cuts go into effect.
Amy Brundage, a White House spokeswoman, said: ''Whether these impacts are felt immediately or in the near future, they are already having negative effects on the economy. And there are Americans who are working today who could lose their jobs if these cuts go into effect.''
But officials conceded that day care centers are almost certainly not going to be padlocked on March 1. Border patrols will be staffed throughout that day and the days to come. Federal agents will continue to conduct investigations, and criminals will not immediately be ''let go,'' as Mr. Obama suggested.
''The scheduling will depend on what the workload is, what the cases are, what can wait,'' said Nanda Chitre, a spokeswoman for the Department of Justice. ''There's going to be impact all across law enforcement. But we've tried to give as much flexibility as possible.''
In recent years a gridlocked Washington has seemed to need the threat of drop-dead deadlines and potentially grave consequences -- workers laid off, parks and monuments closing, services disappearing overnight, federal benefit checks delayed -- to get anything done.
Think of the last-minute deal to avert the ''fiscal cliff'' last month, or the one that was struck in 2011 to raise the nation's debt ceiling just as the possibility of default loomed.
Now, with both Democrats and Republicans hoping to avert the automatic cuts, which are known as the sequester, both sides are emphasizing their immediacy, with Mr. Obama warning on Tuesday that ''just 10 days from now, Congress might allow a series of automatic, severe budget cuts to take place.''
But even if March 1 arrives without a deal to avert the cuts, it may be some time before many take effect. White House officials have said that the planned cuts would take $85 billion out of the budget this year. But the actual impact of cuts felt this year might be only about half that much, the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office estimated in a recent blog post.
The office wrote that ''discretionary outlays will drop by $35 billion and mandatory spending will be reduced by $9 billion this year as a direct result of those procedures; additional reductions in outlays attributable to the cuts in 2013 funding will occur in later years.''
In the short term, officials at a variety of agencies said, the automatic cuts will take some time to put in place as officials readjust their priorities.
Officials at the Department of Homeland Security said that travelers should not notice any significant reductions in Transportation Security Agency staffing at airports in the first few days after the automatic cuts. And the number of air traffic controllers will not immediately be reduced, they said.
''Lines/wait times will increase as reductions to overtime and the inability to backfill positions for attrition occur,'' a Homeland Security official said.
Bill Hall, a spokesman for the Department of Health and Human Services, said he did not have details about how child care services would be immediately affected. But he said the longer-term impact might be greater.
''My guess is that this is impacting the spending over a period of time,'' Mr. Hall said. ''I can't say how each one is going to work. I think there's still a lot of work being done.''
Ms. Chitre said that the Bureau of Prisons, which houses 218,000 federal prisoners, does not intend to let anyone go on March 1 because of the cuts. She said that bureau personnel might be furloughed and that vocational education programs and others might be curtailed.
As an example, she said the United States Marshals Service would face the likelihood of furloughs, but she added: ''They will continue prisoner transfers and protect the courts. They are going to have to do prioritizing.''
White House officials said they still believe that the automatic cuts will be severely disruptive right away. And they said decisions to cancel or reduce programs might not be able to be reversed a month or two later.
In his remarks, Mr. Obama said repeatedly that ''this is not an abstraction.'' He added: ''There are people whose livelihoods are at stake. There are communities that are going to be impacted in a negative way.''
How quickly the cuts go from abstraction to reality might determine whether Congress and the president can find a way to avoid them -- or to quickly roll them back.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGET CUTS (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CHILDREN (77%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (73%); DEBT CEILING (73%); BORDER CONTROL (71%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2013



713 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1215 words

HEADLINE: 'Currency War' Is Less a Battle Than a Debate on Economic Policy

BYLINE: By STEVEN M. DAVIDOFF. 
Steven M. Davidoff is a professor of law and finance at Ohio State University. His columns can be found at nytimes.com/dealbook. Follow @StevenDavidoff on Twitter.

 BODY:
Never mind about North Korea; the talk in some quarters is that the biggest threat to Asia and the rest of the world today may very well be a "currency war," in which countries race to devalue their currencies in a desperate attempt to stimulate growth.
Yet the reality is much different. It is really a debate about how industrialized countries will grow out of their economic malaise, and even the term "currency war" is being misused.
That catchy phrase was first uttered by Guido Mantega, the Brazilian minister for finance, in 2010. What he was referring to was actually something more complicated than countries racing to depreciate their currencies, which is what most people refer to today when they use the phrase.
Instead, Mr. Mantega was really talking about the United States. The huge quantitative easing undertaken by the Federal Reserve has created an environment of low interest rates and put downward pressure on the dollar while pushing the currencies of other countries up. 
As they say in physics, every action has an equal and opposite reaction, and the Fed's actions have pushed hot money into countries, mostly emerging markets like Brazil, with higher interest rates. This creates bubblelike asset prices and spurs inflation.
Normally, the response of Brazil or another such country would be to ease its monetary policy and possibly also lower interest rates in an effort to tamp down demand for its currency. The problem is that Brazil has stubbornly high inflation at 6 percent and can't respond the way the United States could.
And that is what is really going on with the world's currencies. Bigger, more mature countries are responding to their own economic downturns by adopting easy money policies. But the problem is that the emerging market economies can't respond with similar effectiveness because of their own economic or political issues.
Nonetheless, the currency war talk has been revived because of an alarming fall in the value of the Japanese yen, which is down more than 20 percent against the dollar since November. The decline has reaped billions of dollars for hedge funds betting against the currency. It's nice for these already rich traders, but there will also be yen losers, with potentially bigger consequences.
The slide in the yen is a product of an effort by Japan's new prime minister, Shinzo Abe, to revive the no-growth, no-inflation Japanese economy that has been mired in stagnation for more than two decades.
Mr. Abe is not only openly advocating an inflationary policy with a 2 percent target, and more stimulus, he is talking down the yen. And this week, Japan is expected to appoint a new head of the Bank of Japan. Whoever that may be is expected to be on board with Mr. Abe's plan for further stimulus and inflation, a course that is likely to result in further yen depreciation.
As a result, Japanese exports have suddenly become significantly cheaper. And when an exporting powerhouse like Japan devalues its currency that quickly, other nations suddenly find that their goods are much less competitive on the global marketplace.
And once again, the issue is not that every country will depreciate, but how emerging market economies respond. These countries could respond in the easiest manner by letting their currencies appreciate. Many economists would say this is the ideal. Both the United States and Japan would benefit by having a cheaper currency and more growth, while developing nations would benefit by having a stronger currency and ability to buy more goods for consumption.
For many emerging market countries, this is hard to do politically, because it will mean that in the short term, their goods will be less competitive and their manufacturing bases will decline, meaning lost jobs.
Instead, these countries are more likely to try to deal with the yen's depreciation by doing the exact opposite. They will try to halt the appreciation of their currency. Obviously, economic policy is complicated and economists love to disagree, so the responses of each country may vary, but there are three common policy ways to lower a currency rate: do a round of quantitative easing to expand the balance sheet of the central bank; lower interest rates; or impose capital controls.
The various possible responses show that the currency war is really about genuine policy disagreements between economies over how to address the easy money policies of the bigger industrialized countries, in light of the fact that many emerging market companies cannot respond with the same policies. The European Union has chosen another path by declining to adopt a stimulus approach.
This explains why the world's financial officials and central bankers have not taken much of a stand.
After Lael Brainard, an under secretary for the Treasury, decried the "loose talk about currencies" and said that the United States supported "efforts to reinvigorate growth and to end deflation in Japan," financial ministers of the Group of 20 nations released a communiqué.
It stated that their policy was not "to target our exchange rates for competitive purposes" and that "excess volatility of financial flows and disorderly movements in exchange rates have adverse implications for economic and financial stability."
This followed a slightly different statement from the Group of 7 nations saying that the countries "have been and will remain oriented toward meeting our respective domestic objectives using domestic instruments, and that we will not target exchange rates."
Bland prose like this is typical of these gatherings, yet the Group of 7 appeared to endorse Japan's efforts. But if you look at the statement from the Group of 20, which includes Brazil and South Korea, it was less favorable, saying merely that there would not be a competitive devaluation. And no surprise, these are the countries most effected by the actions of the United States and Japan.
Ultimately, though, talk of a true currency war, where countries competitively devalue their exchange rates in a zero sum game that recalls the old Matthew Broderick film "War Games," is overstated. Remember that in "War Games," just by playing, you lose.
The reason is that even for those countries that can devalue, too much is at stake in this game. Instead, we are more likely to get what Goldman Sachs in a recently released research report called a "global exchange rate mechanism, but in a new noncooperative variant."
Countries will act within bands based on their options and status, but no one country will take the same tack at the same time because of their different economic positions In other words, a country can't merely turn on a switch and start a currency war of the sort people are talking about. Some don't want to, others cannot and the rest are constrained in how they can act.
And while disruptions may happen from time to time, equilibrium is more likely to set in as each country responds slowly. So the currency game will play out in slow motion as each country adopts its preferred approach.
This is a game that has been going on for years. Instead of a currency war, what we are seeing is the everyday problems of a global economy where countries are highly connected and quite distinct.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY HARRY CAMPBELL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); MONETARY POLICY (88%); JAPANESE YEN (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); DEVALUATION (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); INTEREST RATES (73%); APPOINTMENTS (71%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (65%); PRIME MINISTERS (62%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (50%)

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (50%)

PERSON: SHINZO ABE (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (94%); JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2013



714 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1176 words

HEADLINE: It Takes a B.A. To Find a Job As a File Clerk

BYLINE: By CATHERINE RAMPELL

 BODY:
ATLANTA --The college degree is becoming the new high school diploma: the new minimum requirement, albeit an expensive one, for getting even the lowest-level job.
Consider the 45-person law firm of Busch, Slipakoff & Schuh here in Atlanta, a place that has seen tremendous growth in the college-educated population. Like other employers across the country, the firm hires only people with a bachelor's degree, even for jobs that do not require college-level skills.
This prerequisite applies to everyone, including the receptionist, paralegals, administrative assistants and file clerks. Even the office ''runner'' -- the in-house courier who, for $10 an hour, ferries documents back and forth between the courthouse and the office -- went to a four-year school.
''College graduates are just more career-oriented,'' said Adam Slipakoff, the firm's managing partner. ''Going to college means they are making a real commitment to their futures. They're not just looking for a paycheck.'' 
Economists have referred to this phenomenon as ''degree inflation,'' and it has been steadily infiltrating America's job market. Across industries and geographic areas, many other jobs that didn't used to require a diploma -- positions like dental hygienists, cargo agents, clerks and claims adjusters -- are increasingly requiring one, according to Burning Glass, a company that analyzes job ads from more than 20,000 online sources, including major job boards and small- to midsize-employer sites.
This up-credentialing is pushing the less educated even further down the food chain, and it helps explain why the unemployment rate for workers with no more than a high school diploma is more than twice that for workers with a bachelor's degree: 8.1 percent versus 3.7 percent.
Some jobs, like those in supply chain management and logistics, have become more technical, and so require more advanced skills today than they did in the past. But more broadly, because so many people are going to college now, those who do not graduate are often assumed to be unambitious or less capable.
Plus, it's a buyer's market for employers.
''When you get 800 résumés for every job ad, you need to weed them out somehow,'' said Suzanne Manzagol, executive recruiter at Cardinal Recruiting Group, which does headhunting for administrative positions at Busch, Slipakoff & Schuh and other firms in the Atlanta area.
Of all the metropolitan areas in the United States, Atlanta has had one of the largest inflows of college graduates in the last five years, according to an analysis of census data by William Frey, a demographer at the Brookings Institution. In 2012, 39 percent of job postings for secretaries and administrative assistants in the Atlanta metro area requested a bachelor's degree, up from 28 percent in 2007, according to Burning Glass.
''When I started recruiting in '06, you didn't need a college degree, but there weren't that many candidates,'' Ms. Manzagol said.
Even if they are not exactly applying the knowledge they gained in their political science, finance and fashion marketing classes, the young graduates employed by Busch, Slipakoff & Schuh say they are grateful for even the rotest of rote office work they have been given.
''It sure beats washing cars,'' said Landon Crider, 24, the firm's soft-spoken runner.
He would know: he spent several years, while at Georgia State and in the months after graduation, scrubbing sedans at Enterprise Rent-a-Car. Before joining the law firm, he was turned down for a promotion to rental agent at Enterprise -- a position that also required a bachelor's degree -- because the company said he didn't have enough sales experience.
His college-educated colleagues had similarly limited opportunities, working at Ruby Tuesday or behind a retail counter while waiting for a better job to open up.
''I am over $100,000 in student loan debt right now,'' said Megan Parker, who earns $37,000 as the firm's receptionist. She graduated from the Art Institute of Atlanta in 2011 with a degree in fashion and retail management, and spent months waiting on ''bridezillas'' at a couture boutique, among other stores, while churning out office-job applications.
''I will probably never see the end of that bill, but I'm not really thinking about it right now,'' she said. ''You know, this is a really great place to work.''
The risk with hiring college graduates for jobs they are supremely overqualified for is, of course, that they will leave as soon as they find something better, particularly as the economy improves.
Mr. Slipakoff said his firm had little turnover, though, largely because of its rapid expansion. The company has grown to more than 30 lawyers from five in 2008, plus a support staff of about 15, and promotions have abounded.
''They expect you to grow, and they want you to grow,'' said Ashley Atkinson, who graduated from Georgia Southern University in 2009 with a general studies degree. ''You're not stuck here under some glass ceiling.''
Within a year of being hired as a file clerk, around Halloween 2011, Ms. Atkinson was promoted twice to positions in marketing and office management. Mr. Crider, the runner, was given additional work last month, helping with copying and billing claims. He said he was taking the opportunity to learn more about the legal industry, since he plans to apply to law school next year.
The firm's greatest success story is Laura Burnett, who in less than a year went from being a file clerk to being the firm's paralegal for the litigation group. The partners were so impressed with her filing wizardry that they figured she could handle it.
''They gave me a raise, too,'' said Ms. Burnett, a 2011 graduate of the University of West Georgia.
The typical paralegal position, which has traditionally offered a path to a well-paying job for less educated workers, requires no more than an associate degree, according to the Labor Department's occupational handbook, but the job is still a step up from filing. Of the three daughters in her family, Ms. Burnett reckons that she has the best job. One sister, a fellow West Georgia graduate, is processing insurance claims; another, who dropped out of college, is one of the many degree-less young people who still cannot find work.
Besides the promotional pipelines it creates, setting a floor of college attainment also creates more office camaraderie, said Mr. Slipakoff, who handles most of the firm's hiring and is especially partial to his fellow University of Florida graduates. There is a lot of trash-talking of each other's college football teams, for example. And this year the office's Christmas tree ornaments were a colorful menagerie of college mascots -- Gators, Blue Devils, Yellow Jackets, Wolves, Eagles, Tigers, Panthers -- in which just about every staffer's school was represented.
''You know, if we had someone here with just a G.E.D. or something, I can see how they might feel slighted by the social atmosphere here,'' he says. ''There really is something sort of cohesive or binding about the fact that all of us went to college.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Megan Parker, right, a law firm receptionist, and Laura Burnett, a paralegal, are college graduates, as are all their co-workers.
 Landon Crider, top, a courier, and Ashley Atkinson, above, an assistant office manager, also work at the Atlanta law firm. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICH ADDICKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (89%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); PARALEGALS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); LAWYERS (77%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (76%); CENSUS (72%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%); CITIES (60%); INSURANCE CLAIMS ADJUSTING (50%)

COMPANY: BUSCH SLIPAKOFF & SCHUH LLP (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (59%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2013



715 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1165 words

HEADLINE: Review Moves Detroit Nearer Emergency Oversight

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY

 BODY:
DETROIT -- A review team appointed by the State of Michigan has concluded that Detroit is mired in serious financial problems, a step that draws the city ever closer to emergency oversight by a state-assigned financial manager.
If Gov. Rick Snyder concurs with the findings in the coming days, state officials will appoint an emergency financial manager who would try to solve the city's financial woes, and if that fails could ultimately urge Detroit to enter into bankruptcy proceedings.
In a way, the review team's conclusion, announced on Tuesday, seemed inevitable in a city that has wrestled with more than $14 billion in long-term liabilities, nearly annual projections of imminent cash shortfalls and a population -- and accompanying tax base -- that has plunged to 713,000 residents from 1.8 million decades ago. Still, it is an outcome that many of Detroit's political leaders have fought for years to avoid, racing in recent months to cut costs and collect more revenue as proof that the city can solve its own problems. 
The team's findings called new, undesired attention to the dismal financial circumstances of government operations in Detroit, a city that by some other measures has experienced a period of renaissance and private investment in recent years. It also raised the prospect of growing political and racial tension between the city, where the population is about 83 percent black and many leaders are Democrats, and the state, where the population is nearly 80 percent white and Republicans, including Mr. Snyder, control the capital.
Along the streets here on a blustery, frigid day, Detroiters expressed a mix of views about the prospect of state intervention. Some suggested that the notion violated the role of the city's elected leaders, while others seemed unconcerned about who fixes the city's problems as long as someone does.
On Tuesday, it remained conceivable that Detroit might yet avoid a state-appointed emergency financial manager, though many here suggested that the odds of that now appeared slim and Mr. Snyder has in recent days been studying a pool of possible candidates for the job.
Under a Michigan law aimed at sparing the state's most financially troubled cities from failure, Mr. Snyder could within 30 days reject the conclusion that Detroit's situation is dire. Or, should he agree with that conclusion, Detroit officials could still appeal the decision. The city could also enter into a legal agreement with the state, laying out plans for remaking the city's finances with no emergency manager. However, just such an agreement was enacted last April, and some state officials say it has failed to go far enough to solve Detroit's crisis.
''We believe there's a financial emergency in the city, and there's no plan in place to correct the situation,'' said Andy Dillon, Michigan's state treasurer and a member of a six-person review team that examined Detroit's finances over the past two months.
The review team found a city troubled for years with cash shortfalls -- including one expected to reach $100 million by June -- as well as repeated general fund deficits, dealt with mostly by issuing long-term debt. In the 2012 fiscal year, that general fund deficit reached more than $326 million.
But the city's long-term liabilities -- more than $14 billion -- may be the larger problem, the review team's report suggested.
Detroit's problems are by no means simple or new, and some have questioned whether even an emergency manager -- someone meant to have few political considerations and an unsentimental perspective on city operations -- will be able to turn things around.
In only the last four years, the number of city employees has been reduced to 9,696 from more than 13,400 to save money, and some people argue that the only way to financial stability will be through more cuts, furloughs and benefit reductions. Yet at the same time, residents here complain about slow city services and a significant increase in murders in 2012, and some say police and fire protection needs more investment, not budget cutting.
The city's geography is itself another puzzle. The cradle of the American auto industry and once the nation's fourth most populous city, Detroit remains vast at 139 square miles -- a city suited to a larger population and city services to match. But it is now left with pockets of empty lots, shuttered homes and a continuing foreclosure problem in the face of high unemployment.
If an emergency financial manager is ultimately appointed here, that person will have relatively broad powers to reshape Detroit's budget, but will be unable, at least temporarily, to throw out existing labor contracts, as had been permitted under a sweeping emergency manager law that voters statewide rejected last November. Since then, the governor and legislators have passed new provisions for emergency managers, which take effect in late March and grant such managers more control over labor contracts.
Under Michigan law, an outside manager could eventually help lead the city into bankruptcy proceedings -- an outcome that few in Detroit or Lansing see as wise or likely but that some have come to talk about as a real consideration. Municipalities rarely wind up pursuing such a course, known as Chapter 9, and if Detroit were to do so, it would be the nation's largest municipal bankruptcy in terms of size of debt as well as city population.
Around the nation, states have used a variety of approaches, including appointed receivers and oversight boards, to step in when cities are teetering toward failure. Their role and authority range widely, as do views about whether they ultimately work. A financial control board helped New York City regain its footing in the 1970s. In Michigan, five cities and three school districts are already under the supervision of an emergency financial manager, but the prospect of outside oversight for Detroit, given its size and history, draws especially pointed reactions.
Mayor Dave Bing, a Democrat who has spent much of his four years in office focused on trying to solve Detroit's financial woes and has yet to announce whether he will seek re-election this year, has in the past said the city needs no takeover by an emergency manager. Still, even during discussions of cost-cutting in recent months, Mr. Bing and Detroit's City Council have sometimes clashed over what to do. And earlier administrations -- including that of Kwame Kilpatrick, a former mayor accused of corruption whose fate was being weighed here by a federal jury on Tuesday -- have left behind a financial crisis, Mr. Bing has said.
On Tuesday, Mr. Bing said even he was unsurprised by the review team's conclusion. ''My administration has been saying for the past four years that the city is under financial stress,'' he said, adding, ''If the governor decides to appoint an emergency financial manager, he or she, like my administration, is going to need resources -- particularly in the form of cash and additional staff.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A fire at an unoccupied building in Detroit, a city plagued by pockets of empty lots, shuttered homes and a continuing foreclosure problem in the face of unemployment and a plunging population. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC THAYER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Detroit's leaders have long sought to fend off a financial takeover by an emergency manager, but its troubles persist. From left, a closed school, firefighters at a blaze
and, on Tuesday, State Treasurer Andy Dillon, a member of the panel that examined Detroit's fiscal condition. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIC THAYER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14)
 Picketing last fall over reductions to the city's work force. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID COATES/DETROIT NEWS, VIA A.P.) (A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (63%)

PERSON: RICK SNYDER (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2013



716 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 919 words

HEADLINE: New Dreamliner Headache: Parking Space

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE NEGRONI. 
Eduardo Porter, whose Economic Scene column normally appears on this page, is on vacation.

 BODY:
With the Federal Aviation Administration's grounding of the 787 Dreamliner fleet in its fifth week, Boeing now faces a problem of where to store the airplanes that continue to roll off the assembly line at its giant factory 30 miles north of Seattle.
Boeing, reluctant to shut down its production lines at Everett, Wash., and at a factory in Charleston, S.C., is producing 787s at a rate of slightly more than one a week. At the time the fleet was grounded, 50 Dreamliners were in service. 
''We have adequate space today in Everett to accommodate our production airplanes,'' Marc Birtel, a spokesman for Boeing, said in an e-mail, ''and we won't speculate publicly on limitations in the future.''
But people familiar with Boeing's plans say two of the nation's largest commercial airplane storage companies have been asked by Boeing for space to park other models of airplanes that for one reason or another cannot be delivered immediately to customers.
Since the 787 needs special F.A.A. permission to fly, these people said Boeing is trying to make room for the Dreamliners.
When Mary Kirby, the editor of an aviation magazine, attended an industry conference in Washington last week, she could not resist taking a drive by Paine Field in Everett.
She said she was shocked at what she saw: ''Parked Boeing 787s are everywhere.''
Two likely storage destinations for planes are Pratt & Whitney's Southern California Aviation in Victorville, Calif., and Marana Aerospace Solutions in Marana, Ariz. The Victorville location has space for 330 airplanes, according to Leo Makowski, a spokesman for Pratt & Whitney. Only about half of the space is occupied, he said.
About 200 airplanes could be kept at Marana Aerospace Solutions, said Joyce Johnson-Miller, senior managing director of Relativity Capital, which owns the company. Ms. Johnson-Miller would not say whether Boeing was sending its airplanes as a result of the Dreamliner grounding. But it is not uncommon for new airplanes to be parked at the facility when there is a delay in taking possession of a new airplane, Ms. Johnson-Miller said. Marana has had relationships with Boeing in the past, she said, ''and we'll continue to work with them in any way we can.''
The F.A.A.'s emergency airworthiness directive, issued on Jan. 16, did not specify how long the 787 would be prohibited from flying. But a growing consensus suggests it will be many months before the plane will fly again. Decisions will depend on what safety investigators learn about the cause of smoke and fire incidents in the battery compartments of two Japanese Dreamliners on Jan. 7 and Jan. 16.
Still, production of the 787 is continuing at the same pace at both plants, Boeing executives say. Stopping or even slowing the assembly lines would be very difficult and costly because the aircraft's attenuated supply chain draws on parts manufactured all over the world. The engines are built in the United Kingdom, the fuselage in Italy, and various parts of the wing are constructed in Korea, Australia and Japan.
''You cannot stop factories all over the world from production,'' said Yossi Sheffi, a professor of engineering systems at Massachusetts Institute of Technology and director of its center for transportation and logistics. ''But everything in the end has capacity. The next step is to keep the suppliers manufacturing but not send the parts, but how many wings can Mitsubishi keep in its factory?''
Dreamlifters, modified wide-body 747s that are used to transport large sections of the 787 from suppliers to Boeing's assembly plants, continue to arrive at Snohomish County Airport Paine Field, said Matt Cawby, an aviation reporter who spends his days observing activity at Boeing and producing a daily log of what goes on. His vantage point is across a field from the flight line, an L-shaped row of spaces on two sides of the airplane delivery center.
''Since the grounding they've run out of room on the flight line, and they put five on airport property,'' Mr. Cawby, 56, said of the Dreamliner. ''I expect to see more. They're coming out of the factory and they've got to go somewhere.''
The Everett factory, which is 472 million cubic feet, is on the north side of the airport. Boeing would not say how many airplanes could be parked on its own property, but Mr. Cawby said he had counted 15 Dreamliners and that all the spaces on the flight line were taken. In addition, the company leases 22 acres at Paine Field where another 16 airplanes are parked, according to Dave Waggoner, the airport manager.
Some of those Dreamliners are positioned on a runway previously used for general aviation. Last week, a pilot calling the fixed base operator at Paine Field was reminded to heed the runway closure notice because ''all the 787s are piled up on there, they just keep stacking them up.''
Boeing opened a 1.2-million-square-foot assembly plant at the Charleston International Airport in July 2011, and the first Dreamliner built there rolled out in April 2012. Since then, it has produced eight airplanes, and four were delivered to customers before the grounding. Mr. Birtel, the Boeing spokesman, said the South Carolina flight line had seven stalls and some other space where it could accommodate the four planes remaining as well as aircraft now being built.
Professor Sheffi of M.I.T. said of Boeing's predicament: ''It's a bear. Those guys, they got hit with something. This is so unique because of the size of the product and the fact that you have an airplane that cannot fly.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Grounded Boeing 787s are being parked on airfields. (B1)
 Boeing 787 jets parked nose to tail at Paine Field in Everett, Wash., near a Boeing assembly plant. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STUART ISETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CIVIL AVIATION (89%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (89%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (89%); AIR TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); AIRCRAFT MFG (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (77%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (66%); FIRES (60%)

COMPANY: BOEING CO (92%); PRATT & WHITNEY (54%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (92%); BAB (BRU) (92%); BA (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (92%); SIC3724 AIRCRAFT ENGINES & ENGINE PARTS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); CHARLESTON, SC, USA (88%) WASHINGTON, USA (94%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (68%); ARIZONA, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2013



717 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 

LENGTH: 893 words

HEADLINE: China Won't Cut Its Cyberspying

BYLINE: By GREG AUSTIN

 BODY:
LONDON -- President Obama registered his serious concern in the State of the Union address over cyberespionage by what he called ''our enemies.'' His remarks on Feb. 12 came two days after leaks from a U.S. intelligence estimate named China -- again -- as the most serious menace in the cyberdomain.
Some Obama advisers have recommended harsh action to send a clear signal to China to change its ways. But even if the Americans retaliate, China is unlikely to respond as they might hope. The spying will continue and probably intensify regardless of what the United States does. 
One of the two main complaints against China's espionage is that organizations, both private and governmental, are stealing design secrets from Western corporations on a massive scale.
Such theft of intellectual property rights (I.P.R.) is contrary to China's domestic law and international treaty commitments in place for more than a decade. Recent efforts by China to honor its commitments have been substantial considering that it had no such laws for most of its history. But there is a joke in China that its courts are where American corporations go to lose I.P.R. cases.
Bilateral cooperation on cyberespionage against each other by the United States and China more or less exhausts itself at this rather unsatisfactory point.
It is the second main complaint -- very distinct from I.P.R. theft -- that gives a clearer picture of what is at stake for China in this escalating diplomatic confrontation about cyberthreats. This is the charge that China is actively penetrating critical information infrastructure in the United States with hostile strategic intent.
The Obama administration asserts that China, using cyberprobes of various kinds, is occupying certain positions inside the information networks of some critical U.S. infrastructure so that it can interfere with it if a military confrontation over Taiwan became imminent.
To planners in China, such activity would be seen as no different from the sort of contingency planning and cyberoperations the United States undertakes toward Chinese military and infrastructure targets. Chinese military analysts and leaders have been studying the United States' use of cyberattacks against critical infrastructure ever since unconfirmed reports surfaced of U.S. attacks in 1999 against Serbia's electricity supply and telephone system.
China's view is also colored by the leadership's heavy dependence for political stability on the intelligence services and armed forces, the main perpetrators of the espionage.
Yet there is disbelief in China that the United States would expect it to make a principled rejection of military cyberespionage. The Chinese would argue that the United States is doing it, and so should China. There is commitment in China to the idea that in terms of military preparedness in the Information Age, a country has to be able to use cyberassets, if it can, to disable adversary infrastructure on which a military campaign might depend. Last November, the Chinese leadership announced it would hasten the development of information technology for military purposes.
Military advisers in China have an easy case to make. Why should China abandon its nonlethal, contingency operations related to possible cyberattacks on critical infrastructure where the United States itself now is vigorously pursuing offensive cyberoptions?
The United States, they will say, is the principal architect of a direct and unlawful sabotage attack on the critical infrastructure of Iran in peacetime through Stuxnet. Internal assessments in China paint its cyberwar capability (as opposed to its information siphoning) relative to that of the United States as basic versus advanced. This assessment is shared by some former senior U.S. military officials.
Chinese military planners believe that they would only launch a cyberattack on U.S. critical infrastructure in the event of an imminent large scale military clash with the United States over Taiwan. While Americans cannot have equal confidence, and their concern is legitimate, it is the Chinese perception that shapes China's responses.
The American case is not helped by its blurring of the two distinct complaints: I.P.R. theft and national security threats. This confusion comes about because some in the United States have assessed that China has an explicit policy of eroding American national economic power through large-scale cyberespionage. This is presented as a form of economic warfare -- an argument that many American analysts dispute.
It is true that China has a policy of using any means available -- including covert intelligence collection -- to improve its own technology and, through that, its economic power. After all, it has to get around U.S. high-technology export bans in place for China. But Chinese officials say -- and most foreign economists agree -- that China has a huge vested interest in the stability and vitality of the U.S. economy.
The United States has a good and urgent cause to argue for: strategic stability in cyberspace. To work toward that goal with China as an unavoidable partner, the United States will need to make arguments about cyberspying that fit more sensibly than they have so far into a vision of the interconnected, interdependent digital world.
Greg Austin is director of policy innovation at the EastWest Institute.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ESPIONAGE (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CYBERCRIME (88%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (73%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (68%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (68%); PROPERTY CRIMES (68%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); SERBIA (79%); TAIWAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2013



718 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 

LENGTH: 854 words

HEADLINE: Uniting for Cyberdefense

BYLINE: By RENÉ OBERMANN

 BODY:
The discussion on cyberthreats has finally gone public. For years, governments have treated damage from cyberattacks as classified information, while the private sector has kept damage secret in order not to scare off customers and investors.
Recent high-profile cyberattacks such as those on The New York Times, The Wall Street Journal and the U.S. Federal Reserve are only the tip of the iceberg. Cyberattacks, whether random or targeted, whether successful or not, have increased to the point that we are seeing a paradigm shift: We have become aware that transparency and shared knowledge can increase protection and strengthen security.
The damage resulting from malicious cyberactivities, such as theft of personal data or intellectual property, is enormous, even if mainly economic for now. But, like any other terror attack, cyberattacks have the potential to damage critical infrastructure and to create unprecedented disasters. 
Last year, Deutsche Telekom (I am the chief executive) started to disclose information about cyberattacks. To institutionalize this approach, we organized -- together with the Munich Security Conference -- a Cyber Security Summit with major German industries. The positive reception encouraged us to set up a follow-up summit in 2013.
A ''neighborhood watch'' is key to success in cyberdefense. We need to establish ''single points of contact'' for rapid alerts and information exchange across all industries. A good role model for this is the Community Emergency Response Team (CERT) in the information technology sector. To create additional awareness, we are developing a ''real time situation monitor'' with an actual overview on imminent cyberthreats. Sharing information while an attack is happening will allow us to update our security measures in real time.
Transparency about cyberattacks has only just begun and we need to accelerate our efforts. Attackers use the advantages of combined forces. They bundle the power of hundreds of thousands of computer systems in botnets in order to carry out large-scale attacks.
Why don't we take the same approach when it comes to cybersecurity? Voluntary information sharing is one element of such a collaborative effort; another could be to share the resources already in place, including expert know-how, to make our defensive efforts more powerful and efficient.
Industry, for the most part, is willing to do what it takes to secure cyberspace. Other stakeholders have to do their homework as well. A concern of industry is that rules and regulations have not kept pace with the technological developments -- both in offense and defense.
A set of basic and accepted rules-of-the-road protects our physical highways and traffic, and we have to have similar, internationally recognized rules for the information highway. We must define standards and functionalities in order to ensure a safe and coherent digital architecture. A good example is the German security standard for ''smart meters'' that monitor and bill power consumption.
This will not be easy for the I.T. industry. In Europe, the sheer number of Internet providers makes it difficult to find a common position. Again, transparency and information sharing is essential: Every sound effort to implement such rules and standards relies on feedback about vulnerabilities, as well as data on the quantity, quality and origin of attacks. One cannot manage a problem until one can measure it.
All stakeholders in the Internet ecosystem should join this ''collective cybersecurity alliance.'' Hardware and software suppliers have the same responsibility for cybersecurity as infrastructure providers, and must act on it. Once a vulnerable product has been supplied, it is almost impossible to achieve an appropriate level of security. The I.T. industry has to rethink this. Cybersecurity will become more of a consideration for consumers.
But the end user -- the weakest link in cybersecurity -- must also act responsibly. Homeowners secure their property when they go out; Internet users must be as diligent in protecting digital assets. If all users kept their I.T. systems up to date, most attacks would be unsuccessful.
Finally, we must accelerate innovation in cybersecurity. When the Internet was designed, security was not a priority. Today, we see constantly evolving new technologies -- such as mobile networks, smart grids or cloud computing -- and ever-increasing interconnection. This opens doors to advanced threats. Thus our defense capabilities need to be dynamic and flexible.
Very often, it is the agile, creative, technology-savvy start-up companies that are best able to deal with new cyberthreats. We need to work with them and equip them with appropriate venture capital.
In the long run, we simply cannot afford to lag behind the bad guys. To be sure, we will not erase cyberattacks, much as we are unable to erase crime. But we must at least aim to control and contain it, lest we find ourselves on the losing end of a battle that threatens our prosperity, public safety and ultimately national security.
René Obermann is the chief executive officer of Deutsche Telekom.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CYBERCRIME (90%); CYBERTERRORISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (89%); INFORMATION WARFARE (89%); MALICIOUS SOFTWARE (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (74%); TERRORISM (73%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (70%); HOME SECURITY (70%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (69%); CRIME PREVENTION (69%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (69%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (68%); EXECUTIVES (53%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (58%); DEUTSCHE TELEKOM AG (56%)

TICKER: DTE (FRA) (56%); DTE (BIT) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (56%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2013



719 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 450 words

HEADLINE: European Car Sales Fall 8.7% to Reach Record Low

BYLINE: By DAVID JOLLY

 BODY:
PARIS -- European demand for new cars slumped in January to the lowest level on record for that month, industry data showed Tuesday, as sales at Ford Motor's troubled operations on the Continent tumbled by more than one-fourth. 
New-car registrations, a proxy for sales, fell 8.7 percent from January 2012, the European Automobile Manufacturers' Association reported in Brussels, falling to 885,159 units, the lowest level since the organization records began in 1990.
Global automakers are hoping for a decent 2013, but they worry that the European market will continue to decline. Consumers have been slammed by recession, unemployment and government austerity measures. In many countries with good public transportation, driving is a pleasure rather than a necessity, and high joblessness among young people has the industry fretting that an entire generation will not adopt the car lifestyle.
Carlos Ghosn, Renault's chairman and chief executive, has estimated that European car sales will fall at least 3 percent this year. The car and light vehicle market contracted 8.2 percent in 2012 to just more than 12 million units, the lowest level since 1995.
The United States, in comparison, has gotten off to a fairly strong start this year, with sales having gained 14 percent in January from the same month in 2012. Emerging markets are also expected to post good growth.
In Europe, the biggest decline in January was posted by Ford Motor, where sales fell 25.5 percent. Ford said last month that its annual loss in Europe -- its second-biggest market after North America -- could climb to as much as $2 billion this year.
Volkswagen, the largest European automaker, posted a 5.2 percent decline in January. The European sales of PSA Peugeot Citroën, the troubled French company that ranks No. 2 in the European Union, fell 16.3 percent, while its rival Renault dropped 5.6 percent, and Renault's Japanese alliance partner, Nissan, dropped 6 percent. General Motors' sales fell 5.5 percent. Toyota Motors' sales fell 16.8 percent.
The luxury automakers continued to gain in January, for the most part, with Daimler, the maker of Mercedes-Benz, adding 3.7 percent from 2012 and BMW adding 6.6 percent. Jaguar Land Rover sales rose 19 percent. The data include all 27 E.U. countries except Malta. Only Britain, where sales rose 11.5 percent from 2012, bucked the tide in major markets.
Germany, the biggest European market and long one of the healthiest, turned decisively lower, with sales falling 8.6 percent. French sales declined 15.1 percent, and Spanish sales slumped 9.6 percent. Even larger declines were seen in the Netherlands, down 31.2 percent; Greece, down 34.5 percent; and Finland, down 28 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); STATISTICS (78%); NEW VEHICLE REGISTRATIONS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (77%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (74%); RECESSION (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); EXECUTIVES (53%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); REGIE NATIONALE DES USINES RENAULT SA (85%); PSA PEUGEOT CITROEN SA (84%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); RNO (PAR) (85%); RNO (BIT) (85%); UG (PAR) (84%); GM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (85%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (85%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (84%)

PERSON: CARLOS GHOSN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (89%) EUROPE (95%); BELGIUM (92%); FRANCE (89%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); FINLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); GREECE (73%); MALTA (58%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2013



720 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 646 words

HEADLINE: European Solar Panel Importers Say Tariffs on Chinese Products Could Cost Jobs

BYLINE: By JAMES KANTER

 BODY:
BRUSSELS -- Importers of inexpensive solar panels from China said on Tuesday that imposing tariffs would lead to hundreds of thousands of job losses in the European Union, the biggest export market for the Chinese equipment.
The claims by the Alliance for Affordable Solar Energy, a coalition of companies that install and service panels, were aimed at stopping the European Commission from imposing penalties in the biggest trade case of its kind in terms of value.
The association presented its evidence on Monday at a hearing with the commission, which opened a case in September to determine whether the Chinese were selling solar equipment for less than the Chinese market price. 
The antidumping case covers exports from China worth 21 billion euros ($28 billion) in 2011. The commission will decide by June whether to begin imposing provisional duties in the antidumping case. It began a second investigation in November into whether the Chinese government was unfairly subsidizing panel makers.
The cases have split the solar sector. European manufacturers are adamant that Chinese practices are illegal under international trade rules, and they are pushing the commission to take measures to save an important component of the clean energy industry. But installation and service companies represented by the alliance say the best way to promote clean power in Europe is to procure commodity products like panels from China and from other low-cost manufacturers.
Thorsten Preugschas, chief executive of Soventix, a German company that builds and operates solar plants worldwide, said at a news conference Tuesday that tariffs of 60 percent would lead to the loss of as many as 242,000 jobs over three years. He said Prognos, a consulting firm, had conducted the study.
Underscoring his sector's reliance on Chinese imports, Mr. Preugschas said Soventix bought about 80 percent of panels from Chinese manufacturers last year because prices were as much as 45 percent lower than those purchased from some manufacturers in Europe.
Mr. Preugschas said that Chinese factories could sell cheaply because of their size. The difference was ''economies of scale,'' he said, and so the ''big manufacturers have a price advantage, and it doesn't matter where in the world they are located.''
A group of solar equipment makers, including SolarWorld, a German company that is among complainants in Europe and in a separate case in the United States, fought back Tuesday, saying that unfair practices had already meant thousands of lost jobs and 30 bankruptcies in Europe.
The study carried out by Prognos ''applies mathematical trickery'' to reach its estimate of how many jobs would be lost once tariffs were applied, Milan Nitzschke, the president of the group, EU ProSun, said in a statement.
Mr. Nitzschke also said that prices for consumers were stable or had even decreased in the United States and that the number of installations had grown, even after the American authorities imposed tariffs on Chinese solar products.
''Only fair competition keeps jobs in Europe and leads to a development of the solar energy in the E.U.,'' Mr. Nitzschke said.
The United States imposed duties on billions of dollars' worth of solar products from China over the next five years to shield American producers from lower-priced imports. The European case would be four or five times as large by value, partly because of the scale of the industry in Europe, where many governments offer incentives to install panels in homes and offices.
John Clancy, a spokesman for Karel De Gucht, the European trade commissioner, said his department would not comment on potential job losses from tariffs because the case was continuing. But Mr. Clancy said the ''overall economic interests in the E.U.'' would be taken into account during the investigation, including importers and industries that use imported products.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A worker cleaned solar panels at a plant in Hefei, Anhui province, last July. European panel manufacturers are at odds with the companies that install solar arrays. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIANAN YU/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOLAR ENERGY (92%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (91%); ANTIDUMPING LAWS (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (77%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (77%); LITIGATION (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); SOLAR POWER PLANTS (73%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (73%); EURO (72%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (72%); EXECUTIVES (64%); PRESS CONFERENCES (64%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (61%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (74%) EAST CHINA (92%); ANHUI, CHINA (73%) EUROPE (96%); CHINA (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); BELGIUM (92%); GERMANY (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2013



721 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 706 words

HEADLINE: Japan Delays Naming New Leader for Central Bank

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
TOKYO -- The Japanese government said Tuesday that it would delay nominating a central bank governor by a week, fanning talk of friction between the prime minister and the finance minister over who should run a Bank of Japan charged with reigniting the economy.
Economics Minister Akira Amari said the government would not nominate the governor or the two deputy governors until after Prime Minister Shinzo Abe returned from a trip to the United States that runs from Thursday to Sunday. 
Mr. Abe has demanded aggressive action from a new governor, who is scheduled to be appointed by the end of March, prompting expectations that he would favor a candidate willing to undertake radical policies to lift Japan out of years of deflation.
Some government officials are concerned, however, that a governor promoting radical policies could upset financial markets.
''There's probably some disagreement between Aso and Abe,'' said Hiroaki Muto, senior economist at Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management, referring to Finance Minister Taro Aso.
Mr. Abe said Monday that he would make an announcement ''soon.''
Mr. Amari, the economics minister, told a news conference after a cabinet meeting, ''After Prime Minister Shinzo Abe returns, we will lay the groundwork to reach an agreement with opposition parties within this month.''
The approval of Parliament -- including the upper house, where Mr. Abe lacks a majority, is needed by the government's nominee.
The delay is also partly the result of a parliamentary rule, set by the governing and opposition parties five years ago, that once the name of a nominee is leaked to the news media, the candidate will be automatically disqualified. The rule makes it difficult to float names among different political groups to build a consensus.
Mr. Abe led the Liberal Democratic Party back to power in December with promises of aggressive monetary and fiscal stimulus to lift an economy that has stagnated for years. Japan is in its fourth recession since 2000.
His demands have caused the yen to slump more than 15 percent against the dollar since the election campaign in November, causing worries about competitive currency devaluations. The Nikkei 225-stock average has rallied more than 30 percent over the same period on hopes that the weaker currency would bolster exporters' earnings.
The prime minister reiterated Monday that he wanted the new central bank governor to pursue bold monetary easing, in which the bank buys assets like government bonds to free up money in the private sector. The candidate will replace Masaaki Shirakawa, who is retiring at the end of a five-year term.
Mr. Abe's push for looser monetary policy prompted the central bank in January to take its boldest action to date, doubling its inflation target to 2 percent and agreeing to an ''open ended'' asset-buying program, beginning next year.
Mr. Abe's short list for the bank's governor is said to include Haruhiko Kuroda, Japan's former point man on currency, who now heads the Asian Development Bank; and Kazumasa Iwata, a former government economist and deputy governor of the Bank of Japan.
Mr. Kuroda has been a vocal critic of policies under Mr. Shirakawa, while Mr. Iwata has repeatedly called for the central bank to consider buying foreign bonds to curb the strength of the yen, a measure that Mr. Abe has also said should be an option.
Others say the leading candidate is Toshiro Muto, a former top official in the finance ministry and deputy central bank governor. Analysts say Mr. Muto would promote more aggressive policies than Mr. Shirakawa but refrain from the more radical measures advocated by some other candidates.
''I get the sense that Aso wants Toshiro Muto and that Abe prefers Kazumasa Iwata,'' said Hiroaki Muto, the senior economist at Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management. ''Then there's the matter of dealing with opposition parties. Either one or the other will be appointed B.O.J. governor. There could be some disappointment because at this point the only way to surprise investors is by taking unconventional policy steps.''
In the upper house of Parliament, Mr. Abe would need votes of the opposition Democratic Party of Japan, or a combination of votes from other smaller parties, to get a nominee's approval.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (91%); PRIME MINISTERS (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); POLITICS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); DEVALUATION (86%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); DEFLATION (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); RECESSION (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); APPROVALS (69%); BONDS (66%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (63%); STOCK INDEXES (60%); GOVERNORS (58%)

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (58%)

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%)

PERSON: SHINZO ABE (92%); TARO ASO (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%) JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2013



722 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE 30-MINUTE INTERVIEW; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 840 words

HEADLINE: J. Ben Wauford

BYLINE: By VIVIAN MARINO

 BODY:
Mr. Wauford, 55, is a principal and the director of the New York office of the architectural firm Cooper Carry, which also has offices in Atlanta; Alexandria, Va.; and Newport Beach, Calif.
Mr. Wauford, who started the New York branch about 14 years ago, is involved in three local projects: a hotel in Hoboken, the Lighthouse Point mixed-use development on Staten Island and a mixed-use project in East Harlem.
Interview conducted and condensed by 
VIVIAN MARINO
Q. How is business?
A. Business is great right now. We are, as a firm, sort of tiptoeing out of this economic downturn, and while the long-term future is a little uncertain, we're seeing in the New York office a tremendous amount of activity. Old projects that have been sitting dormant are coming back in new and different forms based upon our new economic realities.
Q. How many projects is the New York office working on?
A. There are maybe 10; they're in a variety of stages.
We're just completing construction on three projects -- sort of wrapping things up -- and on the other end of the spectrum we've got probably five projects that are in initial stages. Some of them are R.F.P., or request for proposal, submittals as well as projects that we've secured that are in conceptual and schematic design.
Q. Are you busier than the previous year?
A. It's an increase, by about 20 to 25 percent.
Q. What's the status of the hotel project in Hoboken, which will behind a post office?
A. We've just completed a schematic design package that will be submitted to the city in the next month or so for approvals. The site's been designated as a redevelopment site, so it's site-specific approvals. That process may take as much as 12 months. The developer is a group called KMS Development Partners in Philadelphia.
Q. And Lighthouse Point?
A. Triangle Equities, out of Queens, is the developer. This was an R.F.P. from E.D.C., the Economic Development Corporation, and we had won the bid. It went on hold during the economic hiatus and now it's sort of emerging from that. Some of the rules changed so we have to retool. City planning approved new zoning restrictions for the St. Georges area and so that's driving a bit of a redesign to the project.
It primarily has to do with height and setbacks. Over all, square footage has not been scaled down -- the pieces have sort of moved around. There are five historic buildings on the site that we have to maintain and have to weave about 350,000 square feet into. There's a 200-key hotel and about 100 residential units and the balance in retail.
We've got to start with Landmarks for approval because of the historic component, so we have presentations in the coming weeks. Phase 1 is scheduled to start construction in January 2014 so we've got to move fast.
Q. You're a little further along in the East Harlem development.
A. That's a fantastic project. Once again, it was an E.D.C. R.F.P. and we won that with the Richman group and Archstone and Monadnock. It is two full blocks of development from 125th to 127th Streets, between Second and Third Avenues. And there is a small parcel to the south on 125th Street, which we affectionately refer to as Parcel C, or Metro 125. That was our first phase. We completed that just recently, in the middle of the second quarter of last year. It was 50 residential units, all affordable, and about 8,000 square feet of retail space on the ground floor.
The balance of the project is much, much larger. There are 751 residential units, a mix. And in addition to that, about 300,000 square feet of retail and a 30,000-square-foot cultural center. The next phase is 196 residential units and about 25,000 square feet of retail. We'll get to work on that this year.
Q. Anything else in the pipeline?
A. We're on the hunt for a number of different things. The other work that we're doing is outside the Northeast.
Q. How would you describe your architectural style?
A. Our work is defined by something a little more philosophical than style. We endeavor to celebrate the connections of people to place. So creating a special and unique place for each project that is integral to the people that use it and live around it is our fundamental goal.
Our public outreach is important -- listening to people and hearing what they have to say.
Q. How do you do that?
A. We get input from a lot of sources: our clients, consultants, the public, the end users. So we do a lot of listening early on, and within what we hear we derive our inspiration for the project. How do we do it? Generally we have listening sessions.
Q. Did you redesign your own home?
A. I did. When I came up from the South, I had envisioned living in a town house in the Village. Very naïve but aspirational.
I moved down to the Village and bought this very plain-vanilla one-bedroom apartment on 12th Street, between Fifth and Sixth, and so I decided to make it my town house. So I added all sorts of moldings and new fireplace surrounds and all that kind of stuff. I love the dichotomy of old versus new, so I filled it with midcentury furniture and art.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (90%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); ZONING (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (77%); HOTELS & MOTELS (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (70%); CITIES (63%)

ORGANIZATION: THE LIGHTHOUSE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2013



723 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 537 words

HEADLINE: Talk of a Retailer Merger Cheers Markets

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Stocks rose on Tuesday, lifted by recent mergers and talk that more are imminent.
Reports that the retailers Office Depot and OfficeMax are discussing a merger came after big corporate deals for Heinz and Dell were announced in recent weeks. Some investors are betting that more deals could be on the way as buyers pay premium prices for publicly traded companies.
The Dow rose 53.91 points to close at 14,035.67, approaching a nominal record of 14,164 reached in October 2007. 
''It seems that investors are more comfortable with taking risk right now,'' said Jack Ablin, chief investment officer at BMO Private Bank in Chicago. That's despite the $1.2 trillion in automatic federal spending cuts that are scheduled to start March 1 unless Congress and the White House find a way to avoid them. Congress returns from vacation next week.
Previous budget battles in Washington have rattled financial markets. But this time, many investors seem unfazed by the prospect that Congress won't stop the ''sequester'' from kicking in. One reason is that the cuts are spread across the board for a decade, instead of all at once.
''I think investors are actually comforted by it,'' Ablin said. ''It's not ideal. But if Congress can't do it when left to their own devices, this is the next best thing.''
In other trading Tuesday, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 11.15 points to 1,530.94. The Nasdaq composite index gained 21.56 points to 3,213.59. Google crossed $800 for the first time.
The gains were widely shared, if slight. Nine of the 10 industry groups tracked by the S.& P. 500 inched higher, led by energy companies. More than two stocks rose for every one that fell on the New York Stock Exchange.
Markets were also higher in Europe after news that the German economy was picking up steam. Indexes rose more than 1 percent in Germany and France.
Stocks of office supplies stores rose after the possible merger reports about OfficeMax and Office Depot.
OfficeMax rose $2.25 to $13, a gain of 21 percent, and Office Depot was up 43 cents to $5.02, a gain of 9 percent. Staples also rose as investors anticipated more mergers ahead.
Analysts cautioned that antitrust regulators could block mergers in the office supply business. Staples, for instance, tried to buy Office Depot in 1997, but was stopped by the Federal Trade Commission.
Health insurers fell after the release of preliminary government data that suggested rate cuts to Medicare Advantage plans for next year would be greater than anticipated.
The two largest Medicare Advantage providers, Humana and UnitedHealth, sank. Humana had the biggest loss in the S. & P. 500, dropping 6 percent, or $4.98, to $73.01. UnitedHealth fell 66 cents to $56.66.
The government says it expects costs per person for Medicare Advantage plans to fall more than 2 percent in 2014. The government uses this figure as a benchmark to determine payments for these privately run versions of the government's health care program for the disabled and those 65 and older.
Interest rates were higher. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note fell 7/32 to 99 24/32 and the yield rose to 2.03 percent from 2.01 percent late Friday.
The markets were closed on Monday in observance of Washington's Birthday.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg)
 3-Month Treasury Bills: High rate at weekly auction. (Source: The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); RETAILERS (89%); OFFICE SUPPLY STORES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); MERGERS (89%); OFFICE SUPPLIES & EQUIPMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (78%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (76%); INSURANCE (74%); MEDICARE (74%); BUDGETS (74%); EXECUTIVES (72%); HEALTH INSURANCE (71%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (63%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (60%)

COMPANY: OFFICE DEPOT INC (85%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%); GOOGLE INC (53%)

TICKER: ODP (NYSE) (85%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS453210 OFFICE SUPPLIES & STATIONERY STORES (85%); SIC5943 STATIONERY STORES (85%); SIC5112 STATIONERY & OFFICE SUPPLIES (85%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (90%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (77%); CENTRAL EUROPE (52%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2013



724 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 305 words

HEADLINE: BHP Billiton Chief to Retire; An Insider Will Succeed Him

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER

 BODY:
LONDON -- BHP Billiton said on Tuesday that its chief executive, Marius J. Kloppers, would retire this year after almost two decades at the company.
Mr. Kloppers, 50, will be succeeded by Andrew Mackenzie, the head of BHP's nonferrous division, on May 10. Mr. Mackenzie, 56, was one of the first people Mr. Kloppers hired when he became chief executive in 2007. 
The announcement came as BHP, the world's largest mining company, reported a 58 percent drop in profit for the six months that ended Dec. 31 compared with the period a year earlier, partly because of lower commodity prices.
Mr. Kloppers is the latest chief executive to leave a big mining company over the last five months. The chief executives of Rio Tinto and Anglo American also stepped down.
Mr. Kloppers said in a statement that the decision to retire was difficult, but that after almost 20 years with BHP Billiton, it was ''the right time to pass the leadership baton.''
''I am very proud of the achievements of our company and our people,'' he said.
Mr. Mackenzie, who grew up in an industrial town near Glasgow in Scotland, said he planned to continue focusing ''on our strategy of owning and safely operating large, low-cost, long-life assets diversified by commodity, geography and market.''
Mr. Kloppers's departure was widely expected among investors. He came under increasing pressure after some failed acquisition plans, including one to buy Rio Tinto. Last year, Mr. Kloppers gave up his bonus after BHP had to reduce the value of some of its assets, including shale-gas holdings in the United States.
''Despite an exceptionally difficult economic environment during his tenure, Marius and his team have delivered for shareholders, significantly outperforming our peers in terms of total shareholder returns,'' BHP's chairman, Jac Nasser, said in the statement.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (91%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); MINES & MINING (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); METALS MARKETS (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%)

COMPANY: BHP BILLITON PLC (97%); RIO TINTO GROUP (57%)

TICKER: BLT (LSE) (97%); BIBLT (JSE) (97%); BBL (NYSE) (97%); RIOS (BRU) (57%); RIO (NYSE) (57%); RIO (LSE) (57%); RIO (ASX) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212299 ALL OTHER METAL ORE MINING (97%); NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (97%); NAICS212210 IRON ORE MINING (97%); SIC1021 COPPER ORES (97%); SIC1011 IRON ORES (97%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (57%); NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (57%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GLASGOW, SCOTLAND (53%) UNITED STATES (90%); SCOTLAND (68%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2013



725 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 993 words

HEADLINE: Obama Tries to Turn Up Pressure on Republicans as Cutbacks Near

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Days away from another fiscal crisis and with Congress on vacation, President Obama began marshaling the powers of the presidency on Tuesday to try to shame Republicans into a compromise that could avoid further self-inflicted job losses and damage to the fragile recovery. But so far, Republicans were declining to engage.
To turn up the pressure on the absent lawmakers, Mr. Obama warned in calamitous terms of the costs to military readiness, domestic investments and vital services if a ''meat-cleaver'' approach of indiscriminate, across-the-board spending cuts takes effect on March 1. Surrounding him in a White House auditorium were solemn, uniformed emergency responders, invited to illustrate the sort of critical services at risk. 
The president plans to keep up the pressure through next week for an alternative deficit-reduction deal that includes both spending cuts and new revenues through closing tax loopholes. He will have daily events underscoring the potential ramifications of the automatic cuts, aides said, and next week will travel outside Washington to take his case to the public, as he did late last year in another fiscal fight on which he prevailed.
In stern tones, Mr. Obama said that the automatic cuts, known in budget terms as a sequester, would ''affect our responsibility to respond to threats in unstable parts of the world'' and ''add thousands of Americans to the unemployment rolls.''
He framed the debate in the way that he hopes will force Republicans into accepting some higher tax revenues, something they so far refuse to do.
''Republicans in Congress face a simple choice,'' Mr. Obama said. ''Are they willing to compromise to protect vital investments in education and health care and national security and all the jobs that depend on them, or would they rather put hundreds of thousands of jobs and our entire economy at risk just to protect a few special-interest tax loopholes that benefit only the wealthiest Americans and biggest corporations?''
Mr. Obama once again finds himself in a budget showdown with the opposing party, and numerous polls show his position to be more popular than Republican calls for spending cuts only, including cuts in Medicare. Mr. Obama and senior aides hardly disguised their sense of political advantage.
Still, the president's leverage might in fact be limited, since by all appearances he seems to want a deal far more than Republicans do. As the leader of the nation, Mr. Obama is eager to see an end to the repeated evidence of Washington dysfunction, or what he referred to again on Tuesday as the cycle of ''manufactured crisis.'' And with his legacy ultimately at stake, he needs to lift the fiscal uncertainty that since 2011 has held down economic growth.
Despite the risks of an impasse for Republicans, those who control the House have all but forfeited this battle to Mr. Obama and seem poised to let the automatic cuts take effect. Many Republicans, particularly newer members elected with Tea Party support, have pushed party leaders to accept the sequester and lock in the spending cuts rather than compromise. The leaders seem to have decided to wage battle later this spring in the larger fight over the annual federal budget.
Contributing to Republican calculations is the fact that at least in the short term, an impasse over the sequester is not as potentially catastrophic as the threats that loomed in past partisan showdowns, like a full shutdown of government or the nation's first-ever default on its global debt obligations.
The potential impact is potentially hazardous nonetheless, both economically and politically. As Mr. Obama noted, the prospect of the sequester has already affected military deployments and hiring by military contractors, and threatens layoffs of teachers, air traffic controllers and researchers, among others.
Hours after the president's remarks, economic forecasters at Macroeconomic Advisers, based in St. Louis, projected that sequestration would reduce the firm's forecast of growth this year by nearly a quarter, 0.6 percent, and cost roughly 700,000 civilian and military jobs through 2014, with heightened unemployment lingering for several years.
''By far the preferable policy,'' the analysis said, ''is a credible long-term plan to shrink the deficit more slowly through some combination of revenue increases within broad tax reform'' as well as ''more carefully considered cuts'' in spending programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. That prescription for both long-term spending reductions and revenue increases, as an alternative to immediate deep spending cuts that inhibit job growth, generally tracks Mr. Obama's approach.
He has proposed $1.5 trillion in spending cuts over 10 years and revenue increases that would build on the roughly $2.5 trillion over the decade that he and Congress have agreed to in the past two years.
The total, $4 trillion, is the minimum reduction that many economists say is necessary to stabilize the growth of the nation's debt at a time when the population is aging and health care costs are rising, driving projected costs to entitlement programs to unsustainable levels.
That approach mixing spending cuts and increased revenues got another endorsement on Tuesday when the chairmen of Mr. Obama's 2010 debt-reduction commission -- former Senator Alan K. Simpson, a Republican, and Erskine B. Bowles, a Democrat and former chief of staff to President Bill Clinton -- released a revised fiscal plan that would reduce annual deficits by $2.4 trillion in a decade through spending cuts, including in Medicare and Social Security benefits, and an overhaul of the tax system.
But Republicans say they will not consider additional tax increases since Mr. Obama in January won more than $600 billion over 10 years in higher revenues from the wealthiest taxpayers. ''The revenue debate is now closed,'' Speaker John A. Boehner said in a statement reacting to the president's remarks.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama assembled a group of emergency responders on Tuesday to drive home his point about the cost in preparedness if pending cuts take effect. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); MEDICARE (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2013



726 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; MUSIC REVIEW; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 508 words

HEADLINE: As the Cantatas Unfurl, A Reprieve Is Affirmed

BYLINE: By ZACHARY WOOLFE

 BODY:
It is hard to believe that just a year ago the wide-ranging music programs of Trinity Church, one of New York's major spiritual and cultural centers, were threatened with extinction. Even wealthy nonprofit institutions have felt the press of the economic downturn, and the church's robust programming was evidently thought unsustainable. 
Music at Trinity was eventually and wisely saved, and the church's myriad artistic offerings since then have proved time and time again that the music series was not merely excellent. With free or very reasonably priced tickets, it is one of the city's treasures.
Trinity is now collaborating with the early-music vocal group Tenet on TENEbrae, six rich weeks of concerts reflecting on the Lenten period. The series opened on Sunday evening with a performance of Dieterich Buxtehude's 1680 cantata cycle ''Membra Jesu Nostri Patientis Sanctissima,'' which served as a reminder, if yet another was needed, that Julian Wachner, Trinity's director of music, has taken the church's program to new heights.
Buxtehude's cycle consists of seven short cantatas, each devoted to a part of Jesus' body: the first to the feet, the second to the knees, and so on to the hands, sides, chest, heart and face. Each section has the same structure, a brief instrumental sonata followed by a chorus, three arias and a closing chorus.
Within these strictures Buxtehude provides music of dazzling variety, from the soft ease into the opening of the first cantata to the surging, harsh energy of the last, in which Jesus' ''face soiled with spit'' is commemorated. (The text is a shrewd mingling of biblical passages and verses from the medieval poet Arnulf von Löwen's ''Salve Mundi Salutare.'')
The broken yet connected notes of the second cantata's sonata lead into a chorus that expands to sublime heights at its end. Mr. Wachner, conducting, had the instrumental sonatas, choruses and arias flow into one another with a surreal intensity that feels like Bach, whose ''St. Matthew Passion'' brings TENEbrae to a climax on March 24.
Jolle Greenleaf, the artistic director of Tenet and a soprano who can both float and focus, led an excellent group of singers that featured the soprano Molly Quinn, the alto Luthien Brackett, the tenor Nils Neubert and the bass Steven Hrycelak.
As always at Trinity, the instrumental ensemble played with precision and freedom: the violinists Robert Mealy and Daniel Lee; the gambists Lisa Terry, Lawrence Lipnik and Motomi Igarashi (who also played the violone); Hank Heijink on the archlute; and, on organ, Avi Stein. These superb musicians will be familiar to Trinity regulars.
The program's year of near-disappearance and triumphant rescue is a reminder that lovers of culture must always be vigilant about protecting what matters. And Trinity's music -- indispensable and unmissable -- certainly does.
Music at Trinity and Tenet perform Couperin's ''Leçons de Ténèbres Pour Mercredi'' on Sunday at Trinity Church, Broadway at Wall Street, Lower Manhattan; (212) 602-0800, trinitywallstreet.org/music.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Music at Trinity: Julian Wachner leading Tenet in Buxtehude's ''Membra Jesu Nostri Patientis Sanctissima,'' at Trinity Church. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD TERMINE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); MUSIC (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); RELIGION (78%); EASTER SEASON (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (57%); ECONOMIC NEWS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2013



727 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 358 words

HEADLINE: Invitation to a Dialogue: Fix Medicare to Save It

 BODY:
To the Editor:
The Medicare budget is now facing economic pressure that will force political leaders to make difficult choices to extend the solvency of the program. Medicare is already paying more in benefits than it receives in income. 
As a result, the Medicare trustees in their most recent report issued a ''Medicare funding warning'' again, for the sixth straight year. Yet despite the looming crisis, before lawmakers start cutting benefits, raising premiums or increasing taxes, let's fix Medicare first and make it worth saving.
Over the years, Medicare has become more complicated and confusing for the beneficiaries covered by this insurance plan. For example, it now includes four parts, A, B, C and D, each with different yearly deductibles, co-payments and monthly premiums.
In addition, beneficiaries are confronted with many other complex and expensive decisions, like whether to buy a Medicare supplement insurance policy as protection against skyrocketing deductibles and co-payments, or which of the many Part D prescription drug plans is the right choice for them. Regrettably, there are no Medicare field offices for a face-to-face interview to help customers make an informed decision. Instead, beneficiaries are directed to call 1-800-MEDICARE or to visit www.medicare.gov for help.
While lawmakers must address the ominous Medicare financing crisis, their first priority should be to fix Medicare and transform it into a user-friendly health insurance program with one monthly premium and reasonable co-payments for all services. After all, why ask taxpayers and Medicare beneficiaries to pay more money to support an obsolete health insurance program when a far better plan is within reach?
THOMAS M. CASSIDY Stony Brook, N.Y., Feb. 18, 2013
The writer, an economist, is a clinical associate professor of social welfare at Stony Brook University and a former senior investigator for the New York State attorney general's Medicaid Fraud Control Unit.
Editors' Note: We invite readers to respond by Thursday for the Sunday Dialogue. We plan to publish responses and Mr. Cassidy's rejoinder in the Sunday Review. E-mail: letters@nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY KATIE SCOTT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (96%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); SUPPLEMENTAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); INSURANCE POLICIES (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (73%); WRITERS (73%); PUBLISHING (73%); MEDICARE FRAUD (73%); INTERVIEWS (71%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (62%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); MEDICAID (58%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2013



728 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1431 words

HEADLINE: A Digital Shift On Health Data Swells Profits

BYLINE: By JULIE CRESWELL

 BODY:
It was a tantalizing pitch: come get a piece of a $19 billion government ''giveaway.''
The approach came in 2009, in a presentation to doctors by Allscripts Healthcare Solutions of Chicago, a well-connected player in the lucrative business of digital medical records. That February, after years of behind-the-scenes lobbying by Allscripts and others, legislation to promote the use of electronic records was signed into law as part of President Obama's economic stimulus bill. The rewards, Allscripts suggested, were at hand.
But today, as doctors and hospitals struggle to make new records systems work, the clear winners are big companies like Allscripts that lobbied for that legislation and pushed aside smaller competitors.
While proponents say new record-keeping technologies will one day reduce costs and improve care, profits and sales are soaring now across the records industry. At Allscripts, annual sales have more than doubled from $548 million in 2009 to an estimated $1.44 billion last year, partly reflecting daring acquisitions made on the bet that the legislation would be a boon for the industry. At the Cerner Corporation of Kansas City, Mo., sales rose 60 percent during that period. With money pouring in, top executives are enjoying Wall Street-style paydays. 
None of that would have happened without the health records legislation that was included in the 2009 economic stimulus bill -- and the lobbying that helped produce it. Along the way, the records industry made hundreds of thousands of dollars of political contributions to both Democrats and Republicans. In some cases, the ties went deeper. Glen E. Tullman, until recently the chief executive of Allscripts, was health technology adviser to the 2008 Obama campaign. As C.E.O. of Allscripts, he visited the White House no fewer than seven times after President Obama took office in 2009, according to White House records.
Mr. Tullman, who left Allscripts late last year after a boardroom power struggle, characterized his activities in Washington as an attempt to educate lawmakers and the administration.
''We really haven't done any lobbying,'' Mr. Tullman said in an interview. ''I think it's very common with every administration that when they want to talk about the automotive industry, they convene automotive executives, and when they want to talk about the Internet, they convene Internet executives.''
Between 2008 and 2012, a time of intense lobbying in the area around the passage of the legislation and how the rules for government incentives would be shaped, Mr. Tullman personally made $225,000 in political contributions. While tens of thousands of those dollars went to the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee, money was also being sprinkled toward Senator Max Baucus, the Democratic senator from Montana who is chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, and Jay D. Rockefeller, the Democrat from West Virginia who heads the Commerce Committee. Mr. Tullman said his recent personal contributions to various politicians had largely been driven by his interest in supporting President Obama and in seeing his re-election.
Cerner's lobbying dollars doubled to nearly $400,000 between 2006 and last year, according to the Center for Responsive Politics. While its political action committee contributed a little to some Democrats in 2008, including Senator Baucus, its contributions last year went almost entirely to Republicans, with a large amount going to the Mitt Romney campaign.
Current and former industry executives say that big digital records companies like Cerner, Allscripts and Epic Systems of Verona, Wis., have reaped enormous rewards because of the legislation they pushed for. ''Nothing that these companies did in my eyes was spectacular,'' said John Gomez, the former head of technology at Allscripts. ''They grew as a result of government incentives.''
Executives at smaller records companies say the legislation cemented the established companies' leading positions in the field, making it difficult for others to break into the business and innovate. Until the 2009 legislation, growth at the leading records firms was steady; since then, it has been explosive. Annual sales growth at Cerner, for instance, has doubled to 20 percent from 10 percent.
''We called it the Sunny von Bülow bill. These companies that should have been dead were being put on machines and kept alive for another few years,'' said Jonathan Bush, co-founder of the cloud-based firm Athenahealth and a first cousin to former President George W. Bush. ''The biggest players drew this incredible huddle around the rule-makers and the rules are ridiculously favorable to these companies and ridiculously unfavorable to society.''
This industry, which was pioneered in the late 1970s, first gained widespread attention in 2004 when President Bush in his State of the Union speech called for digitizing national health records.
''After that, every technology C.E.O. wanting a piece of health care would have visited me every day if I had let them,'' said David Brailer, whom President Bush appointed as the nation's first health information czar. Over the next few years, Cerner and many of the other health care data companies increased their presence on Capitol Hill.
The records systems sold by the biggest vendors have their fans, who argue that, among other things, the systems ease prescribing medications electronically. But these systems also have many critics, who contend that they can be difficult to use, cannot share patient information with other systems and are sometimes adding hours to the time physicians spend documenting patient care.
''On a really good day, you might be able to call the system mediocre, but most of the time, it's lousy,'' said Michael Callaham, the chairman of the department of emergency medicine at the University of California, San Francisco Medical Center, which eight months ago turned on its $160 million digital records system from Epic. Michael Blum, the hospital's chief medical information officer, said a majority of doctors there like the Epic system.
Whatever the case, the legislation has been a windfall to top executives at the leading health records companies. Neal L. Patterson, who grew up on a farm near Manchester, Okla., population 100, co-founded Cerner in 1979. As Cerner's sales have soared in recent years, so have Mr. Patterson's fortunes. From 2007 to 2011, he received more than $21 million in total compensation, according to the executive compensation research firm Equilar, and his stake in the company is worth $1 billion.
In recent years, Mr. Patterson and his wife, Jeanne Lillig-Patterson, who ran as a Republican for Congress in 2004, have emerged as social and business leaders in the Kansas City, Mo., area. Mr. Patterson is also co-owner of a real estate development firm whose ventures include a 1,200-acre community near Kansas City called the Village of Loch Lloyd, featuring a Tom Watson-designed golf course.
A spokeswoman for Cerner said Mr. Patterson was unavailable for comment.
The medical records industry did not have much of a presence in Washington before President Bush highlighted it in 2004. Then in November that year, the industry created its first association, HIMSS, which includes health care providers, corporations and not-for-profit organizations, to make the case for electronic records. Its founding members included Allscripts, Cerner and Epic.
Four years later, in December 2008, H. Stephen Lieber, chief executive of the group, wrote an open letter to President-elect Obama calling for a minimum government investment of $25 billion to help hospitals and physicians adopt electronic records. The industry ultimately got at least $19 billion in federal and state money.
In the months after that windfall arrived, sales climbed for leading vendors as hospitals and physicians scrambled to buy systems to meet tight timetables to collect the incentive dollars. At Allscripts, Mr. Tullman soon announced what looked like a game-changing deal: the acquisition of another records company, Eclipsys, for $1.3 billion.
''We are at the beginning of what we believe will be the fastest transformation of any industry in U.S. history,'' Mr. Tullman said when the deal was announced.
Last spring, some of the Eclipsys board members left after a power struggle; Mr. Tullman left in December. He is now at a company he co-founded that focuses on solar energy -- another area that, after Obama administration and Congress expanded government incentives in the 2009 stimulus bill, has been swept by a gold-rush mentality, too.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dr. Vivek Reddy, a neurologist at the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, also works on its digital records effort. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF SWENSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (90%); LOBBYING (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORDS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (86%); SALES FIGURES (78%); HEALTH CARE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (77%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); MEDICAL RECORDS (77%); HEALTH CARE LAW (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); COMPANY PROFITS (68%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (63%)

COMPANY: ALLSCRIPTS HEALTHCARE SOLUTIONS INC (90%); CERNER CORP (68%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH (59%)

TICKER: MDRX (NASDAQ) (90%); CERN (NASDAQ) (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (68%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (68%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (68%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (68%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (75%); MAX BAUCUS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (55%) MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2013



729 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 389 words

HEADLINE: Wages and Employer Penalties

BYLINE: CASEY B. MULLIGAN


HIGHLIGHT: The employer penalties under the Affordable Care Act may have the effect of reducing wages, particularly because the penalties are not tax-deductible, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Casey B. Mulligan is an economics professor at the University of Chicago. He is the author of "The Redistribution Recession: How Labor Market Distortions Contracted the Economy." 
The cost to workers of the Affordable Care Act's employer responsibility penalties is greater than you think, because of their business tax treatment.
Most low-skill workers are not offered health insurance by their employers, and those employers have been complaining about the $2,000-per-employee annual penalty they will pay beginning next year ($3,000 per employee who resorts to a subsidized exchange when insurance offered by the employer is deemed unaffordable to the worker).
Next year will not be the first time that employers had to pay taxes based on the number of employees they have. For example, they have been paying payroll taxes that amount to almost $2,000 per year for an employee with a $25,000 salary.
Employer payroll taxes have been extensively studied, and economists have concluded that employees ultimately pay for those taxes in the form of lower wages. 
Thus you might think that the new $2,000 penalty would reduce wages by about $2,000 per employee per year. But unlike employer payroll taxes, the employer responsibility levies are not deductible from employer business taxes. To have the same after-tax profit, an employer in the 39 percent bracket (a typical state-plus-federal bracket for corporations) would have to cut wages by $3,046.
An employer paying the $3,000 penalty would have to cut wages by $4,569. That would push someone working full-time at $10 per hour down to minimum wage.
Some good news for the employees who want health insurance: the employer penalties come with employee access to large federal subsidies for purchasing health insurance and paying out-of-pocket health expenses, unless you are in a family that is 400 percent or more above the poverty line.
Not all employers have to pay the penalties, and more good news for employees is that both types of employers will compete with each other in the market for labor, which might prevent penalty-paying employers from passing on the full cost to their employees.

        
Staying Ahead of the Tax Man
        
College Premium: Better Pay, Better Prospects
        
Older Workers Could Benefit if Companies Drop Insurance
        
The Incomes of Physicians
        
Are Immigrants Taking Your Job? A Primer

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); WAGES & SALARIES (92%); CORPORATE TAX (91%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); WRITERS (78%); MINIMUM WAGE (78%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); FAMILY (73%); OLDER WORKERS (72%); AFTER TAX PROFIT (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%) Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (2010); Taxation; Wages and Salaries; Today's Economist

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2013



730 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2013

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 366 words

HEADLINE: Daily Report: Health Data Swells Profits in an Industry

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: As doctors and hospitals struggle to make new records systems work, the winners are big companies that lobbied for the legislation that allowed their sales to soar, Julie Creswell reports. 

 BODY:
As doctors and hospitals struggle to make new digital health records systems work, the clear winners are big companies like Allscripts that lobbied for that legislation and pushed aside smaller competitors, reports Julie Creswell of The New York Times. 
While proponents say new record-keeping technologies will one day reduce costs and improve care, profits and sales are soaring now across the records industry. At Allscripts, annual sales have more than doubled from $548 million in 2009 to an estimated $1.44 billion last year, partly reflecting daring acquisitions made on the bet that the legislation would be a boon for the industry. At Cerner Corp. of Kansas City, Mo., sales rose 60 percent during that period. With money pouring in, top executives are enjoying Wall Street-style paydays.
None of that would have happened without the health records legislation that was included in the 2009 economic stimulus bill - and the lobbying that helped produce it. Along the way, the records industry made hundreds of thousands of dollars of political contributions to both Democrats and Republicans. In some cases, the ties went deeper. Glen E. Tullman, until recently the chief executive of Allscripts, was health technology adviser to the 2008 Obama campaign. As C.E.O. of Allscripts, he visited the White House no fewer than seven times after President Obama took office in 2009, according to White House records. 
Cerner's lobbying dollars doubled to nearly $400,000 between 2006 and last year, according to the Center for Responsive Politics.
Current and former industry executives say that big digital records companies like Cerner, Allscripts and Epic Systems of Verona, Wis., have reaped enormous rewards because of the legislation they pushed for. "Nothing that these companies did in my eyes was spectacular," said John Gomez, the former head of technology at Allscripts. "They grew as a result of government incentives." 

        
Daily Report: Medicare Is Faulted on Shift to Electronic Records
        
Electronic Health Records: A Study and Perspective
        
Digital Records May Not Cut Health Costs, Study Cautions
        
The 'Miracle' of Digital Health Records, 50 Years Ago
        
Digitizing Health Records, Before It Was Cool

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LOBBYING (92%); MEDICAL RECORDS (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORDS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); HEALTH CARE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); HEALTH CARE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); MEDICARE (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); POLITICS (72%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (71%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (67%); US PRESIDENTS (66%) American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (2009); Electronic Health Records; Lobbying and Lobbyists; Cerner Corporation; Epic Systems Corp; Allscripts Healthcare Solutions; Cerner Corporation|CERN|NASDAQ; Data

COMPANY: ALLSCRIPTS HEALTHCARE SOLUTIONS INC (90%); CERNER CORP (71%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN LABORATORY FOR PARTICLE PHYSICS (59%); CENTER FOR RESPONSIVE POLITICS (54%) Cerner Corporation; Epic Systems Corp

TICKER: MDRX (NASDAQ) (90%); CERN (NASDAQ) (71%) Cerner Corporation; CERN; NASDAQ

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (71%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (71%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (71%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (71%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (56%) MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2013



731 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1250 words

HEADLINE: A Revolving Door in Washington With Spin, but Less Visibility

BYLINE: JESSE EISINGER


HIGHLIGHT: The important fights in Washington are happening away from the media gaze. For lobbyists, the real targets are regulators and staff members for lawmakers. 

 BODY:
Obsess all you'd like about President Obama's nomination of Mary Jo White to head the Securities and Exchange Commission. Who heads the agency is vital, but important fights in Washington are happening in quiet rooms, away from the media gaze.
After a widely praised stint as a tough United States attorney, Ms. White spent the last decade serving so many large banks and investment houses that by the time she finishes recusing herself from regulatory matters, she may be down to overseeing First Wauwatosa Securities.
Ms. White maintains she can run the S.E.C. without fear or favor. But the focus shouldn't be limited to whether she can be effective. For lobbyists, the real targets are regulators and staff members for lawmakers.
Ms. White, at least, will have to sit for Congressional testimony, answer occasional questions from the media and fill out disclosure forms. Staff members, however, work in untroubled anonymity for the most part. So, while everyone knows there's a revolving door - so naïve to even bring it up! - few realize just how fluidly it spins. 
Take what happened late last month as Washington geared up for more fights about the taxing, spending and the deficit. The Senate majority leader, Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada, decided to bolster his staff's expertise on taxes.
So on Jan. 25, Mr. Reid's office announced that he had appointed Cathy Koch as chief adviser to the majority leader for tax and economic policy. The news release lists Ms. Koch's admirable and formidable experience in the public sector. "Prior to joining Senator Reid's office," the release says, "Koch served as tax chief at the Senate Finance Committee."
It's funny, though. The notice left something out. Because immediately before joining Mr. Reid's office, Ms. Koch wasn't in government. She was working for a large corporation.
Not just any corporation, but quite possibly the most influential company in America, and one that arguably stands to lose the most if there were any serious tax reform that closed corporate loopholes. Ms. Koch arrives at the senator's office by way of General Electric.
Yes, General Electric, the company that paid almost no taxes in 2010. Just as the tax reform debate is heating up, Mr. Reid has put in place a person who is extraordinarily positioned to torpedo any tax reform that might draw a dollar out of G.E. - and, by extension, any big corporation.
Omitting her last job from the announcement must have merely been an oversight. By the way, no rules prevent Ms. Koch from meeting with G.E. or working on issues that would affect the company.
The senator's office, which declined to make Ms. Koch available for an interview, says that she will support the majority leader in his efforts to close corporate tax loopholes. His office said in a statement that the senator considered her knowledge of the private sector to be an asset and that she complied with "all relevant Senate ethics rules and disclosures."
In a statement, the senator's spokesman said, "The impulse in some quarters to reflexively cast suspicion on private sector experience is part of what makes qualified individuals reluctant to enter public service."
Over in bank regulatory land, meanwhile, January was playing out like a Beltway remake of "Freaky Friday."
Julie Williams, chief counsel for the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and a major friend of the banks for years, had been recently shown the door by Thomas J. Curry, the new head of the regulator. Banking reform advocates took that to be an omen that a new era might be dawning at the agency, which has often been a handmaiden to large banks.
Ms. Williams, of course, landed on her feet. She's now at the Promontory Financial Group, a classic Washington creature that is a private sector mirror image of a regulatory body. Promontory is the Shadow O.C.C. The firm was founded by a former head of the agency, Eugene A. Ludwig, and if you were to walk down the halls swinging a copy of the Volcker Rule, you would be sure to hit a former O.C.C. official. Promontory says only about 5 percent of its employees come from the O.C.C., but concedes that more than a quarter are former regulators.
Promontory, as the firm explains on its Web site, "excels at helping financial companies grapple with and resolve critical issues, particularly those with a regulatory dimension." But it plays for the other team, too, by helping the O.C.C. put into effect regulatory reviews. The dreary normality of this is a Washington scandal in the Michael Kinsley sense: a perfectly legal one.
Promontory, which demurred on a request to talk with Ms. Williams, has a different view. The firm doesn't lobby or help in litigation. It argues that after banks stop fighting regulators and lobbying against rules, then they come to Promontory to figure out how to fix their problems and comply.
"We are known in the industry as the tough-love doctors," said Mr. Ludwig, the chief executive of Promontory. "I am deeply committed to financial stability, and the only way to have stability is to do the right thing in both the spirit and letter of the law."
Hmm. Remember the Independent Foreclosure Review, the program that the O.C.C. and other federal bank regulators trumpeted as the largest effort to compensate victims of big banks' foreclosure abuses? As my colleague at ProPublica, Paul Kiel, detailed last year, that review involved consultants like Promontory essentially letting banks decide who was victimized. How well did that work? So well that the regulators had to scuttle the program because it hadn't given one red cent to homeowners but somehow, I don't know how, managed to send more than $1.5 billion to consultants - including Promontory.
Promontory maintains that it complied with the conditions set out by the O.C.C. And the review was replaced by a settlement, which the regulators say will compensate victims - though the average payout is small beer.
Who, exactly, makes the rules at the O.C.C.? I mentioned "Freaky Friday." That's because at the agency, Ms. Williams is being replaced by Amy Friend. And where is Ms. Friend coming from? Wait for it ... Promontory. In March, maybe they'll do the switcheroo back.
The O.C.C. didn't make Ms. Friend available but said that her "talent, integrity and commitment to public service are beyond reproach" and would be subject to the rule requiring her to recuse herself for a year on matters specifically relating to her former employer.
I spoke with people who said she was a smart and dedicated public servant, an expert on the Dodd-Frank Act who can help complete the scandalously long list of unfinished rules and expedite its adoption.
"Amy Friend is absolutely rowing in the right direction," said a Senate staff member who worked on efforts to push for stronger financial regulation.
Let's hope so.
But people also described Ms. Friend as pragmatic. In Washington, that's the ultimate compliment. Sadly, that has come to mean someone who seeks compromise and never pushes for an overhaul when a quarter-measure will do.
Washington today resembles something like the end of "Animal Farm." People move from one side of the table to the other and up and down the Acela corridor with ease. An outsider looking at a negotiating table would glance from lobbyist to staff member, from colleague to former colleague, from pig to man and from man to pig and find it impossible to say which is which.

        
Regulator Explains Decision to End Flawed Foreclosure Review
        
Doubt Is Cast on Firms Hired to Help Banks

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); TAX LAW (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (86%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); TAX REFORM (72%); TESTIMONY (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Appointments and Executive Changes; Curry, Thomas J; Friend, Amy; General Electric Company; Office of the Comptroller of the Currency; Promontory Financial Group; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; White, Mary Jo; Williams, Julie; General Electric Company|GE|NYSE; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory; Revolving Door; The Trade

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (90%); OFFICE OF THE COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY (84%) General Electric Company; Office of the Comptroller of the Currency; Promontory Financial Group

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (52%); GEC (LSE) (52%); GE (SWX) (52%); GE (NYSE) (52%) General Electric Company; GE; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (52%)

PERSON: MARY JO WHITE (90%); HARRY REID (89%); BARACK OBAMA (73%) Curry, Thomas J; White, Mary Jo; Williams, Julie

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2013



732 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1666 words

HEADLINE: The Benefits of Positive Parenting

BYLINE: DAVID BORNSTEIN


HIGHLIGHT: A program developed in Australia is proving how intensive parenting and family interventions can reduce violence against children, and its aftermath. 

 BODY:
Is there a science to parenting?
For all the current discussion in the United States about gun violence and mental illness, there has been little attention paid to root causes. Any effort aiming to reduce gun violence - or child abuse, intimate partner violence, suicide or sexual abuse - must include a serious discussion about how society can improve the quality of parenting.
In 2010, children's protective service agencies investigated 1.8 million referrals of child abuse and neglect pertaining to 3 million children. Although only 20 percent of these were substantiated, researchers report that physical abuse, including harsh physical discipline that is equivalent to abuse, is vastly underreported and may be 20 times more prevalent than is reflected in official statistics. (In other countries, including Spain, India and Egypt, harsh punishment is even more prevalent.) In Philadelphia, this behavior has recently been linked to the recession and the rate of mortgage foreclosures. When lenders put people out of their homes, one unforeseen consequence is that more kids end up with traumatic brain injuries. 
It is now well accepted that physical discipline is not only less effective than other non-coercive methods, it is more harmful than has often been understood - and not just to children. A review of two decades worth of studies has shown that corporal punishment is associated with antisocial behavior and aggression in children, and later in life is linked to depression, unhappiness, anxiety, drug and alcohol use and psychological maladjustment. Beyond beating, parents can also hurt children by humiliating them, labeling them in harmful ways ("Why are you so stupid?"), or continually criticizing their behavior.
Improving the way people parent might seem an impossible challenge, given the competing views about what constitutes good parenting. Can we influence a behavior that is rooted in upbringing and culture, affected by stress, and occurs mainly in private? And even if we could reach large populations with evidence-based messages the way public health officials got people to quit smoking, wear seat belts or apply sunscreen, would it have an impact?
That's what was explored in South Carolina in recent years, and the answer appears to be yes. With funding from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, a parenting system called the Triple P - Positive Parenting Program, which was developed at the University of Queensland, Australia, was tested in nine counties across the state. Eighteen counties were randomly selected to receive either a broad dissemination of Triple P's program or services as usual. The results were both highly promising and troubling.
The good news was that, in contrast to the control counties, over two years, the nine counties that received the Triple P Program had a 35 percent reduction in hospitalizations and emergency room visits for child injuries, a 44 percent reduction in out-of-home placements, and a 28 percent reduction in substantiated cases of abuse. The bad news was that the Triple P counties mainly held their ground, while abuse increased elsewhere in the state, possibly because of the recession and the concomitant budget cuts in children's protective services.
The Triple P Program has evolved over the past 35 years. It focuses on families with children under age 12 and has shown efficacy in numerous studies. It started as a home visiting program, but researchers found it too expensive to deliver more widely, so they looked for ways to broaden its reach - to get good parenting into the water supply. "You know how vast Australia is," explains Matthew Sanders, Triple P's founder. "Our question was how do we ensure that all families, regardless of where they lived, could access good quality evidence-based parenting interventions." Sanders experimented with different dissemination techniques, including telephone consultations, and found that they could do just as well as face-to-face meetings.
What's notable about Triple P is that it pursues a community-wide, preventive approach. Sanders believes that all parents would benefit from some education - though some need a light touch while others need significant help. And why would it be otherwise? Unlike driving a truck or teaching, no one needs a permit to become a parent. We copy others and make it up as we go. Without a "reflective awareness" and the benefit of information, says Sanders, parents are apt to struggle with strategies that don't work - or that work for some children, but not others. He has seen a great deal of conflict and unhappiness and violence-begetting rage and humiliation that could have been averted with manageable changes.
Triple P works at multiple levels, ranging from media and communication strategies (TV, Web, radio, newspapers) to brief individual consultations and group sessions to intensive parenting and family interventions for serious difficulties. "You need to get lots of practitioners from different sectors - education, day care, mental health, health, social services, pastoral counseling - who are trained to work with parents and families and give them an added skill," explained Ron Prinz, the director of the Parenting and Family Research Center at the University of South Carolina, who led the Triple P study. "Parents need different ways to get exposed to it." In the nine counties in South Carolina, 649 people received training (three to six days on average) to deliver the program.
For parents, exposures can range from watching a video to participating in two 20-minute phone calls to attending 14 group sessions. "We follow the principle of 'minimal sufficiency,' " says Sanders. "Use the smallest possible intervention to solve or prevent a problem."
There are dozens of strategies and variations for parents - those who have children with disabilities, chronic illnesses, obesity or emotional difficulties, as well as those going through separation or divorce or at risk of maltreating their children. Parents discover techniques like "planned ignoring" (good for low-level misbehavior like whining or minor tantrums where the goal is attention) or learn how to escape the "escalation trap," which occurs when parents get exasperated.
The essence of the research is that children do best when they receive calm and consistent feedback and assertive discipline that's based on reasonable expectations - with significantly more encouragement and positive feedback than criticism. "The main mistake parents make is forgetting the importance of catching kids doing the right thing," says Sanders.
Stephanie Romney, director of the Parent Training Institute at the San Francisco Department of Public Health, agrees. Romney and her colleagues deliver higher level Triple P interventions to 1,000 families, many of whom are involved with children's services. "Typically, the children have been on the receiving end of a lot of negative attention from adults," she said. "Even if the child has misbehaved all day, their parents try to catch them for that brief window when they are behaving well and praise them." Parents are sometimes amazed by the changes. "I've had parents tearing up talking about how their relationship with their child has improved," she added. "They went for a walk together and held hands for the first time. And parents report that they try it out on their spouses and coworkers and it works with them, too."
Triple P is one of several evidence-based parenting programs that have demonstrated how society can reduce behaviors that put children at risk. Some others include SafeCare, Parent Management Training - the Oregon Model, The Incredible Years and Nurse Family Partnership. What is different here is the idea that parenting education could be broadly disseminated. This is important, because parenting training needs to be de-stigmatized. It's not just about reducing abuse.
Romney notes that one of Triple P's strengths is that it presents a multiplicity of strategies and leaves it to parents to decide which ones to use. The community approach comes with limitations, however. It's difficult to get parents to come in if they aren't required to and it involves training numerous people to deliver the program - so start-up costs can be a barrier. But a lot of Triple P's teachings are available online. And unlike many parenting blogs, the advice is supported by research.
Parenting doesn't get much attention in policy circles. "We don't have mechanisms that help people to understand that parent education and training can be very effective," explains Richard Barth, dean of the University of Maryland School of Social Work, who has studied parenting programs for 30 years. "The Triple P study showed that if you engage people before things go awry, they can avoid problems that we might have predicted for them, or they might have predicted for themselves. There should be a significant investment in understanding how to implement some of the elements of Triple P - so every family and clinician in the United States knows the basics of parenting and the things we can do if things get more difficult."
It's not just for children. "It really influences adult well-being, too" Sanders said. "Parents become less stressed, less angry, less depressed, and have less conflict with their partners. We now have research that shows that parenting interventions improve your capacity to function at work, too."
 Join Fixes on Facebook and follow updates on twitter.com/nytimesfixes. 
David Bornstein is the author of "How to Change the World," which has been published in 20 languages, and "The Price of a Dream: The Story of the Grameen Bank," and is co-author of "Social Entrepreneurship: What Everyone Needs to Know." He is a co-founder of the Solutions Journalism Network, which supports rigorous reporting about responses to social problems. 

        
My Son, Lost and Found
        
'Mommy Wars' Redux: A False Conflict
        
For One More Day at the Office
        
Guilt Trip
        
The Dicey Parent-Teacher Duet

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (92%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); PARENTING SUPPORT (90%); CHILD ABUSE (90%); FAMILY SERVICES (90%); PARENTING (90%); CHILD WELFARE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); VIOLENT CRIME (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (89%); MENTAL ILLNESS (89%); DEPRESSION (78%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); SEX OFFENSES (78%); PSYCHOLOGY (78%); CHILD PROTECTIVE SERVICES (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (76%); TRENDS (75%); FORECLOSURE (73%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (73%); SUICIDE (73%); STATISTICS (70%); BRAIN (70%); BRAIN INJURIES (67%); SMOKING (61%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (53%); MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT (50%); SMOKING CESSATION (50%) Child Abuse and Neglect; Children and Childhood; Corporal Punishment; Parenting; Social Conditions and Trends; Fixes

COMPANY: TRIPLE P NV (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (52%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (52%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); QUEENSLAND, AUSTRALIA (78%) UNITED STATES (92%); AUSTRALIA (90%); INDIA (71%); EGYPT (71%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2013



733 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Diner's Journal)

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2013

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 435 words

HEADLINE: What We're Reading

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: A collection of links from the reporters and editors of the Dining section. 

 BODY:
New York: La Newyorkina, which sells Mexican ice pops called paletas on the High Line and makes other sweets, has reached its Kickstarter goal to raise funds to rebuild the Red Hook production kitchen damaged by Sandy. -- Maria Newman 
: A nip of Scotch, perhaps, or some Irish. Of course. But how about a glass of English? - Patrick Farrell
: The Paris-based pastry chef investigates a new bean-to-bar chocolate maker in Paris, part of the Alain Ducasse empire. -- Julia Moskin
: "The future of Australian wine is a fight against the goddamn phonies": inspired by Holden Caulfield, Max Allen calls on the industry to avoid imitation and cheap aspiration, and to be its most authentic self. -- Eric Asimov
: The future of food, according to the Madrid Fusion Congress with its 10,000 participants. Would you eat a classic "field-hand" sandwich with, well, foam of yeast? (Subscription required.) - Glenn Collins
Girl Farm Kitchen: Sara Barbour offers her spin on Moroccan chicken with preserved lemons and olives .... -- Jeff Gordinier 
Smitten Kitchen: . . . And from Deb Perelman, a recipe for Italian stuffed cabbage. -- Jeff Gordinier 
The New York Times: Monsanto goes to the Supreme Court to defend its patents for genetically altered soybeans. -- Maria Newman
: Matt Kramer explains the nature of connoisseurship, a word he says is "virtually forbidden in contemporary wine conversation." -- Eric Asimov
: For those of us unschooled in the math of dieting, here's a fun study guide to what 200 calories looks like - in beer, eggs, bacon and a host of other goodies. -- Patrick Farrell
The Economist: Though it was deeply embarrassing to several food distributors, the British horse meat scandal is not exactly a mad-cow-size disaster, experts say. And whether it's fraudulent - or inadvertent - labeling, it's all about the complex meat supply chain. - Glenn Collins 
: A fascinating multimedia profile of the Chicago chef Curtis Duffy, including a sad beginning. -- Julia Moskin
: The chronicle of Sodium Girl, who has lupus and must follow a salt-free diet yet persists in trying to make bland food delicious. - Glenn Collins
The Washington Post: A food writer discovers a more healthful way to cook African dishes that are the basis of many African-American diets, and shares the meals with her parents, who are from Guyana. -- Maria Newman 
: From the Honky-Tonky Double Barrel Meat-Loaded Blast to the Hobo Lobo Bordello Slam Jam Appetizer (featuring "super-saddened Cheez gutted wolf meat"), this parody of Guy Fieri's Times Square menu is almost as big a Twitter sensation as, well, Guy Fieri. -- Patrick Farrell

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); FROZEN DESSERTS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (79%); SUGAR & CONFECTIONERY MFG (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (76%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (74%); DIETING (73%); CONFECTIONERY MFG (73%); WINE (70%); FARM LABOR (69%); FOOD WHOLESALERS (68%); SCANDALS (67%); RACE & RACISM (66%); HORSE MEAT (62%); WRITERS (60%)

COMPANY: MONSANTO CO (55%); WASHINGTON POST CO (51%)

TICKER: MON (NYSE) (55%); WPO (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (55%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (55%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (55%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (51%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (51%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (51%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (89%) UNITED STATES (89%); FRANCE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2013



734 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 414 words

HEADLINE: Health Care Aside, Fewer Jobs Than in 2000

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: Without employment in the health care sector, which has added more jobs than any other sector, the United States would have fewer jobs than it did in 2000. 

 BODY:
Uwe Reinhardt had a fascinating post Friday about the buffer that health care spending has provided in the last few years. Health care has provided a steady contribution to gross domestic product even as other sectors cut back dramatically. He also notes that in the last two decades, it has created more jobs on a net basis than any other sector. 
I'd like to point out one other important accomplishment of the much-maligned health care industry. Not only has it added more jobs than any other sector, but without it, there would actually be slightly fewer jobs in the United States today than in 2000.
In 2000, the economy had about 121 million non-health-care payroll jobs. Today, on a seasonally adjusted basis, there are 120 million non-health-care jobs. Meanwhile, the health care industry has added about 3.6 million jobs in that time frame, growing about 33 percent (14.5 million health care jobs today versus 10.9 million in 2000).

There have been times since 2000 that the country has had more non-health-care jobs on net than it had at the turn of the millennium, but that has not been true since late 2008. Here's a look at the longer-term monthly numbers. Note that the vertical axis does not go down to zero to better show the change:
Is it a good thing that the health care industry has been basically keeping the job market afloat? That depends on your perspective. 
Health care is a notoriously inefficient industry -- in 2008, there were five people performing administrative support for every one doctor -- and a lot of the jobs that have been created in recent years probably involve feeding that inefficiency. 
Market pressures don't force streamlining in health care the way they do in other industries. That's partly because of the way Americans pay for health care and the way the government subsidizes health care consumption. It's also partly because health care is relatively shielded from international competition, since many medical services are difficult to offshore. It's hard to have someone draw your blood from India, for example.
In any case, given how weak the economy is right now, it seems unlikely that the health care industry is snatching many workers away from other industries where their skills would be put to more productive use. 

        
Older Workers Could Benefit if Companies Drop Insurance
        
College Premium: Better Pay, Better Prospects
        
The Incomes of Physicians
        
The Family and Medical Leave Act, 20 Years Later
        
Are Immigrants Taking Your Job? A Primer

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (95%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (92%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); HEALTH CARE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); OLDER WORKERS (72%); US FAMILY & MEDICAL LEAVE ACT (69%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (64%); IMMIGRATION (60%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (60%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (58%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (50%) Health Insurance and Managed Care; Labor and Jobs

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2013



735 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Taking Note)

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 497 words

HEADLINE: Taxing Carbon

BYLINE: VIKAS BAJAJ


HIGHLIGHT: A Xinhua report suggests the Chinese government is working on a relatively modest tax on carbon emissions. 

 BODY:
Long considered the biggest holdout in climate change negotiations, China said this week that the country would implement new taxes designed to curb greenhouse gas emissions. Officials in Beijing provided few details, but a report by the state-owned Xinhua news service suggested that the government is working on a relatively modest plan. 
Climate change experts such as James Hansen, the director of NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies, and many economists have long argued that the best way to stop and reverse global warming is to phase in taxes on the release of carbon dioxide from the burning of fossil fuels. The taxes would work by penalizing big emitters, thus encouraging consumers and businesses to reduce their use of electricity and gasoline. Over time, emissions would come down. And global temperatures, which have been increasing since the industrial revolution, would stabilize or decline preventing a big rise in sea levels, heat waves and other climate change calamities.
But with rare exceptions, including Ireland and British Columbia, few governments have been willing to implement such taxes for fear that they would hurt their economies, especially in relation to other, laxer countries. Many American lawmakers have been hostile to the idea of a carbon tax and other policies aimed at reducing carbon emissions.

The Xinhua report about China's plans did not say how big a tax the country would impose, but it pointed to a three-year-old proposal by government experts that would have levied a 10-yuan ($1.60) per ton tax on carbon in 2012 and raised it to 50-yuan ($8) a ton by 2020. Those prices are far below the $80 (500-yuan) a ton that some experts have suggested would be needed to achieve "climate stability," and which would raise the cost of gasoline by about 70 American cents a gallon.
China's plan will not make a serious dent in global warming, though the tax may still have some beneficial impact within the country, where air pollution is a serious problem. A paper from the Chinese Academy for Environmental Planning suggests that a small tax could still raise revenue and provide an incentive to reduce emissions, bolstering China's renewable energy industry.
Meanwhile, in the U.S., many members of Congress find the idea of carbon taxes totally anathema and think such taxes would wreck the economy. They might, however, want to consider a proposal promoted by Mr. Hansen that would take the money collected from carbon taxes - or carbon fees as he prefers to call them - and rebate it in full to individuals. That would help consumers pay for more expensive electricity and gasoline, while giving them an incentive to cut their use of energy and fossil fuels. It's an elegant way to limit damage to the economy while giving people incentives to do what is right for the planet.

        
Chinese Workers' Rights
        
Will China Have to Abandon Its One-Child Rule?
        
Doha: Weirdly Tame and Dispirited
        
Everything's Great in China
        
Opinion Report: Military Standards

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (94%); GREENHOUSE GASES (93%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); GASOLINE (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (76%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (75%); GASOLINE PRICES (74%); AIR POLLUTION (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (69%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (69%); SALES REBATES (58%) Carbon Dioxide; China; Global Warming; Greenhouse Gas Emissions; Hansen, James E; Xinhua

ORGANIZATION: Xinhua

PERSON: Hansen, James E

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%) China

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2013



736 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Latitude)

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 635 words

HEADLINE: Bobos in Berlin

BYLINE: LUCIAN KIM


HIGHLIGHT: The German capital's most pressing problem is the lack of affordable housing amid creeping gentrification. 

 BODY:
BERLIN - Even hundreds of protesters couldn't thwart the eviction last Thursday morning when more than 800 police officers and a helicopter were deployed to dislodge the Gülbol family from their home of more than 13 years.
After years of legal wrangling, the house painter Ali Gülbol's dispute over rising rent has become a cause célèbre in the lefty Kreuzberg neighborhood in central Berlin. His family of five, portrayed in the local press as hard-working Turkish immigrants, has turned into a symbol of Berlin's most pressing problem: the lack of affordable housing amid creeping gentrification.

The opposition Social Democrats are making the nationwide shortfall of 250,000 apartments an election issue as they seek to unseat Chancellor Angela Merkel in September. A government report published last autumn revealed that an increasing number of German cities face rising housing costs and that rents in Berlin had gone up by 7.4 percent over the previous year.
It wasn't always like this. 
When I turned up here as a backpacker the summer after the Berlin Wall came down, I found refuge among East German punks squatting in a building in the grim Friedrichshain district. We kept cobblestones in a bucket on the balcony to hurl in case of an attack by skinheads. In the late 1990s, when I set up shop as a journalist, I lived in a Kreuzberg tenement with a coal-burning stove for heat and the shower in the kitchen.
I paid for the first accommodation with a bit of beer money, and my second pad didn't cost more than $100 a month. Since then the neighborhoods in which the apartments are located have been scrubbed down and filled with the organic food shops and yoga studios that are the stamp of hipsterdom the world over.
Still, I'm not convinced that Germany's rents are as out of control as they're being made out to be.
A survey published last month by an international consultancy firm found that Munich, Germany's most expensive city, ranks No. 20 in Europe and No. 65 worldwide in terms of rent. Berlin places No. 38 in Europe - way behind Vilnius or Warsaw - and No. 96 globally. Moscow, the city I called home for most of the past decade, holds first place in both categories.
The problem is that Germans have been spoiled by proactive government policies designed to fund affordable housing and promote mixed-income living spaces. Speculative bubbles that drive up rents astronomically were long seen as an ailment of the U.S., Spanish or British real estate markets, not of Germany's.
State subsidies have been cut in recent years by policymakers who believed that Germany's aging and shrinking population would make more housing available. Instead, immigration has created a net population gain, the number of single households is rising, and investors from around the world are drawn to German real estate as a safe haven.
Poverty is not an issue usually associated with Germany. Yet globalization has undermined the social welfare state that West Germans had built up as a counterweight to East German communism. And as in all Western industrialized countries, pressure on the middle class here is increasing as the wealth gap grows. Between 1998 and 2008, the share of national wealth held by the richest tenth of the population rose from 45 percent to 53 percent, while the poorer half's share declined from 4 percent to 1 percent, according to government figures.
The Gülbols' slice of the pie got noticeably smaller last week. For now, they will keep the same roof over their heads: They have temporarily moved to Ali Gülbol's parents' apartment just a few floors up. Wherever it ends up, though, the family will have to make do with less, just like millions of other people across Germany.

        
Hands Off Germany's Neo-Nazi Party
        
Taking on Merkel
        
Party Like It's 2012
        
Down on Austerity
        
Barbarians at the Gate

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); PROPERTY LEASES (76%); POPULATION GROWTH (76%); JOURNALISM (76%); POPULATION DECLINE (75%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); WRITERS (68%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (67%); CONSULTING SERVICES (61%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (61%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (60%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (57%); HEALTH FOOD STORES (50%) Affordable Housing; Berlin (Germany); Europe; Gentrification; Germany; Immigration and Emigration; International Trade and World Market; Merkel, Angela; Population; Real Estate and Housing (Residential); Renting and Leasing (Real Estate); Social Democratic Party (Germany); Turkey

ORGANIZATION: SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (84%) Social Democratic Party (Germany)

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (86%) Merkel, Angela

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (99%) GERMANY (99%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); LITHUANIA (76%) Berlin (Germany); Europe; Germany; Turkey

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2013



737 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2013

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 432 words

HEADLINE: Carbon Trading Program Falters in Europe

BYLINE: STANLEY REED


HIGHLIGHT: As Europe's experience has shown, getting carbon pricing right is not easy. Is carbon pricing and the trading of permits the best way to cut greenhouse gasses? 

 BODY:
LONDON - Just as President Barack Obama is trying to persuade Americans that a cap and trade system is the way to curb carbon emissions, the world's flagship program in Europe is in danger of failing. The price of carbon traded in Europe has collapsed to around 5 euros per metric ton compared with 30 euros a few years ago, as I discuss in my Green column. 
TheEU Emissions Trading System is intended to set a price on greenhouse gas emissions in order to force polluters like steel mills and power stations to clean up their acts. In the European union, factories and other installations whose smoke stacks spew carbon dioxide into the atmosphere must either acquire or be allocated permits each year equivalent to the amount they emit. For instance, Luxembourg-based ArcelorMittal, the world's largest steelmaker, was allocated about 87 million tons in permits last year. 
The number of permits available each year is supposed to gradually decrease, squeezing emissions down. Industrialists moan about this, but the system has actually been very permissive - even a money maker for them. Largely because of the recession, the number of permits allocated has turned out to be far too great. Companies have cut back production because of lower demand and have ended up with surplus permits, which they have been selling. That has been one of the key reasons why prices of the permits, which are traded on exchanges just like oil and other commodities, have dropped so much. 
The current low price undercuts the purpose of the trading program - which was to encourage companies to invest in energy efficient technologies. Single-digit prices don't encourage companies to do anything, analysts say. A much higher price is needed to force change - say 30 or 40 euros per ton or even higher. 
All of this raises questions about whether a cap and trade program like the European Union's is the best way to reduce emissions. Advocates say that the simplest way to cut greenhouse gases is to set a high carbon price and then let polluters make decisions about how to do it. That way governments are not picking technologies that may or may not work. But as Europe's experience has shown, getting carbon pricing right is not easy. 
 I am interested in hearing from readers on this subject. Do you think that carbon pricing is the best way to cut greenhouse gases or do you have a better suggestion?

        
Breathing in Beijing: Coping With China's Smog
        
Carbon Taxes Provoke Debate on Economic Impact
        
The Costs of Burying Carbon Emissions
        
Signs Europe Bending on Airline Carbon Fee
        
Beware, We're Having a Heat Wave

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS CREDITS (93%); EMISSIONS (93%); GREENHOUSE GASES (93%); EURO (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); SMOG (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (75%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (75%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (73%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); POWER PLANTS (70%); WEATHER (69%) Air Pollution; Carbon Dioxide; Greenhouse Gas Emissions; European Union; Green

COMPANY: ARCELORMITTAL SA (69%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (91%) European Union

TICKER: MTS (MCE) (69%); MT (PAR) (69%); MT (NYSE) (69%); MT (AMS) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331221 ROLLED STEEL SHAPE MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC3316 COLD-ROLLED STEEL SHEET, STRIP & BARS (69%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (69%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (50%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (66%) EUROPE (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); LUXEMBOURG (58%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2013



738 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2013

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 656 words

HEADLINE: Concerns Grow About 'Severely Polluted' Water in China's Cities

BYLINE: GERRY MULLANY


HIGHLIGHT: China&#8217;s other major pollution problem &#8212; degradation of its water supply &#8212; is drawing increasing attention from environmentalists, and investors. 

 BODY:
HONG KONG - The recent headlines about China's pollution problems - many are now calling it a crisis - have focused on the worsening air pollution in Beijing and other major Chinese cities, drawing worldwide attention to the issue.
But another peril, potentially as dangerous, lurks - one that is also drawing increasing notice: the poor condition of China's water supplies. On Tuesday, a report underscored just how widespread the problem is: an official with the China Geological Survey was quoted as saying that the groundwater of 90 percent of Chinese cities is polluted, with two-thirds of those cities having "severely polluted" water. 
Danwei, a Web site that tracks the Chinese media, noted that the Strait Times newspaper in Fujian Province on Tuesday devoted its full front page to the issue, another example of mainland Chinese media being more aggressive in tackling environmental degradation. The newspaper also notes that another official from a Beijing research center describes the intractable nature of the problem: the polluted water is often contaminated with heavy metals whose organic byproducts are difficult to filter out through traditional water treatment systems.
The concerns about China's water supply come in myriad forms. As my colleague Didi Kirsten Tatlow pointed out last week, the thirst that the Chinese coal and chemical industries have for water risks drying up key rivers, with a quarter of the flow in China's Yellow River threatened by 2015. India and other nations are worried about China's "hydro-supremacy" on the continent, particularly plans to build huge dams on rivers that flow across international borders. These dams, the Indian author Brahma Chellaney asserts, "are designed to pump electricity into China's southern electricity grid" as nations downstream bear "the environmental and social costs." Some see such conflicts, with the potential for "water wars," as among the most delicate challenges to Asian diplomacy in coming decades as water supplies get scarcer.
China, of course, is not alone as it tries to balance economic growth with growing concern about water supply quality. The debate about whether to allow gas hydrofracking in the United States has pitted environmentalists against energy extraction companies and others who see such technology as a way to finally wean the nation from dependence on foreign energy supplies.
As with the air pollution problem, bloggers and others have grown more vigilant in calling attention to water degradation throughout China. Caixin Online recently ran a troubling photo of what locals have called "Orange Juice River" - the Daqubang River in Zhejiang Province that has turned to a rust color because of pollution. Another in the series of pictures shows a woman drawing water from Luoyang River in Henan Province after it had been discolored by red dye from an illegal workshop upstream that had been dumping the substance from sewage pipes.
The issue is not just environmental. Where there is scarcity of precious resources, the opportunity to make money is not far behind. China Water Risk, a privately financed Web portal that examines the nation's growing water supply problems, takes a realistic look at the long-term challenges the Chinese face - and the opportunities for investors.
"At the global level, investors have responded to the threat of water scarcity by investing in specialist water funds," the site notes. But with China expected to spend roughly $150 billion over the next 12 years to deal with water shortage issues, "increasing attention is being paid to investment opportunities in water supply infrastructure, water treatment facilities and demand management technologies."

        
Worse Than Poisoned Water: Dwindling Water, in China's North
        
Gallows Humor, and Smog, Engulf China
        
What Do You Think the BRICS Can Build?
        
Is Something Toxic Buried in China's Financial System?
        
As Taiwan's Links With Mainland Grow, So Do Concerns

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WATER POLLUTION (91%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); RIVERS (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); AIR POLLUTION (89%); WATER RIGHTS (78%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (78%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (76%); TRENDS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (75%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (75%); HEAVY METALS & TOXIC MINERALS (73%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (71%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (69%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (69%); WRITERS (69%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (68%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (65%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (65%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); CHEMICALS (50%); CHEMICALS MFG (50%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Levees and Dams; Rivers; Shortages; Water; Water Pollution; Caixin; Beijing (China); China; Henan Province (China); India; Yellow River (China); Featured; View From Asia

ORGANIZATION: Caixin

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (94%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (97%); HENAN, CHINA (90%); EAST CHINA (79%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); ZHEJIANG, CHINA (58%); FUJIAN, CHINA (58%) CHINA (99%); HONG KONG (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%) Beijing (China); China; Henan Province (China); India; Yellow River (China)

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2013



739 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 291 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths BUONGIORNO, JOSEPH A.

 BODY:
BUONGIORNO--Joseph A.,83, of Manhattan passed away on Monday, February 18, 2013. Born in Ridgewood, Queens on November 12, 1929 to Joseph N. and Vita Cassano Buongiorno, Joe attended the Brooklyn Technical High School and received a degree in Mechanical/Civil Engineering from Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, PA. He worked for Glenn L. Martin in Baltimore, Maryland, before returning to the New York City area to work for Republic Airlines. He earned a master's degree in Merchant Marine Science, specializing in international transportation management from the SUNY Maritime College. 
In the 1980s, he was a doctoral candidate in economics and international trade at Pace University. After retirement as president of Boyd, Weir, & Sewell, a tanker brokerage in Manhattan, he attended Touro Law School and was admitted to the New York State Bar in 2000. Since then he had been practicing law, specializing in intellectual property/product liability. An avid sailboat racer and tennis player, Joe was a member of the New York Athletic Club for more than 55 years and served as the Commodore of the NYAC Yacht Club. He was also a long time member of the Metropolitan Opera Club and New York Yacht Club. He was the vice president of New York City Lawyers chapter of The Federalist Society for Law and Public Policy Studies. Joe is survived by his son, Joseph A. Buongiorno of Pittsburgh, PA; and two grandchildren, Peter H. of Boston, MA, and Carolyn C. of Pittsburgh. Visitation Thursday from 2-4 and 7-9pm at John Krtil Funeral Home, Inc., 1297 1st Avenue, NYC (70th St). Mass of Christian Burial Friday 10am at St John the Evangelist Roman Catholic Church, 348 East 55th Street (1st Ave). Interment Maple Grove Cemetery, Kew Gardens, NY.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); RELIGION (86%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (84%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (77%); LAW SCHOOLS (77%); ENGINEERING (77%); CHILDREN (77%); LAWYERS (77%); MARINE VESSELS (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); ADMISSION TO PRACTICE LAW (74%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (72%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (68%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (68%); ATHLETES (67%); GRANDCHILDREN (65%); PRODUCT LIABILITY (53%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (53%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STATE BAR ASSOCIATION (56%); FEDERALIST SOCIETY FOR LAW & PUBLIC POLICY STUDIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (94%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2013



740 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: In Reversal, Florida Says It Will Expand Medicaid

BYLINE: By LIZETTE ALVAREZ; Michael Cooper contributed reporting from New York.

 BODY:
MIAMI -- Gov. Rick Scott of Florida reversed himself on Wednesday and announced that he would expand his state's Medicaid program to cover the poor, becoming the latest -- and, perhaps, most prominent -- Republican critic of President Obama's health care law to decide to put it into effect.
It was an about-face for Mr. Scott, a former businessman who entered politics as a critic of Mr. Obama's health care proposals. Florida was one of the states that sued to try to block the law. After the Supreme Court ruled last year that though the law was constitutional, states could choose not to expand their Medicaid programs to cover the poor, Mr. Scott said that Florida would not expand its programs. 
Mr. Scott said Wednesday that he now supported a three-year expansion of Medicaid, through the period that the federal government has agreed to pay the full cost of the expansion, and before some of the costs are shifted to the states.
''While the federal government is committed to paying 100 percent of the cost, I cannot in good conscience deny Floridians that needed access to health care,'' Mr. Scott said at a news conference. ''We will support a three-year expansion of the Medicaid program under the new health care law as long as the federal government meets their commitment to pay 100 percent of the cost during that time.''
He said there were ''no perfect options'' when it came to the Medicaid expansion. ''To be clear: our options are either having Floridians pay to fund this program in other states while denying health care to our citizens,'' he said, ''or using federal funding to help some of the poorest in our state with the Medicaid program as we explore other health care reforms.''
Mr. Scott said the state would not create its own insurance exchange to comply with another provision of the law.
His reversal sent ripples through the nation, especially given the change in tone and substance since the summer, when he said he would not create an exchange or expand Medicaid.
''Floridians are interested in jobs and economic growth, a quality education for their children, and keeping the cost of living low,'' Mr. Scott said in a statement at the time. ''Neither of these major provisions in Obamacare will achieve those goals, and since Florida is legally allowed to opt out, that's the right decision for our citizens.''
Mr. Scott now joins the Republican governors of Arizona, Michigan, Nevada, New Mexico, North Dakota and Ohio, who have decided to join the Medicaid expansion. Some, like Gov. Jan Brewer of Arizona, were also staunch opponents of Mr. Obama's overall health care law.
Shortly before his announcement, the governor received word from the federal government that it planned to grant Florida the final waiver needed to privatize Medicaid, a process the state initially undertook as a pilot project. Mr. Scott, who is running for re-election next year, has heavily lobbied for the waiver, arguing that Florida could not expand Medicaid without it.
Mr. Scott's support of Medicaid expansion is significant, but is far from the last word. The program requires approval from Florida's Republican-dominated Legislature, which has been averse to expanding Medicaid under the health care law. The Legislature's two top Republican leaders said that before making a decision they would consider recommendations from a select committee, which has been asked to review the state's options.
''The Florida Legislature will make the ultimate decision,'' Will Weatherford, the state House speaker, said. ''I am personally skeptical that this inflexible law will improve the quality of health care in our state and ensure our long-term financial stability.''
Medicaid, which covers three million people in Florida, costs the state $21 billion a year. The expansion would extend coverage to one million more people.
Mr. Scott's reversal is sure to anger his original conservative supporters.
The governor ''was elected because of his principled conservative leadership against Obamacare's overreach,'' said Slade O'Brien, state director for Americans for Prosperity, an influential conservative advocacy organization. ''Hopefully our legislative leaders will not follow in Governor Scott's footsteps, and will reject expansion.''
During his announcement on Wednesday, Mr. Scott said his mother's recent death and her lifetime struggle to raise five children ''with very little money'' played a role in his decision.
''Losing someone so close to you puts everything in a new perspective, especially the big decisions,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAID (94%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (78%); POLITICS (77%); SUPREME COURTS (75%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (73%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (72%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); COST OF LIVING (64%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (62%)

PERSON: RICK SCOTT (91%); BARACK OBAMA (77%); JAN BREWER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (90%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2013



741 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; VLETEREN JOURNAL; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1016 words

HEADLINE: Cult Beer Alters Town, but Not the Monks Who Make It

BYLINE: By JOHN TAGLIABUE

 BODY:
VLETEREN, Belgium -- On the face of it, this quaint Belgian town has few attractions -- a charming brick parish church; a tall wooden windmill at the town's main intersection. But it has the world's best beer.
In the past few years, several Web sites that ask beer drinkers to rate their favorite brews have accorded that honor to a strong, dark local brew known as Westvleteren 12. In fact, the enthusiastic American Web site RateBeer.com gave the beer the honor two years in a row, dethroning a Swedish dark beer, Närke Kaggen Stormaktsporter.
Yet the people of Vleteren, population 3,700, have mixed feelings. The beer has been brewed for a century and a half by the Trappist monks of a local abbey, St. Sixtus, nestled in farmlands on the edge of town. Clearly, its newfound fame has given a lift to the local economy, benefiting restaurants, bed-and-breakfasts, and local shops that cater to pilgrims and tourists flocking to the abbey for the rich, brown-hued brew.
''It's very good for us,'' said Stephan Mourisse, 46, a notary who is the town's part-time mayor. ''We don't need to advertise, our bed-and-breakfasts are always full, full, full because of the beer.'' 
A dozen years back, he said, if you wanted Westvleteren 12 you just drove out to St. Sixtus and bought some. Now, he said, in nice weather the line of cars waiting to buy the beer can stretch for three miles.
The pick-me-up for the local economy could not come at a better time, with Belgium feeling the recession afflicting all of Europe. Out in Liège, in the east, a major steel works announced in January that it was laying off 1,300 people; a month earlier, Ford said it would close a car plant in nearby Genk, affecting as many as 10,000 jobs.
Yet beer, for the moment, keeps little Vleteren nicely afloat.
In recent years a second microbrewery has sprung up, perhaps inspired by the monks. In 2005, several local people who ran an ostrich farm began producing a dark beer of the strong 12 percent type similar to what the monks brew. Now, demand for their dark strong ales and stouts, branded as De Struise -- Dutch for the ostrich -- is so great that the company is expanding into a disused school building.
Urbain Coutteau, 51, the fledgling brewery's brew master, leads a visitor through a warehouse of used oak casks, some from Kentucky that once stored bourbon and others from wine-growing regions of France, that are now used for aging the beer. The monks of St. Sixtus, he says, are not competitors. ''I regard them as holy colleagues, that's just the word,'' he said. ''If I want to visit them, I just go out there; we have a good relationship, we respect each other.''
Beer, he said, is lifting everyone's economic boat. ''Lots of pilgrims come,'' he said. ''They have to eat, sleep, they don't go back the same day.'' They visit other breweries, like nearby St. Bernardus, he said, or the war graves that abound in this region, Flanders Fields, where major battles of World War I were fought.
Yet, if De Struise is growing, what lifts the desirability of the monks' Westvleteren 12 is their strict refusal to increase production beyond the roughly 130,000 gallons they have maintained for more than 60 years, or to supply stores and pubs in the region for sale. Forget exports. Only once, last year, did they have a sales drive abroad, even shipping the beer to the United States, where a six-pack sold for $85. But that was to finance reconstruction of the abbey buildings, completed late last year, which were in sore disrepair.
Westvleteren's popularity has created jobs, albeit a modest number. Six laymen work in the abbey, including five in the brewery, and another dozen or so in a restaurant and gift shop near the abbey gate. Yet the monks, all 21 of them, insist they are first and foremost men of God, not beer salesmen.
''Many people benefit'' from Westvleteren's success, said Mark Bode, a layman who has worked for the monks for 10 years, and now functions as a kind of spokesman. ''It gives the village its profile.''
''But that is not the main goal,'' he added, sipping tea in the restaurant, as visitors hauled off six-packs -- maximum two to a customer -- at $27 each, clutching them like gold ingots.
''The monks are ambiguous,'' he went on. ''They are proud of their product, yet they don't want to be associated only with beer. At the moment, they are sticking to that line.''
''One of the biggest things they give to the region is silence,'' he said, alluding to the Trappists' practice of refraining from speech whenever possible.
Beers like Westvleteren and De Struise help make Belgium a beer powerhouse. Anheuser-Busch InBev, the world's biggest brewer, has headquarters in Leuven, east of the capital, Brussels. Though many of the brewer's 200 brands, like Bud Light or Beck's, qualify as valuable brands, few ever enter the best beer ranks on popular Web sites. Still, there is no envy. ''The wide variety, styles and sheer number of Belgian beers puts Belgium on the map as a country of reference for quality beers,'' Natacha Schepkens, a spokeswoman for the company, wrote in an e-mail. ''There is room for all players.''
Economic benefits aside, the people of Vleteren just enjoy their beer. ''During the day I'll have a Fanta,'' said Hanne Versaevel, 32, a local police officer and a mother of two young children. ''In the evening I'll have a Westvleteren, because it's strong.''
''We're very proud of it,'' she added.
But Marianne Soutaer-Boutten, who runs the Cafe De Sterre near the town center, dissents from the general jubilation, lamenting the fact that local restaurants and pubs cannot get the monks to deliver them the brew. In nearby Bruges, you can find a bottle of Westvleteren for almost $35, she said, probably beer that is being resold, a problem the monks wrestle with.
Yet you cannot buy it in Vleteren, aside from at the monastery.
She denounces the hype surrounding Westvleteren, arguing that the St. Bernardus ale she sells is every bit as delicious.
''You can buy a T-shirt with Lacoste on it, or a T-shirt at the supermarket,'' she said. ''But it's basically the same T-shirt.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, a bar near St. Sixtus, where monks makeWestvleteren 12
 above, visitors at the monastery. The monks don't allow their brew, rated by some as the world's best, to be sold beyond the abbey. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOCK FISTICK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEER & ALE (91%); BED & BREAKFAST INNS (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (89%); BREWERIES (89%); RESTAURANTS (68%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (64%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (64%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BELGIUM (92%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (71%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2013



742 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 533 words

HEADLINE: Employees to Get New Jobs After Protest of Carwash Sale

BYLINE: By JULIE TURKEWITZ

 BODY:
Less than two weeks ago, workers at the Sixth Avenue Car Wash in Greenwich Village dropped their sponges and walked out for several hours, protesting the owners' decision to close the shop, a move they saw as retaliation for their recent decision to unionize. 
''What do we want?'' a protester asked. ''Work! Work! Work!'' the employees replied.
''Cuándo? Cuándo? Cuándo?'' the protester called out. When, when, when?
The question was answered on Wednesday, as the state attorney general, Eric T. Schneiderman, announced that the 15 workers would keep their jobs. In an agreement between Mr. Schneiderman and the carwash owners, the employees will be placed in comparable positions at other carwashes the owners operate in the region. Sixth Avenue Car Wash is also called Lage Car Wash, which is owned by John Lage, Fernando Magalhaes and Jose Pires.
If the owners do not transfer workers to new positions within 30 days, the company will face penalties, including payments of $20,000 per unemployed worker, half of which goes to the employee, and half to the state.
''We didn't think this would happen,'' said Juan Carlos Rivera, 26, a worker who spoke by phone from the carwash. ''But the community supported it, and thanks to God, it turned out O.K.''
In November, the Sixth Avenue Car Wash became the fifth carwash to unionize in New York City, part of a nationwide movement to organize an industry in which labor violations are well documented.
On Feb. 1, the owners of the Sixth Avenue Car Wash announced that they had sold the operation, and that the workers would be jobless before March 1. Employees said their bosses were punishing them for unionizing. Dennis Lalli, a lawyer for Mr. Magalhaes and Mr. Lage, said the sale occurred months before unionization, and could not possibly be a retaliatory move.
But a source familiar with the agreement said on Wednesday that the Sixth Avenue Car Wash workers had already lodged several labor complaints against their employers before the operation was sold in June.
New York labor law makes it illegal for an employer to retaliate against employees who report labor law violations. Acts considered ''retaliation'' can include dismissal, reduction of hours and closing of a business location.
Three workers' rights groups -- Make the Road New York, New York Communities for Change and the Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union -- reported the carwash's closing to the attorney general's office, prompting him to meet with carwash management.
Another company owned by Mr. Lage, Lage Management, which runs several carwashes in the region, previously paid $3.4 million in back wages and damages to over 1,000 ex-employees.
The state attorney general's office continues a larger investigation into other possible labor law violations at 23 carwashes owned or operated by Mr. Lage and Mr. Magalhaes.
Mr. Lalli, the lawyer, said his clients agreed to the deal only because they had already decided to transfer the workers to other jobs. ''It turned out there is some availability and they anticipate some openings in the next 30 days,'' he said. ''We would not have agreed to these kinds of penalties if we did not have the intent to hire these workers anyway.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Workers from the Sixth Avenue Car Wash in Greenwich Village said the owners retaliated against a unionization effort. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ATTORNEYS GENERAL (89%); CLOSINGS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); RETAILERS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); LAWYERS (75%); BACK PAY (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2013



743 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1089 words

HEADLINE: From New York, Making Guns The Issue in a Chicago Race

BYLINE: By STEVEN YACCINO

 BODY:
STEGER, Ill. -- On the second floor of a firehouse in this Chicago suburb, Debbie Halvorson, a candidate for Congress, let the news cameras zoom in as her fingerprints were taken -- the final step in her application for a license to carry a concealed firearm in 31 states.
Ms. Halvorson does not own a gun. But she is among a crowded field of Democrats vying to fill the House seat vacated by the resignation of Jesse Jackson Jr., and she has been pointedly defending her opposition to some gun-control measures in the final days before the primary on Tuesday.
The race has centered on little else since Ms. Halvorson became the chief target of a ''super PAC'' financed by Michael R. Bloomberg, the billionaire mayor of New York, who has vowed to spend millions to help further his goal of toughening the nation's gun laws. 
Propelled by a wave of homicides in Chicago and Mr. Bloomberg's plans to spend more than $2 million on the special election here, the campaign has been suddenly thrust, however briefly, into the middle of the national debate over gun control. How the candidates fare in Tuesday's primary could be a bellwether for gun-rights-supporting Democrats who seek office in the political climate after the school shooting in Newtown, Conn.
''It doesn't matter where the races are; it matters what the issues are within those races,'' said Stefan Friedman, a spokesman for Mr. Bloomberg's political action committee, Independence USA, which has been criticized by some here for trying to ''buy'' the election from 800 miles away.
Illinois's Second Congressional District, which includes parts of Chicago's South Side and southern suburbs, is the most recent focus of an effort by Mr. Bloomberg to invest some of his personal fortune into influencing the national political debate on issues like gun control, education and same-sex marriage. After forming the super PAC in October, Mr. Bloomberg used the group to spend around $10 million on candidates in the November elections, which he considered a ''toe in the water,'' according to Howard Wolfson, a deputy mayor in the Bloomberg administration.
The mayor's message is that ''there is a price to be paid for candidates that run with the support of the N.R.A. or run supporting their positions,'' Mr. Wolfson said.
Now, in the early months of a nonelection year, that strategy has homed in on the special election here, where the spending by super PACs, a surprising sum for a single House race, has already shown signs of shifting the balance in a district Ms. Halvorson was once strongly favored to win.
In a series of mailers and three television advertisements that have filled the airwaves for the past month, Independence USA has barraged Ms. Halvorson for getting an ''A'' rating from the National Rifle Association in previous elections and for opposing certain gun control measures, including a ban on assault weapons and high-capacity magazine clips. The group's latest spot also endorsed Robin Kelly, a former state representative, calling her a candidate who would ''take on the N.R.A.''
Just days after the Bloomberg PAC's endorsement, another candidate, Toi Hutchinson, dropped out of the race last weekend and threw her support behind Ms. Kelly.
Ms. Hutchinson, an Illinois state senator who was also criticized for getting a favorable rating from the N.R.A., was seen as competing with Ms. Kelly and Anthony Beale, a Chicago city councilman and another gun control advocate, for African-American voters in the black majority district.
Splitting the black vote, some leaders in the district believe, could allow Ms. Halvorson, the only white candidate out of 17 Democrats seeking the coveted Congressional seat, to win the nomination with less than 30 percent of the vote -- primarily from suburbs.
It is in those areas that Ms. Halvorson is hoping the attention being paid to her stance on guns may help widen her base and attract more gun-rights supporters to the polls on Tuesday.
''I've said this is what's important to me and this is what's important to the district,'' she said. ''If it's not, there are other candidates to vote for, but this is who I am.''
''Just because I want to have an honest discussion of how we deal with the entire culture of violence, I'm being attacked,'' added Ms. Halvorson, who does support universal background checks for gun buyers. ''To ban one more firearm, all that's going to do is harm the law-abiding citizen.''
Forced into an awkward spot between not feeding the fire against her and keeping Second Amendment-supporting voters engaged, Ms. Halvorson has said that she has not sought support from any gun groups in this election, despite holding steadfast on her positions.
Still, the Illinois State Rifle Association started fighting back on her behalf on Wednesday, sending out a direct mailer to thousands of its members living in the district asking them to vote for Ms. Halvorson, according to Richard A. Pearson, the association's executive director.
''We can't let that go unanswered,'' he said of the advertising campaign against her. His group had planned to endorse Ms. Halvorson in a news release on Thursday, but decided not to at the last minute, Mr. Pearson said, though he would not explain why.
Five Republican candidates also face one another in Tuesday's primary, but whoever gets the Democratic nomination is almost sure to win the April 9 general election, given the district's overwhelmingly Democratic makeup.
Ms. Halvorson, a former state legislator and one-term congresswoman who lost her seat in 2010, got some comparatively modest help from a Houston-based anti-incumbent super PAC when she challenged Mr. Jackson in the Democratic primary last year. Guns were not a major platform for either candidate in that race.
Mr. Jackson won re-election in November, then resigned his seat. He pleaded guilty on Wednesday to fraud for spending campaign funds on personal items.
Political analysts had expected that the three-month campaign before the special election would center on bringing more economic development to the district. But that issue has been largely overshadowed by the gun violence in Chicago that led to more than 500 homicides last year and at least 52 since the beginning of January.
Then came the deluge of advertisements against Ms. Halvorson.
''I think they've been very effective, simply because they can't be matched,'' said Dick Simpson, a political scientist at the University of Illinois at Chicago. ''Time is running out, and it's not clear she has enough money to change the topic.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, Debbie Halvorson, a Democrat who seeks to succeed Jesse Jackson Jr. in the House, taking a step toward getting a gun license. A ''super PAC'' that backs gun control is campaigning against her. The PAC has endorsed Robin Kelly, left, also a Democrat, as someone who would ''take on the N.R.A.'' A timeline on the PAC's activity is at nytimes.com/national. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NATHAN WEBER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
INDEPENDENCE USA PAC
 JOHN SMIERCIAK/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GUN CONTROL (91%); FIREARMS (90%); CONCEALED WEAPONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); RIGHT TO BEAR ARMS (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); SANDY HOOK ELEMENTARY SCHOOL SHOOTINGS (72%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (72%); SCHOOL VIOLENCE (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (68%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (67%); GAYS & LESBIANS (65%); SHOOTINGS (58%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (50%); MARRIAGE (50%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL RIFLE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (59%)

PERSON: DEBBIE HALVORSON (90%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (79%); JESSE L JACKSON JR (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2013



744 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 554 words

HEADLINE: Report Says Stanford Is First University to Raise $1 Billion in a Single Year

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN

 BODY:
Stanford last year became the first university to raise more than $1 billion in a single year, according to the Council for Aid to Education's annual college fund-raising survey. 
Partly because of large donations from entrepreneurial alumni who have made their fortunes in Silicon Valley, Stanford has been the top fund-raiser for eight straight years.
Last year, the university, near Palo Alto, said its five-year capital campaign, which ended in December 2011, had taken in a record-setting $6.23 billion, far exceeding its original goal of $4.3 billion, and surpassing by more than $2 billion any other single higher-education campaign.
''Stanford has been doing a remarkable job,'' said Ann E. Kaplan, the director of the council's report. ''By any standard, it's been amazing. They have some very big ideas, and they're good at capturing people's imagination, thinking about what they can do and what they could be.''
The report, released Wednesday, found that colleges and universities in the United States raised $31 billion last year, or 2.3 percent more than in 2011, slightly ahead of the inflation rate. That is still slightly less than the $31.6 billion record, set in 2008, before the financial crisis cut deeply into charitable giving.
''What happens in higher-ed fund-raising does tend to mirror what goes on in the economy as a whole,'' Ms. Kaplan said. ''We haven't come out of this recession as fast as some previous ones. The will to make the gifts is there; now we just need the value of the underlying assets, of individuals and foundations, to come back.''
After Stanford, the fund-raising sums drop: Harvard raised $650 million; Yale, $544 million; the University of Southern California, $492 million; and Columbia, $490 million.
Together, the top 10 universities raised $5.3 billion of the $31 billion total.
Among public universities, the University of California, Berkeley, was the leading fund-raiser, bringing in $405 million.
The $1.035 billion in gifts to Stanford last year comes to about $56,000 for each of its 18,500 students.
According to the council's report, the University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer Center, a specialized health institution, raised the largest amount per enrolled student, $590,719.
Of the 20 institutions that raised the most per student, five are medical schools and five are schools of theology. Deep Springs College, a private two-year college in California, is fourth on the list, which also includes two private liberal arts colleges, Hillsdale College in Michigan and Amherst College in Massachusetts. The remaining six institutions are private research universities: Stanford, Yale, California Institute of Technology, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Princeton and Harvard.
The report found that in the 2012 fiscal year, contributions for current operations increased 6.2 percent, while gifts for capital purposes, like endowments and buildings, declined 3.2 percent.
After Stanford's fund-raising success, other institutions have upped their ante: Columbia, which announced a $4 billion campaign in 2006, has collected more than that, and raised its goal to $5 billion by December 2013. The University of Southern California has started a seven-year, $6 billion capital campaign.
It is a truism of fund-raising, Ms. Kaplan said, that a rising tide lifts all boats.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUNDRAISING (91%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); MAJOR GIFTS (78%); CHARITIES (78%); CHARITABLE GIVING (78%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); RESEARCH REPORTS (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); INFLATION (66%); CANCER (60%); RELIGION (50%)

COMPANY: M D ANDERSON CANCER CENTER (51%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL FOR AID TO EDUCATION (84%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8069 SPECIALTY HOSPITALS EX. PSYCHIATRIC (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2013



745 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 964 words

HEADLINE: Fed Meeting Shows Growing Dissent on Measures to Lift Job Growth

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- There are widening divisions among officials of the Federal Reserve over the value of its efforts to reduce unemployment, but the authors of its bond-buying policy remain firmly in control, according to an official account of the January meeting of the Fed's policy-making committee.
An increasingly outspoken minority of Fed officials are concerned that monthly purchases of about $85 billion in Treasury securities and mortgage-backed securities are doing more harm than good. They argue the effort may need to end even before the nation's unemployment rate drops, because it is encouraging excessive risk-taking and could make it harder to control inflation. 
But the Federal Open Market Committee reiterated its determination in January to hold course until there was ''substantial improvement'' in the outlook for job growth, and several officials cautioned at the meeting that the greater risk to the economy was in stopping too soon, according to the account, which was published after a standard three-week delay.
Those officials ''noted examples of past instances in which policy makers had prematurely removed accommodation, with adverse effects on economic growth, employment and price stability,'' it said. ''They also stressed the importance of communicating the committee's commitment to maintaining a highly accommodative stance of policy as long as warranted by economic conditions.''
Ian Shepherdson, chief economist at Pantheon Macroeconomic Advisors, said investors should not be misled by the amount of space in the Fed's account concerned about its current policies, because the Fed's chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, and his supporters, continue to regard the asset purchases as a necessary and effective strategy to foster job growth.
''We view Mr. Bernanke as being firmly in charge of the committee, and very dovish indeed,'' Mr. Shepherdson wrote in a note to clients. He said he expected the Fed's asset purchases to continue at the current pace for the rest of the year.
While officials pushing for an earlier end to asset purchases do not have nearly enough votes on the 12-member committee to force a change in policy, they could reduce the impact of the Fed's efforts by convincing investors that purchases are even slightly more likely to end sooner.
Historically, it is often true that outspoken opposition has produced a moderation in Fed policy, because the committee prefers to operate by consensus. But Mr. Bernanke in recent years has demonstrated that he can and will maintain majority support in the face of persistent dissent.
His hand is strengthened by the fact that some Fed officials want to do still more to stimulate the economy. Narayana Kocherlakota, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, has said that the Fed should hold short-term interest rates near zero at least until the unemployment rate falls below 5.5 percent. The Fed has said that it intends to hold rates near zero at least until unemployment falls below 6.5 percent. The rate in January was 7.9 percent.
The Fed could also be fortified in its current policies if Congress continues to cut spending. Another round of across-the-board cuts is scheduled to take effect March 1. The Congressional Budget Office estimates the cuts would reduce growth by 0.6 percentage points this year, and employment by about 750,000 jobs.
There is little internal support for increasing the pace of securities purchases, but the account says that some officials raised the possibility of maintaining a portion of the Fed's investment portfolio for a longer period as the economy recovers.
The theory, which also underpins the Fed's plan to suppress interest rates for several more years, is that the Fed cannot do much more now, but it can compensate by maintaining its efforts for longer than it otherwise would. Holding onto the assets longer would maintain downward pressure on interest rates.
The account said the committee planned a review of the asset purchase policy at its next scheduled meeting on March 19 and 20.
The meeting account shows Fed officials generally expected a slow improvement in economic conditions this year, and were not overly concerned that the economy had not expanded, or expanded only modestly, in the final months of 2012. But they do not expect the economy to expand fast enough to significantly reduce unemployment.
The account also indicated that ''a number'' of officials are concerned that the economy is suffering permanent damage, partly because people unemployed for long periods are losing their skills, which could impede growth for years to come.
The Fed's vice chairwoman, Janet L. Yellen, said in a speech this month that inflation remained low and steady, while unemployment remained stubbornly high. As a result, she said, ''it is entirely appropriate for progress in attaining maximum employment to take center stage in determining the committee's policy stance.''
But some Fed officials have expressed growing unease that, even if inflation remained under control, asset purchases might disrupt financial markets. One concern is that low interest rates will encourage excessive risk-taking, inflating new asset bubbles that will inevitably pop. The Fed's purchases also may disrupt the normal operations of financial markets by constraining the supply of safe assets.
A Fed governor, Jeremy C. Stein, said this month that he saw ''a fairly significant pattern of reaching-for-yield behavior emerging in corporate credit,'' referring to a rise in the sale of new junk bonds, or high-risk corporate debt.
Mr. Stein said he did not see any reason for an immediate change in Fed policy, but Esther L. George, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, cited similar concerns in opposing the current policy at the January meeting.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, has demonstrated that he can maintain majority support in the face of disagreement. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); WRITERS (89%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); INFLATION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); INTEREST RATES (76%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (71%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF MINNEAPOLIS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (60%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (60%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2013



746 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 775 words

HEADLINE: Survey Finds That Fish Are Often Not What Label Says

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

 BODY:
SEATTLE -- Many Europeans are fretting these days over horse meat, and whether it might have adulterated their shepherd's pie. Over here, it's all about the red snapper.
That tempting seafood delight glistening on the ice at the market, or sizzling at the restaurant table in its aromatic jacket of garlic and ginger? It may not be at all what you think, or indeed even close, according to a big new study of fish bought and genetically tested in 12 parts of the country -- in restaurants, markets and sushi bars -- by a nonprofit ocean protection group, Oceana.
In the 120 samples labeled red snapper and bought for testing nationwide, for example, 28 different species of fish were found, including 17 that were not even in the snapper family, according to the study, which was released Thursday. 
The study also contained surprises about where consumers were most likely to be misled -- sushi bars topped the list in every city studied -- while grocery stores were most likely to be selling fish honestly. Restaurants ranked in the middle.
Part of the problem, said the study's chief author, Kimberly Warner, is that there are quite simply a lot of fish in the sea, and many of them look alike. Over all, the study found that about one-third of the 1,215 fish samples bought, from 2010 to 2012, were mislabeled.
''Even a relatively educated consumer couldn't look at a whole fish and say, 'I'm sure that's a red snapper and not lane snapper,' '' she said.
Geographically, the study had bad news for residents of Southern California, land of the midnight sushi. They were more likely than residents in any of the other sampled regions to be eating something other than what they had been told. About 52 percent of the samples bought and sent for testing turned out to be something else.
Salmon-crazed Seattle, by contrast, was tied with cod-country Boston as having the lowest deception rates. Still, almost one in five fish samples were wrongly labeled.
Some types of fish fared worse in different places. In New York, for example, fish that was not really tuna was being passed off as tuna in 94 percent of the samples taken, the study said.
What is in a name, anyway, when it comes to fish? Shakespeare might not have pondered the question exactly, but the seafood industry certainly has.
In the real world of perception and marketing, a fish called ''slimehead'' -- a real name, by the way -- is probably not going to fly off the menu. Far better to call it ''orange roughy,'' a distinction allowed by the Federal Food and Drug Administration. The government also allows Patagonian toothfish, real name, to be called Chilean sea bass, invented marketing name.
The Oceana study did not declare a fish mislabeled if the seller was following the federal guidelines.
But what the study found pervasive was mislabeling -- beyond what is allowed by federal food regulators -- by retail outlets using a name that consumers are more likely to want to buy. Almost two-thirds of the ''wild'' salmon samples, for example, were found actually to be farmed Atlantic salmon, which is considered less healthy and environmentally sustainable.
The National Fisheries Institute, a trade group representing the industry, did not respond to a request for comment on the study. But the institute has specifically criticized Oceana's work in the past as being more agenda-driven than scientific and rigorous.
Dr. Warner said that the study did raise some red flags about health. Fish known to accumulate mercury in their flesh, in particular, should be avoided, especially by pregnant women. But in what the study called ''one of the most egregious swaps,'' in New York, tilefish -- known for its mercury content and on federal advisory lists for sensitive populations to avoid -- was sold as red snapper. Tilefish was also found substituted for halibut.
She also cautioned that the study did not aim to produce a real scientific, top-to-bottom sampling of the seafood system. In Boston, for example, only grocery store fish were tested, leaving out sushi bars that might have lowered the city's honesty rate (although, in a separate effort in 2011 and 2012, The Boston Globe found widespread mislabeling in stores and restaurants).
And the Oceana study's authors also could not determine where in the food chain the mislabeling arose -- the wholesaler, the retailer or at the fishing dock itself -- or whether it came about through misunderstanding or deliberate concealment.
A common pattern, though, Dr. Warner said, was economic gain at the consumer's expense, with understudy fish -- tilapia, in particular -- often substituting for a menu's star, without a word to the audience.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Red snapper at a fish market in New York. In the 120 samples labeled red snapper and bought for testing nationwide, 28 different species of fish were found, including 17 that were not even in the snapper family, according to a study. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK LENNIHAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHART: Fish Are Commonly Mislabeled, Study Finds: A new nationwide study by Oceana, a nonprofit ocean conservation group, has found that the mislabeling of fish sold in U.S. retail outlets is common. One-third of samples taken for the study were found to be mislabeled. Snapper was the most commonly mislabeled, at 87 percent.
 COMMONLY MISLABELED FISH IN U.S. RETAIL OUTLETS (Source: Oceana) (A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEAFOOD (90%); FISHES (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); FOOD MISLABELING (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); HORSE MEAT (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2013



747 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1248 words

HEADLINE: A 'Go Local' Focus Is Used To Resolve Unpaid Wages

BYLINE: By LIZETTE ALVAREZ

 BODY:
MIAMI -- Compared with many other states, Florida has not been hospitable to the cause of worker rights.
Unemployment benefits are among the lowest in the country. The state was the first to dismantle its Department of Labor, and the Republican-dominated State Legislature has been such a staunch defender of business that any pro-worker legislation has little if any chance.
But advocates for worker rights have a new strategy: Go local.
They have persuaded Florida's two most populous counties to pass ordinances making it easier for workers to recover unpaid wages from employers. 
The issue -- which advocates call ''wage theft'' -- has proved to be potent, putting businesses and lawmakers on the defensive in county-by-county battles throughout Florida. The issue, and the ''go local'' strategy, is also being pushed nationally.
''There is really a movement afoot,'' said Kim Bobo, the executive director of Interfaith Worker Justice, which has led the fight. ''It's such an easy issue for people to understand, and we have seen such momentum over the last couple of years.''
In January, Broward County, which is largely Democratic, became the second in Florida to put into effect an ordinance to help workers recoup money they had earned but not been paid.
The ordinance passed despite strong opposition from business groups, which say it is duplicative and burdensome for businesses.
In 2010, Miami-Dade County was the first in the country to approve the so-called wage theft, or wage recovery, ordinance.
Palm Beach County, another largely liberal enclave, recently agreed to fine-tune a plan to better address unpaid wages, although in a less comprehensive way than in Dade and Broward Counties. And Alachua County, a Democratic-leaning area in Central Florida, is also considering whether to take up a similar ordinance.
Such wage disputes are fast becoming an issue nationally. Several states have put in place greater protections, including New York, New Mexico, Massachusetts and Maryland. And a bipartisan bill is circulating in the Arkansas legislature.
Cities and counties have pushed similar measures, including Seattle; San Francisco; Grand Rapids, Mich.; and Chicago, which in January passed one allowing the city to suspend or revoke the licenses of businesses that violate Illinois's wage recovery law.
Memphis is expected to consider a wage recovery ordinance this year, even though a similar bid failed in the surrounding county, Shelby, in January. In Texas, which passed a wage recovery law in 2011, advocates in cities like Houston, Austin and El Paso are pushing for greater enforcement.
The problem of unpaid wages is significant. Since 2009, the Wage and Hour Division of the federal Labor Department has collected more than $859 million in back wages for more than one million workers. But most cases go unreported, and worker advocates say that in some cities the practice is endemic.
The worst offenders, studies have shown, are the construction and restaurant industries.
In Florida, the high number of immigrant workers complicates the issue. Because they tend to work in low-paid jobs and may lack English skills, know-how, money and legal status, immigrants are most vulnerable to being underpaid or not paid at all.
With the state unwilling to address the problem, local communities say they must. ''We are figuring out a way to deal with these issues on our own,'' said Kristin Jacobs, the mayor of Broward County, who pushed for the wage recovery ordinance.
Likening Florida to the ''wild, wild West,'' she said that South Florida counties were trying to serve their residents, despite the opposition of the legislators, many from the more conservative counties farther north.
After a falling-out with her employers, Flor M. Krockel, 46, left her job at a Miami day care center without her last two weeks' wages. A few well-placed phone calls from the county finally persuaded her employer to send along the check.
''They said if you don't pay your former employees, then you might have to go to court,'' Ms. Krockel said. ''That's when it clicked.''
In Miami, administrative hearing officers handle the relatively small claims, usually returning several hundred dollars in unpaid wages to each worker. Since 2010, the county has received more than 1,200 claims and forced employers to pay out more than $1.5 million in back wages.
The Florida Legislature, prodded by business trade groups, tried to quash the Miami-Dade ordinance. But the legislation failed. Another, larger effort is under way this year. The county provision also faced a court challenge from the Florida Retail Federation, but a judge dismissed the lawsuit last year.
Business trade groups say they are committed to dismantling the wage recovery ordinances, as well as a proposal that would require some employers to pay sick leave -- another issue that has gained traction in Florida.
Worker rights advocates in Orange County, home to Orlando, collected enough signatures to put a referendum on the past November ballot, but the measure was thwarted by the County Commission. Last week, an appeals court ruled that voters must be allowed to consider the initiative in the next election.
Now, advocates in Miami-Dade are also pushing for a sick leave measure there.
The Florida Retail Federation opposes the county-led wage recovery and sick leave measures. It and other business groups say they would rather strengthen existing state law than grapple with a county-by-county approach.
''We don't defend bad employers who are doing this,'' said John Fleming, the spokesman for the federation. ''We think, really, there should be some penalties that crack down on the companies.''
A state law enabling the county court system to deal with unpaid wages would be the best solution, Mr. Fleming said. At the moment, claims can be heard in federal court or, in some cases, state and local courts, but the process is cumbersome, expensive and lengthy.
Worker advocates say that claims typically fall into a void. The state has no wage and hour labor enforcement division. And while federal Labor Department officials have increased enforcement and staff, they are chronically overwhelmed.
''We do agree it would be great to have something statewide, but something that is really going to do something,'' said Jeanette Smith, who has led the effort to combat wage nonpayment here with South Florida Interfaith Worker Justice, a coalition of religious leaders.
''It's not a complicated issue,'' she said. ''Someone works, you pay them.''
The recession, in a way, served as the springboard in the push for worker rights. With businesses hit hard, nonpayment of wages -- either in unpaid overtime or an outright failure to pay workers for days, if not weeks -- grew more pronounced. Workers grew bolder and more willing to work with unions and other groups.
Proponents of wage recovery say forcing employers to pay the correct wages makes business sense: Workers stay in their jobs, ethical businesses can better compete, and the state picks up more tax revenue.
Ron von Paulus, who owns a tree service company in Miami, is one of the few business owners to publicly support the ordinances. For him, competing with business owners who do not pay the proper wages makes for an uneven playing field.
''What could be wrong about paying a guy to work?'' Mr. von Paulus asked. ''It's probably not the smartest business decision I have ever made. I do stupid things all the time. But I do it because it's the right thing to do.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ron von Paulus, left, owns a tree service company in Miami and is one of the few local business owners to publicly support the ordinances intended to help workers recover unpaid wages. ''What could be wrong about paying a guy to work?'' he asks. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MAGGIE STEBER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BACK PAY (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); COUNTIES (89%); ORDINANCES (89%); WAGE VIOLATIONS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (77%); LIBERALISM (73%); APPROVALS (72%); RELIGION (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (93%); GRAND RAPIDS, MI, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); EL PASO, TX, USA (67%) FLORIDA, USA (96%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2013



748 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 758 words

HEADLINE: To Block Gaza Tunnels, Egypt Lets Sewage Flow

BYLINE: By FARES AKRAM and DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK; Fares Akram reported from Gaza, and David D. Kirkpatrick from Cairo. Mayy El-Sheikh contributed reporting from Cairo.

 BODY:
GAZA --The Egyptian military is resorting to a pungent new tactic to shut down the smuggling tunnels connecting Sinai and Gaza: flooding them with sewage. Along with the stink, the approach is raising new questions about relations between Egypt's new Islamist leaders and their ideological allies in Hamas who control the Gaza Strip.
''Awful,'' said Abu Mutair Shalouf, 35, a Palestinian smuggler on the Gaza side, watching workers haul buckets of sewage-soaked soil from the shaft of a tunnel flooded by the Egyptian military 15 days ago. ''I don't know why they did this.'' 
Advisers to the Egyptian president, Mohamed Morsi, a leader of the Muslim Brotherhood's political arm, say the answer is simple: they are determined to shut the tunnels to block the destabilizing flow of weapons and militants into Sinai from Gaza -- a vow Mr. Morsi made with evident passion in an interview five months ago.
And the more muted response from Hamas, a militant offshoot of the Brotherhood, is the strongest indication yet that its leaders are now pinning their hopes on their ideological allies in Cairo, even if at the moment they appear to be harming the interests of the citizens of Gaza. The tunnels remain a vital source of certain imports to Gaza and smuggling-tax revenue for Hamas, and when the former president, Hosni Mubarak, used far less effective methods to close the tunnels, Hamas screamed of betrayal.
After the sewage flooding, several Hamas officials instead emphasized Egypt's right to protect its borders as it chose. ''Egypt is a state of sovereignty and we do not impose on it anything,'' said Salah al-Bardawil, a Hamas official in Gaza. ''We address the Egyptian side about the issue and hope they will understand us and our needs,'' he added. ''We trust the Egyptian leadership that they will not leave the Palestinian people alone.''
Analysts offer many theories about the timing. At a moment of political and economic difficulties, with a financial aid package stalled in the United States Congress, Egypt's Islamist-led government ''is showing itself once more as a valuable ally,'' speculated Yasser el-Shimy, Egypt analyst at the International Crisis Group. ''It can do something like this, which, perhaps, promotes strategic interests.''
Or perhaps, Mr. Shimy said, Mr. Morsi's government aimed to remind Israel that it, and not Egypt, still bore responsibility for Gaza's poverty and problems. Or perhaps the Egyptian military was sending some domestic message of its own, either to the Brotherhood or other domestic constituents, about the generals' independence from the Islamists.
Concern in Cairo about the tunnels spiked last August, when 16 Egyptian soldiers died in a militant attack on a military outpost in Sinai. The Egyptian government believes the attackers came through the tunnels.
Then, after Egypt helped broker a truce between Hamas and Israel to end a week of fighting in Gaza last November, Israel eased restrictions on imports over the border. Most notably, it began allowing in more construction material previously considered to have a potential military use, though Palestinians say the Israelis still block steel and other materials.
Essam el-Hadded, Mr. Morsi's national security adviser, suggested this week that the loosened restrictions at the border crossing might have encouraged the crackdown on tunnels. ''Now we can say that the borders are open to a good extent -- it could still be improved -- and the needs of the Gazan people are allowed in,'' Mr. Hadded told Reuters.
Under Mr. Mubarak, Palestinians said, the Egyptians sometimes flooded tunnels with gas, which was easily remedied by pumping in air.
But around the beginning of February the Egyptian military began for the first time to use waste water instead, eventually flooding about two dozen of the 200-odd tunnels. (The Egyptian authorities say there are 225; Palestinians say 250.)
Mr. Shalouf, 35, who imported mainly gravel, said that before removing the buckets of dirt he had pumped out the water. Now he plans to lay down sand and sawdust and reinforce the ceiling. Repairs could take three weeks.
Palestinians say that so far the flooding has hurt individual livelihoods but not the total volume of goods moving below ground. On Wednesday, about two cargo trucks per minute were pulling out of the main smuggling zone inside Gaza, laden with cement, gravel, canned food, citrus and vegetables. Hamas customs officers kept a record of each truck and load.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Palestinian clearing a tunnel of sewage in Rafah, between Egypt and the southern Gaza Strip. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HATEM MOUSSA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HAMAS (90%); SMUGGLING (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); ARMED FORCES (78%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); INTERVIEWS (74%); BORDER CONTROL (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (85%)

PERSON: MOHAMMED MORSI (79%); HOSNI MUBARAK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (90%) EGYPT (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (96%); ISRAEL (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2013



749 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 971 words

HEADLINE: Quel Brouhaha! A Diatribe On Unions Irks the French

BYLINE: By LIZ ALDERMAN

 BODY:
PARIS -- ''How stupid do you think we are?''
With those choice words, and several more similar in tone, the chief executive of an American tire company touched off a furor in France on Wednesday as he responded to a government plea to take over a Goodyear factory slated for closing in northern France.
''I have visited the factory a couple of times,'' Maurice Taylor Jr., the head of Titan International, wrote to the country's industry minister, Arnaud Montebourg, in a letter published in French newspapers on Wednesday. 
''The French work force gets paid high wages but works only three hours. They have one hour for their breaks and lunch, talk for three and work for three.''
''I told this to the French unions to their faces and they told me, 'That's the French way!' '' added Mr. Taylor, a swaggering businessman who is nicknamed ''the Grizz'' by Wall Street analysts for his abrasive negotiating style.
His decidedly undiplomatic assessment quickly struck a nerve in France, where concerns about declining competitiveness and the divisive tax policies of President François Hollande's government have led some economists to ask whether the nation is at risk of becoming the next sick man of Europe.
Mr. Montebourg, who is known for lashing out at French corporate bosses without hesitation, initially seemed at a loss for words on how to respond to the American charge.
''I do not want to harm French interests,'' he said when asked about Mr. Taylor's letter. Later, Mr. Montebourg released a letter to Mr. Taylor, calling the executive's comments ''extreme'' and ''insulting,'' adding that they pointed to a ''perfect ignorance'' about France and its strengths, which continue to attract international investors.
French media outlets minced no words. ''Incendiary!'' ''Insulting!'' and ''Scathing!'' were just a few of the terms replayed on French newspaper Web sites and on the airwaves throughout the day. The French blogosphere lit up with hundreds of remarks condemning the ''predatory'' American corporate culture that Mr. Taylor seemed to represent; other commentators who ventured to admit that there might be something to Mr. Taylor's observations were promptly bashed.
And France's main labor union wasted no time in weighing in.
Mickaël Wamen, the head of the Confédération Générale du Travail union at the Goodyear plant, in Amiens, said Mr. Taylor belonged in a ''psychiatric ward.''
A spokesman for Mr. Taylor did not immediately respond to calls for comment. France's 35-hour workweek, its rigid labor market and the influence that labor unions hold over the workplace have long been a source of aggravation for businesses.
Last month, after a government report warning that French competitiveness was slipping, labor unions and business leaders struck a deal to overhaul swaths of the labor code, a move Mr. Hollande said was needed to burnish France's international allure as a place to do business.
With unemployment above 10 percent and growth slowing, the government has also been desperate to avoid large-scale layoffs. Mr. Montebourg has even brandished the threat of nationalization to try to save jobs. PSA Peugeot Citroën, ArcelorMittal, Sanofi and Air France all announced big job cuts last year as Europe's long-running debt crisis hit their bottom lines.
So it was no surprise that Mr. Montebourg approached Titan International last year to ask if it would take over the Goodyear factory, which was scheduled to close because of labor disputes and sagging profitability -- a move that would threaten 1,173 jobs.
Titan had already considered taking over the Goodyear factory's farm tire operations. But it dropped the plan in 2011 after union representatives opposed a deal, saying they suspected Titan would close production of passenger-vehicle tires if the group took over. Tensions between Mr. Taylor and the union were evident at the time in a Titan news release, which included Mr. Taylor's observation that ''only a nonbusiness person would understand the French labor rules.''
In January, Mr. Montebourg tried to entice Titan back to the negotiating table, saying he hoped unions would put ''some water in their wine, that managers put some wine in their water, and that Titan would drink the wine and the water of both'' and reach an accord.
But late last month, as union workers protested en masse at the Amiens site, with a large police presence, Goodyear told workers it would close the plant and cut its French work force by 39 percent.
In his letter, dated Feb. 8, Mr. Taylor explained his reasons for refusing to come back to the negotiating table. ''Goodyear tried for over four years to save part of the Amiens jobs that are some of the highest-paid, but the French unions and the French government did nothing but talk,'' Mr. Taylor wrote.
''Sir, your letter says you want Titan to start a discussion,'' he added. ''How stupid do you think we are? Titan is the one with the money and the talent to produce tires. What does the crazy union have? It has the French government.''
He said his company would seek to produce cheaper tires in India or China, where he said Titan would pay the workers less than one euro an hour, and then sell the tires back to the French. He predicted that Michelin, the French tiremaker, would not be able to compete with lower prices and would have to halt production in France within five years.
''You can keep your so-called workers,'' he wrote. ''Titan is not interested in the Amiens factory.''
In his response, Mr. Montebourg reacted strongly to what he called Mr. Taylor's ''condemnable calculation'' and noted that France and its European partners were working to stop illegal dumping of imports.
''In the meantime,'' he added, ''rest assured that you can count on me to have the competent government agencies survey your imported tires with a redoubled zeal.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); TIRES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); WORK WEEK (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); CLOSINGS (71%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (71%); CORPORATE CULTURE (70%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (60%)

PERSON: FRANCOIS HOLLANDE (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (89%) FRANCE (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2013



750 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 905 words

HEADLINE: No, Greenland Does Not Belong to China

BYLINE: By MARTIN BREUM and JORGEN CHEMNITZ

 BODY:
Greenland may well develop into a large exporter of uranium. In the south of the island, rare earth deposits are among the largest in the world. Huge reserves of oil and gas are hidden off shore.
And yes, London Mining, a British mining company, and the Greenland self-government authority are luring the Chinese to invest $2 billion in an iron-ore mine close to the Greenland ice sheet some 175 kilometers north of Nuuk, the capital.
But let us stay cool as we discuss these prospects. Farfetched speculation is currently emanating from think-tanks and commentators on how Chinese military bases and Greenland's rapid independence from Denmark are likely offshoots of these industrial projects. 
Such speculation is less than helpful. Greenland and its population of 57,000 are preparing for difficult transitions and a potential influx of foreign workers, but it is not the end of the world. Chinese investment may provide state-run Chinese companies with political leverage on the small and economically weak Selfrule Authority, but decision-makers in Nuuk are aware of these risks. They are weighing the pros and cons of Chinese investments, just like other governments.
Greenland's population may be small, but Greenland is a democracy and remains firmly within the Kingdom of Denmark and the security sphere of NATO and the United States.
The confusion for many observers probably stems from a misreading of Greenland's relation to Denmark and the Arctic conundrum. Eight states have territory in the Arctic, where newly accessible riches abound. Inuits, Indians, Sami and the peoples of northern Russia all have a say, while a host of non-Arctic states, including China, Singapore and India, also crave influence. China now claims to be a ''near-Arctic'' state with interests in new Arctic shipping routes, oil, minerals and climate change.
Add to this the complexity of Greenland. The island was granted home rule in 1979 and self rule in 2009 -- including full rights to exploit and administer its abundant natural resources, plus the right to full independence from Denmark should the people of Greenland so choose. The currency, however, remains the Danish krone, and Greenland is still subject to the Danish constitution and to Denmark's foreign and security policies.
Since the 2009 self-rule agreement, Greenland has chased the resulting opportunities. Greenland is poor and the size of the annual subsidy from Copenhagen, currently covering half of Greenland's budget, was frozen in 2009. New sources of income are badly needed.
Greenland's politicians have made visits to China and South Korea and have invited investments from other countries. The global oil industry has been successfully courted.
Meanwhile, a constitution-writing process has begun in Nuuk and moves have been made to dispatch diplomats from Nuuk to foreign capitals. In January, the ruling party, Inuit Ataqatigiit, confirmed that Greenland's independence from Denmark remain its main political objective. Shortly after that, elections were called for March 12. No wonder outside observers are confused.
But Greenland is not about to claim independence any time soon. It took 30 years to go from home rule to self rule. Ask any politician in Nuuk when independence should come -- as we have done repeatedly -- and the answer will be vague, long and hinting at perhaps 40 to 50 years from now. Independence is a vision cherished for centuries, but opinions differ, and for the majority in Greenland there are more pressing issues. Poverty, health and education, to name a few.
Also, independence for many people in Greenland does not encompass severing practical and social links to Denmark. Most families in Greenland have close family ties to Denmark. Ten percent of the population lives in Denmark; they study, work or are being treated at hospitals there for free. Three centuries of trade, intermarriage and royal visits go a long way.
The real question for many today is really how to square formal independence with a continuation of these bonds. When on rare occasions the details of independence are discussed, the focus is on sovereignty, the ability to run one's own foreign policy and the right to speak without restraints, but not on disconnecting the real-life links to Denmark.
Greenland recognizes the stability provided by Denmark's status as a trusted member of the international community, by its solid economy and its Navy, which provides for protection of Greenland's sovereignty, fisheries control and for search-and-rescue operations in the vast territory. Such is reality: complex, unwritten and confusing.
How, when and on what legal basis any future arrangement between Greenland and Denmark may eventually be shaped is really anybody's guess. There is plenty of time to think of something clever.
The strength of the present arrangement is that it allows for fluid transformations to both nations' mutual benefit. Day-to-day operations are often spiced with difficulties -- Denmark and Greenland are currently quarrelling over possible uranium mining and a potential influx of perhaps 3,000 Chinese workers.
But these diversions will be overcome. Greenland remains on course, even if the way ahead looks bumpy.
Martin Breum, a journalist with the Danish Broadcasting Corporation, is the author of ''When the Ice Disappears,'' about Denmark's role in the modern Arctic. Jorgen Chemnitz is a photographer and a political columnist in Nuuk.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); MINES & MINING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (79%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); MINING & EXTRACTION RIGHTS & ROYALTIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); BUDGETS (76%); IRON MINING (72%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (72%); FOREIGN LABOR (53%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); COPENHAGEN, DENMARK (79%) GREENLAND (96%); CHINA (95%); DENMARK (95%); ARCTIC (94%); INDIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2013



751 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; GREEN COLUMN; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1047 words

HEADLINE: Emissions Trade in EU Is Sputtering

BYLINE: By STANLEY REED

 BODY:
LONDON -- President Barack Obama is trying to persuade the United States to adopt a cap-and-trade system to curb greenhouse gas emissions. But the European Union's Emissions Trading System -- the world's flagship effort -- is sputtering. European carbon permits, which traded at about &#x20ac;30 per ton a few years ago, are now hovering at about &#x20ac;5 per ton or less.
The Union set up the E.T.S. in 2005 to send a clear signal to electric utilities and other polluters that over time they needed to switch to cleaner energy sources and adopt innovative anti-pollution technology. But current prices, the equivalent of less than $7 a ton, are too low to encourage much of anything. 
''The European Union's energy and climate policy is in disarray and risks losing credibility,'' said Kash Burchett, an analyst at IHS, an energy consulting firm in London.
Some hope for shoring up the system came Tuesday, when the environmental committee of the European Parliament voted to allow the European Commission to reduce the number of permits it auctions in the next three years.
''This was a lifeline for the carbon market and for emissions trading as a policy tool for curbing emissions,'' said Stig Schjoelset, head of carbon analysis at Reuters Point Carbon, a market research firm in Oslo.
Under the E.T.S., polluters like utilities and steel companies are allocated some carbon allowances. They buy more permits at auction if they need them. If, at the end of the year, they do not have enough permits to cover their emissions, they face heavy fines. The total number of permits is scheduled to tighten each year, and the proportion of credits that companies must pay for, rather than receive free, is also supposed to rise. The intended result of this system is that carbon will be progressively squeezed out of the economy.
But amid Europe's economic malaise, many companies have chopped back production, leaving them with excess allowances. Demand for steel in Europe, for instance, is down about 30 percent since 2007, leaving steel makers like ArcelorMittal with allowances to sell. Last year, ArcelorMittal sold 21.8 million tons of its credits for $220 million. The company says it applied the receipts to energy-saving projects.
Low carbon prices do provide some relief to industry in grim economic times, but they do not provide much incentive to switch to cleaner fuels or invest in expensive technologies like carbon capture and storage, a process for removing CO2 from a plant's emissions and pumping it underground.
In fact, current low carbon prices allow utilities to mothball power plants fired by natural gas, which is expensive in Europe, and instead burn coal, which is now cheap but produces far more pollution.
Mr. Schjoelset, of Reuters Point Carbon, figures that a carbon price of &#x20ac;30 to &#x20ac;40 per ton is needed to encourage utilities to switch from coal back to gas, while &#x20ac;60 to &#x20ac;150 per ton may be required to promote the adoption of carbon-capture technology.
''We need a higher carbon price today for a long-term fundamental shift toward greener production in Europe,'' he says.
But industrialists and others warn that higher costs and uncertainty could further reduce the level of investment, which has already dropped in recent years, according to the European Union.
''We are not able to plan because we do not have a stable legal environment,'' said Wolfgang Eder, chief executive of Voestalpine, an Austrian steel maker. ''On the CO2 issue you have new intentions every year.''
Given industry's desire for predictability in carbon policy, perhaps the most important lesson the Obama administration can learn from the Union's experience is that a cap-and-trade system cannot be as volatile as Europe's has been.
''You can see now one glaring issue we failed to address is to design a mechanism to adjust to external shock,'' said Anthony Hobley, global head of the climate change practice at Norton Rose, an international law firm.
Against the sobering backdrop of a recession, a debate is beginning on the paths Europe has taken to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Even Germany, which wrote blank checks to build Europe's most aggressive renewable-energy program, is having second thoughts.
The country's environment and energy ministers recently came to an agreement for reducing the ballooning costs of the renewable-energy program by close to &#x20ac;2 billion a year.
The trouble with subsidizing clean energy sources like wind and solar is that the cost rises as the programs become more successful. Renewables now account for almost one-quarter of German electricity generation, but they are also adding a similar amount to residential electric bills, according to energy consultants IHS.
In Britain, the government is conducting a very public debate with EDF, the utility controlled by the French government, over what price it will pay for electricity from a nuclear plant planned for Hinkley Point in southwest England. London had been counting on nuclear power to help it achieve its greenhouse gas reduction targets as well as meet rising power demands, but soaring cost estimates are putting that plan in doubt.
The government seems to hope that it will be let off the hook by a shale gas miracle like the one that has occurred in the United States. But Britain's shale gas reserves are unproven, and the gas is controversial, after earth tremors set off by test drilling in 2011.
The adoption of a serious cap-and-trade program in the United States would be good news for Europe, Australia and any other government that wants to do something about climate change.
But without a global effort, the risk for Europe is that putting a high price on carbon and energy will just lead to a migration of industry and jobs to cheaper destinations.
Connie Hedegaard, the European commissioner for climate action, said in an interview that to blame environmental policies for job losses and economic malaise is ''a false diagnosis.''
In fact, she said, the European renewables industry was one of the few areas where jobs had increased in the last few years.
The real challenges for European competitiveness, she said, were areas like wages and taxation levels. ''It is important to get the diagnosis right in order to give the right medicine.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (94%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (93%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); POWER PLANTS (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); CARBON CAPTURE & STORAGE (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (75%); CLEAN COAL TECHNOLOGY (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (73%); MARKET RESEARCH (72%); FINES & PENALTIES (70%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (70%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (69%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (67%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (67%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (50%)

COMPANY: ARCELORMITTAL SA (64%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (91%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (55%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (55%)

TICKER: MTS (MCE) (64%); MT (PAR) (64%); MT (NYSE) (64%); MT (AMS) (64%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331221 ROLLED STEEL SHAPE MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (64%); SIC3316 COLD-ROLLED STEEL SHEET, STRIP & BARS (64%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (93%) EUROPE (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2013



752 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1167 words

HEADLINE: In Montana Town's Hands, Guns Mean Cultural Security

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER

 BODY:
BIGFORK, Mont. -- Jerry Fisher's big and careful arms cradled a polished cutout of English walnut, which was aging in his workroom like a fine wine. The slight tapering along one edge gave a ghostly hint of its future as the stock of a handmade hunting rifle.
His eyebrows lifted as he explained the properties of this piece of walnut. ''This wood will assume the moisture content of the atmosphere you store it in,'' he said. ''It takes five or six years to dry it.''
Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. may feel, as he said Tuesday, that people who want to protect their homes would do best with a simple shotgun. But Mr. Fisher, 82, is aiming at a higher target. 
A gunsmith whose exquisite firearms, some decorated with designs by fine artists, have attracted customers from around the world, Mr. Fisher built on the work of older gunsmiths in the region, just as younger ones hope to learn from him. He epitomizes the values of the Flathead Valley of northwestern Montana, where people grow up with, relax with and live around guns.
Since the 19th century, hunting has been a pastime in the forests that climb up the tiara of rocky peaks around Flathead Lake. Members of the growing group of high-end gunsmiths say it is the mountains, the air and the game that draw them, not the presence of other artisans. But the area's reputation for this kind of gunsmithing has also made it a growing destination for more prosaic manufacturing of gun parts and guns -- including high-end semiautomatic rifles and military weapons.
In Kalispell, the seat of Flathead County, 250 people earn a living making guns or gun parts, a tenfold increase since 2005. That growth helped mitigate the effects of the recession, which was a body blow to construction, a major local employer. Another longtime industry, logging, has also withered.
Clint Walker's company, New Evolution Military Ordnance, became one of the newest entrants in the business within the last couple of years, joining a roster of companies that included Montana Rifle, McGowen Precision Barrels and SI Defense.
Mr. Walker, who had been an editor of trade magazines covering video equipment, said Montana Rifle was ''doing literally tens of thousands of barrels'' for large gunmaking companies back East. ''They have to slow down and stop what they are doing to help us out,'' he said. ''And they've done that. They said: 'You guys are local. You're family.' ''
''That is a large part of the success of this area,'' Mr. Walker added.
To provide trained hands for companies like these, Flathead Valley Community College started a course in gunsmithing last summer. Students learn everything from hollowing out a barrel to checkering a stock -- carving fine crosshatched indentations behind the trigger both for decoration and to create a solid grip.
Jane A. Karas, a former New Yorker who is the college's president, said the program ''focuses on craftsmanship that maintains the historic values'' of the area. Her colleague Susan Burch, who worked with a transplanted Oklahoma gunsmith, Brandon Miller, to teach the course, added, ''You're looking at the intersection of art and the outdoors.''
Homicides with guns are relatively rare in the area. There have been three in Kalispell, a city of 20,000 people, out of six murders total in the past 12 years, said Roger Nasset, the local police chief. His officers are never surprised to find a gun inside a car they stop for a traffic violation -- and seldom bother to discuss it, much less confiscate it. Montana's laws on gun possession are among the least restrictive in the nation.
Guns are not permitted in schoolrooms, but the weapons have been used to raise money for education. Last fall, Stillwater Christian School received more than $20,000 when its parent-teacher organization held a raffle for a locally made semiautomatic AR-15 rifle donated by Mr. Walker, a parent of two young students there.
''When we did the fund-raiser, it didn't cross my mind, 'Wow, we're donating an assault rifle to a school for a fund-raiser,' '' he said. ''It was just, 'This is one of the No. 1-selling rifles in America.' ''
Butch Hurlbert, whose daughter and teenage granddaughter were murdered with a gun near Kalispell on Dec. 25, 2010, blames the killer -- his daughter's former boyfriend -- and the police, not the gun. Having a gun, he said, ''is pretty much just a normal thing.''
''My granddaughter that was murdered, she had her own .270'' hunting rifle, Mr. Hurlbert added. ''She was hunting for what would have been her third year. She got two bucks. Mounted the horns herself.''
Certainly Kalispell has not been impervious to changes brought by people who do not own guns and come for the scenery, the skiing, the hiking and the community cohesion. But most of the local debates about controlling guns pit gun owners and Second Amendment supporters against one another.
Since a gunman killed 26 people in December at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Conn., the columns of two local news outlets, The Flathead Beacon and The Daily Inter Lake, have been filled with debate over gun control.
A guest column in The Beacon by Bob Brown, a Republican and former State Senate president, called on gun owners to take back the National Rifle Association, which, he said, has been ''hijacked and radicalized.''
Online comments were almost evenly divided between those who agreed and those who excoriated Mr. Brown. The opposing views were distilled in this comment: ''As long as the American people are able to arm themselves properly there will never be a 'cultural revolution' that takes 60 million lives like that in China. A disarmed man is no man, he is a slave to his oppressors.''
Semiautomatic assault rifles are selling well right now. Mr. Walker at New Evolution Military Ordnance owns several of his own.
When three men tried to steal his truck a few months ago, he said, he scared them off with his wife's handgun; he had left his assault rifles in the garage. But, he said, ''If I had to defend myself and my family, there's no question I would choose my assault rifle. No question I'd want a 30-round magazine.''
Mr. Walker added, ''In a defensive situation, not every bullet is going to find its target.''
For Lee Helgeland, 65, a high-end gunsmith who, like his friend Mr. Fisher, lives deep in the country, the rise of assault weapons has been a problematic development, but an understandable one given the widespread admiration for all things military.
''We grew up with gun safety pounded into our heads when we were kids,'' said Mr. Helgeland, who moved to the area from Idaho, where he was a sales manager at a large food business. ''It's a problem -- the misuse of firearms -- without a solution.''
''There is a great distance between the world of the guns I make and the criminal element using the semiautomatics and the Saturday night specials,'' he said, adding, ''The urban attitude, the attitude of the antigun people, is based on unfamiliarity with the use of firearms in this part of the world.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Rifle stocks, top, standing ready for Lee Helgeland, a high-end gunsmith. He lives in Bigfork, Mont., near Kalispell, above, where gun makers have added more than 200 jobs since 2005. Jerry Fisher, left, is another local craftsman of firearms.
 Mr. Helgeland used to work in sales for a food business. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JESSICA LOWRY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL ARMS MFG (90%); FIREARMS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); MOUNTAINS (72%); RECESSION (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (60%)

PERSON: JOE BIDEN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTANA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2013



753 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 746 words

HEADLINE: Markets Slide on Anxiety Over Fed

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Stocks had their biggest decline in three months on Wednesday when an important gauge of market volatility spiked after the minutes of the Federal Reserve's most recent meeting suggested that the central bank may slow or stop buying bonds sooner than expected.
The minutes from the Fed's January meeting showed that many officials voiced concern over the potential costs of more asset purchases, suggesting that a bond-buying program known as quantitative easing, or Q.E., could slow before a pickup in hiring that it was intended to deliver. 
The volatility index on the Chicago Board Options Exchange, or the VIX, a measure of investor fear, jumped 19.3 percent, the biggest daily gain for the VIX since November 2011. Wednesday's slide was a return of nervousness to markets after their solid march higher this year.
''What Wall Street wants to hear is an absolute sign that the Fed will continue with Q.E. for the indefinite future. When it says we may end it faster, that just raises the uncertainty, and the market hates that,'' said Todd M. Schoenberger, managing partner at LandColt Capital in New York.
In a sign of broad market weakness, the number of declining stocks outnumbered advancers by a ratio of more than 3 to 1 on both the New York Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq. The volume of traded shares hit its second-highest level this year.
Prominent stocks in a range of sectors including the homebuilder Toll Brothers, the fertilizer maker CF Industries and the oil and gas producer Devon Energy, booked sharp losses after disappointing earnings and outlooks.
A slide in the commodity sector also weighed on stocks. Spot gold dropped to the lowest level since July. Benchmark industrial metal copper fell to a one-month low, and crude oil futures in the United States shed more than $2 a barrel.
The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 108.13 points, or 0.77 percent, to 13,927.54 at the close. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 18.99 points, or 1.24 percent, to 1,511.95. The Nasdaq Composite Index lost 49.19 points, or 1.53 percent, to end at 3,164.41.
For the benchmark S.& P. 500-stock index, the day's decline was the largest since Nov. 14.
The Fed has used the bond purchasing program since 2008 to stimulate the economy. The policy, which involves expanding the Fed's balance sheet to buy bonds, has been credited with pushing money into the stock market. How an end of easing would affect markets is not known.
Still, the S.& P. 500 has risen about 6 percent this year. Many analysts have been expecting the market to ease after the Dow and the S.& P. came close to highs.
Energy companies' shares were among the weakest on Wednesday, hurt by disappointing results in the sector and a 2 percent drop in crude oil prices. The Energy Select Sector SPDR, an exchange-traded fund, fell 2.1 percent.
Newfield Exploration fell 9.3 percent to $24.75 while Devon Energy dropped 6.6 percent to $56.57. Both companies posted fourth-quarter losses, with Devon hurt as it wrote down the value by $896 million because of weak natural gas prices.
Early Wednesday, unconfirmed rumors that a troubled hedge fund was selling assets added some downward pressure to the market. The rumors appeared to be unfounded.
''I heard the chatter about a hedge fund liquidating things today but how big, I don't know. Certainly, it sparks concern,'' said Michael James, senior trader at Wedbush Morgan in Los Angeles.
Housing shares also declined, pressured by weaker-than-expected results at Toll Brothers and a drop in groundbreaking to build homes, also known as housing starts, in January.
Toll Brothers' stock fell 9.1 percent to $33.56, but is up about 4 percent this year, building on a jump of nearly 60 percent in 2012. The Dow Jones U.S. Home Construction index lost 6.7 percent.
''Valuations appear a bit high at these levels, and if I was in a name that had seen a huge run, I'd want to take some chips off the table,'' said Matthew D. McCormick, money manager at Bahl & Gaynor in Cincinnati.
Shares of OfficeMax fell 7 percent to $12.09 while Office Depot slid 16.7 percent to $4.18 as the companies announced a $1.2 billion merger agreement. The shares had surged in Tuesday's session after a source said a deal would be announced.
A rival, Staples, fell 7.2 percent to $13.60 and ranked as one of the S.& P.'s biggest decliners.
Interest rates were lower. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note rose 5/32, to 9929/32, and the yield fell to 2.01 percent from 2.03 percent late Tuesday.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg)
 Housing Construction: New private housing starts and permits authorized during the month, at a seasonally adjusted annual pace. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); FERTILIZER MFG (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (79%); FUTURES (79%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (79%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); SPOT MARKET (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (73%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (71%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (64%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (64%)

COMPANY: CBOE HOLDINGS INC (71%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); DEVON ENERGY CORP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); CHICAGO BOARD OPTIONS EXCHANGE (57%)

TICKER: CBOE (NASDAQ) (71%); DVN (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (71%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (71%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (54%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2013



754 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; N.B.A. ROUNDUP; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 414 words

HEADLINE: Trading Deadline Is Quieter Than Usual

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The week of the trading deadline used to be the busiest of the N.B.A. season, with teams making deals at a frenzied pace.
Something different appears to be taking place this time around. There had been plenty of talk but very little action by Wednesday evening, with the deadline looming at 3 p.m. Thursday. 
If there are not any big moves, it could be because teams are preparing for a much harsher economic reality starting next season.
The new collective bargaining agreement, born out of last year's lockout, will impose much stiffer penalties for teams that exceed the salary cap.
The total number of players traded in the week leading up to the deadline was 45 in 2010 and 49 in 2011, according to Stats L.L.C. Last year, that number dipped to 27. As of Wednesday night, two reported deals made by the Rockets, involving seven role players, filled out the total for this year.
Still, some teams might take the tax hit.
Los Angeles Lakers General Manager Mitch Kupchak has said repeatedly the Lakers intend to keep Dwight Howard and to re-sign him this summer with an extension that will pay him more than $20 million annually.
With Kobe Bryant due more than $30 million and Pau Gasol due another $19 million-plus next season, just those three players would most likely put the Lakers at the luxury-tax level.
HEAT 103, HAWKS 90 Miami scored the first 13 points of the fourth quarter to erase Atlanta's 10-point lead, and the Heat, led by LeBron James's 24 points, won on the road to extend their season-best winning streak to eight games. James had 11 assists but could not extend his franchise-record streak of seven straight games with at least 30 points.
ROCKETS 122, THUNDER 119 James Harden scored a career-high 46 points, Jeremy Lin added 29, and Houston mounted a furious fourth-quarter comeback to win at home. Houston was down by 14 points with about seven minutes left. The Rockets used a 21-4 run to erase the deficit.
GRIZZLIES 88, RAPTORS 82 Zach Randolph had 17 points and 18 rebounds, and visiting Memphis won its fifth straight game. Toronto's Rudy Gay came up short against his former team as the Raptors' five-game winning streak ended. Acquired from Memphis on Jan. 30, Gay made just 5 of 15 attempts. He also had a game-high five turnovers.
TIMBERWOLVES 94, 76ERS 87 Nikola Pekovic had 27 points and tied a career high with 18 rebounds to power host Minnesota.
CAVALIERS 105, HORNETS 100 Kyrie Irving scored 20 of his 35 points in the fourth quarter to lead Cleveland at home.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); LOCKOUTS (75%); FINES & PENALTIES (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); LABOR UNIONS (70%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (56%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (84%); LOS ANGELES LAKERS (83%); HOUSTON ROCKETS (56%); ATLANTA HAWKS (54%)

PERSON: LEBRON JAMES (74%); KOBE BRYANT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (66%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (55%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (54%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (51%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (50%) TENNESSEE, USA (66%); CALIFORNIA, USA (55%); GEORGIA, USA (54%); ONTARIO, CANADA (51%); OHIO, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (66%); CANADA (51%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2013



755 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: Deal Advances Development Of a Smaller Nuclear Reactor

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Tennessee Valley Authority will pay Babcock & Wilcox, a nuclear equipment company, to complete extensive design work and apply for permission to build a new kind of nuclear plant, a ''small modular reactor,'' at a site in Oak Ridge, Tenn., the T.V.A. and the company announced on Wednesday.
The two entities did not disclose the value of the contract, which will be paid in part by the Energy Department under a program to encourage nuclear innovation. The announcement is a step forward in a program that advocates hope will develop a new class of nuclear plants that can be mostly built in a factory, shipped by rail or barge, deployed quickly, and sold around the world, especially in places where the power grid could not handle a big plant. 
''This technology is very different,'' said Joe Hoagland, a senior vice president of the T.V.A. ''It has built-in safety features and security features, so you can site it at places you wouldn't site a large reactor.''
Because the reactors are relatively small, the idea is that in an emergency they can be cooled with the natural circulation of water and heat, rather than by systems that require pumps and valves and that could be disabled by power failures or human errors. The goal for Babcock & Wilcox is a reactor that can be operated by a relatively small control room crew, perhaps two operators, and meet security requirements with fewer guards.
Christofer M. Mowry, president of Babcock & Wilcox mPower, said that existing big reactors relied on a ''force on force concept,'' with armed guards prepared to repel armed intruders, while the mPower concept was ''force on concrete,'' with a reactor that is under a concrete slab. ''That's a lot easier to defend,'' he said.
The reactor is intended as a direct challenge to natural gas generators, and it is intended to share two characteristics that make gas attractive.
First, the builders say they can be built quickly and be added onto later, so there is less risk of building too much capacity or running short. Second, they are meant to do something that is difficult for existing nuclear plants but easy for gas: change power output rapidly.
Grid operators are increasingly challenged by having to integrate large amounts of power from wind farms and solar installations, which can experience surges or drops in output. Planners are looking for supply partners for those variable generators.
B&W will prepare an application to build four reactors, and the plan is to build two at the site once planned for the Clinch River Breeder Reactor. Licensing can be completed under existing Nuclear Regulatory Commission rules, according to Mr. Mowry, who spoke at a Platts Nuclear Energy conference in Washington.
He said his company wanted to have the first of two units in service at Oak Ridge by 2022, an aggressive schedule that he said was ''eight years and change.''
The Energy Department could match costs up to 50 percent, depending in part on how much Congress allocates. Mr. Mowry, using a standard electric industry yardstick, said the intended cost was $5,000 per kilowatt of capacity, about $900 million a unit.
No one has built reactors of that size in the United States since the 1960s, but the concept of reviving small reactors has been around in one form or another for 20 years. Four giant reactors intended to be ''passively safe'' are under construction but few seem likely to follow soon. Two years after the Fukushima accident, in an era of low natural gas prices, the small reactor concept is the most popular one in the field.
The company has been lining up suppliers and completing design details. But small is a relative term -- the vessel is 13 feet in diameter and 83 feet high. The idea is for a 180-megawatt reactor, which is about one-sixth the size of new conventional reactors, but about the size of some old coal units now being retired. Reactors would be built in pairs or perhaps larger numbers, adding units as demand grows.
Marc Chupka, an economist and consultant at the Brattle Group who specializes in electricity, said, ''one of the impediments to new nuclear is the sheer scale of the financial commitment.'' Building a small reactor is an attempt to sidestep that problem, but ''it's still going to boil down to money and the relative cost of these things,'' which is unknown at present since no one has built one yet.
A variety of companies have done design work on such reactors. B&W appears to be in the lead at the moment because it has the Energy Department and the T.V.A. in its camp.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A rendering of a nuclear reactor being developed by Babcock & Wilcox for the Tennessee Valley Authority. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BABCOCK & WILCOX NUCLEAR ENERGY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (91%); POWER PLANTS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (89%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); POWER FAILURES (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (76%); EXECUTIVES (73%); WIND ENERGY (71%)

COMPANY: TENNESSEE VALLEY AUTHORITY (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221113 NUCLEAR ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (58%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (58%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TENNESSEE, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2013



756 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2255 words

HEADLINE: A Factory on Your Kitchen Counter

BYLINE: By STEVEN KURUTZ

 BODY:
In his State of the Union address last week, along with the standard calls for education reform and energy independence, President Obama gave a shout-out to a growing technology. In a lab in Youngstown, Ohio, the president said, ''Workers are mastering the 3-D printing that has the potential to revolutionize the way we make almost anything.''
When Brook Drumm saw clips from the speech at his home outside Sacramento, Calif., he wanted to reach through his TV and give the president a fist bump. Mr. Drumm, a bald, goateed father of three, designed the Printrbot, a desktop 3-D printer kit. Like a number of other 3-D printers, it uses heated plastic -- applied layer by layer to a heated bed by a glue-gun-like extruder -- to turn designs created on a computer into real objects.
As Mr. Drumm illustrated in the Kickstarter campaign he used to raise more than $830,000 to start his business in late 2011, the Printrbot is small enough to fit on a kitchen counter, next to the Mr. Coffee. ''The goal for the company,'' Mr. Drumm said in world-beating tones, ''is a printer in every home and every school.'' 
The technology for 3-D printing has existed for years, and President Obama was referring to its applications in manufacturing. But there is a growing sense that 3-D printers may be the home appliance of the future, much as personal computers were 30 years ago, when Dick Cavett referred to the Apple II in a TV commercial as ''the appliance of the '80s for all those pesky household chores.''
Like computers, 3-D printers originally proved their worth in the business sector, cost a fortune and were bulkier than a Kelvinator. But in the last few years, less expensive desktop models have emerged, and futurists and 3-D printing hobbyists are now envisioning a world in which someone has an idea for a work-saving tool -- or breaks the hour hand on their kitchen clock or loses the cap to the shampoo bottle -- and simply prints the invention or the replacement part.
Bre Pettis, the chief executive officer of MakerBot, the Brooklyn-based company leading the charge in making 3-D printers for the consumer market, has seen how the technology is already being applied. ''We have stories of people who have fixed their blenders, fixed their espresso machine,'' he said.
A file-sharing database MakerBot oversees, called Thingiverse, currently holds more than 36,000 downloadable designs. ''One of my favorite stories from Thingiverse is a dad who has a daughter who is 41 inches tall,'' Mr. Pettis said. ''They were going to an amusement park, and she wasn't going to be able to go on any of the rides because the minimum height was 42 inches. The dad made orthopedic inserts for her shoes.''
Last fall, MakerBot opened what may be the first retail store devoted to 3-D printers, in Lower Manhattan. Inside, demonstration models of the company's Replicator 2, a slick, steel-framed machine with the boxy dimensions of a microwave that sells for about $2,200, are constantly printing, turning files created on Trimble SketchUp and other computer-aided design (CAD) software into things like architecture models or smartphone cases.
Emmanuel Plat, director of merchandising for the Museum of Modern Art's retail division, said that in his experience, watching a 3-D printer work can induce future shock. ''When people see the machine function, they're mesmerized,'' said Mr. Plat, who counts himself among those impressed.
As part of its ''Destination: NYC'' collection in May, the MoMA Design Store will feature a Replicator 2 printing New York-themed items for sale, like a miniature skyscraper or taxi; people can also buy the printer, Mr. Plat said.
In an age when shooting video with a phone and sending it to a friend across the world is old hat, it's not easy to wow anyone with technology. Still, everywhere he goes lately, Mr. Plat said he hears people gushing about 3-D printing. ''The word is out in the design community and creative community,'' he said. ''The applications are limitless.''
BUT FOR ALL THE EXCITEMENT surrounding 3-D printing, there is still a significant gap between its potential and the current reality. The 15,000 or so early adopters who have bought a MakerBot printer are mostly design professionals or hobbyists from the maker community, not homeowners who still have trouble programming the remote. And the things being printed still tend to be trinkets like toys, key chains or just colorful pieces of plastic in amusing shapes.
Mr. Drumm bought a kit a couple of years ago because he wanted to be ''the first family on our block to have a 3-D printer,'' he said. After assembling the machine, a complicated task that required a knowledge of soldering, he and his 6-year-old son managed to print a bottle opener. ''It took 45 minutes and it was kind of crappy, but I was encouraged,'' Mr. Drumm said. ''O.K., we're doing this at our kitchen table.''
It's a sentiment Mr. Pettis hopes other parents will share. He is betting they will buy 3-D printers for their children, despite the current limitations, in the same way his family purchased a Commodore 64 home computer back in the early 1980s. The machines represent the future, he said, and ''for the cost of a laptop'' they offer ''an education in manufacturing.''
Still, at $2,200, a Replicator 2 costs more than most laptops, and in this sluggish economy, one imagines families could find more essential uses for that money.
When he was designing the Printrbot, that was one of the things Mr. Drumm had in mind. He wanted the kit to be easy to assemble and to require no soldering, he said, but most of all he wanted it to be cheap. ''It became obvious to me that it can't be $1,200 or even $800,'' he said. He settled on a price of about $550.
''People don't know what they're going to do with it,'' he added. ''I just say, 'This is such a new technology. Get your feet wet.' ''
Hearing Mr. Drumm recount his initial forays into 3-D printing, or watching the Replicator 2 print a brightly colored doodad, one is reminded of another Apple commercial, one that ran a few years before the Dick Cavett spot. In the ad, a synthesized voice touted all the things families could do with a home computer, like ''create dazzling color displays'' on their TV and ''invent their own Pong games.'' Given the myriad uses we've since found for home computers, and how indispensable they have become, the ad is almost absurdly quaint.
Max Lobovsky, one of the creators of the Form 1, a desktop 3-D printer that is stunning in both its design and printing quality, said the home 3-D printer is at a similarly protozoan evolutionary stage. ''It's not just about technology or reducing costs,'' Mr. Lobovsky said. ''The machines need to be easier to use, more capable and offer more applications in the home. I think all of those things are missing today.''
He and his partner, Natan Linder, envisioned the Form 1, which sells for around $3,300, as an affordable 3-D printer for professionals. Last September, they raised more than $2.9 million on Kickstarter, proof of the enthusiasm in the marketplace. They see 3-D printing technology working its way down from corporations to smaller companies to the engineers, architects and crafters at whom the Form 1 is aimed.
''There are a few more levels,'' Mr. Lobovsky said, ''before we get to every single household.''
IT MAY ONLY BE A MATTER OF TIME until a 3-D printer shares shelf space in the home with the laptop or TV, and of course Mr. Pettis already has a Replicator 2 on his coffee table in Brooklyn. But at the moment, the most common place to find a desktop 3-D printer may be at a hacker space, where hobbyists gather to share tips and troubleshoot what can be glitchy machines to operate.
Consider 2-D printers with their paper jams and low-toner warnings, then remember that most 3-D printers use hot plastic and don't come with an office repairman.
Hack Manhattan holds a weekly event called 3-D Thursday in its narrow second-floor workroom on 14th Street. One evening last month David Reeves and Justin Levinson, two club members, sat huddled around a printer Mr. Reeves had built using plans available free online. Its exposed wires and bare rod frame gave the machine the look of a homely science fair entry, but the bit-like extruder circled with the quick, precise movements of a hummingbird, printing layer by plastic layer.
In a mind-bending technology feedback loop, Mr. Reeves, a research scientist who likes to tinker, was using his 3-D printer to make parts to build another 3-D printer.
Nearby, Matthew Duepner was hoping to get tips on modifying the Printrbot Jr. kit he had bought for $400 at a fair and has been testing in his bedroom. A 15-year-old high school sophomore at the Professional Children's School, Mr. Duepner learned about 3-D printing at a workshop at M.I.T., he said, and ''just fell in love with it.''
He was excited because he had recently found a Long Island source for cheap plastic, the 3-D equivalent of printer ink. ''You should see the spool,'' he said. ''It's like as big as me. Dude, it's crazy.''
Mr. Levinson, an editor at Makeshift, a magazine that spotlights creativity, said he can think of at least one practical use for a 3-D printer: the burner on his mother's oven is broken and she can no longer get a replacement part. ''Entire objects are rendered useless because a stupid piece of plastic broke,'' he said. Being able to print a new one, he added, ''makes the life cycle of objects a lot longer.''
But Mr. Levinson doesn't have a 3-D printer at home, and perhaps he's wise to hold off for now.
Another visitor, Jim Galvin, a lighting programmer for film and television, said he spent around $1,100 for a Cupcake, an early MakerBot model. It came in handy when he printed an iPhone holder for his car. Even so, he complained, ''anything I've printed I've printed at least eight times to get right,'' and the Cupcake malfunctioned often. ''I became a 3-D printer mechanic, and that's not what I wanted to be.'' (A Replicator 2 sitting on a shelf at Hack Manhattan, with a sign taped to it reading ''Not Working! Do Not Use,'' suggests MakerBot's latest model isn't glitch-proof either.)
Still, the iPhone holder Mr. Galvin made seemed to demonstrate 3-D printing's potential. Because he uses two protective cases, his phone is too wide to fit inside a standard holder -- a problem that may be unique to Mr. Galvin, and one he was able to solve with his 3-D printer. ''That's what I think is so exciting about 3-D printing,'' he said. ''Whatever you need, all that stuff you want to make, you can make.''
It was clear that despite the technical challenges and costs, everyone in the room was as enthusiastic about the technology as Mr. Galvin. Throughout the evening, they debated the various types of plastic, shared operating tips and new developments they had seen or heard (Mr. Duepner described one model that printed pancake batter), and speculated on how 3-D printing will bring about the revolution President Obama foreshadowed in his speech.
If you closed your eyes, you could almost imagine yourself standing in a room in Silicon Valley in the 1970s, listening to the early programmers sing the praises of the personal computer. We all know how that turned out.
Do-It-Themselves
Like computers before them, 3-D printers are moving from the business and manufacturing sector into retail stores and homes. There are dozens of printers for hobbyists to choose from these days. We asked David Reeves, a member of Hack Manhattan who has experimented with several 3-D printers and built one, to offer his thoughts on a few.
MODEL Replicator 2 by MakerBot
COST About $2,200
THE BASICS The optimal printer is one that can print quickly without sacrificing quality. The print quality of the Replicator 2, Mr. Reeves said, is better than that of any other machine he has used. While this model is advertised as being ready to print out of the box, Mr. Reeves said the one he used did require user-end software tweaking. Also, the price is a little steep.
MODEL Prusa Mendel
COST About $750
THE BASICS The Mendel grew out of the RepRap project, an open-source initiative with the goal of creating an inexpensive, self-replicating printer. Mr. Reeves built his Mendel with parts he found online, and said it has been ''very durable.'' Perhaps the best thing about it is that updates are often made to the design; owners can download the files free and print new parts.
MODEL Form 1
COST About $3,300
THE BASICS The Form 1 was a wildly successful Kickstarter project, and it is perhaps the coolest looking 3-D printer on the market. It uses a different technology from the rest of the printers (called stereolithography, it produces higher resolution prints with lasers, the company says), and that accounts for its high price tag. Mr. Reeves said he didn't know enough about the Form 1 to offer an opinion, though he noted that it's an out-of-the-box printer, not a kit. ''They're complex machines with complex software and hardware,'' Mr. Reeves said, adding that assembling a printer yourself ''can get frustrating even for the tinkerers.''
MODEL Printrbot Jr. by Printrbot
COST About $400
THE BASICS One of the members of Hack Manhattan owns a Printrbot Jr., and Mr. Reeves said he has been ''really impressed with the print quality.'' The price is also attractive for beginners, as is the small size (it can be easily transported). One downside for nontinkerers is that the Printrbot Jr. is a kit; another is that the size of the bed limits the size of the objects you can print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (D1)
Clockwise: Matthew Duepner, 15, tunes up his Printrbot Jr.
David Reeves, second from right, studies a software file that will become an object
a 3-D printed model
Brook Drumm used Kickstarter to build his line of desktop 3-D printers. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROBERT WRIGHT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
A Printrbot model made by Brook Drumm, at his home, top. Form 1, above left. The Replicator 2 by MakerBot, above right. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 ROBERT WRIGHT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATION REFORM (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (75%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (75%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (75%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); ELECTRIC HOUSEWARES MFG (71%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (70%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (67%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2013



757 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 362 words

HEADLINE: Steinem Sets A Condition For Quinn

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
Gloria Steinem, the feminist author and activist, said this week that she would withdraw her support for Christine C. Quinn in the New York City mayor's race if Ms. Quinn, speaker of the City Council, did not allow a vote on sick-leave legislation that is a cherished cause of liberal groups. 
The measure, which would require many small businesses to provide at least five sick days a year to employees, has been blocked by Ms. Quinn, who has said the rules would be hurtful in a fragile economy.
But her inaction has complicated her efforts to secure support from liberal groups as she pursues the Democratic nomination for mayor.
Underscoring the depth of the disappointment with Ms. Quinn among some left-leaning activists, Ms. Steinem said in a statement that she viewed passage of the sick-leave legislation as more significant than electing the first female mayor of New York City.
''Making life fairer for all women seems more important than breaking a barrier for one woman,'' Ms. Steinem said, adding that the bill would ensure that working mothers could better take care of sick children without fear of losing their jobs.
On Wednesday, Ms. Quinn released a statement saying that the sick-day measure was ''a worthy and admirable goal, one I would like to make available for all.'' She said she would continue to ''discuss the legislation, in the context of the evolving economy.''
Ms. Steinem, who once introduced Ms. Quinn at a fund-raiser, has urged the speaker for months to allow a vote on the bill. Her statement was provided to The New York Times this week by the Working Families Party, which is leading a campaign in favor of the legislation.
The party hopes the pressure of an election year can help sway Ms. Quinn on the measure, which is supported by several of her rivals in the Democratic primary contest.
The legislation faces stiff opposition from business groups, whose support Ms. Quinn has assiduously courted. An invitation sent on Wednesday by a host of a coming fund-raiser for Ms. Quinn portrayed her as a friend of the city's real estate industry, lauding her support of an expansion of Chelsea Market and her opposition to property tax increases.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gloria Steinem
 Christine C. Quinn 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); SICK LEAVE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (76%); WORKING MOTHERS (76%); FAMILY (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (71%); LAYOFFS (71%); DISMISSALS (71%); CHILDREN (66%); PROPERTY TAX (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2013



758 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SMALL-BUSINESS GUIDE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1314 words

HEADLINE: Settling Is Not the Only Way to Resolve an Employee Lawsuit

BYLINE: By ADRIANA GARDELLA

 BODY:
Many small-business owners respond to employee lawsuits with grudging acceptance that, regardless of whether the company broke any laws, the sooner it pays a plaintiff to go away, the better. As repugnant as this may sound, it is a cost of doing business. That, at least, is one approach.
Jeffrey Herold, who owns West Coast Trends in Huntington Beach, Calif., does not subscribe to this belief. His company, which makes golf bags, luggage and related accessories, and averages $10 million to $15 million in annual sales, has faced three employee lawsuits alleging wrongful termination since Mr. Herold founded it in 1990. Confidentiality agreements preclude him from discussing the first two.
When the third suit was filed in 2010, he said, he was wiser. He vowed to fight all the way to trial, if necessary. ''It didn't make good business sense to settle,'' he said. ''We did nothing wrong.'' 
The litigation followed a period in 2008 when West Coast, like many small businesses, was forced to downsize as the recession deepened. Mr. Herold said annual sales had dipped 35 to 40 percent. To keep the company afloat, he laid off 14 people, about 30 percent of his staff, including one of two national sales managers, John Keller.
In court documents, West Coast stated that Mr. Keller's performance had declined before his termination. As a result, Mr. Herold said, he reduced Mr. Keller's sales commission by 25 percent the month before his termination. Before that, Mr. Herold said, Mr. Keller was warned about his productivity and Internet use.
Two years after his termination, and following unsuccessful attempts to obtain a settlement from Mr. Herold, Mr. Keller filed a lawsuit against West Coast and three of its employees.
Mr. Keller's complaint included an allegation that, in terminating him, West Coast had breached an ''implied'' employment contract providing that he could be terminated only for ''good cause.'' But most of his case rested on ''a mere convenient coincidence,'' West Coast said in court papers.
Days before his scheduled termination, West Coast said, Mr. Keller had placed a call, an apparent ''pocket dial,'' from his cellphone to West Coast's other sales manager, Josh Miller. In his complaint, Mr. Keller asserted that Mr. Miller had initiated the call and that it had been connected accidentally by Mr. Keller's phone. In either case, once the line was open, Mr. Miller heard Mr. Keller in mid-tirade against West Coast and its employees. As Mr. Keller went on, Mr. Miller pulled West Coast's chief operating officer into the room. He, in turn, had an assistant join them to take notes.
In his complaint, Mr. Keller claimed that his overheard comments, not his performance or the economy, had led to his termination. He asserted that West Coast and its employees had invaded his privacy by eavesdropping on his conversation and used what they heard improperly. He sought damages of more than $1.2 million, including compensation for lost earnings and statutory violations regarding the eavesdropping counts, as well as an unspecified amount in punitive damages.
After depositions revealed the nature of Mr. Keller's eavesdropping claims, which Mr. Herold called ''comical,'' Mr. Herold remained determined not to settle. Having employment practices liability insurance that covered his legal expenses strengthened his resolve.
The case went to trial in early 2012 and got as far as jury selection. Eventually, however, Mr. Keller indicated a willingness to accept a statutory settlement offer of $25,000 that West Coast had extended before the trial, even though the settlement's 30-day expiration date had passed. After Mr. Herold responded that the offer had indeed expired, Mr. Keller began to drop his settlement demands incrementally until they reached $10,000. At that point, the judge urged the parties to settle, for efficiency's sake.
Mr. Herold still disliked the idea, but he also disliked having important employees spending time in court. So he devised a creative solution. He would settle on one condition: Mr. Keller and his lawyer had to give him signed apology letters, with language approved by Mr. Herold. With those letters, he said, he would pay a $12,500 settlement. Mr. Keller agreed.
Mr. Keller's apology, dated May 10, 2012, read in part, ''In hindsight, this action should not have been filed.'' His lawyer's apology included identical language, as well as a promise ''to devote more time to vetting employment claims in the future, particularly those filed against local California businesses.'' (In a recent interview, Mr. Keller said that he regretted his decision to settle and that he had signed the letter only to ''get it over with.'' His lawyer did not return calls for comment.)
In court on the last day of the trial, Mr. Herold photographed the letters. He said he hoped they would deter anyone from filing an unfounded claim against him in the future. For this guide, Mr. Herold and several other small-business owners and lawyers offered practical advice to protect against employee litigation.
DEFINE WORK EXPECTATIONS When an employee is terminated, it should come as no surprise, said Daniel J. McCoy, an employment lawyer at Fenwick & West in Mountain View, Calif. Although a small-business owner is not legally obligated to take and document progressive disciplinary measures, Mr. McCoy said this was a good practice regardless of company size.
Employees must know how success will be defined and how they are doing, said David Handmaker, who owns Next Day Flyers, a printing services company in Rancho Dominguez, Calif., with 160 employees. Mr. Handmaker said he learned his lesson after failing to document performance issues regarding an employee who later sued. ''We didn't realize the hole we were digging ourselves into,'' he said.
TERMINATE WITH CARE At the moment of termination, an employee can feel either inflamed or treated fairly, Mr. McCoy said. To help ensure a less combustible situation, Paul Fichter, who owns Taphandles, a beer marketing company in Seattle, said he offered terminated employees a severance amount that would ''smooth things over'' and required them to sign a release to collect it.
CONSIDER LIABILITY INSURANCE Premiums and deductibles are not cheap, but neither is defending a lawsuit. Mr. Herold estimated that he paid between $80,000 and $115,000 per case, out of pocket, to defend previous matters. All business owners should conduct cost-benefit analyses and understand their insurance options.
Matthew Soleimanpour, Mr. Herold's lawyer, said it was crucial for small-business owners to negotiate with their underwriters for the right to select their lawyer, and for a requirement that the insurance company get the owner's consent before settling. It is also important to seek a per-claim, not per-claimant, deductible.
FOLLOW THE LETTER OF THE LAW You need not do anything wrong to be sued. But when you are facing a lawsuit, it helps to be able to prove you have done everything by the book. This includes posting all labor- and employment-related materials in the workplace that are required by state and federal governments.
Employers should draft employee handbooks with assistance from a trusted employment lawyer or human resources consultant, and make sure employees sign any handbook updates. And when considering prospective employees, treat everyone identically. ''If someone e-mails me and says they have a friend who wants a job, I tell them to apply using the usual process,'' Mr. Fichter said.
TRAIN LIKE A BIGGER COMPANY Regardless of whether your state mandates employee training on discrimination for a company of your size, you should consider it required, Mr. Herold said. ''Do it even if you only have 10 employees,'' he said.
BE REALISTIC Ultimately, business owners must know whether truth is on their side. If not, Mr. Herold said, ''Just settle and get it over with.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jeffrey Herold, who owns West Coast Trends in Huntington Beach, Calif., persuaded a former employee to apologize for suing. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (93%); SUITS & CLAIMS (91%); LITIGATION (91%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (90%); BUSINESS TORTS (78%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (78%); SALES MANAGEMENT (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); WRONGFUL TERMINATION (75%); SALES & SELLING (75%); CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENTS (70%); EXECUTIVES (65%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); WEST USA (91%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2013



759 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1017 words

HEADLINE: Budget Cuts Seen as Risk To Growth Of Economy

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM and ANNIE LOWREY

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The fresh round of federal spending cuts scheduled to begin next week would slow economic growth in the next year, though not nearly as much as going over the so-called fiscal cliff might have, economists said.
The cuts -- a result of a policy known as sequestration -- most likely would reduce growth by about one-half of a percentage point in 2013, according to a range of government and private forecasters. 
That could be enough to again slow the arrival of a recovery, producing instead another year of sluggish growth and high unemployment.
Such economic forecasts are even cloudier than normal because of uncertainty about the cumulative impact of the rounds of federal spending cuts and tax increases in the last few years. Whether the government's repeated flirtation with fiscal turmoil is causing businesses to postpone or reduce planned investment is also unclear.
Some evidence suggests that companies, particularly in the military industry, cut investment last year in anticipation of sequestration, which was originally scheduled to begin Jan. 1.
The Commerce Department estimated that the economy shrank slightly in the fourth quarter.
Consumer spending remained relatively strong last year, but may have weakened early this year after an increase in payroll taxes, part of a deal to avoid the worst of the fiscal cliff tax increases and to delay its spending cuts.
''Where are all the customers? And where's their money?'' a Wal-Mart executive wrote in a February e-mail obtained by Bloomberg News, bemoaning a sharp decline in sales. Wal-Mart sales accounted for more than 2 percent of domestic economic activity in recent years.
Many economists are particularly critical of the arbitrary nature of the cuts, arguing that Congress could reduce annual deficits by the same amount with far less economic damage by spreading the cuts across a broader range of programs, directing them at lesser priorities or giving government agencies more discretion in how they make them.
''There's a better way to do this,'' said Joel Prakken, chairman of Macroeconomic Advisers, a forecasting company based in St. Louis. Still, he and others emphasized that the impact would most likely not be nearly as bad as the cost of the tax increases and spending cuts that had been scheduled to take effect Jan. 1.
''Even though it's bad policy, the macro effects are small compared with going over the fiscal cliff,'' he said. ''That was a recession. This is a deceleration.''
The cumulative effect of the sequester and the tax deal struck in January might slash economic growth by as much as 1.25 percentage points -- from a growth rate that otherwise might have been more than 3 percent -- in 2013, economists estimate. Mr. Prakken predicts that the economy still would grow at about the same 2 percent annual pace it has managed in the years since the recession.
Sequestration would slash agencies' ''budget authority'' by about $85 billion, but the Congressional Budget Office this month estimated that actual outlays would fall by only about $44 billion in the 2013 fiscal year, with the rest accruing over time. That is still about 1 percent of total federal spending to be squeezed out in a matter of months.
Many economists argue that the same cuts could be made with less pain by postponing some of them until later in the decade, when the economy is likely to be stronger. Many argue that growing spending on health care programs like Medicaid and Medicare is the real threat to the federal budget, not domestic spending on areas like education and support for poor families.
They also argue that macroeconomic estimates of the impact on growth probably understate the damage that will be caused by cutting spending indiscriminately.
''It's the nature of the cuts that is most pernicious -- across-the-board, without thought, cutting everything and anything including programs everyone thinks are good and effective,'' said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody's Analytics. ''It's impossible to calculate in terms of dollars and cents what you're doing when you have these mindless cuts.''
The cuts would begin to take effect by March 1, and Congressional leaders appear increasingly resigned to let the deadline pass without action.
A broader deal is possible before a second deadline at the end of the month, when a budget deal is necessary to avoid a government shutdown. Any such deal could significantly reduce the economic impact of sequestration, which forecasters project will mostly fall in the second and third quarters.
In normal times the Federal Reserve could offset the impact of spending cuts by reducing interest rates. But these are not normal times. The Fed already is engaged in a vast effort to stimulate the economy, using monetary policy to suppress interest rates. The Fed's chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, has warned repeatedly that such policy has limited power to offset additional cuts.
Some politicians are warning that agencies will need to take steps like furloughing air traffic controllers or shrinking early childhood programs.
''We are doing everything possible to limit the worst effects on D.O.D. personnel, but I regret that our flexibility within the law is extremely limited,'' said Leon E. Panetta, the defense secretary, in a letter to his staff on Wednesday. ''We have no legal authority to exempt civilian personnel funding from reductions. As a result, should sequestration occur and continue for a substantial period, D.O.D. will be forced to place the vast majority of its civilian work force on administrative furlough.''
While the cuts would take a modest toll on the overall economy, the pain would be concentrated in some areas, like the Washington suburbs that are home to many federal workers and government contractors.
''Sequestration would feel like a cold to most of the nation, but to Prince George's County and the rest of the Washington metropolitan area, it would feel like a bad case of pneumonia,'' Rushern L. Baker III, the executive of Prince George's County in Maryland, said on Tuesday in a statement issued with the leaders of neighboring counties.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Some politicians warn that agencies will need to take steps like furloughing air traffic controllers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC GROWTH (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TAX LAW (89%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); RECESSION (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%)

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (54%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2013



760 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 440 words

HEADLINE: Teachers' Union Sues Over State's Tax Cap

BYLINE: By THOMAS KAPLAN

 BODY:
The New York State teachers' union filed a lawsuit on Wednesday challenging the constitutionality of the state's cap on annual increases in local property taxes, one of the signature measures of Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo's time in office. 
The lawsuit by the union, New York State United Teachers, asserts that the tax cap interferes with local control of schools, and that a requirement that 60 percent of voters support any override of the limit dilutes the voting power of those who favor exceeding the cap.
The tax cap, which Mr. Cuomo persuaded the Legislature to approve in 2011, limits annual increases in local property taxes to 2 percent or the rate of inflation, whichever is lower. A vast majority of school districts -- 642 of 678, or about 95 percent -- stayed within the tax cap last year, according to the governor's office.
(The cap does not affect New York City.)
The teachers' union, which filed its lawsuit in State Supreme Court in Albany, has been mulling a legal challenge ever since it failed to persuade lawmakers to reject Mr. Cuomo's proposal.
''Today we fund education at more than a billion dollars less than we did in 2008,'' the union's president, Richard C. Iannuzzi, said in a phone interview. ''When you take that context and you layer it with the property tax cap, we're violating, in our minds, two very fundamental principles of democracy, which is 'one person, one vote,' and equal opportunity.''
The teachers' union has sparred with Mr. Cuomo over education financing ever since he took office more than two years ago. Mr. Cuomo, a Democrat, reduced money for education in his first budget, and he frequently derides the state's education bureaucracy; the union, for its part, worries that the tax cap will prompt school boards to lay off teachers and curtail programs.
The union argues that the cap has a disproportionately onerous effect on school districts in low-income areas, since the amount those districts can raise by increasing their tax levy under the cap is far less than what wealthy districts with a larger tax base can raise. As such, the lawsuit argues, the tax cap violates the guarantee of equal protection under the law.
Mr. Cuomo, speaking to reporters in Albany, said that high property taxes were forcing people to leave their homes, and that when it came to improving the state's schools, ''the answer can't always be putting your hand in the pocket of the taxpayer of the State of New York.''
''People have a right to go to court,'' Mr. Cuomo added. ''God bless America. God bless our system. I think the property-tax cap has been one of the best things that we've done for the State of New York.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Richard C. Iannuzzi, president of the state teachers' union. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE GROLL/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHER UNIONS (92%); PROPERTY TAX (91%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LITIGATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); EDUCATION FUNDING (89%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); EQUAL PROTECTION (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); SCHOOL BOARDS (75%); INTERVIEWS (73%); APPROVALS (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (61%); INFLATION (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STATE UNITED TEACHERS (58%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2013



761 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1203 words

HEADLINE: Trial Offers a Rare Look at Hezbollah in Europe

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS KULISH; Andreas Riris contributed reporting.

 BODY:
LIMASSOL, Cyprus -- In a little-noticed trial in a small courtroom here on Wednesday, a 24-year-old man provided a rare look inside a covert global war between Israel and Iran, admitting that he is an operative of the militant group Hezbollah, for which he acted as a courier in Europe and staked out locations in this port city that Israelis were known to frequent.
Breaking with the group's ironclad discipline and practiced secrecy, the operative, Hossam Taleb Yaacoub, described being handled by a masked man he knew only as Ayman. He told of doing simple tasks at first: picking up a couple of bags in Lyon, France, taking a cellphone, two SIM cards and a mysterious package wrapped in newspaper from Amsterdam to Lebanon.
When he was arrested last July, he had a small red notebook with the license plate numbers of two buses ferrying Israelis to vacation spots in the vicinity. 
He claimed that none of this was related to planning an attack, as prosecutors have charged. One of the plates, LAA-505, reminded him of a Lamborghini sports car, he said, while the other, KWK-663, reminded him of a Kawasaki motorcycle.
Yet, less than two weeks after he was taken into custody, a bomb blew up alongside a bus at the airport in Burgas, Bulgaria, killing five Israeli tourists and the Bulgarian driver -- an attack similar to the one he seemed to be planning, experts say, and one that the Bulgarian authorities later tied to Hezbollah.
Mr. Yaacoub's testimony offered unaccustomed insights from an active Hezbollah member into the militant group's secret operations. But it carried potentially greater significance for the European Union, which has thus far resisted following Washington's lead in declaring the group a terrorist organization. Experts say that a conviction here would substantially raise the pressure on the bloc for such a designation.
''Foreign ministries around Europe are watching this quite closely because many Europeans, particularly the Germans, have laid such a stress on courtroom evidence being the basis for a designation,'' said Daniel Benjamin, until December the top counterterrorism official at the State Department, who visited Cyprus last year after the arrest.
Security experts also suspect that Mr. Yaacoub was playing a small but potentially deadly role in a much broader shadow war that has produced what some Israeli and American intelligence officials say were nearly a dozen plots by Iran and Hezbollah against Israel and its allies abroad.
''The evidence seems quite compelling that what he was doing was conducting surveillance for a bombing that would parallel almost exactly what happened in Bulgaria,'' said Matthew Levitt, director of the program on counterterrorism and intelligence at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy and the author of a forthcoming book on Hezbollah's global footprint.
In written testimony read in Greek by his interpreter, as he sat quietly beside her, Mr. Yaacoub described how he would be picked up in a van to meet with his handler, Ayman, and used code words to confirm his identity. ''I never saw the face of Ayman because he was always wearing a mask,'' Mr. Yaacoub said.
He said he was trained in the use of weapons and had acted as a courier for the group inside the European Union; with his Swedish passport, Mr. Yaacoub was an ideal candidate for such missions. He also acknowledged staking out the locations where Israelis appeared in large numbers -- a parking lot behind a Limassol hospital and a hotel called the Golden Arches.
But Mr. Yaacoub was adamant that he was not participating in a plot to kill Israeli tourists. ''Even if they asked me to participate in a terrorist action, I would refuse,'' he said. ''I could never do that. I'm only trained to defend Lebanon.''
Cyprus has traditionally had strong ties to Israel, but even more so to the Arab world. The island was widely considered a safe place to do business, even informally viewed as something of a cease-fire zone for the region's conflicts, said Petros Zarounas, an expert in international relations in Nicosia, the Cypriot capital.
''They considered it neutral ground where everyone will have access to Cyprus soil, to feel safe, secure, quiet,'' he said.
But recently the island nation has grown closer to Israel, deepening economic ties. Like Bulgaria, Cyprus is a popular tourist destination, with nearly 40,000 Israelis visiting in 2012.
Officials in Cyprus have tried to keep the case as low-key as possible, declining in most instances to comment or to release documents. ''It's a very serious and delicate case,'' the justice minister, Loucas Louca, said shortly after Mr. Yaacoub was arrested. ''I don't want to make a statement because any publicity could harm the case.''
The prosecution and the defense have both declined to comment before a verdict is reached, expected to be sometime in March. But a preliminary ruling by the three-judge panel last week found that the prosecutor had provided enough evidence to proceed on all eight counts, including four charges of conspiracy to commit a felony, two charges of participating in a criminal organization, one of participating in the preparation of a crime and a charge of covering it up.
Mr. Yaacoub, who has both Swedish and Lebanese passports, said that he had been a member of Hezbollah since 2007 and worked for the group for four years. He also ran a trading company in Lebanon. He had visited Cyprus in 2008 but first came for business in December 2011. Though he traded in shoes, clothing and wedding goods, he said, he was interested in branching out into importing fruit juice.
It was unclear from his testimony exactly how he got involved with the man he called Ayman. He said that he had been on ''previous missions with Hezbollah,'' in Antalya, on Turkey's southwest coast, as well as in Holland and France.
On June 26, 2012, he traveled to Sweden to renew his passport. He returned to Cyprus via Heathrow Airport in London. Ayman asked him to observe two locations, the parking lot and the Golden Arches hotel. He was also supposed to acquire two SIM cards for cellphones and to locate Internet cafes in Limassol and Nicosia.
Mr. Yaacoub said that on his visit to Cyprus last summer he bought several thousand dollars' worth of juice from a Cypriot producer but could not find a way to transport it. He explained multiple trips to the Larnaca airport, which the authorities said were for surveillance, as a result of a rental car with faulty air-conditioning that had to be returned.
Mr. Yaacoub held up the red notebook, which a court clerk took to him as he tried to explain how he ended up noting the license plates. He described himself as ''threatened, scared and confused,'' during his initial interrogation, complaining that the police had warned that he would receive life in prison if he did not cooperate and made him submit to a polygraph test.
Mr. Benjamin, the former State Department official, called the Cypriot dedication to pursuing the case remarkable.
''Ten years ago the expectations would have been that they would have made this go away,'' he said. ''They're in a vulnerable position not far from Lebanon, but they've done the right thing and they've been resolute about it.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEZBOLLAH (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); EVIDENCE (89%); TESTIMONY (89%); TERRORISM (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); COUNTERTERRORISM (89%); ARRESTS (88%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); BOMBINGS (77%); MOTOR VEHICLES (71%); WRITERS (69%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (66%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (63%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (54%)

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LYON, FRANCE (79%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (57%) RHONE-ALPES, FRANCE (79%) ISRAEL (97%); EUROPE (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); CYPRUS (93%); BULGARIA (89%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); LEBANON (79%); GERMANY (77%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2013



762 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 548 words

HEADLINE: Immigration Reform and Workers' Rights

 BODY:
Members of Congress and President Obama have been working in earnest to deliver on their promise to overhaul immigration this year. Mr. Obama would clearly prefer a bipartisan bill, and last week the Senate Judiciary Committee held its first hearing on possible changes in immigration law. News reports last weekend suggested that the White House would fashion its own bill should negotiations between Republican and Democratic supporters of reform collapse. 
Yet, in all the talk of providing a path to citizenship for millions of undocumented workers while tightening border security, one important issue has, so far, received only passing mention: stronger protections for immigrant workers against exploitation and abuse. Such protections, essential to any reform plan, would help rid the system of bottom-feeding employers who hire and underpay and otherwise exploit cheap immigrant labor, dragging down wages and workplace standards for everyone.
Such abuses are easily visited on immigrant workers by unscrupulous employers who use the threat of deportation to force their victims into silence. This imbalance of power harms workers who toil in the shadows. But the system that recruits legal temporary workers is also a mess. In the event that an immigration overhaul greatly expands the number of guest workers -- even hard-line Republicans have been talking about adding temporary visas in agriculture and in high-tech industries -- it is crucial to avoid making the mess even bigger.
A new report by a coalition of labor, immigrant and human-rights groups has identified and examined ''disturbingly common patterns'' of abuse in America's guest-worker programs. They are an alphabet-soup of visas with names like H-1B, H-2A, H-2B, J-1 and A-3, all having their own rules and little in common except, the report said, workers who are frequently victimized by ''fraud, discrimination, severe economic coercion, retaliation, blacklisting and, in some cases, forced labor, indentured servitude, debt bondage and human trafficking.''
The abuses begin overseas, where workers pay recruiters steep fees and start their new lives in deep debt. Unable to leave abusive employers and with little access to the legal system, they suffer in silence. Those who do speak out are threatened, fired, deported, blacklisted. They have little opportunity to complain about unsafe working conditions, to sue for stolen wages or to assert their rights to overtime and time off.
Overhauling visa programs to ensure workers' rights should be in the thick of the immigration discussion. For one thing, it's a way to move past the deep divisions that have stalled reform. Labor unions have been wary of bills that include guest-worker programs because they don't want the competition. But in a promising shift, the A.F.L.-C.I.O. and Service Employees International Union have joined forces with an old adversary, the Chamber of Commerce, in the current push for reform. The unions recognize that deporting 11 million undocumented immigrants is a delusion, and that the benefits of legalizing them far outweigh keeping them outside the law.
And if immigrant workers are free to assert their rights without fear, to bargain collectively and blow the whistle on bad employers, American workers can only benefit, too.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (94%); FOREIGN LABOR (91%); IMMIGRATION LAW (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT VISAS (89%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (88%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (79%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (78%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); DEPORTATION (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (77%); OVERTIME (75%); LABOR UNIONS (75%); DISCRIMINATION (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (75%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%); RESEARCH REPORTS (71%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (70%); BORDER CONTROL (70%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); HUMAN TRAFFICKING (69%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2013



763 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 437 words

HEADLINE: A Trans-Atlantic Grand Bargain

 BODY:
President Obama and European Union leaders last week kick-started an ambitious effort to negotiate a free-trade agreement that would cover nearly half of the world's economy. A balanced deal that reduces trade barriers and offers sensible regulatory standards could give a significant boost to the global economy and renew America's most important alliance. 
The trade between the United States and Europe accounts for about one-third of all international trade in goods and services, or about $2.7 billion a day. Lowering barriers would help create new jobs by making it easier for businesses and farmers to produce goods for both markets. European leaders struggling to revive their economies have enthusiastically endorsed the effort.
Unlike other trade deals between the United States and countries like South Korea and Colombia, the trans-Atlantic deal would not primarily be about reducing tariffs, which average only about 4 percent between America and the 27-nation union. Instead, it would need to focus on the regulatory differences that limit trade between the continents -- and fashion mutually acceptable regulations on matters from car emissions to food safety.
And that's where the biggest challenges and frictions lie. Europe, for instance, has taken a strong stand against genetically modified crops and has restricted American food exports to the continent. And the Europeans have long complained that the buy-American policies of some state governments have shut their companies out of important markets.
Some of these strains were showing shortly after Mr. Obama backed the trade deal in his State of the Union speech. The president of the European Commission, José Manuel Barroso, said that restrictions on genetically modified crops would not be part of the negotiations, though President Obama's trade representative, Ron Kirk, said all issues, including thorny agricultural matters, would be on the table.
The Obama administration believes that a deal on agriculture could be achieved without changing European or American laws if, for instance, the two sides agree to accept each other's food-safety regulations.
In addition to this initiative, the United States is working on a Pacific trade deal with 10 countries. Many nations have increasingly focused on bilateral and regional agreements because little progress has been made in the global trade negotiations known as the Doha Round. American and European officials say they want to reach a pact within 18 months. If they make substantial progress on issues like food safety, a deal could give a push to the Doha Round by providing a workable template.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE (92%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); AGRICULTURE (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); FOOD SAFETY (87%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED CROPS (76%); AGRICULTURAL BIOTECHNOLOGY (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (55%); JOB CREATION (55%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (52%); EMISSIONS (52%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%); RENEW AMERICA (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOSE MANUEL BARROSO (58%); RON KIRK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2013



764 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 447 words

HEADLINE: Happy With Tourist Influx, City Wants Still More Visitors

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
New York City residents who feel besieged by foreign tourists have Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg to blame for the onslaught. Or, as he sees it, to thank.
Since Mr. Bloomberg engineered the city government's takeover of the local tourism trade association in 2006, the number of foreign visitors has risen by 50 percent, to 11 million annually. Domestic tourists make up the majority of the overall total, but overseas visitors are coveted because they stay longer and spend more in the city. 
Mr. Bloomberg and other city officials trumpeted that achievement on Wednesday at the annual meeting of NYC & Company, the city's tourism marketing agency. The mayor, however, chose not to rest on the agency's accomplishments, instead urging officials to keep working toward his increased goal of drawing 55 million visitors to the city annually by 2015.
The chief executive of NYC & Company, George A. Fertitta, has added the objective of having tourism contribute $70 billion to economic activity by 2015, up from $55.3 billion last year. He said tourism had shown strong growth so far this year, with the number of hotel rooms occupied rising 11 percent in the first five weeks of 2013.
''We will be relentless in our efforts to increase visitation to our city,'' Mr. Fertitta said.
To reach the agency's ambitious totals, the city will have to continue luring more big-spending tourists from Brazil, Australia and China, three of the fastest-growing sources of visitors. In 2012, the number of tourists from Brazil surged 15 percent, to 826,000.
''They love to shop,'' Fred Dixon, a senior vice president of NYC & Company, said of Brazilians. ''Just ask any retailer who has hired Portuguese-speaking staff.''
China, which has only recently relaxed restrictions on foreign travel by its citizens, ranks sixth among overseas markets as a supplier of tourists to New York, Mr. Dixon said. About 550,000 Australians traveled to the city last year, up about 5 percent from 2011, and stayed, on average, for more than eight days.
By last year, New York City was the destination of one-third of all overseas visitors to America, Mr. Bloomberg said. That was a lucrative increase from 28 percent in 2006 because each of those additional percentage points translates to $750 million of spending in the city, he added.
And even if New Yorkers do not warmly embrace the influx, they should celebrate the jobs and private investment that tourism has created, said Robert K. Steel, a deputy mayor. Mr. Steel noted that 10 percent of the workers in the city were employed in tourism-related businesses.
''That's the kind of private-sector economic development we're pursuing in all five boroughs,'' Mr. Steel said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITIES (93%); CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); TOURISM (90%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); DOMESTIC TOURISM (78%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (78%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); RETAILERS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (62%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); BRAZIL (93%); PORTUGAL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2013



765 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 822 words

HEADLINE: Online U.: A Look at the Rankings

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''The Trouble With Online College'' (editorial, Feb. 19) is too quick to discredit online higher education.
We sit at the dawn of an education revolution; advancements in the means of distribution provide instructors instant feedback on their teaching methods from thousands of students, allowing teachers to adapt instruction in real time. This feedback loop generates an evolving education landscape quick to converge on effective instructional methods.
The state of online education may not suit all students, but it is important to avoid conflating present means with the future of the art. 
AARON B. KROLIK Durham, N.C., Feb. 19, 2013
The writer, a sophomore at Duke, is enrolled in ''Introduction to Genetics and Evolution,'' a Duke course taught on Coursera.
To the Editor:
For years, we have been hearing about the coming wonders and efficiency of ''distance learning,'' ''online education'' and other names for the same pipe dream. The trumpets have usually been blown by administrators wanting to save on faculty salaries. But humans are not designed to get their basics from computers, at least not without so much interaction with faculty that the technique loses its advantage.
Recorded or live videos are O.K. for learning more about something we already know, but they are not much use in the beginning stages. For example, they don't watch students' faces and see the slack jaws that say, ''We don't get that; can you explain it from another angle?''
HARRY J. WYATT New York, Feb. 19, 2013
The writer is teaching professor emeritus, SUNY College of Optometry.
To the Editor:
A 2010 Department of Education review found that ''students in online learning conditions performed modestly better than those receiving face-to-face instruction.'' How can this be? Because lecture classes, which make up a substantial percentage of undergraduate credit hours, are less engaging, interactive and supportive than most online classes.
Online courses can enhance learning opportunities for nontraditional students and those not well served by lecture classes. High-quality, next-generation online courses incorporate personalized adaptive learning, problem-solving activities, interactive laboratories, animations, simulations, educational gaming, virtual reality environments, social networking and data analytics.
All of these can diagnose and remediate learning deficiencies, enhance student-instructor interaction and improve student learning outcomes.
STEVEN MINTZ Sunnyvale, Calif., Feb. 20, 2013
The writer is founding director of the University of Texas System's Institute for Transformational Learning and a professor of history at UT Austin.
To the Editor:
Innovation in online delivery is one of the few bright spots in the future of our country's community colleges. Meeting chronic unmet educational need with additional face-to-face instruction (always of uneven quality) is no longer an option for most tax-strapped public systems.
Rather than decrying the inevitable rocky start of this digital revolution, we should be thoughtfully encouraging its growth and improvement.
MITCHELL L. STEVENS Stanford, Calif., Feb. 19, 2013
The writer, an associate professor of education, is a co-convener of the education's digital future program at Stanford.
To the Editor:
Your conclusion -- ''that poorly designed courses can seriously shortchange the most vulnerable students'' -- is obviously correct. But this applies to all courses, not simply online instruction.
Earlier, you note that often online courses have little interaction between professors and students. When we see this, it is clearly a result of poor course design and inadequate faculty training and preparation.
There is no inherent reason online instruction cannot be interactive, especially with students of this generation, who are used to interacting online. I am not speaking about the massive open online courses (MOOCs), which try to enroll many thousands of so-called students.
Indeed, these are overrated, even though other forms of online learning, including ''hybrid'' courses, which include a mix of face-to-face and online interactions, are quite promising and even transformative if designed appropriately and with care.
LAWRENCE LIPSITZ Englewood Cliffs, N.J., Feb. 19, 2013
The writer is the editor of Educational Technology Magazine.
To the Editor:
The most obvious weakness of the online college is the relative absence of laboratory courses. In other words, there is little place for the experimental sciences in the curriculum. And no exciting introductory physics course with lecture demonstrations!
One cannot ignore the influence of higher education on the national economy. The crying need is for a work force replete with employees with the skills that come from the laboratory experience at the university level.
ARTHUR R. QUINTON Amherst, Mass., Feb. 19, 2013
The writer is emeritus professor of physics at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY FEDERICO JORDAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ONLINE SCHOOLS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); DISTANCE LEARNING (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); WRITERS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (78%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%); COMPUTER BASED TRAINING (73%); HISTORY (72%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (72%); VIRTUAL REALITY (66%); ANIMATION (65%); OPTOMETRY (63%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); DURHAM, NC, USA (77%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (65%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2013



766 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 291 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths BUONGIORNO, JOSEPH A.

 BODY:
BUONGIORNO--Joseph A.,83, of Manhattan passed away on Monday, February 18, 2013. Born in Ridgewood, Queens on November 12, 1929 to Joseph N. and Vita Cassano Buongiorno, Joe attended the Brooklyn Technical High School and received a degree in Mechanical/Civil Engineering from Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, PA. He worked for Glenn L. Martin in Baltimore, Maryland, before returning to the New York City area to work for Republic Airlines. He earned a master's degree in Merchant Marine Science, specializing in international transportation management from the SUNY Maritime College. 
In the 1980s, he was a doctoral candidate in economics and international trade at Pace University. After retirement as president of Boyd, Weir, & Sewell, a tanker brokerage in Manhattan, he attended Touro Law School and was admitted to the New York State Bar in 2000. Since then he had been practicing law, specializing in intellectual property/product liability. An avid sailboat racer and tennis player, Joe was a member of the New York Athletic Club for more than 55 years and served as the Commodore of the NYAC Yacht Club. He was also a long time member of the Metropolitan Opera Club and New York Yacht Club. He was the vice president of New York City Lawyers chapter of The Federalist Society for Law and Public Policy Studies. Joe is survived by his son, Joseph A. Buongiorno of Pittsburgh, PA; and two grandchildren, Peter H. of Boston, MA, and Carolyn C. of Pittsburgh. Visitation Thursday from 2-4 and 7-9pm at John Krtil Funeral Home, Inc., 1297 1st Avenue, NYC (70th St). Mass of Christian Burial Friday 10am at St John the Evangelist Roman Catholic Church, 348 East 55th Street (1st Ave). Interment Maple Grove Cemetery, Kew Gardens, NY.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); RELIGION (86%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (84%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (77%); LAW SCHOOLS (77%); ENGINEERING (77%); CHILDREN (77%); LAWYERS (77%); MARINE VESSELS (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); ADMISSION TO PRACTICE LAW (74%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (72%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (68%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (68%); ATHLETES (67%); GRANDCHILDREN (65%); PRODUCT LIABILITY (53%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (53%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STATE BAR ASSOCIATION (56%); FEDERALIST SOCIETY FOR LAW & PUBLIC POLICY STUDIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (94%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2013



767 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Personal Tech; TOOL KIT; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1212 words

HEADLINE: Some Headphones Amplify Celebrities Over Sound

BYLINE: By ROY FURCHGOTT

 BODY:
If you are planning a $200 splurge on premium headphones -- as millions of people are this year -- who will give you the most for your money? Maybe a rapper like Dr. Dre, 50 Cent, Nick Cannon or Ludacris?
Or will you get better sound with headphones branded by rockers like Motörhead or inspired by the reggae artist Bob Marley?
Maybe headphones associated with the sports stars Tim Tebow and Michael Phelps or the reality television star Nicole Polizzi, better known as Snooki, produce even better sound?
This is how headphones are marketed these days -- affinity headphones, if you will. The sequins, rhinestones, feathers and faux leopard print on Ms. Polizzi's $60 headphones attract buyers as much as their sound quality does. Headphones are in high demand. The Consumer Electronics Association estimates 79 million were sold last year, and it predicts 10 percent more than that will be sold this year. But the category of headphones costing more than $100 is growing even faster -- 64 percent, according to market analysts at the NPD Group. 
That is wonderful news for retailers who feel their profit margins squeezed on laptops, televisions and most other electronic products. ''Retailers can make more on a high-end pair of headphones than they can make selling a smartphone in many instances,'' said Ross Rubin of Reticle Research, a consumer electronics research firm.
Knowing what's behind the marketing can help a consumer avoid the hype when choosing a product. Headphone designers estimate the cost of making a ''fashion headset'' selling for $200 is as low as $14. ''I would have guessed $20 to $22,'' said Tim Hickman, whose California Headphone Company and Fanny Wang Headphone Company brands are made in China.
''When you look at a $300 Beats headphone, how much does it cost to tool the enclosure, how much does it cost to stamp the thing out?'' said John Chen, director of sales for the audio manufacturer Grado Labs. ''Stamping it out is pennies.''
''I wish that were true,'' said Noel Lee, founder of Monster Products, which until December produced Beats by Dr. Dre headphones. ''I'm going to say it's in the $40 and up range to make a quality product.'' (Monster also makes those $80 HDMI cables at electronics stores, the ones that cost much less at Monoprice.com.)
The growth in pricey headphones is yoked to the growth of tablets and phones. IPods and other media players come with basic earphones, but the expanded menu of music and video apps now available encourage people to replace those with higher-quality headphones.
''What is really pushing premium headphones is not just the growth in mobile smartphones and tablets, but video and music services like Netflix and Spotify, that make people want a better listening device,'' said Benjamin Arnold, a consumer electronics industry analyst for NPD. ''It's serious consumption rather than 30-second YouTube clips.''
The rush into premium headphones was set off in 2008 by the Beats by Dr. Dre brand, which marketed headphones like Air Jordan basketball shoes. (HTC, the Taiwanese cellphone maker, was once the majority shareholder of the Beats venture and still owns a 25 percent interest.) Headphones had traditionally been sold on technical specs like frequency response, but Beats created appealing designs in an array of colors. It also tweaked the headphones with brain-rattling bass.
Monster lost the rights to make the Beats, but has introduced 12 of its own headphones, none with a celebrity name on the brand, although some have celebrity endorsers. NPD found that celebrity endorsement was extremely or very important to 30 percent of consumers, and was the top factor driving purchases of headphones costing more than $100. Consumers say they want sound quality, but brand counts heavily too.
''Basically good-enough sound is good enough if everything else is in line, like brand and color,'' Mr. Arnold said. ''You see young people walking around the mall with them around their necks. They aren't even on their ears.''
Not all headphones work on the same economics as the fashion brands. Classic brands like AKG, Shure, Audio-Technica, Grado and Klipsch still market based on realistic sound and value. With no celebrity endorsers to share profits and a nearly unlimited shelf life, because the style doesn't change with fashion, the marketing model is different.
Audiophiles have lauded Grado Labs' SR80i headphones, which have remained largely unchanged since they were introduced in 1991. Those sell for about $100. The company hasn't advertised since 1964 and has no celebrity endorsers, and the SR80is come only in black and are packed in a flimsy box. ''We are very cognizant of costs,'' said Grado's Mr. Chen. ''We make a good profit.''
In general, while fashion headphones may be worth their weight in peer approval, they may not be a value sonically. ''These designer headphones are sort of flavor of the month, and people will get tired of this sound eventually,'' said Jim Anderson, a Grammy-winning audio engineer. ''That's why you won't see professionals using this equipment in studios.''
Mr. Anderson, obviously a sound purist, said consumers should look to the tried and true. ''There are certain models of headphones that have lasted years and years,'' he said, citing the Sony MDR 7506 headphones, which cost $100, and are a standard model for audio engineers. He personally uses Sennheiser HD 650s, which retail for about $500. TheWirecutter.com likes the $140 Audio-Technica's ATH-M50.
But those who want a bit more flair might at least stick to the traditional methods of headphone buying. Finding the right headphone is not easily done on the Web. (Although reading audiophile sites like Whathifi.com, Headphonereviews.org and Head-Fi.org can be useful starting places.) Consider your preference for in-ear, on-ear and over-the-ear designs, keeping in mind that over-the-ear headphones are most likely to leak sound, which subway seatmates might not appreciate.
''First off,'' Mr. Anderson said, ''fit is everything.'' The headset needs to sit comfortably on or over your ears, snug but not too tight. ''It just feels right,'' he said. And -- this is the hard part even in a store -- you have to determine if they will continue to be comfortable for the duration of a cross-country plane ride.
Only then does sound become the priority. The best way to test headphones is to get several pairs together for comparison and to have your own music on hand. ''Take some music with you you know very well or like a lot,'' Mr. Anderson said.
That should include a variety of genres, he added. A mix including symphonic, acoustic, jazz and rock can really put a headset through its paces. ''A headphone may sound better on a certain genre than others,'' he said.
The quality of the recording also counts. If you use an MP3 player, a good set of headphones may reveal flaws that come from compressing music that you might be tempted to blame on the headphones. If possible, take uncompressed music or CDs to the store.
When music that you are very familiar with sounds less familiar, you are probably on the right track. ''If you know the track, sometimes when you get a new headphone or speakers, you start hearing things you never heard before,'' Mr. Anderson said. ''That is a good sign.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: At left, Anthem headphones from Sol Republic, endorsed by Michael Phelps. Center, clockwise from top, the Ferrari R300 noise-canceling headphones, Nicole Polizzi's Snooki Couture headphones and House of Marley Rise Up headphones. Far right, the SR80i headphones from Grado Labs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ETHAN MILLER/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIP HOP CULTURE (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); RAP MUSIC (90%); CELEBRITIES (89%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (89%); RETAILERS (88%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (87%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (76%); PORTABLE MEDIA PLAYERS (76%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (76%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (76%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (74%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (73%); ELECTRONICS (73%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); SPORTS (71%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (71%); TABLET COMPUTERS (71%); REALITY TELEVISION (71%); SPORTS & RECREATION (71%); SMARTPHONES (70%); COMPANY PROFITS (66%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (66%); ATHLETES (56%)

COMPANY: NETFLIX INC (50%)

TICKER: NFLX (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (50%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (50%)

PERSON: 50 CENT (79%); MICHAEL PHELPS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (53%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2013



768 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1423 words

HEADLINE: A Treasure On Every Table

BYLINE: By GUY TREBAY

 BODY:
TUCSON -- The earth is made of them and space is littered with them and, for two weeks every February, this city of roughly a half-million swells by another 50,000 as mineral hunters from around the planet descend on southern Arizona in passionate pursuit of more rocks.
They come in search of the usual mineral suspects: emeralds, sapphires, rubies mined all over and transported to a gem fair that is one of the biggest things to happen here each year.
They come, too, in search of specimens and oddities, rocks with unusual names and baroque formations: purple apatite from Panasqueira in Portugal; carrolite from the Democratic Republic of Congo; epidote from the famous Green Monster mine in Alaska; sacred Shiva lingams rolled smooth over eons by the Narmada river in India; meteoritic litter like the stuff that rained down on Deputatskoye, Russia, only last week. 
The umbrella term for an annual trade fair that is a key destination on an international circuit is the Tucson Gem, Mineral and Fossil Showcase. The name scarcely hints at the scope of an event that takes over Tucson each winter -- 43 shows in 41 locations, including hotels, motels, dusty parking lots, the city's big convention center and tent cities set up by frontage road along Interstate 10 -- drawing dealers from China, Morocco, Siberia, Tanzania, Australia and India.
''There are dealers from literally all over the world,'' said Tito Pedrini, a New York-based jeweler who arrived in early February for the American Gem Trade Association, a high-end fair that people in his business scour for exceptional examples of the colored gemstones fashionable now among celebrities and the ultrarich.
''You think, 'Why is the gem show there?' '' Mr. Pedrini said. ''Tucson is such a difficult place to reach.''
What started 59 years ago as a show created by 18 local mineral enthusiasts and held in an elementary school has spread over the ensuing decades into a hunting ground for those looking to buy or sell anything from hulking geodes to a gumball-size Tsavorite.
Hardly a jeweler at work -- from industrial Goliaths like Tiffany & Company and Bulgari to fashionable artisans like Mr. Pedrini, Ted Muehling, Susan Reinstein and Brian Ross of Reinstein Ross, or Ramji Bharany of the century-old Bharany's in New Delhi -- has skipped a visit to Tucson.
The reasons are simple. Gem trends are set there. New strikes are showcased. Peculiarities like the remains of fossilized monkey puzzle tree that the Victorians called Whitby Jet and used to make mourning jewelry turn up again suddenly, ready to be back in style. Freakish deposits appear there, things like a hunk of fluorite the size of a kiddie pool, pried from a mine in England and sold for a six-figure sum before the fair began.
It is here that the miraculous and precious stuff teased from the grip of the earth or else winkled out of safe deposit boxes miraculously appears.
''New York is one of the centers for colored stones, and it's very easy to source them here,'' Mr. Pedrini said. ''I wanted stones that are more rare, and to find those you need to go directly to the source,'' he added, referring to dealers in tourmalines or peridots or spinels or opals, precious minerals mined in places as politically and geologically disparate as Australia and Afghanistan.
''The Burma peridots, which people know better, are quieter and more silky,'' Mr. Pedrini said of a scarce green stone sometimes mistaken for emerald. ''The Afghan peridots are sparkly and lively, more yellowish green.'' On his second day here, he came upon a fine 25-carat peridot that even in the midst of war was mined and exported from Afghanistan.
''You never know when there might be new finds in one particular area of the world, something different from the standard origins, and that provides renewal'' to the jewelry trade, said Matthew L. Hopkins, a Rhode Island-based jeweler specializing in opals. The gems Mr. Hopkins had on offer come from a family-held claim in the Lightning Ridge region of the Australian Outback. In Tucson, renewal, or at least competition, unexpectedly appeared this year in the form of the Ethiopian dealers who have flooded the opal market since deposits of the silicate gem were discovered in the northeastern Wollo province in 2008.
''Probably 70 percent of the world's colored gemstones on the market pass through Tucson during the month of February,'' Mr. Hopkins said ''Because the dollar is still not doing so well, our market is increasingly the middle class in Asia. The Japanese were really into opals in the '80s and '90s.''
In that pre-recession era, dealers like Hopkins Opals could charge as much as $10,000 a carat for top-quality black opals. That price plummeted when the fiscally troubled Japanese dropped out of the market; luckily, Mr. Hopkins said, it was then that an emerging Chinese middle class appeared.
''The Chinese have not gotten stuck in the realm of ruby, sapphire, diamond,'' Mr. Hopkins said. ''They have much more room for other stones.''
Wandering the aisles of the Tucson Gem and Mineral Show, held in the city's convention center, Mauro Parietti and Davide Viale, a jeweler and a mineral aficionado from Italy, stopped to look in on Mr. Hopkins's booth. ''You can never find any place else all the things you see here in one place at one time,'' said Mr. Viale, who shops for rocks on the basis of their aesthetic value, a practice less common than it might seem.
Collectors are as various as rocks, said Thomas Raber, a salesman at Wendel Minerals, dealers based in southern Germany. ''Some want only very aesthetic pieces, some want to get only things from certain mines,'' he said.
''Some look only about rarity and some are systematic and collect only one kind of mineral,'' he added, pointing to the prize display in his booth, a grotesque group of naturally occurring ''threads'' of Saxon silver, found in an old German collection and dauntingly priced at about $58,000 each.
Some collect on the basis of emotion because, as Elizabeth Taylor, that incontestable authority on rocks, once told this reporter: ''Stones have a life of their own. There's something mystical about them. They have their own vitality.''
It was the vibrancy of a particular Tsavorite that struck Mr. Pedrini, the Manhattan-based jeweler, when he visited Bridges Tsavorites.
''I went in the morning, because your eyes are only good once, and so you should only look at gems then,'' said Mr. Pedrini, among the rare fashionable jewelers also trained as a gemologist. ''And they brought out some stones, which were nice, and then this one that they told me is the most expensive and one they never show.''
The discovery of Tsavorite, a form of garnet, is generally credited to Campbell R. Bridges, a Scottish-born, Kenya-based geologist and a legend in the trade. It was in the 1960s that Bridges stumbled upon the rock formations that yielded a stone new to the trade while scouting beryllium for the United Kingdom Atomic Energy Authority. ''He was prospecting in Tanzania, and a Cape buffalo charged him,'' said his son, Bruce Bridges, 33. ''So he dove into a ravine.''
Walking to safety, Campbell Bridges (whose 2009 murder by assailants armed with arrows, spears and machetes, in an apparent dispute over mining rights, remains under investigation in Kenya) came upon something flashing green on the ground.
''It was unlike anything he had ever seen before,'' Bruce Bridges said.
Complex politics prevented the strike from being exploited for another decade and delayed the naming of the new gem until 1974. Mr. Bridges's wife argued for Campbellite (and the slogan ''Campbellite by Candlelight''); ultimately Harry Platt, the head of Tiffany, prevailed, and the stone was called Tsavorite after the Tsavo River and the Tsavo National Park.
''It's still a very rare stone,'' said Mr. Bridges, who explained that to find a Tsavorite exceeding two carats is vastly less likely than coming upon a comparable emerald. And unlike emeralds, which are sometimes characterized as sleepy and which are by nature delicate, Tsavorite is a tough stone, colored so deeply that it can sometimes seem faked.
''The color of the stone I saw was deeply saturated, neon, electric,'' Mr. Pedrini said. ''This is what happens in Tucson: you fall in love with stones you never knew before.'' For now, Mr. Pedrini's love for that particular Tsavorite must remain platonic: the cost of the 26-carat rock is about a half-million dollars.
''Now,'' he said, ''I have to find a husband whose wife cannot live without the stone.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, the Tucson Gem and Mineral Show at the city's convention center. Above, Bruce Bridges with a Tsavorite worth a few hundred thousand dollars.
 Top, vendors set up adjacent to and inside hotel rooms during the Gem and Mineral Show. Above, polished opals from Mexico displayed inside a hotel room. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRIS HINKLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (E8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRECIOUS STONES & GEMS (89%); JEWELRY (89%); JEWELRY & SILVERWARE MFG (86%); GEMSTONE MARKETS (76%); GEMSTONE MINING (76%); TRADE SHOWS (73%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (51%); HOTELS & MOTELS (51%)

COMPANY: TIFFANY & CO (81%)

TICKER: TIF (NYSE) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448310 JEWELRY STORES (81%); NAICS339910 JEWELRY & SILVERWARE MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC5944 JEWELRY STORES (81%); SIC3911 JEWELRY, PRECIOUS METAL (81%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TUCSON, AZ, USA (94%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%) ARIZONA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (90%); CHINA (79%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (71%); MOROCCO (69%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (57%); ENGLAND (50%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2013



769 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1246 words

HEADLINE: A Revolving Door in Washington With Spin, but Less Visibility

BYLINE: By JESSE EISINGER. 
Jesse Eisinger is a reporter for ProPublica, an independent, nonprofit newsroom that produces investigative journalism in the public interest. E-mail: jesse@propublica.org Twitter: @eisingerj.

 BODY:
Obsess all you'd like about President Obama's nomination of Mary Jo White to head the Securities and Exchange Commission. Who heads the agency is vital, but important fights in Washington are happening in quiet rooms, away from the media gaze.
After a widely praised stint as a tough United States attorney, Ms. White spent the last decade serving so many large banks and investment houses that by the time she finishes recusing herself from regulatory matters, she may be down to overseeing First Wauwatosa Securities.
Ms. White maintains she can run the S.E.C. without fear or favor. But the focus shouldn't be limited to whether she can be effective. For lobbyists, the real targets are regulators and staff members for lawmakers.
Ms. White, at least, will have to sit for Congressional testimony, answer occasional questions from the media and fill out disclosure forms. Staff members, however, work in untroubled anonymity for the most part. So, while everyone knows there's a revolving door - so naïve to even bring it up! - few realize just how fluidly it spins. 
Take what happened late last month as Washington geared up for more fights about the taxing, spending and the deficit. The Senate majority leader, Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada, decided to bolster his staff's expertise on taxes.
So on Jan. 25, Mr. Reid's office announced that he had appointed Cathy Koch as chief adviser to the majority leader for tax and economic policy. The news release lists Ms. Koch's admirable and formidable experience in the public sector. "Prior to joining Senator Reid's office," the release says, "Koch served as tax chief at the Senate Finance Committee."
It's funny, though. The notice left something out. Because immediately before joining Mr. Reid's office, Ms. Koch wasn't in government. She was working for a large corporation.
Not just any corporation, but quite possibly the most influential company in America, and one that arguably stands to lose the most if there were any serious tax reform that closed corporate loopholes. Ms. Koch arrives at the senator's office by way of General Electric.
Yes, General Electric, the company that paid almost no taxes in 2010. Just as the tax reform debate is heating up, Mr. Reid has put in place a person who is extraordinarily positioned to torpedo any tax reform that might draw a dollar out of G.E. - and, by extension, any big corporation.
Omitting her last job from the announcement must have merely been an oversight. By the way, no rules prevent Ms. Koch from meeting with G.E. or working on issues that would affect the company.
The senator's office, which declined to make Ms. Koch available for an interview, says that she will support the majority leader in his efforts to close corporate tax loopholes. His office said in a statement that the senator considered her knowledge of the private sector to be an asset and that she complied with "all relevant Senate ethics rules and disclosures."
In a statement, the senator's spokesman said, "The impulse in some quarters to reflexively cast suspicion on private sector experience is part of what makes qualified individuals reluctant to enter public service."
Over in bank regulatory land, meanwhile, January was playing out like a Beltway remake of "Freaky Friday."
Julie Williams, chief counsel for the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and a major friend of the banks for years, had been recently shown the door by Thomas J. Curry, the new head of the regulator. Banking reform advocates took that to be an omen that a new era might be dawning at the agency, which has often been a handmaiden to large banks.
Ms. Williams, of course, landed on her feet. She's now at the Promontory Financial Group, a classic Washington creature that is a private sector mirror image of a regulatory body. Promontory is the Shadow O.C.C. The firm was founded by a former head of the agency, Eugene A. Ludwig, and if you were to walk down the halls swinging a copy of the Volcker Rule, you would be sure to hit a former O.C.C. official. Promontory says only about 5 percent of its employees come from the O.C.C., but concedes that more than a quarter are former regulators.
Promontory, as the firm explains on its Web site, "excels at helping financial companies grapple with and resolve critical issues, particularly those with a regulatory dimension." But it plays for the other team, too, by helping the O.C.C. put into effect regulatory reviews. The dreary normality of this is a Washington scandal in the Michael Kinsley sense: a perfectly legal one.
Promontory, which demurred on a request to talk with Ms. Williams, has a different view. The firm doesn't lobby or help in litigation. It argues that after banks stop fighting regulators and lobbying against rules, then they come to Promontory to figure out how to fix their problems and comply.
"We are known in the industry as the tough-love doctors," said Mr. Ludwig, the chief executive of Promontory. "I am deeply committed to financial stability, and the only way to have stability is to do the right thing in both the spirit and letter of the law."
Hmm. Remember the Independent Foreclosure Review, the program that the O.C.C. and other federal bank regulators trumpeted as the largest effort to compensate victims of big banks' foreclosure abuses? As my colleague at ProPublica, Paul Kiel, detailed last year, that review involved consultants like Promontory essentially letting banks decide who was victimized. How well did that work? So well that the regulators had to scuttle the program because it hadn't given one red cent to homeowners but somehow, I don't know how, managed to send more than $1.5 billion to consultants - including Promontory.
Promontory maintains that it complied with the conditions set out by the O.C.C. And the review was replaced by a settlement, which the regulators say will compensate victims - though the average payout is small beer.
Who, exactly, makes the rules at the O.C.C.? I mentioned "Freaky Friday." That's because at the agency, Ms. Williams is being replaced by Amy Friend. And where is Ms. Friend coming from? Wait for it ... Promontory. In March, maybe they'll do the switcheroo back.
The O.C.C. didn't make Ms. Friend available but said that her "talent, integrity and commitment to public service are beyond reproach" and would be subject to the rule requiring her to recuse herself for a year on matters specifically relating to her former employer.
I spoke with people who said she was a smart and dedicated public servant, an expert on the Dodd-Frank Act who can help complete the scandalously long list of unfinished rules and expedite its adoption.
"Amy Friend is absolutely rowing in the right direction," said a Senate staff member who worked on efforts to push for stronger financial regulation.
Let's hope so.
But people also described Ms. Friend as pragmatic. In Washington, that's the ultimate compliment. Sadly, that has come to mean someone who seeks compromise and never pushes for an overhaul when a quarter-measure will do.
Washington today resembles something like the end of "Animal Farm." People move from one side of the table to the other and up and down the Acela corridor with ease. An outsider looking at a negotiating table would glance from lobbyist to staff member, from colleague to former colleague, from pig to man and from man to pig and find it impossible to say which is which.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Cathy Koch will be a tax adviser to the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid, after working at General Electric. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BILL CLARK/ROLL CALL, VIA GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); TAX LAW (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LOBBYING (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); TAX REFORM (72%); TESTIMONY (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (90%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (52%); GEC (LSE) (52%); GE (SWX) (52%); GE (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (52%)

PERSON: HARRY REID (89%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); MARY JO WHITE (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2013



770 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2013

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 486 words

HEADLINE: VW Introducing a Hot Diesel Hatch for Europe

BYLINE: PAUL STENQUIST


HIGHLIGHT: The Golf GTD will flaunt 17-inch wheels, side skirts, a rear diffuser and a roof spoiler. 

 BODY:
To Americans with lingering memories of General Motors diesel cars of the 1970s and underpowered import oil burners of yesteryear, diesel performance may be an oxymoron. In Europe, that is not the case, and Volkswagen will underscore the diesel's old-world performance credentials next month at the Geneva auto show when it introduces a new and more potent version of its Golf GTD sports hatch for the European market. 
Powered by a 184-horsepower turbocharged direct-injection 4-cylinder diesel of about 2 liters, the front-drive 4-door hatchback shouldn't be sluggish at any speed. A potent 280 pound-feet of torque, available at a low 1,750 r.p.m., should ensure assertive response even in higher gear ratios. Top speed is said to be 143 miles per hour, and equipped with a manual 6-speed transmission, the GTD can reportedly accelerate to 62 m.p.h. in a respectable 7.5 seconds. A 6-speed dual-clutch transmission is also offered. Combined fuel economy on the European cycle is 56 m.p.g. with the manual gearbox.
It's not possible to translate European cycle fuel-economy numbers to E.P.A. estimates with complete accuracy, but comparing the 56-m.p.g. figure with fuel economy ratings of other cars tested on the European and the E.P.A. cycles yields a guesstimated E.P.A. estimate of about 40 m.p.g. in combined city-highway driving.
Of course, hot diesels are not foreign to European drivers. BMW packs a triple-turbocharged 381-horsepower 6-cylinder diesel into its European M550d high-performance sedan. Volkswagen has offered a less potent Golf GTD in the home market since 1982 and is no stranger to hot-hatch diesel performance. And various diesel racecars have been campaigned by European automakers. BMW won the 1998 24 Hours Nürburgring with a diesel-powered 3 Series, Alfa Romeo has succeeded on the racetrack with diesels and the R10 TDI, a prototype racecar from Volkswagen's sister division, Audi, won Le Mans the first time out with a diesel engine capable of an estimated 700 horsepower. 
A performance car has to look the part, and the Golf GTD will have 17-inch wheels, side skirts, a rear diffuser and a roof spoiler. The suspension is upgraded from the standard Golf's.
Inside are seats with a tartan pattern, a sporty steering wheel, the performance-car-mandatory bare-metal pedals and a variety of comfort and convenience features.
The new Golf GTD will arrive at dealerships in Germany this June with a price of 29,350 euros, or about $39,000. But no need to start saving pennies; there are no current plans to offer the GTD in the United States. A Volkswagen of America spokesman, Mark Gilles, said in a telephone interview that the automaker was looking at whether to bring the GTD to the United States, but had not made a decision.

        
Wheelies: The Shuffled-Deck Edition
        
Wheelies: The Buzzed Edition
        
Wheelies: The Eyes-Free Edition
        
Wheelies: The Refueled Edition
        
Notes on 2012 North American Auto Sales

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: NEW CAR MODELS (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); SEDANS (78%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); GOLF (57%) diesel; Volkswagen Golf GTD; vw; Automobiles; Alfa Romeo Automobiles; Audi Division of Volkswagen AG; Bayerische Motorenwerke AG; General Motors; Volkswagen AG; Europe; General Motors|GM|NYSE; Volkswagen AG|VLKAY|Other OTC; New Cars

COMPANY: VOLKSWAGEN FINANCIAL SERVICES AG (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Alfa Romeo Automobiles; Audi Division of Volkswagen AG; Bayerische Motorenwerke AG; General Motors; Volkswagen AG

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%) General Motors; GM; NYSE; General Motors; GM; NYSE; Volkswagen AG; VLKAY; Other OTC

INDUSTRY: NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (92%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2013



771 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 519 words

HEADLINE: The Early Word: No thanks.

BYLINE: ASHLEY SOUTHALL


HIGHLIGHT: Political news from today's Times, plus a look at what's happening in Washington. 

 BODY:
 In Today's Times: 
The so-called "sequester," an $85 billion bundle of across-the-board spending cuts, appears likely to take effect March 1, as House Republicans refuse President Obama's call for Congress to enact a package of tax increases and spending cuts to prevent the reductions, Jonathan Weisman reports. Operating on the premise that the sequester will remain in effect for what may be the rest of the year, the House Appropriations Committee is expected to propose yet another stopgap spending measure as soon as next week to keep the government operating through Sept. 30. 
Economic forecasters expect the sequesterto have a lighter impact on the economy than going over the so-called "fiscal cliff" would have had, but they still expect the cuts to slow economic growth in the next year and push unemployment higher. Binyamin Appelbaum and Annie Lowrey explain that there are other factors clouding the forecasts.
Balancing a desire to see John O. Brennan, the deputy national security adviser, confirmed as director of the Central Intelligence Agency while protecting the confidentiality of the Justice Department's advice to the president, the White House is trying a strategy that it hopes will produce a bipartisan majority vote for Mr. Brennan on the Senate Intelligence Committee. Scott Shane and Mark Mazzetti explain that the administration is willing to sacrifice the votes of some Democrats who are demanding full access to classified legal memos justifying the administration's targeted killing program, making up for those votes by wooing Republicans and providing more information on the attack on an American diplomatic mission on Sept. 11 in Benghazi, Libya.
After some fits and starts, the two Senators from Arizona - John McCain and Jeff Flake, both Republicans - havereturned to the fore of the contentious debate over immigration reform. Ashley Parker writes that the men, who have struggled with whether to focus on overhauling immigration laws or increasing border security, have joined a bipartisan group of eight lawmakers who hope to come up with a comprehensive plan by the end of March.
Raymond Hernandez and Sam Dolnick look at how Senator Robert Menendez, Democrat of New Jersey, is fighting an ethics inquiry that threatens to strip him of the political power he has spent decades trying to build.
Former Representative Jesse L. Jackson, Jr. is awaiting sentencing after he pleaded guilty on Wednesday to using campaign funds for personal expenses. Michael S. Schmidt details how court documents say Mr. Jackson used $750,000 from his campaign to finance his lavish lifestyle.
 Happening in Washington: 
Economic reports expected Thursday include weekly jobless claims at 8:30 a.m., followed at 10 a.m. by existing home sales for January and last month's leading indicators.
Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack will give the keynote speech at the Agricultural Outlook Forum, which begins at 8:30 a.m.
At 2:30 p.m., the House Democratic Steering and Policy Committee will hold a hearing on the impact of sequestration on the American economy, middle-class families, and small businesses.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); CAUCUSES (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); IMMIGRATION LAW (77%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (74%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); TAX LAW (72%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); AGRICULTURE (71%); ETHICS (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (67%); EXISTING HOME SALES (67%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (67%); IMMIGRATION (67%); BORDER CONTROL (67%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (64%); SENTENCING (60%); GUILTY PLEAS (60%) The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (55%)

PERSON: JESSE L JACKSON JR (57%); JEFF FLAKE (57%); BOB MENENDEZ (57%); JESSE JACKSON (57%); JOHN MCCAIN (57%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); TOM VILSACK (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2013



772 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 404 words

HEADLINE: New Poll Shows Obama in Strong Position on Spending Cuts

BYLINE: MEGAN THEE-BRENAN


HIGHLIGHT: With just one week to go before the across-the-board spending cuts go into force, 49 percent say the automatic cuts should be delayed if no deal is struck by the deadline, and almost half say they would blame Republicans in Congress if there is no agreement. 

 BODY:
A new poll released Thursday suggests that after the last few years of repeated financial crises and wrangling between Congressional Republicans and the president, Americans may be increasingly inured to threats of economic doomsday. 
With just one week to go before across-the-board spending cuts begin to take effect and a seeming impasse between President Obama and House Republicans, 49 percent say the automatic cuts should be delayed if no deal is struck by the deadline, but a full 40 percent say it would be preferable to let the cuts go into effect, according to the Pew/USA Today survey. Even about one-third of Democrats back letting the cuts go into effect while Republicans and independents are evenly split on the issue. 
The weary public is not paying much attention to the issue as a plurality of Americans say they have heard "a little" about the so-called sequester on March 1, and about 3 in 10 each say they have heard nothing at all or a lot. 
Looking at the big picture, the public continues to support a combination of tax increases and spending cuts as a means to cutting the deficit, and 7 in 10, including wide majorities across party lines, agree that it is essential for the president to enact major deficit legislation this year. 
Americans continue to view Congressional Republicans much more negatively than the president, and 49 percent say will they blame Republicans if a deal is not reached in time to avoid the sequester. Thirty-one percent say they will blame Mr. Obama. 
Mr. Obama's approval rating stands at 51 percent while Republican Congressional leaders are holding steady at 25 percent. Yet, just 34 percent of Americans approve of Mr. Obama's handling of the federal budget deficit. But he continues to hold a slight edge on the issue as the public prefers his approach on the deficit over that of the Republicans in Congress by 45 percent to 38 percent. 
The nationwide telephone survey was the first for the Pew/USA Today partnership and was conducted on landlines and cellphones Feb. 13-18 with 1,504 adults. The margin of sampling error is plus or minus three percentage points. 

        
Polls Show Dissatisfaction With Country's Direction, but Support for Obama's Agenda
        
Obama Tells House Democrats He Will Confront Republicans on Taxes
        
Ryan Expects Debt Deal but Takes Taxes Off the Table
        
As Obama Begins Second Term, Majority Approve of His Performance
        
Graphic: Looking for Allies in Washington

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TAX LAW (78%); POLITICS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (61%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (61%) Federal Budget (US); Polls and Public Opinion; United States Politics and Government; Polling

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2013



773 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Ross Douthat)

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 884 words

HEADLINE: Where the Republican Reformers Are, and Aren't


HIGHLIGHT: Why the state-level G.O.P. is in better shape, and doing better work, than the national party. 

 BODY:
Taking a break from issuing pungent critiques of Republican officeholders and ideas, Bloomberg View's Josh Barro explains why America still needs the Republican Party, after all - and points to state houses as examples of G.O.P. governance done right:
When I talk about the Republican Party being in dire political shape, the retort I most often hear is that Republicans hold 30 governorships. This isn't a contradiction; in part, it reflects that Republicans are offering up much more appealing policies at the state and local levels than the federal level. 
The idea that government should run like a business or a household has led Republicans dangerously astray at the federal level, but this actually isn't a terrible frame for thinking about states. A highway department is a lot more like a business than Social Security is. Although the federal government mostly moves money around, states and localities have lots of employees and direct operations, so greater efficiency really can go a long way. And state budgets really do need to be (more or less) balanced annually.
Republicans have also been more likely than Democrats to recognize that public employee benefits structures are outdated and needlessly costly, and that collective bargaining in the public sector lets unions sit on both sides of the negotiating table. The split isn't totally partisan ... But in general, Republicans have been more willing than Democrats to look for ways to provide government services more cheaply and efficiently, including by cutting the employee compensation costs that make up about half of state and local spending.
Barro's absolutely right about this: From Chris Christie's public sector reforms in New Jersey to Bobby Jindal's education overhaul in Louisiana, Republicans are succeeding in the states not just because they have better messengers or messaging, but because (as he puts it) their "state-level policy agendas are markedly better than the party's national one."
The problem for the national party, though, is that the G.O.P.'s state-level agendas are better in part because the state-level issues are different - which means that national Republicans can't just take the approach that has made governors like Christie and Tennessee's Bill Haslam so popular and scale it up to the national stage. This is a lesson that the party learned the hard way in 2012, when state-level successes at reforming what Walter Russell Mead has dubbed the "blue social model" didn't translate into the kind of national support that so many conservative pundits expected. As I argued just after the election, that failure had a lot to do with the difference between state and national policy debates:
In many blue states, what makes the current fiscal picture unsustainable are mostly the promises that legislators have made to public-sector unions - a powerful and influential constituency, to be sure, but ultimately just one constituency, which can be successfully isolated and cast as an enemy of the common good.
At the national level, by contrast, our fiscal problems are almost all bound up in entitlement spending - and while there are specific interest groups that benefit from that spending, the ultimate beneficiaries are, well, all of us. This makes the conservative pitch on reforming Medicare and Social Security a harder sell to voters than the pitch that Republican governors have been making on union benefits and pensions. And it helps explain why, conservative optimism about the state's tilt notwithstanding, the same Wisconsin electorate that kept [Scott] Walker in office last year delivered the state to the Democratic ticket pretty easily last week.
This is also why I can't quite go along with the redoubtable Yuval Levin, whose glass-half-full take on the state of Republican policy thinking makes a useful counterpoint to my own post yesterday. It's true, as he writes, that one can find in today's "Republican legislative agenda-at both the state and federal levels" examples "of just the type of thinking" that the right's reformers hope to see. But that "both" obscures how wide the gulf is between the states, where the party mostly stands for a plausible and popular vision of limited, effective government, and the national level, where Republicans are semi-united around one extremely important long-range idea - the Ryan-Wyden version of Medicare reform - but conspicuously lack the kind of broadly appealing economic agenda that that would be required to actually sell the public on entitlement reform.
That state-national gulf may narrow during the run-up to 2016. Certainly I hope it does, and that Levin is proven right when he suggests that the "next Republican presidential candidate would probably have trouble finding policy advisors who won't be on board" with some kind of reform-conservative agenda. But a version of that agenda already existed in 2011 and 2012 (thanks in no small part to publications like Levin's National Affairs), and the Republican presidential candidates mostly managed to avoid embracing any policy proposals that might have actually helped their general-election cause. Until the party's rising stars actually break that pattern, and add more substance to their populist rhetoric, Republican reform will remain an idea whose time has not yet come.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (73%); BUDGETS (73%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (71%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (66%)

PERSON: BILL HASLAM (58%); BOBBY JINDAL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TENNESSEE, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2013



774 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The 6th Floor)

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2013

SECTION: MAGAZINE

LENGTH: 518 words

HEADLINE: The Reality Behind Virtual War Zones

BYLINE: NANA ASFOUR


HIGHLIGHT: Discovering an artist who uses digital landscapes originally designed for combat video games as the basis for his work. 

 BODY:
In my essay, "A War Zone I Can't Escape," which ran in the magazine a couple of weeks ago, I wrote about how the urban, decimated streetscape of the Middle East city in the combat video game that my stepson was playing had looked disquietingly similar to my native city Beirut, which during my childhood was enmeshed in a civil war between Lebanon's innumerable, and irreconcilable, militias (outside forces, like Syria and Israel, also played considerable roles). 
I was surprised to discover, then, the work of Mark Tribe, a New York-based artist who uses digital landscapes created for first-person shooter video games and films of militia training sites as the basis for his project "Rare Earth." (Tribe is also married to Emily Eakin, who wrote an article on Napoleon Chagnon that appeared in last weekend's issue of the magazine.)
Anchored by a series of screenshots of tranquil-looking scenes used as backgrounds for warfare in video games, Tribe's "Rare Earth," which was shown last summer at Momenta Art in Brooklyn, highlights the increasingly murky line between the fictionalized terrain of virtual combat and the real-life environment of militia drill exercises. In collaboration with the artist Chelsea Knight, Tribe had been working on another project, "Posse Comitatus," for which he and Knight had turned militia movements into a dance performance that they filmed. For "Rare Earth," he made five videos, each composed of a single static shot of an upstate militia campground whose topography is chillingly indistinguishable from that of the game-derived stills.
The mesmerizing rural vistas in "Rare Earth" that Tribe has rendered into high-resolution pigment prints call to mind the exquisite landscapes by the Hudson River School, Pieter Bruegel the Elder, Jan van Goyen, J.M.W. Turner and Caspar David Friedrich.
But while landscapes can be seductive, and even comforting, it is easy to overlook the fact that they are not neutral territory. "They're always some kind of projection of our desires: economic interests, imperialist designs, or military fantasies," says Tribe, who is the founder of Rhizome, a new-media arts organization, and assistant professor of modern culture and media studies at Brown University. The images he extracted from combat video games, he says, "are yet another example, a new genre of landscape representation that is freighted and fraught with complex agendas having to do with violence and power, preparedness, self-defense, camaraderie and manhood."
Tribe's project on the virtual renditions of nature - the most sedate aspect of combat video games - is thought-provoking and revelatory. "It is interesting that most game publishers invest tremendous resources in producing beautiful, vivid, lush landscapes as backdrops for violent conflict," he said. "They seem to see nature as the ultimate stage on which to perform acts of aggression."
Tribe and Knight's ongoing "Posse Comitatus" will be exhibited at the Palais de Tokyo in Paris from June 20 to Sept. 8.

        
Books in the Sun
        
The Art of the Magazine
        
'It's Nice That . . . '
        
Hanging Art
        
Artists' Books and Oil Pumps

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (90%); COMPUTER GAMES (89%); FILM (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); CIVIL WAR (73%); MEDIA CONVERGENCE (72%); DANCE (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); STEPPARENTS (57%) Art; Computer and Video Games; Tribe, Mark

PERSON: Tribe, Mark

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIRUT, LEBANON (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) LEBANON (92%); MIDDLE EAST (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); ISRAEL (79%); SYRIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2013



775 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(ArtsBeat)

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2013

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 471 words

HEADLINE: Pearl Theater Puts Out Emergency Fund-Raising Call

BYLINE: ERIK PIEPENBURG


HIGHLIGHT: The theater is experiencing a cash flow shortfall that threatens its current season and its overall financial health. 

 BODY:
The Pearl Theater Company is an Off Broadway troupe best known for mounting classic plays. But according to a letter sent to subscribers this week, the theater is experiencing a classic problem: a cash flow shortfall that threatens to endanger its current season and its overall financial health. In the letter, J. R. Sullivan, the company's artistic director, writes that the theater's board has raised over $200,000 since it began focusing on the financial shortfall in December, and that the company has undertaken "stringent cost-cutting measures." But he said the company still needs to raise an additional $250,000 to enable it to have an "immediate future." Its budget for the current season is $2.1 million. 
The company's financial woes were compounded by its recent move to a new home. Last February the company signed a 20-year lease on a 160-seat space at 555 West 42nd Street, formerly occupied by the Signature Theater Company. The Pearl is in the middle of a three-year, $3 million fundraising campaign. In the letter Mr. Sullivan blamed the theater's financial problems mostly on "the expense of moving to the new theater, exacerbated by lower than expected fall ticket sales and the sluggish economy." Mr. Sullivan also laid part of the blame on Hurricane Sandy. "We weren't shut down like many of our brother and sister theaters were downtown," he said in an interview. "But we were impacted by the transit shutdown, and that hurt our attendance."
The Pearl, founded in 1984, produced shows for about 15 years at Theater 80 on St. Marks Place before moving its productions in 2009 to New York City Center Stage II, which seats about 150. The Pearl's first production in its new home, Charles Morey's adaptation of "The Marriage of Figaro," received mostly positive reviews when it opened in November. Mr. Sullivan said there is "no danger of cutting the season short." The company still plans to produce its final two shows of the season: "Henry IV Part 1," now in previews, and Terrence McNally's new play, "And Away We Go," scheduled to begin previews in April. 
Since the letter went out, the company has received about $50,000, a sign that Mr. Sullivan said gave him confidence that the company would reach its goal. If the money is not forthcoming, Mr. Sullivan said, it would "raise the possibility of cutting back" and giving the rest of the season "an extra look," particularly at materials like props and sets. "At this point in the season there are not a lot of areas where you can cut except in the productions," he said. "But we are focused on fundraising and delivering a full season."

        
Pearl Theater Company Finds New Home
        
First Winners of Kennedy Playwriting Prize Announced
        
Reunited, the Rascals Bring Their Act to Broadway
        
Theater Talkback: Old Works, Born Anew
        
Two Plays Planned for Broadway Are Delayed

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: THEATER (94%); THEATER & DRAMA (91%); FUNDRAISING (90%); THEATER COMPANIES (90%); CASH FLOW (89%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); BUDGETS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); CITY LIFE (69%); TICKET SALES (67%); HURRICANE SANDY (65%) Pearl Theater Co; Sullivan, J R; Theater; New York City

ORGANIZATION: Pearl Theater Co

PERSON: Sullivan, J R

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2013



776 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2013

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 405 words

HEADLINE: Area Airports, Stalled by Hurricane, Missed a Record in 2012

BYLINE: PATRICK MCGEEHAN


HIGHLIGHT: More than 109 million passengers last year moved through the airports operated by the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, a total that was about 600,000 shy of the high set in 2007. 

 BODY:
 Before Hurricane Sandy struck, the major airports in the New York metropolitan area were on pace to handle more travelers than they had in any previous year. But after the storm shut them down and forced the cancellation of thousands of flights, 2012 landed just short of the record set in 2007, before the recession. 
 All told, more than 109 million passengers last year moved through the airports operated by the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, the Port Authority reported on Thursday. That total was about 600,000 shy of the 2007 high - or about the number of people who pass through the airports in two days.
 Though the raw count suggests that activity at the airports has returned to the level before the recession hit and put a damper on traveling, there have been significant shifts in the past five years. Most notable are the surge in international travel and the wane of business travel.
 Last year, nearly 35 percent of the passengers - more than 33.5 million of them - were traveling internationally, up from about 30 percent in 2007, according to the Port Authority's statistics. The trend of steadily increasing numbers of foreign visitors to New York City led to the highest annual use of John F. Kennedy International Airport in 2012. 
 Along with Kennedy, the Port Authority operates La Guardia Airport, Newark Liberty International Airport and Stewart International Airport in Newburgh, N.Y.
 The number of domestic travelers had still not bounced back from prerecession levels: The airports served about 71.7 million domestic travelers in 2012, down almost 5 million from 2007. Still, last year's tally of domestic travelers was the highest since 2008.
 While the number of international flights through the region's airports has been rising, the number of domestic flights has declined. That helps to explain why so few middle seats go unfilled: the average flight to or from the region carried 94 passengers last year, up from 88 five years ago.
 The vast majority of all of those passengers were at their leisure. Only about one of every six was traveling purely for business in 2012, down from more than one in four five years ago.

        
LIPA Customers Are the Most Dissatisfied in the Country, a Study Says
        
Goodbye, Manhattan
        
Deadline to Fight Assessments on Hurricane-Damaged Homes
        
FEMA to the Rescue
        
Salvaged From Flood Waters, a Jazz Legend's Recordings Draw New Listeners

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (97%); PORT AUTHORITIES (93%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HURRICANE SANDY (90%); CITIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (90%); HURRICANES (89%); AIRLINES (89%); DOMESTIC TOURISM (89%); TRENDS (77%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (73%); FLOODS & FLOODING (72%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (71%) Hurricane Sandy (2012); New York Metropolitan Area; Newark Liberty International Airport (NJ); Port Authority of New York and New Jersey; Recession and Depression; Stewart International Airport; Travel and Vacations

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (72%)

ORGANIZATION: Newark Liberty International Airport (NJ); Port Authority of New York and New Jersey; Stewart International Airport

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (72%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2013



777 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1049 words

HEADLINE: Twelve Angry Central Bankers

BYLINE: SIMON JOHNSON


HIGHLIGHT: A proposal to toughen rules on money-market funds, issued by the regional banks of the Federal Reserve, would make the banking industry safer, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Simon Johnson, former chief economist of the International Monetary Fund, is the Ronald A. Kurtz Professor of Entrepreneurship at the M.I.T. Sloan School of Management and co-author of "White House Burning: The Founding Fathers, Our National Debt, and Why It Matters to You." 
This does not happen very often: the 12 presidents of Federal Reserve Banks have spoken with great clarity and in public on a financial reform issue: the need to change the rules for money-market funds. They are explicitly taking on the biggest banks and their allies, including some recalcitrant officials. 
 While this will be a long haul - and these central bankers need a lot of external support - we are starting to see some progress toward building a new, more skeptical understanding of how the financial system works.
As far as I have been able to determine, the comment letter submitted on Feb. 12 by the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston - on behalf of all the regional Fed banks - was literally the first time these 12 organizations have spoken with one public voice without involving the Fed's Board of Governors.
The Federal Reserve System - 100 years old this year - has a curious legal structure. The system comprises a very powerful Board of Governors and the 12 regional banks, with each of the latter nominally owned by member banks in its region. (Before the 1930s, the Washington-based board was less important, and the New York Fed was arguably the most powerful element of the system; see Liaquat Ahamed's brilliant Pulitzer Prize-winning history of that period, "Lords of Finance: The Bankers Who Broke the World.")
Ben Bernanke, as chairman of the Board of Governors, sits on the Financial Stability Oversight Council, a new body created by the Dodd-Frank financial-reform legislation to watch for systemic risks. This council has called for comments regarding a proposal for the reform of money-market funds, and Mr. Bernanke can hardly comment on his own ideas.
But the regional Feds are separate legal entities, and they are allowed to comment, so we get some unusual insight into sensible official thinking.
The problem is straightforward. Money-market funds operate in some ways like banks - their liabilities are regarded by investors to be just like bank deposits when times are good. But when times are scary - as when Lehman Brothers failed in September 2008 - there can be rapid and destabilizing runs by investors out of the funds. What we saw in fall 2008 had the potential to become even more damaging than the bank runs that characterized moments of panic before the introduction of deposit insurance.
The industry proposes to deal with this by allowing temporary restrictions on withdrawals when the pressure is on. This is a terrible idea that will just encourage people to run sooner and faster.
Of course, what the industry really wants is an implicit government guarantee - downside insurance for funds, preferably without any insurance premium or effective regulation, which is the current status quo. In fall 2008, these funds got an explicit guarantee, and they know that similar support would be available in the future - unless a way is found to make this part of the system less prone to collapse and contagion.
In principle, the Securities and Exchange Commission is in charge of changing money-market fund rules. Unfortunately, the financial-sector lobby has fought this issue to a deadlock at the highest levels of the S.E.C. Fortunately, post-Dodd-Frank, the Financial Stability Oversight Council has the ability to push for stronger standards, which it can either use directly or by bringing enough pressure to move the S.E.C. forward.
On this issue, the 12 regional Fed presidents have their priorities exactly right. There are some nuances on the details, but the most important idea is to float the net asset value for money-market funds, i.e., eliminate the illusion that these investment products necessarily have a stable value. The value of your equity mutual funds goes up and down every day, in a way that you can measure and understand. The same is true for money-market funds, but this reality is currently masked from investors.
We need more transparency and honesty around the nature of these investment products. This is good for consumers and absolutely essential for system stability. The Systemic Risk Council, led by Sheila Bair, the former chairwoman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, has also been pushing in this direction (I'm a member of this council).
You might also want equity buffers at money-market funds, and the Fed presidents bring this up as a possibility. It is encouraging to see these individuals push for higher equity (less debt relative to total assets); I favor much higher equity throughout the financial system. But I doubt the levels of equity under discussion will be enough to make a significant difference.
(In addition, the New York Fed is indicating, at least at the technical level, a preference for a minimum balance at risk. In this approach, an investor pulling money out of a fund would have some fraction set aside, perhaps five cents on the dollar, that would be in first-loss position for a period of 30 days or more - with the goal of discouraging runs. I see no sign that this idea is getting traction either among officials or more broadly.)
A generation ago, many banks viewed money-market funds with suspicion and even hostility, as they were competing for part of the same investor base. Now, however, the big bank-holding companies like money-market funds. Some banks manage money-market funds, and almost all of them rely on them for short-term cheap funding.
But this funding is cheap in part because of the implicit government guarantees provided to money-market funds. This encourages banks to rely on unstable funding, and we should be pushing in the other direction - toward longer-term, more stable sources of funding.
Expressing these concerns is not populism; the Fed is perhaps the least populist organization in the country. This is sensible economics with a clear and powerful rallying cry: Float the net asset value.

        
Bernanke's Credibility on 'Too Big to Fail'
        
Equipping the Fed for a Future Crisis
        
A Hollow Case for Big Banks
        
Lifting the Veil on the Fed's 2007 Discussions
        
The Legacy of Timothy Geithner

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CENTRAL BANKS (93%); BANKING & FINANCE (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); WRITERS (89%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (76%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (76%); DEREGULATION (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); NATIONAL DEBT (72%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (64%) Banking and Financial Institutions; Federal Reserve System; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Todays Economist

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF BOSTON (69%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (54%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (91%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%) Federal Reserve System

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (69%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (69%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2013



778 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 1105 words

HEADLINE: Many Expect Budget Cuts to Hit Small Businesses Hard (But Not the N.F.I.B.)

BYLINE: ROBB MANDELBAUM


HIGHLIGHT: The sequester would scale back programs at the S.B.A. According to the administration, loan guarantees would be reduced by $902 million. And the agency told the Senate Appropriations Committee that cuts to its counseling programs would force the agency&#8217;s partners to turn away at least 33,000 business owners seeking assistance. 

 BODY:
Economists have been warning for months that if the $85 billion in indiscriminate budget cuts known as the sequester take effect, the consequences for the economy could be dire. But for small businesses, the prospects may be even worse.
"Government spending is at 8 percent of gross domestic product, and at a time like this, when the private sector is still climbing off the mat, the last thing you need is for the public sector to pull out," said Jared Bernstein, a senior fellow at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities and formerly the chief economic adviser to Vice President Joseph R. Biden. "So nonpartisan analysts predict that if the sequester takes hold, it will lower the growth rate of G.D.P. by half a percent. And that translates to an unemployment stuck at 8 percent and hundreds of thousands of fewer jobs." 
Small businesses, Mr. Bernstein added, will bear the brunt of it. "Smaller businesses tend to be more locally dependent," he said. "They tend not to be multinationals. If you're a multinational and the economy is not doing well here, you shop around the globe for economies that are doing a lot better." Moreover, he said, "a lot of small businesses don't have the access to credit markets, so it's tougher for them to get through periods of a down economy."
According to Stephen Fuller, a professor at George Mason University's School of Public Policy, the budget cuts required by sequestration amount to $35 billion in payroll costs and about $50 billion in procurement expenses. All told, Mr. Fuller said, these cuts would result in 1.4 million lost private-sector jobs. Those lost jobs include positions at federal contractors, as well as at businesses that serve those contractors and, even less directly, at the businesses that depend on spending by government and contractor employees.
Small businesses, Mr. Fuller said, would lose just over half of those jobs.
"So many of these small businesses don't realize how dependent they are to the federal government because they're not the contractors - they are suppliers and vendors to the contractors," said Mr. Fuller, who testified (pdf) at a House Small Business Committee hearing last September on the effect of sequester. "They're the ones who water the plants and secure the buildings." Small businesses will suffer from the reduced federal and private sector payroll because of the important role they play in the consumer economy, as retailers and restaurants. "However you allocate the consumer budget across the economy, there's a large number of small businesses," Mr. Fuller said.
Small businesses that deal directly with the federal government would fare even worse. According to the Small Business Administration, small businesses received $91 billion in prime federal contracts in 2011, or just under 22 percent of the total contracts available to small companies.* However, according to Mr. Fuller's calculations, small companies would account for about 34 percent of the job losses at prime contractors under the sequester. (Since Mr. Fuller's testimony, Congress reduced the amount of the sequester as part of the New Year's fiscal cliff legislation. While the overall job losses would be lower as a result, Mr. Fuller said the share coming from small businesses would likely change only slightly.)
Small businesses "can't survive on the loss of 10 or 20 or 30 percent of their revenues," he said. "They can't continue operating at half-speed or two-thirds speed. They don't have a cushion that a large publicly traded company would have." Large federal contractors can shift employees across business lines - most have both civilian and federal divisions - and geography. Small companies that specialize "can't learn new tricks that quickly."
Officials in the Obama administration, asked to comment on how small businesses could be affected by cuts to federal procurement, declined to be specific. "Should sequestration occur, small businesses, like other business, will be impacted as agencies are forced to allow certain contracts to lapse and de-scope, or terminate other contracts that would be no longer affordable," said an Obama administration spokesman who asked that his name not be published. The spokesman would not say whether government agencies would attempt to stretch out payments to vendors in order to make the money last longer. For example, in September 2011, the administration announced its so-called QuickPay program, which attempted to cut the government's payment time to small companies from 30 days to 15 days. The spokesman did not say whether the administration would continue this initiative.
However, Mr. Fuller said agencies would not likely cancel existing contracts, since the money for these has already been appropriated. Rather, he said, agencies would probably not extend some of those contracts or issue new ones. Because of the way the federal government spends money - purchasing is typically concentrated in the last three months of the fiscal year, which ends in October - the impact of the sequester would most likely be felt beginning in July.
The sequester would also scale back programs at the S.B.A. According to the administration, loan guarantees would be reduced by $902 million, from $22 billion to just over $21 billion. And the agency told (pdf) the Senate Appropriations Committee that cuts to its counseling programs would force the agency's partners to turn away at least 33,000 business owners seeking assistance.
Not everybody was so pessimistic. Holly Wade, a senior policy analyst at the National Federation of Independent Business, said it was impossible to know whether the sequester, should it take effect, would harm the economy. "If the economy contracts overall, that will affect small businesses," she allowed. But she downplayed the prospect of specific threats to small businesses. "Few small businesses have contracts with the federal government, and few small businesses get loans from the S.B.A.," she said.
The N.F.I.B., she added, has not taken a position on whether the sequester should go into effect.
*However, as The Agenda has noted before, both of these figures - the total contract dollars awarded to small businesses and the total contract dollars for which small businesses are eligible - are slippery. The total awarded to small companies is almost certainly overstated and the total available to them is likely understated.

        
S.B.A. Administrator Announces Resignation
        
This Week in Small Business: The Clock Is Ticking
        
This Week in Small Business: Dish Mobs
        
Why Are Small Businesses Less Optimistic Than Big Ones?
        
Why a Victim of Sandy Doesn't Want an S.B.A. Loan

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); SMALL BUSINESS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); BUDGET CUTS (91%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (89%); RETAILERS (87%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (79%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LAYOFFS (73%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (69%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (67%); RESTAURANTS (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Government Procurement; National Federation of Independent Business; Small Business; Small Business Administration; United States Economy; The Agenda

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FEDERATION OF INDEPENDENT BUSINESS (84%); SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (84%); CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (57%) National Federation of Independent Business; Small Business Administration

PERSON: JARED BERNSTEIN (74%); JOE BIDEN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2013



779 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1767 words

HEADLINE: Bumps in the Office Supply Merger

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: The careful choreography of the Office Depot-OfficeMax merger went awry when the deal was accidentally leaked prematurely. | Anheuser-Busch InBev is in talks to try to resolve antitrust issues with its planned deal with Grupo Modelo. | The New York Times Company plans to sell The Boston Globe and its other properties in New England. | The Carlyle Group announced fourth-quarter results. 

 BODY:
The announcement of the merger between Office Depot and OfficeMax had been carefully choreographed, with the intention of emphasizing that the deal was a transformative merger of equals. But that intention went awry when the deal was accidentally leaked in an errant earnings release from Office Depot early on Wednesday morning, sending bankers and lawyers scrambling, DealBook's Michael J. de la Merced reports.
 The chief executives portrayed the incident as a harmless mistake, and the planned announcement came about two hours later. Still, it prompted Office Depot's chief executive, Neil R. Austrian, to call his counterpart at OfficeMax, Ravi K. Saligram, and apologize, Mr. de la Merced writes. "People involved in the deal privately bemoaned the unexpectedly bumpy ride," which recalled other times that major corporate news had been released prematurely. In this case, the mistake was blamed on the data provider Thomson Reuters. 
The $1.2 billion all-stock merger, which both chief executives said could yield $400 million to $600 million in cost savings, is an effort by the companies to shore up their business after years of losing sales to rivals. In the fourth quarter, Office Depot's revenue fell 12 percent, to $2.6 billion, from the period a year earlier, while OfficeMax's fell 7.4 percent, to $1.7 billion. "One important negotiating point that was resolved early on was ensuring that the deal could be presented as a 'merger of equals,'" Mr. de la Merced writes. Though Office Depot is paying a premium for OfficeMax, "neither company's chief has a lock as the leader of the combined company."
The uncertainty over governance is troubling, Steven M. Davidoff writes in the Deal Professor column. The companies "punted" on the issue, saying they would draw directors from each side, "but offered few additional details," Mr. Davidoff says. And without a chief executive lined up, "this could be a recipe for disaster."
ANHEUSER-BUSCH LOOKS TO RESOLVE ANTITRUST CONCERNS | Anheuser-Busch InBev is in talks with the Justice Department to try to resolve antitrust issues with its planned deal with Grupo Modelo, the parties announced on Wednesday, saying they had jointly requested a temporary stay of the Justice Department's antitrust suit.
For Anheuser-Busch InBev, the $20.1 billion deal for the rest of Grupo Modelo promises enticing access to emerging markets. But the government cried foul on Jan. 31, saying the deal would unfairly increase Anheuser-Busch InBev's control of the American beer market. Last week, Anheuser-Busch InBev "offered broad concessions, saying it would sell the rights to Corona and other Grupo Modelo brands in the United States to Constellation Brands, one of the world's largest wine companies, for $2.9 billion," Mr. de la Merced writes.
TIMES COMPANY PLANS TO SELL THE BOSTON GLOBE | The New York Times Company announced on Wednesday its intention to sell its properties in New England, including The Boston Globe, to focus on its flagship newspaper. The company said it had hired Evercore Partners to manage the sale of the New England Media Group, which includes The Globe, Boston.com, The Worcester Telegram & Gazette and Globe Direct, a direct-mail marketing company. Though the Times Company is expected to seek a buyer in an auction, it said in a release that "there can be no assurance that any transaction will take place." After the company paid $1.1 billion for The Globe in 1993, "the Boston daily brought prestige and profits to the company" for years, Amy Chozick and Christine Haughney write on the Media Decoder blog. "But recently the newspaper has suffered in an industrywide decline in circulation and advertising revenue."
ON THE AGENDA | Greenlight Capital, the hedge fund run by David Einhorn, is holding a conference call at 2 p.m. to discuss its effort to get Apple to return some of its cash to shareholders. "On the call, Greenlight will provide additional details regarding the options available to Apple, including the merits of Greenlight's suggestion of distributing perpetual preferred stock to Apple shareholders for free," the firm said in a release. Callers in the United States can dial 1-800-901-5241 and enter the code 62063868. The American International Group and Hewlett-Packard report earnings on Thursday evening. Data on existing home sales for January is out at 10 a.m. Stanley Druckenmiller, the hedge fund magnate who left the business after 30 years, is on CNBC at 3:30 p.m. Robert H. Benmosche, A.I.G.'s chief executive, is on CNBC at 4:10 p.m.
CARLYLE REPORTS DROP IN PROFIT | The Carlyle Group announced on Thursday that economic net income, a measure of profitability, was $182 million in the fourth quarter, compared with $254 million in the period a year earlier, while distributable earnings were $188 million, down from $247 million. Still, the firm said it raised twice as much capital last year as it did in 2011. "Our performance over the past two years was marked by steady, continuous progress across our business," David M. Rubenstein, the co-founder and co-chief executive, said in a statement.
JOHN MACK PUTS APARTMENT UP FOR SALE | John Mack, the former head of Morgan Stanley, is looking to sell his Upper East Side condo for $22.5 million, Curbed reports. The duplex apartment includes a terrace and solarium and has been "completely renovated in the spirit of the Dorchester in London," the listing says.
 | Contact: @williamalden | E-mail
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions »
Exxon Wins Approval for Celtic Exploration Deal | The blessing from the Canadian government is the final regulatory hurdle for Exxon Mobil's acquisition of Celtic Exploration for $2.64 billion, Celtic said. REUTERS
After Heinz Deal, Campbell Soup to Review Its Costs | The chief executive of Campbell Soup, Denise Morrison, said the $23 billion deal for H.J. Heinz was a "call to action" for her company "to be even more aggressive about costs," according to Reuters. REUTERS
Incoming Chief of BHP Billiton Says Deals Aren't a Focus | "You would be wrong to say that M.&A. is completely excluded, but it is not central to the strategy that I am shaping up," Andrew Mackenzie, the incoming chief executive of BHP Billiton, said. REUTERS
Taiwan's Finance Ministry Opposes Bank Merger | 
WALL STREET JOURNAL
INVESTMENT BANKING »
JPMorgan Said to Be Looking to Sell Mortgage Bonds | JPMorgan Chase "is seeking to sell securities tied to new U.S. home loans without government backing in its first offering since the financial crisis that the debt helped trigger. The deal may close this month, according to a person familiar with the discussions," Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Citigroup's Chairman Said to Rule Out a Possible Breakup | Michael E. O'Neill, Citigroup's chairman, who once urged the company to consider splitting up, "has concluded that breaking up Citigroup doesn't make sense now, given economic and regulatory uncertainty as well as a host of financial considerations," The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
How Wells Fargo Invests Its Own Money | Wells Fargo "invests in buyouts and venture capital deals largely on its own, with capital only from Wells Fargo itself and some employees," but the activity is considered "merchant banking," making it likely exempt from the Volcker Rule, Reuters writes. REUTERS
European Banks Move to Reassess Risk | Big banks in Europe are recalculating the riskiness of certain assets, a strategy that increases their ratio of capital to risk-weighted assets, The Wall Street Journal reports. "While such maneuvering has been going on for years, analysts say it appears to be accelerating at some major European banks." WALL STREET JOURNAL
PRIVATE EQUITY »
Forstmann Little Said to Put Talent Agency on the Block | The private equity firm Forstmann Little, which is in the process of selling its holdings, "has decided to put its sports and modeling talent agency IMG up for sale, and is in the process of picking an investment bank to lead the effort, three people familiar with the matter said," Reuters reports. REUTERS
HEDGE FUNDS »
Herbalife Looks to Improve Clarity of Disclosures | On a conference call, Herbalife said it would change how it identifies its customers, after criticism from the hedge fund manager William A. Ackman. REUTERS
An 'Icahn Squeeze' in Herbalife Stock | The structure of Carl C. Icahn's position in Herbalife suggests it could end up putting upward pressure on the stock in early March, an analyst wrote, according to Barron's. BARRON'S
Hedge Fund Started by Former Goldman Trader Said to Be Shutting Down | 
FINALTERNATIVES
I.P.O./OFFERINGS »
Blackstone, Fielding Bids for SeaWorld, Said to Favor I.P.O. | The Blackstone Group "is leaning toward an initial public offering of SeaWorld Entertainment Inc. after receiving bids from Apollo Global Management and Onex Corp. for the theme-park operator, said people familiar with the matter," Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Owner of Grand Central Terminal Joins Opposition to Empire State Building I.P.O. | 
BLOOMBERG NEWS
VENTURE CAPITAL »
Tesla's Earnings Indicate Some Customer Cancellations | Tesla's latest earnings release suggests that some customers canceled orders when it became time to make a substantial down payment. DealBook »
Pinterest Said to Raise Money at $2.5 Billion Valuation | The popular scrapbooking site Pinterest raised $200 million, AllThingsD reports. ALLTHINGSD
LivingSocial Raises $110 Million From Existing Investors | 
BLOOMBERG NEWS
LEGAL/REGULATORY »
A Revolving Door in Washington With Spin, but Less Visibility | The important fights in Washington are happening away from the media gaze. For lobbyists, the real targets are regulators and staff members for lawmakers, Jesse Eisinger writes in his column, The Trade. The Trade »
Chesapeake Wraps Up Review of C.E.O.'s Dealings | Chesapeake Energy said its internal examination of the financial dealings of Aubrey K. McClendon, the chief executive who is stepping down on April 1, found no "intentional" misconduct, Reuters reports. REUTERS
Dissent at the Fed on Measures to Lift Growth | The New York Times reports: "There are widening divisions among officials of the Federal Reserve over the value of its efforts to reduce unemployment, but the authors of its bond-buying policy remain firmly in control, according to an official account of the January meeting of the Fed's policy-making committee." NEW YORK TIMES
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MERGERS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); OFFICE SUPPLIES & EQUIPMENT (90%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (89%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (89%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (63%); BEER & ALE (61%) Morning Agenda

COMPANY: OFFICE DEPOT INC (92%); ANHEUSER-BUSCH INBEV NV/SA (83%); GRUPO MODELO SAB DE CV (81%); CONSTELLATION BRANDS INC (50%)

TICKER: ODP (NYSE) (92%); BUD (NYSE) (83%); ABI (BRU) (83%); GMODELO (BMV) (81%); STZ (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS453210 OFFICE SUPPLIES & STATIONERY STORES (92%); SIC5943 STATIONERY STORES (92%); SIC5112 STATIONERY & OFFICE SUPPLIES (92%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (83%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (83%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (50%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (50%); SIC2085 DISTILLED & BLENDED LIQUORS (50%); SIC2084 WINES, BRANDY, & BRANDY SPIRITS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEAST USA (90%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2013



780 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 405 words

HEADLINE: A.I.G. Loses $4 Billion; Hurricane Damage Cited

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The insurer American International Group reported late Thursday that it lost $4 billion in the last three months of 2012 as it absorbed billions of dollars of losses related to damage caused by Hurricane Sandy and the sale of its airplane leasing unit. 
Still, A.I.G. posted an operating profit that was better than analysts had expected and its stock rose in after-hours trading.
''A.I.G.'s operating profit this quarter shows the power and financial strength of our diverse global franchise,'' Robert H. Benmosche, the company's president and chief executive, said in a statement. ''We achieved these operating profits in spite of storm Sandy.''
This was the first financial report for A.I.G. since the government sold the last of its stake in the company last December. A.I.G. became a household name after it received a $182 billion bailout package from the government at the height of the financial crisis in 2008. The company nearly imploded by making huge bets on mortgage investments that later went wrong.
A.I.G. has repaid the government's bailout money. It underwent a reorganization that cut its size in half as it turned its focus to writing insurance, its core business.
For the three months ended Dec. 31, A.I.G. reported a loss of $4 billion, or $2.68 a share. That compares with net income of $21.5 billion, or $11.31 a share, a year earlier, when A.I.G. benefited from a tax-related accounting gain of $19.2 billion.
A.I.G.'s property casualty segment bore most of damage costs resulting from the storm, which made landfall on Oct. 29, affecting New York, New Jersey, Connecticut and eight other states.
A.I.G., which is based in New York, booked an after-tax loss of $1.3 billion as a result of the storm. That led to a fourth-quarter operating loss of $945 million in its property casualty unit. It recorded operating income of $367 million a year earlier.
A.I.G. latest results included a $4.4 billion loss related to its agreement to sell the International Lease Finance Corporation. The deal reduced A.I.G.'s per-share book value by $2.97.
Operating income for the quarter was $290 million, or 20 cents a share. That was down from $1.5 billion, or 77 cents a share, a year earlier. Analysts, on average, had expected a loss of 7 cents a share, according to FactSet.
A.I.G. shares closed down 29 cents at $37.28. The stock added $1.53, or 4 percent, to $38.81 in after-hours trading. It is up about 6 percent this year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (90%); HURRICANES (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); HURRICANE SANDY (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); COMPANY LOSSES (89%); INSURANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); CAPITAL EQUIPMENT LEASING (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (52%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (91%); INTERNATIONAL LEASE FINANCE CORP (63%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (91%); 8685 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); SIC7359 EQUIPMENT RENTAL & LEASING, NEC (63%)

PERSON: ROBERT H BENMOSCHE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2013



781 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 619 words

HEADLINE: A Retiring General Notes 'The Price We Have Paid'

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- In a reflective farewell on Wednesday evening, Gen. John R. Allen recalled a recent trip to Section 60 of Arlington National Cemetery where, he said, ''you can see the entire swath of the American experience in Afghanistan.''
The American war dead from Iraq and Afghanistan are buried in that area of the cemetery. Their numbers include the 541 troops killed in Afghanistan during the 19 months that General Allen served as the senior commander there. 
Among the rows of headstones, General Allen said, he saw a young widow with her children at a funeral. At a grave nearby, another family had set up lawn chairs to which birthday balloons were taped. At yet another grave, a young soldier was crying inconsolably.
''That is the price we have paid to deliver this campaign to the point it is today,'' General Allen said, who then asserted that the sacrifices had been worth it.
The comments came a day after President Obama announced that General Allen, a four-star Marine Corps officer, would retire from the military to focus on ''health issues within his family.'' Mr. Obama had nominated General Allen months ago to be the supreme commander of NATO, but the general recently decided to leave the military.
General Allen had been caught up in the scandal that led to the resignation of David H. Petraeus as the director of the C.I.A., although last month the Pentagon officially cleared him of misconduct after an investigation into his exchange of e-mails with Jill Kelley, a Tampa, Fla., woman who was also a friend of Mr. Petraeus's.
The general's observations on Wednesday came at a dinner given in his honor by the Institute for the Study of War, a nongovernmental research organization.
With his wife, Kathy, in attendance, General Allen said that the day before he had reviewed his tour with Mr. Obama. He offered a generally upbeat view of the war.
''I told him that in my mind the Afghan campaign is on track,'' he said.
General Allen insisted that Afghan troops had made progress in taking the lead in the fighting. American and allied forces, he said, were making the transition from a combat role to a support role and had closed more than 500 bases.
He said that the insurgents' use of sanctuaries inside Pakistan to prepare for attacks in Afghanistan remained the ''principal operational threat'' but added that there were opportunities for Afghanistan and Pakistan to cooperate.
He acknowledged that numerous hurdles remain, including the pervasive unease many Afghans feel about neighboring states, their economy, the durability of the international commitment and their own government's ability to make good on its many promises to fight corruption.
''Uncertainty is perhaps one of the great challenges that the Afghans face about the future,'' he said.
General Allen steered clear of one of the most important uncertainties of all -- how many forces the United States and its allies are willing to keep in Afghanistan and for how long. Mr. Obama has not yet decided how many troops to keep in the country after 2014, when the Afghans are to assume full responsibility for their own security. That decision will have a major bearing on the degree to which the United States and its allies can advise and support Afghan forces, and how effective the Afghan forces can be in the field.
The general suggested that one way the United States and its allies could assess what has been accomplished is the election in Afghanistan set for 2014.
''In so many ways, the outcome of that election will be how the international community will have judged all that we have done,'' General Allen said. ''It will be the means by which the Afghan people judge whether democracy can really take root in this country.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CEMETERIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); DAVID PETRAEUS SCANDAL (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (86%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); MILITARY BENEFITS (76%); MISCONDUCT (72%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); CORRUPTION (65%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (63%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (72%); DAVID PETRAEUS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (78%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); AFGHANISTAN (96%); PAKISTAN (92%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2013



782 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 6475 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
Art
Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art. A searchable guide to these and many other art shows is at nytimes.com/events.
Museums
American Folk Art Museum: 'Artist and Visionary: William Matthew Prior Revealed' (through May 26) William Matthew Prior (1806-1873), the subject of this fascinating exhibition, painted portraits in the ''American primitive'' mode. His paintings of solemn, pie-faced tots, stiffly posed yet animated by some inner mystery, are especially compelling. But he also had the chops to paint like a well-trained academician. He was an abolitionist too. Some of his best portraits are of black people. He was also into spiritualism, and he was a savvy entrepreneur. He was, altogether, a most remarkable character. 2 Lincoln Square, Columbus Avenue at 66th Street, (212) 595-9533, folkartmuseum.org. (Ken Johnson) 
&#x2605; Brooklyn Museum: 'Life, Death and Transformation in the Americas' (continuing) For generations, one of the first things visitors to Brooklyn Museum encountered was the Hall of the Americas, the two-story rotunda right off the main lobby. And when you were in it, you knew you were home. A few years ago during renovations, the museum put the Americas material in storage, but now it's back in new galleries on the fifth floor. The look is very different -- ultraminimalist Arctic white and sky blue -- but the 102 objects, from a collection that is a jewel in Brooklyn's crown, are utterly gripping. 200 Eastern Parkway, Brooklyn, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Holland Cotter)
&#x2605; Brooklyn Museum: 'Gravity and Grace: Monumental Works by El Anatsui' (through Aug. 4) Born in Ghana and long a resident of Nigeria where he maintains a productive studio, El Anatsui has for the past decade been creating spectacularly large, fabric-like sculpture from countless numbers of liquor-bottle caps linked together with twists of copper. The work weaves together ideas about colonialism, politics and economics, and is absolutely gorgeous. The Brooklyn show, which originated at the Akron Art Museum in Ohio, also includes a number of the artist's earlier and now-overlooked carved wood pieces, which are well worth studying. 200 Eastern Parkway, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; Guggenheim Museum: 'Gutai: Splendid Playground' (through May 8) The first large, in-depth examination of Japan's best-known postwar art movement is a mind-shifting event that brings together all the mediums it encompassed, brilliantly interwoven. The eccentrically made paintings suggest that Japan produced Abstract Expressionism's strongest second generation, the artists who most convincingly and directly extended Pollock's innovative drip technique. But the show reveals little-known precedents for Happenings, Minimalism and various strains of Post-Minimalism. It should permanently dislodge any notion of postwar modernism as a strictly Western phenomenon. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Roberta Smith)
&#x2605; Guggenheim Museum: 'Zarina: Paper Like Skin' (through April 21) ''Paper is an organic material, almost like human skin,'' the artist Zarina Hashmi has said. In her exhibition at the Guggenheim, it's that and more: paper is sculpture, poetry, currency and, above all, a kind of permanent home for a nomadic spirit. Her art speaks poignantly, though sometimes opaquely, of relocation and exile; works like the 2001 woodcut ''Dividing Line'' reference the violent 1947 partition of India and Pakistan, while ''Ten Thousand Things,'' a set of small paper collages recreating works from her oeuvre, nods to Duchamp's museum-in-a-suitcase. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423 3500, guggenheim.org. (Karen Rosenberg)
Jewish Museum: 'Sharon Lockhart/Noa Eshkol' (through March 24) Sharon Lockhart's film installation is based on the dances by Noa Eshkol (1924-2007), a little-known (in this country) Israeli choreographer who, along with the architect Avraham Wachman, developed a system that uses numbers and symbols to record body movement. Ms. Lockhart's photographs are of spherical models designed by Ms. Eshkol and Mr. Wachman; ephemera include actual notation, posters announcing Ms. Eshkol's performances and historical photographs. Textile works on display upstairs were made by Ms. Eshkol later in her life. The total functions as a new project by Ms. Lockhart and as a two-person exhibition, a combination of homage and appropriation that both recuperates a ''forgotten'' artist and respectfully presents her work and ideas, while simultaneously mining them to create a new body of artwork. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, (212) 423-3200, thejewishmuseum.org. (Martha Schwendener)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'African Art, New York, and the Avant-Garde' (through Sept. 2) Timed to the centennial of the Armory Show of 1913, this exhibition tells the story of African art's debut in cutting-edge New York museums and galleries with exceptional candor. It makes clear that early-20th-century Americans received Modern art and African art as a single import, derived from French and Belgian colonies, distilled in Paris and presented on these shores by a few tastemaking dealers and collectors. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Matisse: In Search of True Painting' (through March 17) This stunning exhibition skims across the great French modernist's long, productive career with a mere 49 stellar, often pivotal paintings arranged in pairs or groups according to subject. Examining his penchant for working in series and copying his own canvases, they shed new light on the arduous evolution of Matisse's seemingly effortless art, forming one of the most thrillingly instructive exhibitions about the artist, or painting in general, that you may ever see. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'The Path of Nature: French Paintings from the Wheelock Whitney Collection, 1785-1850' (through April 21) ''Sparkle with repose'' was the effect the British artist John Constable said he was after in his landscapes. His French contemporaries had the same idea. Today, Constable's a star. But León Pallière? Adrien Dauzats? Alexandre-Hyacinthe Dunouy? Only wonkish scholars are likely to know their names. Lucky for them, and for us, that one of those scholars is Whitney Wheelock III, who has a passion for French art from the years between neo-classicism and Romanticism, and a special love for gleaming little oil sketches done out of doors. In 2003 he gave his pictures to the Met, where 50 of them, along with some exquisitely funky genre paintings, make up this small gem of a show. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; MoMA PS1: 'Huma Bhabha: Unnatural Histories' (through April 1) In this midcareer survey, long-enduring forms from the ancient world lend some gravity to the throwaway materials that are now commonplace in contemporary sculpture. You could also say that the precariousness of recent assemblage and installation art haunts Ms. Bhabha's monstrous, totemic figures, which are typically made of Styrofoam, clay, rubber, wood scraps and wire mesh; either way, the juxtaposition is arresting. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-2084, momaps1.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; MoMA PS1: 'Thomas Lanigan-Schmidt: Tender Love Among the Junk' (through April 1) Mr. Lanigan-Schmidt makes luminous art out of trash: candy wrappers, cling wrap, reflective plastics, aluminum foil, plastic bottles, beer cans and too many other kinds of cheap refuse to list. As this four-decade retrospective reveals, his devotion to his materials and hobbylike processes has yielded an oeuvre of transcending beauty, eroticized religiosity and poignant autobiography. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-2084, momaps1.org. (Johnson)
MoMA PS1: 'Now Dig This! Art & Black Los Angeles 1960-1980' (through March 11) This exhibition of works by black artists who lived and worked in Los Angeles during a time of revolutionary changes happening in art and society had its debut at the Hammer Museum last year as part of the citywide extravaganza ''Pacific Standard Time: Art in L.A. 1945-1980.'' Focusing mainly on assemblage, the show includes pieces by Melvin Edwards, Betye Saar, David Hammons and nearly 30 others. It contributes a valuable chapter to the American art history of the last 50 years. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-2084, ps1.org. (Johnson)
&#x2605; Morgan Library & Museum: 'Drawing Surrealism' (through April 21) This sensational show of 165 works by 70 artists from 15 countries traces the movement from its early automatist stirrings to the doorstep of Abstract Expressionism. Expanding the field of players with numerous new names, it also has a wonderful clarity, organized according to the techniques that the Surrealists commandeered (collage and photography), breathed life into (frottage, decalcomania and exquisite corpse) and frequently crossbred. It may be among the best encapsulations of Surrealism you will ever see. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 685-0008, themorgan.org. (Smith)
Museum of Modern Art: 'Artist's Choice: Trisha Donnelly' (through April 8) The 10th artist invited to select an exhibition from the Modern's collection does the series proud. Installed in three far-flung galleries within the museum's vaunted painting and sculpture collection, her effort disturbs the march of masterworks by concentrating on photographs, drawings and other works on paper as well as several kinds of design. At every turn it asks what is art, who is an artist and what makes for greatness? (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)
&#x2605; Museum of Modern Art: 'Inventing Abstraction: 1910-1925' (through April 15) The pursuit of the holy grail of early modernism at its most feverish is presented as a multiple-medium, multinational effort in this dizzying, magisterial cornucopia. The 350-plus works by 84 artists encompass painting, sculpture, music, poetry, dance, film and photography; alternate between the tentative and the prescient; and capture something of both the terrors and thrills of the project, with clusters of paintings by Kazimir Malevich and Piet Mondrian among the high points. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)
&#x2605; Museum of Modern Art: 'Edvard Munch: The Scream' (through April 29) A version of Edvard Munch's ''Scream'' is on view at this museum for the next six months, having come almost straight from the auction block. Protected by a Plexiglas box, like the Mona Lisa, it has been given a prominent perch opposite van Gogh's ''Starry Night'' in the fifth-floor painting and sculpture galleries. There is talk of timed tickets. But if you can put up with all the pageantry, you'll have a rare chance to get acquainted with ''The Scream'' in person and in context. The museum has built a mini-exhibition around the work, surrounding it with Munch paintings and prints that amplify its motifs and mood. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Rosenberg)
Museum of Modern Art: 'Projects 99: Meiro Koizumi' (through May 6) It would be hard to find another work of contemporary art that protests war with such soulful grace as Meiro Koizumi's ''Defect in Vision'' (2011), the main attraction of this small show. This 12-minute, black-and-white video dramatizes a final conversation between a kamikaze pilot and his wife, both of whom are blind, as they eat together in a small, old-world-style dining room. It is a riveting meditation on the doomed, myth-saturated mind of Japan's warrior class in the last days of World War II. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Johnson)
Museum of Modern Art: 'Wolfgang Laib: Pollen From Hazelnut' (through March 11) Mr. Laib is the honeybee of the international art world. Since the 1970s, his trademark activity has been gathering pollen from trees and plants in the countryside near his home in southern Germany. He puts the pollen in bottles and flies to distant places around the world to create ephemeral installations of yellow dust on museum and gallery floors and inseminate the minds of his viewers with thoughts of harmony between human civilization and nature. ''Pollen From Hazelnut,'' in MoMA's atrium, is his largest pollen field to date. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Johnson)
Museum of Modern Art: 'Performing Histories (1)' (through Aug. 5) An awareness of the uprisings, protests, occupations and revolutions erupting around the globe is present in ''Performing Histories (1),'' a show of video, film and photographic work recently acquired by MoMA. Insurrection and resistance pervade the Romanian artist Ion Grigorescu's film ''Dialogue With Ceausescu'' (1978), while the feminist personal as political is employed in Martha Rosler's ''She Sees in Herself a New Woman Every Day'' (1976) and Sharon Hayes's four-channel video ''The Interpreter Project'' (2001). Andrea Fraser's two videos connect politics and the museum. In one she describes how scientific philanthropy in the 19th century directed wealth to museums and other public institutions rather than the poor, while another video delves into how MoMA itself interacted with revolutionaries and communists, like the Mexican muralist Diego Rivera. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Schwendener)
Neue Galerie: 'German Expressionism 1900-1930: Masterpieces From the Neue Galerie Collection' (through April 22) German Expressionism was a messy, complicated movement, with numerous stylistic and philosophical variations. It's not easily corralled into a tidy overview, despite the best efforts of the Neue Galerie in this collection show. The installation sorts everything into two groups, using the rubrics of ''primitivism'' and ''modernity.'' ''Primitivism'' seems to mean the gallery of jarringly bright, vigorously brushy paintings by members of the Brücke and the Blaue Reiter; under ''modernity'' are Neue Sachlichkeit portraits by Otto Dix, George Grosz, Christian Schad and others, made with caustic humor and an eye for the grotesque. 1048 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street, (212) 628-6200, neuegalerie.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; New Museum: 'NYC 1993: Experimental Jet Set, Trash and No Star' (through May 26) History is written by the winners, which in contemporary art usually means the market. It's often also written by people who weren't on the scene and have to take the winners' word for what happened and what mattered. Such is the case with this retrospective show that too often favors the currently best-selling survivors of a fraught era over many now less well-known on-the-ground players. There's good art here, but the spirit of a furiously skeptical utopian moment -- very high, very low -- rarely breaks through the institutional nostalgia. And the chance to probe some market myths -- exactly how political was that 1993 ''political'' Whitney Biennial? -- is lost. Like all surveys of the immediate past, ''NYC 1993'' will get everyone kvetching, and it's a must-see, if only to find ways to bring the story into the present differently. Nari Ward's 1993 installation ''Amazing Grace'' in the New Museum's next-door space is for the ages. 235 Bowery, at Prince Street, Lower East Side, (212) 219-1222, newmuseum.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; Rubin Museum of Art: 'Radical Terrain' (through April 29) The third and last of three beautifully produced, back-to-back mini-surveys in the series Modernist Art From India, this exhibition combines landscape painting done in India in the years following independence in 1947 with recent work by young artists -- some South Asian, most not -- that corresponds to or comments on the older art. Small in size and unfamiliar in content, the show is large with history. 150 West 17th Street, Chelsea, (212) 620-5000, rmanyc.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; South Street Seaport Museum: 'Compass: Folk Art in Four Directions' (through March 31) The American Folk Art Museum presents some 200 works from its unparalleled collection in this beautifully orchestrated exhibition. Paintings, sculpture, textiles, scrimshaw, painted furniture and much, much more are arrayed along themes that reflect the history of Lower Manhattan -- seafaring, commerce, social life and that all-important factor, the weather -- but not too tightly. Poetic license is taken, yielding an intricate constellation of connected artworks, histories and concerns that highlights one of the city's great treasures. 12 Fulton Street, Lower Manhattan, (212) 748-8600, southstreetseaportmuseum.org; folkartmuseum.org. (Smith)
&#x2605; Studio Museum in Harlem: 'Fore' (through March 10) In 2001 the Studio Museum in Harlem opened a dynamite group exhibition called ''Freestyle,'' which turned out to be the first in a series of shows introducing emerging artists of African-American descent. In the latest edition, ''Fore,'' organized by three young staff curators, Lauren Haynes, Naima J. Keith and Thomas J. Lax, covers the waterfront in terms of media, which it samples and mixes with turntablist flair, and in its contents, ranging from abstract to personal to political, sometimes combining all three. Firelei Báez, Sadie Barnette, Crystal Z. Campbell, Zachary Fabri, Yashua Klos, Akosua Adoma Owusu, Valerie Piraino and Nikki Pressley are some of the names to look for. 144 West 125th Street, (212) 864-4500, studiomuseum.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; Whitney Museum of American Art: 'Sinister Pop' and 'Dark and Deadpan: Pop in TV and the Movies' (through March 31) The dark and truculent mood of this collection show is conversant with recent presentations of Warhol's death-and-disaster paintings, but the curators make plenty of room for other artists (including photographers). The point is not to cast a pall over Pop as we know it; it's to find common ground between the winking consumerism of early-1960s art and the antiwar, anti-corporate sentiment of work made later in the decade and into the 1970s. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Whitney Museum of American Art: 'Blues for Smoke' (through April 28) As a musical category blues is hard to pin down, and this show makes the job harder, which seems to be its point. It's saying: blues isn't a thing; it's a set of feelings, a state of mind, maybe a state of grace. In origin, it's African-American, developing with gospel and jazz, and folding into R&B, funk and hip-hop. But it has long since become a transethnic, transcultural phenomenon bigger than music, an enveloping aesthetic that includes art. And when you have art by the likes of Zoe Leonard, Kerry James Marshall, Rachel Harrison, Martin Wong, William Pope.L, Alma Thomas, Wu Tsang and David Hammons, you cannot go wrong. Whitney Museum of American Art, (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Cotter)
Galleries: Uptown
A.R. Penck: 'New Paintings' (through March 8) The most visionary and accessible German Neo-Expressionist painter is showing his best new work in several years, building on his well-known pictographic universe in new ways. It is variously magnified and abstracted, fusing cave painting, Constructivism and Morse code; pulled apart and upholstered with bright colors and elaborated into connected networks that suggest Stuart Davis. ''Land-scape -- Remote'' is especially strong, but the whole show suggests an artist at his ease, with nothing to lose. Michael Werner, 4 East 77th Street, Manhattan, (212) 988-1623, michaelwerner.com. (Smith)
Galleries: Chelsea
Paul Laffoley: 'The Boston Visionary Cell' (through March 9) Judging by his mandala-type compositions on usually square canvases, Mr. Laffoley has yet to encounter a system of mystical thought he could not absorb into his own project. Profusely annotated with press-on vinyl letters, his works refer to a dizzying array of mental adventurers from Socrates to the Theosophist charlatan Madame Blavatsky. This show is an excellent introduction to one of the most unusual creative minds of our time. Kent Fine Art, 210 West 11th Avenue, between 24th and 25th Streets, (212) 365-9500, kentfineart.net. (Johnson)
Gayleen Aiken: 'Cousins, Quarries and a Nickelodeon' (through March 2) The self-taught artist Gayleen Aiken (1934-2005) has been called the Grandma Moses of Vermont. In paintings, drawings and notebooks, she chronicled life in her hometown, Barre. Local quarries; grand old houses; musical instruments; festive gatherings; domestic disasters; children with maniacal toothy smiles: how many of these and other subjects were real and how many fictitious is hard to say, but she conjured her small-town world with charming conviction. Luise Ross, 511 West 25th Street, (212) 343-2161, luiserossgallery.com. (Johnson)
&#x2605; 'Distance and Desire: Encounters with the African Archive (Part II: Contemporary Reconfigurations)' (through March 9) Africa is an unstinting source of new photography, of which New York would see little were it not for a few commercial galleries and the Walther Collection. Last fall the Walther, a German foundation with a project space in Chelsea, initiated a series of three consecutive exhibitions under the umbrella title ''Distance and Desire: Encounters With the African Archive.'' The first show included European ethnographic photography. The current one illustrates how much a product of invention and fantasy ethnography can be. The Walther Collection Project Space, 526 West 26th Street, Suite 718, (212) 352-0683, walthercollection.com. (Cotter)
Song Dong: 'Doing Nothing' (through March 2) The artist's first New York gallery show (spread through two of Pace Gallery's three spaces on West 25th Street) mostly retraces his early days as a pioneer of the Chinese branch of international Conceptualism with competent if generic videos and photographic pieces that seem slicked up for their current presentation. Best is a quasi-stop-action video of ''Doing Nothing,'' the wonderful temporary earthwork Mr. Song contributed to last summer's Documenta 13. Some artists are strongest in the festival format. Pace Gallery, 534 West 25th Street, (212) 929-7000, pacegallery.com. (Smith)
&#x2605; Giorgio Griffa: 'Fragments, 1968-2012' (through March 2) This Italian painter's second New York gallery show comes 43 years after his first, reintroducing his subtle, stripped-down works on raw, unstretched, visibly folded canvas. With cryptic batches of repeating lines and strokes in glowing colors, they test how little it takes for something to qualify as a painting. Their spare, idiosyncratic beauty expands the history of Arte Povera and resonates with much abstract painting today. Casey Kaplan, 525 West 21st Street, (212) 645-7335, caseykaplangallery.com. (Smith)
&#x2605; Dieter Roth. Björn Roth (through April 12) Concentrating on the collaborations of the Swiss-German maverick Dieter Roth (1930-98) and his son Bjorn, this sprawling show adds a veneer of class to the inauguration of Chelsea's latest oversize trophy gallery. Numerous large, messy works noisily navigate the border between art and life. But the best does so quietly: the 128-monitor video piece ''Solo Scenes'' simply records the elder Roth living out life in his studio-home in Basel. Hauser & Wirth, 511 West 18th Street, (212) 790-3900, hauserwirth.com. (Smith)
Galleries: SoHo
Martin Soto Climent: 'Mariposas Migratorias (Migratory Butterflies)' (through March 2) Martin Soto Climent, who is from Mexico City, is a Conceptual sculptor in the mold of Gabriel Orozco and Damián Ortega; his works, like theirs, often produce succinct poetry from the slightest recontexualizations, juxtapositions and alterations of found objects. That's almost the case in his latest solo show, where the primary material (automobile windshields) and the key metaphor (migratory butterflies) never quite connect. Clifton Benevento, 515 Broadway, between Spring and Broome Streets, SoHo, (212) 431-6325, cliftonbenevento.com. (Rosenberg)
Alexandre Singh: 'The Pledge' (through March 13) One of the first projects done in the United States by the French-born, British-raised artist Alexandre Singh was a sprawling, delirious collaboration with Jonah Freeman and Justin Lowe titled ''Hello Meth Lab in the Sun,'' installed at the Ballroom Marfa in Texas. Mr. Singh's solo exhibition at the Drawing Center is another full-gallery, somewhat psychedelic installation, albeit a considerably more subdued one. Black-and-white inkjet prints of collages that Mr. Singh made in response to interviews with artists and scientists are arranged like maps and schematics on the gallery's walls. It's a sleek display, vibrating with art historical references. But despite the high-tone interview subjects and visual references the show is unsparingly vapid, about as exciting as paging through a design magazine. 35 Wooster Street, Soho, (212) 219-2166, drawingcenter.org. (Schwendener)
Galleries: Other
'Beat Memories: The Photographs of Allen Ginsberg' (through April 6) During two periods in his life -- from the early 1950s to about 1964 and from the early '80s until his death in 1997 -- the poet Allen Ginsberg made photographs and added handwritten captions. Images of his now famous pals, including the writers Jack Kerouac, William Burroughs and Gregory Corso, as well as Neal Cassady, their logorrheic muse, make this show required viewing for Beat fans. Grey Art Gallery, New York University, 100 Washington Square East, Greenwich Village, (212) 998-6780, nyu.edu/greyart. (Johnson)
'The Eye Is Part of the Mind: Drawings From Life and Art by Leo Steinberg' (through March 9) As a precocious adolescent, the fabled art historian Leo Steinberg studied drawing at the Slade School of Fine Art in London and continued to draw almost up to the time of his death two years ago, at 90. He pooh-poohed his draftsmanship as conservative, but he also preserved examples and brought them out to share with colleagues and friends. Now two of those collegial friends, David Cohen and Graham Nickson, have selected some 60 figurative drawings for a tribute. The exhibition takes its title from a 1953 essay in which Steinberg argued against formalist abstraction, then dominant, as the be-all of art, and for the continuing connection of art to life. He practiced what he preached in his work. Here's the proof. New York Studio School, 8 West Eighth Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 673-6466, nyss.org. (Cotter)
Anna Plesset: 'Still Life' (closes on Sunday) In her New York gallery debut this young artist presents a brain-twisting, eye-teasing blend of Conceptual art and trompe l'oeil painting and drawing. Most of what is on view in her spare installation looks mechanically reproduced but is actually meticulously made by hand. The ostensible subject is the American Impressionist painter Lilla Cabot Perry (1848-1933), her work and her studio. But Ms. Plesset, having used the same studio, insinuates herself and her work into the setting, now displaced to New York. Untitled, 30 Orchard Street, near Hester Street, Lower East Side, (212) 608-6002, nyuntitled.com. (Smith)
&#x2605; Simon Dinnerstein: 'The Fulbright Triptych' (ongoing) This little-known masterpiece of 1970s realism was begun by the young Simon Dinnerstein during a Fulbright fellowship in Germany in 1971 and completed in his hometown, Brooklyn, three years later. Incorporating carefully rendered art postcards, children's drawings and personal memorabilia; a formidable worktable laid out with printmaking tools and outdoor views; and the artist and his family, it synthesizes portrait, still life, interior and landscape and rummages through visual culture while sampling a dazzling range of textures and representational styles. It should be seen by anyone interested in the history of recent art and its oversights. German Consulate General, 871 United Nations Plaza, First Avenue, at 49th Street, (212) 610-9700, germany.info. (Smith)
Out of Town
&#x2605; Massachusetts Museum of Contemporary Art: 'Oh, Canada' (through April 8) Seesawing between bigness and intimacy, the personal and the communal, this 62-artist survey of contemporary art in the Great White North may tell you more about Canada's identity crisis than it does about Canadian art. A sense of place, if not nationhood, does emerge in stark photographs of Newfoundland by Ned Pratt and Kim Morgan's hanging latex cast of a lighthouse on Prince Edward Island. Elsewhere, cartoonlike pencil drawings by Annie Pootoogook and Shuvinai Ashoona depict contemporary Inuit life and the artist Amalie Atkins stars in a prairie fairy tale involving musical wolves and bears with golden teeth. 87 Marshall Street, North Adams, (413) 662-2111, massmoca.org. (Rosenberg)
Smithsonian American Art Museum: 'The Civil War and American Art' (through April 28) On the surface, this probing, perspective-altering exhibition, one of many events commemorating the 150th anniversary of the Emancipation Proclamation, looks straightforward, even ordinary. We know most of the paintings and photographs on sight; they're classics. What we know less well is their meaning within the context of the nation's single greatest internal catastrophe, and that's what the show is about. It travels to the Metropolitan Museum of Art this spring, running from May 21 to Sept. 2. Eighth and F Streets NW, Washington, (202) 633-7970, americanart.si.edu. (Cotter)
&#x2605; Smithsonian American Art Museum: 'Nam June Paik: Global Visionary' (through Aug. 11) Including a large and fascinating trove of material from the Nam June Paik archive, acquired by the Smithsonian from the artist's estate in 2009, this survey of the avant-garde musician, multimedia wizard and video art pioneer (1932-2006) looks startlingly current despite the preponderance of analog televisions and other obsolete hardware. It makes clear that contemporary artists like Christian Marclay, Jon Kessler, Cory Arcangel, Ryan Trecartin and Haroon Mirza owe a great deal to Mr. Paik's tweaked TV sets and frenetic, technically innovative videos. Eighth and F Streets NW, Washington, (202) 633-1000, americanart.si.edu. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Yale University Art Gallery (continuing) In a museum era dominated by vying forces of bad economics and compulsive building, it's a miracle when something comes out right, which makes the opening of the splendidly renovated and expanded Yale University Art Gallery a happy event. The angels of art, design and budgetary planning were on duty. Everything worked. The country's oldest university art museum has arrived at a kind institutional ideal of opposites in balance: an encyclopedic teaching museum, big enough to get lost in, small enough for intimate art encounters. New galleries of Indo-Pacific art are a particular attraction, but so are other collections, including one of the countries premier holdings in American art and a small, matchless display of very early Italian Renaissance painting. A special exhibition, ''Societe Anonyme: Modernism for America,'' made up of Yale-owned material, is on view through July 14. 1111 Chapel Street, New Haven, (203) 432-0600, artgallery.yale.edu. (Cotter)
Last Chance
&#x2605; Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden: 'Ai Weiwei: According to What?' (closes on Sunday) As seen in its first American survey, the work of the lionhearted Chinese artist Ai Weiwei, is no match for his prominent role as a human rights advocate. The sculptures and installation pieces too often adhere to the fashionable international genre of handsome, Conceptually generated artworks. Explanatory labels do much of the heavy lifting, along with historically-charged materials and objects, like Chinese antique furniture and wood from destroyed Qing dynasty temples. The artist's photographs and videos suggest that his documentary work may be best. On the National Mall, at Independence Avenue Southwest and Seventh Street, Washington, (202) 633-4674, hirshhorn.si.edu; free. (Smith)
Brooklyn Museum: 'Go: a community-curated open studio project' (closes on Sunday) Inspired by ArtPrize, an art competition in Grand Rapids, Mich., that awards money to artists based on votes by the public, and by local open-studios programs, the Brooklyn Museum created a contest in which the award was a spot in this exhibition. More than 1,800 artists registered with the museum; visitors went out to their studios and voted; and the Top 10 artists were whittled down to 5 by Brooklyn Museum curators. The results are less than stellar. ''Go'' has not unearthed any hidden masters of the borough, but it does raise questions about who should choose what appears in museums and what constitutes ''great'' art. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, Brooklyn, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Schwendener)
Deborah Kass: 'My Elvis +' (closes on Saturday) It sounds like a subplot of a bad movie satirizing the high art world: a Jewish feminist lesbian creates imitations of Warhol ''Elvis'' paintings, substituting the image of Barbra Streisand in the guise of a young male Talmudic scholar from the movie ''Yentl.'' In reality, this installation of the series, which Ms. Kass initiated in the early 1990s, makes for an exceptionally elegant, thought-provoking show. Paul Kasmin, 515 West 27th Street, Chelsea, (212) 563-4474, paulkasmingallery.com. (Johnson)
'Andy Kaufman's 99cent Tour' (closes on Sunday) Organized in conjunction with an exhibition at Maccarone, this series of evening screenings and discussions will present home movies and various Kaufman concerts and shows in their entirety; delve into his record collection; and examine his preoccupation with professional wrestling. Sundry Kaufman friends, relatives and colleagues as well as interested artists will preside. Participant Inc., 253 East Houston Street, Lower East Side, (212) 254-4334, participantinc.org. (Smith)
&#x2605; 'Looking Back: The 7th White Columns Annual' (closes on Saturday) This recap of the 2012 art season is by Richard Birkett, the curator at Artists Space, and it's a smart one, with many unobvious, un-Chelsea choices. There's only one painting, but a lot that's painting-like. Sculpture abounds. (Yuji Agematsu, who showed at Real Arts in Brooklyn last spring, has a room hung with tiny street-junk assemblage.) Video and photography are in good supply, as is reading material, with texts by Chris Kraus and Tan Lin. Piece by piece, the show feels cool and abstruse, like a set of conceptual locks to be picked. But there are many rewards and a large overarching one: Mr. Bickett makes the art season past look more interesting in retrospect than it did when it was happening. White Columns, 320 West 13th Street (entrance on Horatio Street), (212) 924-4212, whitecolumns.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; Zwelethu Mthethwa: 'New Works' (closes on Saturday) The South African photographer Zwelethu Mthethwa's gripping portraits strike an unusual public-private balance, whether they are taken outside or in the close quarters of migrant workers' hostel rooms. This show, his sixth at the Shainman Gallery, opens with new photographs of young men in religious uniforms. Wearing long-sleeved white shirts with contrasting kilts and knee socks, these members of the Nazareth Baptist Church (also known as Shembe) strike confident poses in green meadows. In another recent series, middle-aged women sit beside their hope chests, the contents of which are off-limits to us. Jack Shainman Gallery, 513 West 20th Street, Chelsea, (212) 645-1701, jackshainman.com. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Museum of Modern Art: 'Tokyo 1955-1970: A New Avant-Garde' (closes on Monday) Modernist art, insurgent and utopian, ignited like a firecracker cluster in cities across the globe in the early 20th century, and Tokyo was one of them. Rising from the ashes after World War II, it produced huge amounts of new art, feisty, fantastic, often politically subversive. And a wave of it comes surging out at you like a blast of sound -- half noise, half music -- in this surprising exhibition made up of loans from Japan and little-seen material from MoMA's collection. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Cotter)
Senga Nengudi: 'Performances 1976-81' (closes on Saturday) Senga Nengudi was recently featured in ''Now Dig This! Art & Black Los Angeles 1960-1980'' at MoMA PS1. This follow-up solo extends our view of her career with at look at her performance work, in which world cultures and politics mix. In a 1977 photograph we see her in a costume -- paper cloak, mask -- that evokes West African dance and Japanese Noh theater. Other pictures catch a carnivalesque ritual she staged with fellow artists under a Los Angeles freeway ramp. In a video called ''Side by Side for 35 Years'' that revisits collaborations with another artist, Maren Hassinger, the old work looks as freshly minted as the new. Thomas Erben Gallery, 526 West 26th Street, Chelsea, (212) 645-8701, thomaserben.com. (Cotter)
&#x2605; 'On Creating Reality, by Andy Kaufman' (closes on Saturday) As idiosyncratic in format as in content, this exhibition presents the art and artifacts of Andy Kaufman (1949-84), so-called anti-comic, outlying Conceptualist and performance artist and precursor to relational aesthetics. It includes letters, scripts, records (45s and LPs), tour schedules, props, costumes and much else; a selection of television and club clips as well as an interactive component. Each day, a Kaufman friend, colleague or relative has gamely agreed to be present, reminiscing, answering questions and serving as exhibition guide. Maccarone, 630 Greenwich Street, at Morton Street, West Village, (212) 431-4977, maccarone.net. (Smith)
A.R. Penck: 'Before the West: Select Works From the 1970s' (closes on Saturday) Coinciding with an uptown display of robust new work, this fascinatingly scrappy show features little-known efforts executed when the Neo-Expressionist painter was living, out of favor, in East Berlin, smuggling paintings out and art materials in, protected from the Stasi by his growing reputation in the West. He made sculptures from wadded aluminum foil and collages from corrugated cardboard, and developed his signature pictographic cosmos while occasionally riffing on art history and dabbling in popular culture. Leo Koenig Inc., 545 West 23rd Street, Chelsea, (212) 334-9255, leokoenig.com. (Smith)
Suzanne Treister: 'Hexen 2.0' (closes on Saturday) This British artist has a unifying theory about everything that would concern a person worried about the current global state of affairs. Ms. Treister delivers her thinking in the form of a set of Tarot cards, each card illustrating in diagrammatic cartoon drawings and handwritten text a person, idea or event that changed the course of 20th-century history. The individually framed, hand-colored prints resemble the efforts of a paranoid hippie. P.P.O.W, 535 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 647-1044, ppowgallery.com. (Johnson)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY KENT FINE ART, NEW YORK) (C16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (97%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); PAINTING (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); SCULPTURE (79%); EXHIBITIONS (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); AKRON, OH, USA (51%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (90%); GHANA (76%); NIGERIA (76%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2013



783 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ARTSBEAT; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 452 words

HEADLINE: Pearl Theater Company Raising Funds

BYLINE: By ERIK PIEPENBURG

 BODY:
The Pearl Theater Company is an Off Broadway troupe best known for mounting classic plays. But according to a letter sent to subscribers this week, the theater is experiencing a classic problem: a cash flow shortfall that threatens to endanger its current season and its overall financial health. In the letter, J. R. Sullivan, the company's artistic director, writes that the theater's board has raised over $200,000 since it began focusing on the financial shortfall in December, and the company has undertaken ''stringent cost-cutting measures.'' But he said the the company still needs to raise an additional $250,000 to enable it to have an ''immediate future.'' Its budget for the current season is $2.1 million. 
The company's financial woes were compounded by its recent move to a new home. Last February the company signed a 20-year lease on a 160-seat venue at 555 West 42nd Street, formerly occupied by the Signature Theater Company. The Pearl is in the middle of a three-year, $3 million fundraising campaign. In the letter Mr. Sullivan blamed the theater's financial problems mostly on ''the expense of moving to the new theater, exacerbated by lower than expected fall ticket sales and the sluggish economy.'' Mr. Sullivan also laid part of the blame on Hurricane Sandy. ''We weren't shut down like many of our brother and sister theaters were downtown,'' he said in an interview. ''But we were impacted by the transit shutdown, and that hurt our attendance.''
The Pearl, founded in 1984, produced shows for about 15 years at Theater 80 on St. Marks Place before moving its productions in 2009 to New York City Center Stage II, which seats about 150. The Pearl's first production in its new home, Charles Morey's adaptation of ''The Marriage of Figaro,'' received mostly positive reviews when it opened in November. Mr. Sullivan said there is ''no danger of cutting the season short.'' The company still plans to produce its final two shows of the season: ''Henry IV Part 1,'' now in previews, and Terrence McNally's new play, ''And Away We Go,'' scheduled to begin previews in April.
Since the letter went out, the company has received about $50,000, a sign that Mr. Sullivan said gave him confidence that the company would reach its goal. If the money is not forthcoming, Mr. Sullivan said, it would ''raise the possibility of cutting back'' and giving the rest of the season ''an extra look,'' particularly at materials like props and sets. ''At this point in the season there are not a lot of areas where you can cut except in the productions,'' he said. ''But we are focused on fundraising and delivering a full season.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (91%); FUNDRAISING (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); THEATER COMPANIES (90%); CASH FLOW (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); BUDGETS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); CITY LIFE (69%); TICKET SALES (67%); HURRICANE SANDY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2013



784 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1102 words

HEADLINE: Love and Ambition In a Cruel New World

BYLINE: By MICHIKO KAKUTANI

 BODY:
HOW TO GET FILTHY RICH IN RISING ASIABy Mohsin Hamid
228 pages. Riverhead Books. $26.95.
Mohsin Hamid's 2007 novel, ''The Reluctant Fundamentalist,'' was an artful tour de force, a lapidary monologue delivered by a young Princeton-educated Pakistani that opened out to become a puzzlelike exploration of identity, and a suspenseful, post-Sept. 11 meditation on the nervous, mutually suspicious dynamic between America and the Muslim world.
Mr. Hamid's new novel, ''How to Get Filthy Rich in Rising Asia,'' also tells a compelling story that works on two levels -- in this case as a deeply moving and highly specific tale of love and ambition, and as a larger, metaphorical look at the mind-boggling social and economic changes sweeping ''rising Asia.''
Set in an unnamed country that resembles Pakistan the novel chronicles the 70-odd-year-long life of an unnamed hero who journeys from an impoverished village to a sprawling city and who makes -- and loses -- a fortune in the water (''bottled hydration'') business. 
The story is couched as a kind of self-help book and told in the second person, with a protagonist referred to only as ''you.'' What might initially seem like a clumsy narrative technique is actually a device that allows Mr. Hamid to zoom in and out from his hero's life, as though he were using a telephoto lens, moving in to give us up-close-and-personal glimpses of ''you's'' enduring relationship with a woman he meets when they are teenagers (she is always referred to as ''the pretty girl'') then moving back to show us the ways in which his entrepreneurial career mirrors that of millions of others as they become part of a new urbanized demographic that is changing the shape of the world.
Of the decision of ''you's'' father to move his immediate family from their small village (where ''you'' grew up surrounded by dozens of relatives) and their arrival in the metropolis, Mr. Hamid writes: ''As you and your parents and siblings dismount, you embody one of the great changes of your time. Where once your clan was innumerable, not infinite but of a large number not readily known, now there are five of you. Five. The fingers on one hand, the toes on one foot, a minuscule aggregation when compared with shoals of fish or flocks of birds or indeed tribes of humans.'' He adds that the change in family dynamics was in itself ''an explosive transformation,'' the ''supportive, stifling, stabilizing bonds of extended relationships weakening and giving way, leaving in their wake insecurity, anxiety, productivity and potential.''
In the big city ''you'' gets himself an education -- another step on the ladder of getting filthy rich -- and a job delivering DVDs for a video retailer, which brings him into contact with the pretty girl, a movie buff, who works at a beauty salon and is plotting her escape from her dysfunctional family. He falls in love with the pretty girl and installs her as the ideal woman in his heart, where she will remain ever after. The pretty girl, who seems way more liberated than the hero, has sex with him but does so the night before running away with a man who says he recognizes ''her potential to be a model.''
''You'' goes to a university and falls in with some sort of political organization that in exchange for membership offers him ''a monthly cash stipend, food and clothing, and a bed.'' He grows a beard and notices that wealthier students and corrupt administrators now regard him with something like fear. After his mother dies a horribly painful death from cancer, he begins to drift away from the organization: its clinic tells him there was nothing to be done to alleviate his mother's condition except prayer, and its members exhort him to recognize his comrades as his one ''true family.''
Business becomes his new religion. He realizes that if he is to become as successful as the pretty girl -- who has become a well-known model who ''earns as much as a retail banker her age'' -- he must become an entrepreneur. From a job as ''a non-expired-labeled expired-goods salesman'' (which means exactly what it sounds like, selling old items that have been relabeled with new expiration dates) he sets himself up as a bottled-water tycoon. What starts out as a small-time scam -- pouring boiled tap water into mineral-water bottles recovered from restaurants -- gradually evolves into a thriving big-time business, enabling ''you'' to ascend into the firmament of the wealthy with a big house, a driver and lots of security to protect him from the envious rabble.
As his first novel, ''Moth Smoke,'' so deftly demonstrated, Mr. Hamid has high-frequency radar for status distinctions, and in these pages he provides an acerbic, almost anthropological sense of how bribes and corruption grease the social system in his not-quite-Pakistan. He also records the envy, resentment and desire to emulate that America and the West provoke. For instance a retired brigadier describes his awe-making plan of creating a ''premier housing'' development that would have ''its own electricity plant'' (meaning, no blackouts) and drinkable tap water. When you enter it, ''it'll be like you've entered another country,'' he says. ''Another continent. Like you've gone to Europe. Or North America.''
In Mr. Hamid's not-Pakistan-exactly, change has arrived in fits and starts: poverty and high-tech modernity exist side by side, turning the country into a patchwork of the old and new, and the ugly urban sprawl of the in-between.
''In the city's outskirts,'' Mr. Hamid writes, ''on one of a thousand and one rutted streets where a few years ago were only fields but now little green can be seen, unplanned development having yielded instead a ribbon of convenience stores, auto garages, scrap-metal dealers, unregistered educational institutes, fly-by-night dental clinics and mobile-phone top-up and repair points, all fronting warrens of housing perilously unresistant to earthquakes, or even, for that matter, torrential rain.''
It is a measure of Mr. Hamid's audacious talents that he manages to make his protagonist's story work on so many levels. ''You'' is, at once, a modern-day Horatio Alger character, representing the desires and frustrations of millions in rising Asia; a bildungsroman hero, by turns knavish and recognizably human, who sallies forth from the provinces to find his destiny; and a nameless but intimately known soul, whose bittersweet romance with the pretty girl possesses a remarkable emotional power. With ''How to Get Filthy Rich in Rising Asia'' Mr. Hamid reaffirms his place as one of his generation's most inventive and gifted writers.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (C23)
 Mohsin Hamid (PHOTOGRAPH BY JILLIAN EDELSTEIN) (C26) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); ADOLESCENTS (77%); FAMILY (73%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); CITY LIFE (72%); CITIES (72%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (67%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (66%); FISHES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); ASIA (88%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2013



785 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 585 words

HEADLINE: Economic Data Points To a Steady Fed Policy

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (Reuters) -- A range of economic data on Thursday like claims for unemployment benefits, factory activity and consumer prices pointed to a still-tepid recovery and supported the argument for the Federal Reserve to maintain its monetary stimulus.
The Fed is currently buying $85 billion in bonds a month and has said it would keep up purchases until the labor market outlook improves substantially, although officials are increasingly divided over the wisdom of that course. 
''The economy is in a holding pattern. It's not going to strengthen sufficiently to justify an end of the current program,'' said Millan Mulraine, senior economist at TD Securities.
Initial claims for state unemployment benefits increased 20,000 last week to a seasonally adjusted 362,000, unwinding the bulk of the previous week's decline, the Labor Department said.
A second report from the department showed that consumer prices were flat for a second consecutive month in January as gasoline prices fell and the cost of food held steady.
In the 12 months through January, consumer prices rose 1.6 percent, the smallest gain since July, suggesting there was little inflation pressure to worry the Fed.
News on the manufacturing sector, which has supported the economy's recovery from the 2007-9 recession, was downbeat.
The Philadelphia Fed's business activity index dropped to minus 12.5 in February, the lowest level since June. The index, which measures factory activity in the mid-Atlantic region, had fallen to minus 5.8 in January. A reading below zero indicates contraction in the region's manufacturing sector. The survey covers factories in eastern Pennsylvania, southern New Jersey and Delaware.
The American economy braked sharply in the fourth quarter, but grew at a 2.2 percent clip for the full year. Output is being hampered by lackluster demand as employment struggles to gain traction.
Job growth has been far less than the at least 250,000 a month over a sustained period that economists say is needed to significantly reduce the ranks of unemployed. The unemployment rate rose 0.1 percentage point to 7.9 percent in January.
Last week's data on initial jobless claims covered the survey period for the government's closely watched monthly tally of nonfarm jobs. Jobless claims were up 27,000 between the January and February survey periods.
However, the increase probably does not suggest any material change in the pace of job growth given that claims have been very volatile since January because of difficulties smoothing the data for seasonal fluctuations.
Despite the weak factory and jobs data, there is reason for optimism about the economy. The housing market recovery is gaining momentum. A report from the National Association of Realtors showed existing home sales rose 0.4 percent last month, pushing the supply of homes on the market to a 13-year low. The median home price rose 12.3 percent from a year ago.
Although consumer prices excluding food and energy rose 0.3 percent -- the largest gain since May 2011 -- most of that reflected outsize increases in apparel and education costs.
''January is a tough month because you get a lot of price hikes at the start of the new year and the seasonals have a hard time sort of adjusting,'' said Omair Sharif, an economist at RBS. ''I don't expect the core C.P.I. to maintain that pace of increase in the near-term.''
The Conference Board said its index of leading economic indicators rose 0.2 percent in January to 94.1, after an 0.5 percent increase in December.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Existing-Home Sales: Annual pace of existing single-family homes sold during the month, seasonally adjusted.
Home Prices: Median price for existing homes, not seasonally adjusted. (Source: National Association of Realtors)
Consumer Prices: Percent change, month to month, seasonally adjusted.
 U.S. and major metropolitan areas (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); RECESSION (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); EXISTING HOME SALES (78%); INFLATION (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (73%); BONDS (72%); GASOLINE MARKETS (71%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (60%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (54%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (54%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2013



786 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1062 words

HEADLINE: Spending Cuts Threaten Delays In Air Travel

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Airlines and airports across the country are preparing for across-the-board federal budget cuts due to hit next week as if they were a hurricane, although with even less certainty about how many flights they will have to cancel and how many passengers will be stranded. The federal government is warning about delays that could begin in March, as the first cuts take effect, and reduced takeoffs and slower security lines that could worsen in April with furloughs.
Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood has told Congress that most of the Federal Aviation Administration's 47,000 employees would face a day of furlough per two-week pay period, meaning on average about 10 percent fewer workers on any given day. There are about 14,750 air traffic controllers, including trainees, so that would mean on every shift there would be substantially fewer in all. In some areas, like New York, there could be problems even in advance of furloughs, if overtime budgets are cut. 
To handle such a major staff shortage but still maintain safety, federal aviation officials said they would accept fewer airplanes into the system, the same tactic they use in bad weather. That means that in places where airplanes normally follow one another with a six- or seven-mile gap, there might be a 10- to 20-mile gap. As a result, passengers may sit on tarmacs and endure delays as they wait for planes to push back from the gate.
''It's going to be like perpetual bad weather,'' said Kevin Mitchell, the chairman of the Business Travel Coalition. ''You're going to have to look at this as if you're going out knowing there's a storm.''
There could also be longer security lines at airports because of anticipated furloughs of Transportation Security Administration workers. In addition, deplaning from international flights could be slower because Customs and Border Protection agents are expected to work fewer hours.
When this would begin in earnest is not clear. Government rules require that employees have 30 days' notice of furloughs, but the notices cannot be given until March 1. But the work of contractors and part-time employees could be cut sooner, along with overtime budgets.
The budget cuts, known as a sequester, ''will require indiscriminate spending reductions,'' Mr. LaHood said in a letter Feb. 11 to Barbara Mikulski, the chairwoman of the Senate Appropriations Committee. But so far the F.A.A. is saying very little specifically about what it would do, although the National Air Traffic Controllers Association is preparing a study correlating levels of furloughs to reductions in the ability to handle traffic.
''Everyone is frustrated with the lack of specific information,'' said Deborah McElroy, executive vice president of the Airports Council International -- North America. ''Airports are looking at their contingency plans, but the difficulty is, I don't know what I'm planning for.''
Aviation executives were reluctant to be quoted by name for fear of appearing to take sides in the dispute in Congress, but many expressed exasperation. An executive of a major airline who is assigned to the New York area said that the problems were approaching as the price of gas was once again nearing $4 a gallon, making any form of travel less attractive. Reviving a newly coined word from the heart of the recent recession, he said, ''Staycation may become the byword of the summer.''
Because of the potential cutbacks in T.S.A. workers' hours, Janet Napolitano, the Secretary of Homeland Security, testified Feb. 14 before the Senate Appropriations Committee that wait times at airport security checkpoints could increase by up to an hour. She said waits of four to five hours could be common for international travelers trying to clear customs and immigration.
Thomas P. Glynn, chief executive officer of the Massachusetts Port Authority, which operates Logan International Airport in Boston, said that his agency was talking to airport restaurants and shops about staying open late to serve delayed travelers and setting aside an area on the tarmac to park flights diverted from other airports because of air traffic problems. Airport service agents might have to patrol the lines at security checkpoints to pluck out passengers whose flights were leaving soon and move them to the front, he said. The goal was to ''produce a passenger experience that is reasonable to good,'' he said.
Mr. Glynn, who was President Bill Clinton's deputy secretary of labor during the government shutdown of 1994, said the sequester was more difficult. ''Implicit in the shutdown was it was temporary,'' he said. The sequestration ''could be permanent, or for this fiscal year,'' which does not end until Sept. 30. Congress was repeatedly approaching the brink, he said, because of ''shutdown fatigue.''
Airline and aviation officials also said that a cutback in F.A.A. operations would lead to complications beyond air traffic control problems. If the agency closes towers at small airports or reduces their hours, for example, airlines could still get permission to land commuter flights at those places although the airlines would have to show they had trained weather observers on the ground, among other requirements. The problem is that the airlines would probably flood the F.A.A. with requests for such permissions to land, but the people who process them would be subject to furlough, an airline executive said.
Applications by airlines to put new airplanes into service or to certify pilots on new planes could also be delayed. A fund that provides grants for airport improvements might not be affected, according to experts, but the F.A.A. employees who process those applications might be subject to furloughs.
The National Air Traffic Controllers Association, the union that represents the controllers and other workers, on Thursday predicted ''a negative impact on the efficiency and capacity of the National Airspace System, as well as the nation's fragile economy.'' If the air traffic system shrinks, it could also set off a conflict within the airline industry. Industry executives said that if the F.A.A. reduced takeoffs and landings at the nation's airports, the carriers might choose to eliminate routes of smaller planes that have fewer seats and so provide less revenue to an airline. But those planes are often the only service to smaller airports in smaller cities.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A monitor at the air traffic tower in Los Angeles shows air traffic in the United States, one dot per plane. Airline and airport officials fear one result of a sharp cut in federal spending could be flight delays and cancellations. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12)
 Airport officials fear a return of lines like these, at San Francisco's airport in 2006. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); AIRLINES (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CIVIL AVIATION (89%); OVERTIME (89%); WEATHER (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (78%); AIRPORT OPERATION (78%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (78%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (78%); LABOR SHORTAGES (75%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (70%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (69%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (68%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (50%)

PERSON: BARBARA MIKULSKI (56%); RAY LAHOOD (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2013



787 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; MOVIE REVIEW; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 231 words

HEADLINE: Northeast

BYLINE: By NEIL GENZLINGER

 BODY:
Yet another young filmmaker has discovered the tired truths that it's possible to live in a city of eight million people but feel alone, and that knocking about New York without a plan or ambition ultimately leads to emptiness. That might be a decent starting point for a movie, but Gregory Kohn makes it his whole movie, and the result, ''Northeast,'' is as tedious as the life of the film's central character. 
That character, Will (David Call), a recent arrival in New York, is unemployed and apparently content to remain that way, spending inordinate amounts of time walking the streets without purpose, something Mr. Kohn shows us endlessly, as if it were somehow profound. What little dialogue the film has is deliberately mundane, which can be a legitimate choice in this brand of minimalist filmmaking if it leads to something but here produces only unanswered questions.
Not the least of these is why the vapid, indifferent Will seems able to bed women with ease, a trait that suggests a dismissive, disposable view of the female sex on the part of Mr. Kohn, who also wrote the film. One of these conquests, an older woman nicely played by Laura Ford, is the movie's only interesting character. Mr. Kohn gets rid of her after a few minutes and returns to his study of the world's least interesting man.
Opens on Friday in Brooklyn. Directed by Gregory Kohn 1 hour 17 minutes; not rated

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: David Call as an unambitious Lothario in ''Northeast.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY JM HOULE/FILMWAX) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2013



788 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 814 words

HEADLINE: Sign of a Comeback: U.S. Carmakers Are Hiring

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC

 BODY:
DETROIT -- A few years ago, American automakers cut tens of thousands of jobs and shut dozens of factories simply to survive.
But since the recession ended and General Motors and Chrysler began to recover with the help of hefty government bailouts and bankruptcy filings, all three Detroit car companies including Ford Motor Company have achieved one of the unlikeliest comebacks among industries devastated during the financial crisis.
Now steadily rising auto sales and two-tier wage concessions from labor have spurred a wave of new manufacturing investments and hiring by the three Detroit automakers in the United States. The latest development occurred on Thursday, when Ford said it was adding 450 jobs and expanding what had been a beleaguered engine plant in Ohio to feed the growing demand for more fuel-efficient cars and S.U.V.'s in the American market. 
Ford, the nation's second-largest automaker after G.M., said it would spend $200 million to renovate its Cleveland engine plant to produce small, turbocharged engines used in its top-selling models. Ford plans to centralize production of its two-liter EcoBoost engine -- used in popular models like the Fusion sedan and Explorer S.U.V. -- at the Cleveland facility by the end of next year.
Its move to expand production in the United States is yet another tangible sign of recovery among the Detroit auto companies. Industrywide sales in the United States are expected to top 15 million vehicles this year after sinking beneath 11 million in 2009.
Last month, G.M. announced plans to invest $600 million in its assembly plant in Kansas City, Kan., one of the company's oldest factories in the country. And Chrysler, the smallest of the Detroit car companies, is adding a third shift of workers to its Jeep plant in Detroit.
The biggest factor in the market's revival has been the need by consumers to replace aging, gas-guzzling models. ''Pent-up demand and widespread access to credit are keeping up the sales momentum,'' said Jessica Caldwell, an analyst with the auto research site Edmunds.com.
And Joseph R. Hinrichs, the head of Ford's Americas region, explained in an interview that the company's Ohio revival plan was ''all based on increased demand.''
''We're putting the capacity here because that's where we need it most,'' he said.
Yet even though Ford is enjoying a resurgence in the United States, it is racing to reduce costs in its troubled European division. The workers in Spain who were building the small EcoBoost engines that have been shipped to America will be moved to an assembly plant that is taking on work from a plant to be closed in Belgium.
While Ford survived the industry's financial crisis without government help, it still cut thousands of jobs and shuttered several factories to reduce costs and bring production more in line with shrinking sales.
But now, the burst of showroom business has prompted automakers to increase output at remaining plants. In Ford's case, the company added about 8,000 salaried and hourly jobs last year, and has said it plans to hire about 2,200 white-collar workers in 2013. Ford is also moving some vehicle production from Mexico to a Michigan plant, where it will add 1,200 jobs.
The investment in Cleveland is indicative of how Ford and other carmakers have trimmed domestic labor costs and improved productivity since the recession. Just a few years ago, the company was forced to consolidate two engine plants into one in northern Ohio, and close a major component operation. ''No question we have been through a lot in northern Ohio,'' Mr. Hinrichs said. ''But now our North American business is very competitive with the best in the world.''
Mr. Hinrichs said that a new local agreement with the United Automobile Workers union in Cleveland paved the way for the expansion. Currently the plant employs about 1,300 workers.
The Detroit companies are also benefiting from their ability to hire lower-paid, entry-level workers as part of their national contract with the U.A.W. Many of the 450 new workers at the Cleveland plant will start at $16 an hour, compared to about $28 for veteran union members, and some of the new engine plant workers could include employees from other Ohio plants.
''With our competitive labor agreements, we can bring business back to the U.S. from Spain and Mexico,'' Mr. Hinrichs said.
Employment still falls far short of levels in the 1990s, when cheap gas and the popularity of S.U.V.'s led to big profits in Detroit.
The auto manufacturing sector employed 1.1 million people in the United States as recently as 1999, according to a recent study by the Center for Automotive Research in Ann Arbor, Mich. About one-third of those jobs were in the final assembly of vehicles, and the balance in the production of auto parts.
Employment dropped as low as 560,000 in 2009. Since then, about 90,000 jobs have been added, the report said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Joseph Hinrichs, head of Ford's Americas region, with a two-liter EcoBoost engine at the Cleveland plant. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY DEJAK/ASSOCIATED PRESSTONY DEJAK/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B1)
 Testing a V-6 engine at Ford's Cleveland plant. Production of a popular small engine is being moved there from Spain. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK DUNCAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (93%); AUTOMAKERS (93%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (92%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); MOTOR VEHICLE ENGINE MFG (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (77%); MOTOR VEHICLES (77%); SEDANS (77%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (74%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (73%); AUTOMOTIVE RESEARCH (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); BUILDING RENOVATION (67%); INTERVIEWS (60%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); FORD MOTOR CO (94%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (94%); F (NYSE) (94%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (94%); DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) OHIO, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (94%); KANSAS, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); SPAIN (92%); BELGIUM (65%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2013



789 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 557 words

HEADLINE: Why Taxes Have to Go Up

 BODY:
Democrats and Republicans remain at odds on how to avoid a round of budget cuts so deep and arbitrary that to allow them now could push the economy back into recession. The cuts, known as a sequester, will kick in March 1 unless Republicans agree to President Obama's demand to a legislative package that combines spending reductions and tax increases. As of Thursday, with the deadline a week off, Republicans seemed determined to say no to any new tax increases.
''Spending is the problem,'' declared the House speaker, John Boehner. ''Spending must be the focus.'' Reflecting the views of many of her Republican colleagues, Representative Martha Roby said Wednesday that Mr. Obama ''already got his tax increase'' as part of the January agreement over the ''fiscal cliff'' and that no further increases were necessary. 
Both are wrong. To reduce the deficit in a weak economy, new taxes on high-income Americans are a matter of necessity and fairness; they are also a necessary precondition to what in time will have to be tax increases on the middle class. Contrary to Mr. Boehner's ''spending problem'' claim, much of the deficit in the next 10 years can be chalked up to chronic revenue shortfalls from the Bush-era tax cuts, which were only partly undone in the fiscal-cliff deal earlier this year. (Wars and a recession also contributed.) It stands to reason that a deficit caused partly by inadequate revenue must be corrected in part by new taxes. And the only way to raise taxes now without harming the recovery is to impose them on high-income filers, for whom a tax increase is unlikely to cut into spending.
As it happens, those taxpayers are the same ones who benefited most from Bush-era tax breaks and who continue to pay low taxes. Even with recent increases, the new top rate of 39.6 percent is historically low; investment income is still taxed at special low rates; and the heirs of multimillion-dollar estates face lower taxes than at almost any time in modern memory.
On the spending side, Republicans are resisting cuts to defense. That implies brutalizing cuts in nondefense discretionary areas, like education and environment, which are already set to fall to their lowest level as a share of the economy since the 1950s.
As for entitlements, Republicans mainly want to cut those that mostly go to the middle class and the poor, while ignoring nearly $1.1 trillion in annual deductions, credits and other tax breaks that flow disproportionately to the highest income Americans and that cost more, each year, than Medicare and Medicaid combined. Clearly then, there is both ample room and justification to reduce the deficit by curbing tax breaks at the high end, as Mr. Obama has proposed and Republicans have rejected.
Raising taxes at the top is neither punitive nor gratuitous. It is a needed step, both to achieve near-term budget goals and to lay the foundation for a healthy budget in the future. As the economy strengthens and the population ages, more taxes will be needed from further down the income scale, both to meet foreseeable commitments, especially health care, as well as unforeseeable developments, from wars to technological challenges. But there will never be a consensus for more taxes from the middle class without imposing higher taxes on wealthy Americans, who have enjoyed low taxes for a long time.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (87%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); MEDICARE (66%); MEDICAID (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (79%); JOHN BOEHNER (73%); MARTHA ROBY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2013



790 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; EURO WATCH; Pg. 

LENGTH: 725 words

HEADLINE: Manufacturers Survey Points to New Downturn in Euro Zone

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
LONDON -- Hopes that the euro zone might emerge from recession soon were set back Thursday as data showed that a downturn in business activity in the region worsened unexpectedly this month, especially in France.
The figures came a day before the European Commission was due to announce interim economic forecasts for the 27-nation bloc, including which countries did not meet European Union targets on budget deficits.
European stock indexes fell, following sharp declines in Asian benchmarks, and the euro fell against the dollar. Analysts attributed the declines to nervousness about economic growth, especially following indications Wednesday that the U.S. Federal Reserve was divided on maintaining stimulus measures. 
Economists had expected that Markit's purchasing managers' index for service industries in the euro zone, a business survey and one of the earliest monthly indicators of economic activity, would add to tentative signs that a recovery was in the offing.
But the indicator fell in February to 47.3 from 48.6, marking a year it has been below the 50 threshold for growth. Analysts had expected an increase to 49: none of the more than 30 analysts polled by Reuters had forecast such a poor reading.
Markit said the schism between Germany and France -- with the biggest economies in the euro zone -- was at its widest since the survey started in 1998. While companies in Germany sustained a healthy rate of growth, French services companies were experiencing their worst slump since early 2009, when the financial crisis and subsequent recession were at their worst.
''If it wasn't for Germany, these would be really dire readings,'' said Chris Williamson, chief economist at Markit. ''At least the German economy is still helping to keep the euro zone afloat in some respects.''
He said the latest survey pointed to the euro zone economy shrinking 0.2 percent to 0.3 percent in the first quarter, after an estimated 0.4 percent contraction at the end of last year.
A Reuters poll of economists last week suggested the economy would merely stagnate this quarter.
By far the most worrying aspect of the data released Thursday was the dismal performance of French companies. Mr. Williamson said the data for France were more befitting a struggling ''peripheral'' euro zone economy like Spain or Italy, rather than the ''core'' status that France traditionally shares with Germany.
By contrast, Germany has had a good start to the year. German investor morale soared to its highest level in nearly three years this month, according to the ZEW research institute, while the federal statistics office said Tuesday that employment reached its highest level in the fourth quarter since reunification.
Still, there are limits to what German prosperity can do for the rest of the region, blighted by harsh budget austerity and rising joblessness. The latest Markit survey suggests that the ''positive contagion'' noted in January by the European Central Bank president, Mario Draghi, may be more in hope than expectation.
New orders at companies in the euro zone service sector -- which include banks, information technology firms, hotels and restaurants -- declined at a faster rate this month, with the index sinking sharply to 46 from 48.4 in January.
The survey also dashed optimism that the slump in euro zone factories would ease further in February, as the manufacturing index barely moved, to 47.8 from 47.9 in January.
Output fell at a faster rate, though new export orders brought at least a glimmer of hope, with the index rising to 51.7 in February from 49.5, its first reading above 50 since June 2006.
The composite index, combining the services and manufacturing surveys, fell to 47.3 in February from 48.6 in January.
Companies cut more jobs, though not as quickly as in January, when layoffs rose at the fastest pace in more than three years.
The Euro Stoxx 50, a barometer of euro zone blue chips, closed 2.3 percent lower. National benchmarks also tumbled. In Milan, the MIB fell 3.1 percent and in Madrid the IBEX 35 declined 1.8 percent. In Paris, the CAC 40 fell 2.3 percent and in Frankfurt the DAX was down 1.9 percent. In London, the FTSE 100 slid 1.6 percent.
In Asia, the Nikkei 225 closed down 1.4 percent, and the Hang Seng index in Hong Kong fell 1.7 percent.
The euro was at $1.3207, down from $1.3340 late Wednesday in New York.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); RECESSION (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); EURO (90%); BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); STOCK INDEXES (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (58%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (96%); EUROPE (96%); FRANCE (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); SPAIN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2013



791 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WAY OF THE WORLD; Pg. 

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: When Work and Wages Come Apart

BYLINE: By CHRYSTIA FREELAND | REUTERS

 BODY:
NEW YORK -- One way to divide people is into foxes and hedgehogs. Another is into those who think this time is different and those who believe there is never anything new under the sun.
The latter split can be a matter of temperament, of politics or even of religion. But today it is relevant for another, more urgent reason: It describes how people think about the most critical economic problem in the industrialized world today -- the dearth of well-paying middle-class jobs.
The this-time-is-different school attributes a lot of what is happening to the technology revolution. That makes them an intellectually eclectic bunch. On one hand, they include wide-eyed enthusiasts who believe in human progress and in the transformational power of technology. But they also include grim hand-wringers who fear the unprecedented changes may bring unprecedented woes. 
That combination of Pollyanna and Cassandra is perfectly embodied in the multifaceted mind of Al Gore. Mr. Gore is a longtime fan of the geeks, and in his post-political life he has very nearly become one of them, with his seat on the Apple board and senior partnership with Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, a leading venture capital firm in Silicon Valley.
It thus comes as no surprise that in his new book, ''The Future,'' Mr. Gore foresees a world of ''hyper-change'' in which the technology revolution is ''carrying us with it at a speed beyond our imagining toward ever newer technologically shaped realities that often appear, in the words of Arthur C. Clarke, 'indistinguishable from magic.'''
But Mr. Gore has also always been part Savonarola -- remember the campaign of his estranged wife, Tipper, against music with ''profane language'' -- and his conviction that this time is different has a sharp edge. In ''The Future,'' Mr. Gore admits that the Luddites, who feared that the Industrial Revolution would create structural unemployment, were wrong: ''The new jobs that emerged in factories not only outnumbered those lost on farms but produced higher incomes, even as farms became far more productive and food prices sharply declined.''
Yet he warns that there is no guarantee history will repeat itself. In particular, Mr. Gore worries that thanks to the technology revolution, the traditional link between rising productivity and a rising standard of living for the middle class has been broken. He fears that severed link may be causing the economic slowdown in the developed economies: A weakened middle class lacks the spending power to drive growth.
One of the smartest academics studying this phenomenon is Erik Brynjolfsson, a management professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Mr. Brynjolfsson, who co-wrote the new book ''Race Against the Machine,'' also believes the technology revolution is having a powerful and unprecedented impact.
''Most of the debate in Washington is really playing small ball and is missing the tectonic changes in the way the economy works, which are driven by technology,'' he said recently. ''This is the big story of our time, and it is going to accelerate over the next 10 years.''
Like Mr. Gore, Mr. Brynjolfsson thinks the canary in the coal mine is the decoupling of gains in productivity and in wages. ''Productivity since 2000 has grown faster than in the '70s, '80s or '90s,'' he said. ''But starting in the late 1990s, we've had this decoupling of wages from productivity.''
Mr. Brynjolfsson believes this break is a historic watershed. ''There have been big economic changes in the past, but productivity and jobs tracked each other pretty closely,'' he said. ''It is only since 1997 that they decoupled. There is no economic law that says they go together.''
That is a change with tremendous social and political implications. As Mr. Brynjolfsson put it: ''A lot of economists felt that as long as productivity was growing, things would take care of themselves. That's no longer true.''
This is indeed a watershed moment: Productivity and innovation, the focus of policy makers and business leaders, no longer guarantee widely shared prosperity. ''Digital technologies are different in that they allow people with skills to replicate their talents to serve billions,'' Mr. Brynjolfsson said. ''There is really a drastic winner-take-all effect because every industry is becoming like the software industry.''
Classical economic theory isn't entirely wrong. The danger isn't -- as it was easy to fear during the depths of the financial crisis -- structural unemployment. The problem is what kind of jobs, at what kind of salaries, the shiny new technologically powered economy of the future will generate.
Lawrence H. Summers, the Harvard professor and former U.S. secretary of the Treasury, has a vivid way of describing the dystopian possibility. ''As economists like to explain, the system will equilibrate at full employment,'' Mr. Summers said in a public interview at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, last month. ''But maybe the way it will equilibrate at full employment is there'll be specialists at cleaning the shallow end and the deep end of rich people's swimming pools. And that's a problematic way for society to function.''
This is a personal problem -- who wants to prepare their children for a life of deep- and shallow-end cleaning? It is also a political one. As Mr. Brynjolfsson points out, the technology revolution also has winners. The share they reap from the increase in productivity is greater than ever, and they might quite like a world of specialists in various depths of pool cleaning.
Chrystia Freeland is editor of Thomson Reuters Digital.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); LIVING STANDARDS (71%); PRODUCTIVITY (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); VENTURE CAPITAL (51%); FOOD PRICES (50%)

COMPANY: KLEINER PERKINS CAUFIELD & BYERS (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (82%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (82%)

PERSON: AL GORE (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2013



792 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: To Move Wright House to Italy, All It Takes Is a Buyer

BYLINE: By RICHARD HOLLEDGE

 BODY:
Paolo Bulletti has a dream. The Italian architect wants to transport a house built by the distinguished U.S. architect Frank Lloyd Wright from its current site in New Jersey to the hills of Fiesole, near Florence.
His ''mission impossible,'' as his wife, Valeria, has dubbed it, was hatched three years ago when he organized an exhibition in Fiesole to celebrate not just the centenary of Wright's birth but also Wright's emotional connection to the area.
Wright lived in the Italian hill town in 1910, after fleeing the United States with his mistress, Mamah Borthwick Cheney, to avoid the scandal surrounding their affair. 
Lawrence and Sharon Tarantino, who now own the Wright house in Millstone, New Jersey, heard of the exhibition thanks to press and Internet coverage. They contacted Mr. Bulletti, suggesting that he buy their home and move it to Italy.
''At first I thought the idea was silly, but it was such a cultural challenge that we decided to get together,'' Mr. Bulletti recalled. ''We obviously met in Fiesole and had a lunch under the trees of the piazza. It was summer and immediately we found a lot of mutual interests and shared the same visions. We walked up the hill to the house where Wright spent his time in Fiesole and discussed all the details.''
The Tarantinos, who have an architecture firm in New Jersey, have signed an exclusive agreement identifying Mr. Bulletti as the Italian agent ''to research buyers for the relocation of their property.'' As is common with Wright houses, the furnishings would be included.
The residence, known as the Bachman Wilson House, was designed in 1954 for Abraham Wilson and his first wife, Gloria Bachman. It is an example of Wright's ''Usonian'' style, which aimed to produce moderately priced homes.
The house would be a striking addition to the olive groves and terra cotta roofs of Fiesole. Built of concrete blocks with mahogany trim, it has low, rectilinear lines and one windowless wall that is a sharp contrast to the floor-to-ceiling windows opposite.
When the Tarantinos bought the property in 1988, it was in poor condition and required a substantial renovation. They had to line up buckets to catch the leaks, a common problem with Wright's flat roofs, and scrape off the thick paint that had been applied over the original elegant fittings of Philippine mahogany.
More recently, the house has been threatened by the nearby Millstone River. ''The flooding has become worse over the past few years, and we realized that the only alternative to save the house was to move it,'' Mrs. Tarantino said. ''We are pursuing various options, but Italy attracts us the most. My husband and I studied in Genoa 40 years ago, so it is the romantic solution.
''We are optimistic that it will happen,'' she added.
But what are the chances of raising enough money?
''The cost would be $1.5 million,'' said Mr. Bulletti, who is a professor at Texas A&M University's College of Architecture program in Castiglion Fiorentino, south of Florence. ''That includes the dismantling and shipping in containers to the port of Genoa. We don't know how much it will cost to rebuild until we know if we have companies that might be interested in sponsoring the rebuilding.''
Although Mr. Bulletti has yet to find a site, he insists that the mayors of Florence and Fiesole would be more than happy to have the house. ''They are waiting to hear from us for evidence of interest in the purchasing by institutions and private individuals,'' he said. ''We have been contacted by businessmen and art lovers and are currently following up with these people.''
Mr. Bulletti said the house could not be used as a residence in Fiesole, because it did not meet current planning regulations. ''But it can be erected in protected land, a park or a garden as if it were a sculpture,'' he continued.
Everyone acknowledges that the timing is poor. The economic situation in Italy means public and private funds are in short supply and, with the general election campaign under way, no mayor would lend his name to such an extravagant project.
Nonetheless, Fulvio Irace, a professor of history at Milan Polytechnic, thinks that public institutions in Florence or Fiesole or even Venice should consider buying the house.
''The villa -- after surviving the separation of spouses and a continuous exchange of owners -- is now in danger,'' he wrote last June in the financial newspaper Il Sole 24 Ore. ''If in times of crisis, we can launch a crazy idea, why doesn't a public authority such as the Venice Biennale buy the house to rebuild it as a pavilion in the Giardini,'' referring to the park where the Biennale is staged.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); HOME PRICES (73%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) ITALY (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2013



793 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 567 words

HEADLINE: Visas Are Urged for Lower-Skilled Work

BYLINE: By ASHLEY PARKER; Steven Greenhouse contributed reporting from New York.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- In an effort to avert the bitter and public feuding between business and labor organizations that helped kill a broad immigration overhaul in 2007, representatives of the two groups released a statement on Thursday outlining shared goals designed to show that at least for now, they could reach a basic level of compromise.
In the statement, signed by Thomas J. Donohue, president of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, and Richard L. Trumka, president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., the groups called for a visa system that would let businesses meet their demand for lower-skilled workers, while offering protections for American workers. 
The statement called for the creation of a government bureau that would use ''real-world data about labor markets and demographics'' to fashion a guest worker program -- an idea that the Chamber had until recently opposed. The statement also described ''a new kind of worker visa program that does not keep all workers in a permanent temporary status'' -- language that seems to imply, at least generally, the possibility of a pathway to legalization or even citizenship for some guest workers.
The groups articulated three general goals: the assurance that American workers would have ''a first crack at available jobs''; a new visa program for lower-skilled workers that would be adjusted to reflect the changing needs of businesses as the economy shrinks and expands; and greater transparency in determining the market need for temporary workers.
Traditionally, labor unions have rejected the idea of a guest worker program for lower-skilled workers, which they fear could take jobs away from American workers and depress wages. Business leaders have lobbied for a guest worker program, arguing that they need low-skilled labor for jobs -- in agriculture, for instance -- that American workers cannot or will not do. (A leaked draft of the president's immigration proposal said nothing about a guest worker program, perhaps a tacit acknowledgment that the White House was looking to labor and business leaders to forge their own agreement on the issue.)
The principles outlined on Thursday -- the product of months of negotiations between the groups -- required compromise from both sides. Labor unions, acknowledging that ''there are instances -- even during tough economic times -- when employers are not able to fill job openings with American workers,'' agreed that there may be a need for a new type of guest worker program. In return, the unions insisted that American workers get a first shot at open jobs, and they secured an agreement that the number of incoming lower-skilled workers would be set based on need.
But even as there appears to be a growing consensus on some issues, a full-scale immigration overhaul remains a far-off prospect. This week, Representative Robert W. Goodlatte, Republican of Virginia and the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, came out against a pathway to citizenship for illegal immigrants -- a crucial component for Democrats for any immigration plan.
''People have a pathway to citizenship right now: It's to abide by the immigration laws, and if they have a family relationship, if they have a job skill that allows them to do that, they can obtain citizenship,'' Mr. Goodlatte told NPR. ''But simply someone who broke the law, came here, say, 'I'll give you citizenship now,' that I don't think is going to happen.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Robert W. Goodlatte 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN LABOR (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT VISAS (78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (78%); LOBBYING (77%); WORKFORCE DEMAND (76%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (57%); AFL-CIO (57%)

PERSON: BOB GOODLATTE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2013



794 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1303 words

HEADLINE: $82 Million Fraud Was Staged With Bad Checks, U.S. Asserts

BYLINE: By SAM DOLNICK; Ismail Khan contributed reporting from Peshawar, Pakistan, and Jack Styczynski contributed research.

 BODY:
Saquib Khan, the deli king of Staten Island, was in trouble.
Hurricane Sandy had devastated his businesses, leaving him unable to pay his bills. His mob ties had been exposed in federal court. His financial maneuvering had just come under scrutiny by auditors.
Mr. Khan saw one way out, federal prosecutors said: He wrote hundreds of checks to himself, then raced across the city from bank to bank to deposit them in accounts under his name or those of his businesses.
In all, the prosecutors said, the checks totaled $82 million.
It was one of the largest check-fraud schemes anywhere in the country in recent years, according to the complaint against Mr. Khan and interviews with fraud experts -- a brazen example of a crime that has been on the rise since the recession hit. 
This is an era in which thieves steal millions with the click of a mouse. But Mr. Khan is accused of carrying out a low-tech fraud that has unexpectedly exposed holes in the security of the banking system. He took advantage of the willingness of banks to allow some customers to overdraw their accounts temporarily, prosecutors said.
The criminal complaint also sheds light on Mr. Khan, one of those extraordinary characters nurtured by the city, an immigrant whose life of operatic twists has wound through tribal Pakistan, Staten Island strip malls, fund-raisers for Hillary Rodham Clinton and underground gambling halls.
The banks have recovered most of the $82 million, officials said. More than $11 million of the money that Mr. Khan withdrew is now frozen in an account to be distributed to the banks to help repay their losses, his lawyer said.
It appears he spent at least $2 million of the money before he was arrested on Dec. 13, according to interviews and the criminal complaint.
Mr. Khan, who declined to be interviewed, is free on $500,000 bail and trying to arrange a plea bargain with prosecutors, according to court records. His lawyer said that Mr. Khan was only trying to save his business, and that he was working hard to pay back the banks.
But even experts were taken aback by the accusations.
''It blows my mind,'' said Frank Abagnale, the celebrated con man who inspired the Steven Spielberg movie ''Catch Me if You Can'' and now works as a fraud-detection consultant.
''That's way, way out there,'' Mr. Abagnale said.
Mr. Khan, 51, comes from a prominent family in Pakistan -- relatives said he was a favorite nephew of Bashir Ahmad Bilour, a well-known politician who spoke out against the Taliban. Mr. Bilour was killed in a suicide attack in late December.
Trained as a doctor, Mr. Khan came to the United States in the 1980s, but ended up working with his sister and her husband, who owned some two dozen delis across Staten Island.
From there, Mr. Khan set out on his own, building up Richmond Wholesale Company, a cigarette and grocery business that recorded $125 million in sales last year, according to Dun & Bradstreet, a financial information provider. Richmond Wholesale supplies products to delis and gas stations across the New York region. Mr. Khan also owns three delis.
Mr. Khan, until recently the chairman of the board of a prominent Staten Island mosque, was known in the borough's close-knit Pakistani community as a flashy businessman. He once had a mansion in the Todt Hill neighborhood and drove a Mercedes with a license plate that read ''SKHAN.''
He was also a generous supporter of politicians of both major parties, giving more than $65,000 to more than 40 campaigns in the last decade, including those of Mrs. Clinton, former Representative Anthony D. Weiner, former Gov. Eliot Spitzer and former Gov. George E. Pataki.
His friends said that while he reveled in his achievements, he was also a hardworking entrepreneur who built a life for himself deli by deli.
''I'd rather be working in my store,'' he said in 2010. ''I'd rather be doing my daily business.''
That comment, though, hinted at the dark side of his success. He made it while testifying at a mob trial.
As he rose in the business community on Staten Island, he developed a close relationship with a soldier in the Genovese crime family, John Giglio, also known as Johnny Bull or Fat John, according to the court testimony.
Mr. Khan testified that he had used that connection to pressure at least one reluctant deli owner to sell his business to him.
Through Mr. Giglio, Mr. Khan said he met other high-ranking organized crime figures in gambling halls, though he was never charged in connection with these relationships. (Mr. Khan's testimony came at the trial of Anthony Antico, who was convicted of racketeering.)
Prosecutors who put together the recent criminal complaint against Mr. Khan said his fraud was an outsized version of a familiar swindle -- check kiting -- in which the thief takes advantage of the time it takes for banks to clear checks.
The thief deposits inflated checks and then quickly transfers the money to another account before the checks bounce.
Hurricane Sandy hit Staten Island particularly hard, leaving Mr. Khan desperate to recoup business lost during power failures and worse, his lawyer, Sharon L. McCarthy, said.
''All he was trying to do was run his business and pay his employees,'' Ms. McCarthy said. ''He did not intend to hurt any of these financial institutions.''
The transfers and withdrawals are complicated, but suggested a simple plan: he deposited worthless checks and withdrew real money -- tens of millions worth, according to the criminal complaint.
Over two weeks in November, he wrote hundreds of checks to himself, more than a dozen a day, drawing from accounts at about six banks, the complaint said.
The pattern of precise amounts -- $886,841, then $874,532, then $461,232 -- was an indication of fraud, experts said.
The pace grew increasingly frantic. He deposited $49 million worth of checks into accounts at Capital One, a mix of legitimate ones from vendors and fraudulent ones written to himself, according to court records and interviews.
The bank made those funds available without waiting for the checks to clear. That turned his fictions into millions, allowing Mr. Khan to transfer $42 million into accounts at other banks, according to a lawsuit that Capital One filed against Mr. Khan's company.
He then withdrew and transferred more money to other accounts as the fake checks kept piling up. He wrote checks worth $82 million that did not ''appear to have had any legitimate purpose other than to support the 'check kiting' scheme,'' the criminal complaint said.
Ms. McCarthy called the $82 million figure ''an artificial number'' that represented the amount of overdrafts, but not the banks' total loss.
Soon, auditors at some of the banks -- including Capital One, M & T Bank and Flushing Savings Bank -- realized what was going on.
Ms. McCarthy said Mr. Khan blew the whistle on himself, alerting the banks that he had withdrawn far more than was in his accounts and planned to pay it back.
The banks declined to comment, and several civil lawsuits against Mr. Khan are pending.
His friends on Staten Island said they were shocked by the accusations, and described him as a humble man who was always on the job.
''If you had called him when he was doing cigarette wholesale, he would arrive there at 5 a.m. and be there until 8 p.m.,'' one of them, Suhail Muzaffar, said.
Mr. Khan's arrest has also caused turmoil at the mosque where he was chairman, Muslim Majlis of Staten Island. He resigned late last month.
He was once well respected there. Now, mosque leaders are sharply divided in their feelings toward him. A founder of the mosque recently resigned from its board after 33 years because of the taint of the Khan case.
For now, Mr. Khan is working to stave off the charges and pay back the banks any way he can, including selling his business -- the final twist in the deli king's fall.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Saquib Khan, in 2000, is a Staten Island entrepreneur. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STATEN ISLAND ADVANCE) (A1)
 Mignosi's Supermarket on Rossville Avenue on Staten Island is among Saquib Khan's stores. He also owns a deli supplier. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL KIRBY SMITH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); LITIGATION (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); INTERVIEWS (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); LAWYERS (77%); HURRICANE SANDY (73%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (72%); ARRESTS (72%); BAIL (72%); FUNDRAISING (71%); TALIBAN (70%); RECESSION (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); GAMING (65%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (60%); RETAILERS (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (68%); STEVEN SPIELBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PAKISTAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2013



795 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 805 words

HEADLINE: Sequester Of Fools

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
They're baaack! Just about two years ago, Erskine Bowles and Alan Simpson, the co-chairmen of the late unlamented debt commission, warned us to expect a terrible fiscal crisis within, um, two years unless we adopted their plan. The crisis hasn't materialized, but they're nonetheless back with a new version. And, in case you're interested, after last year's election -- in which American voters made it clear that they want to preserve the social safety net while raising taxes on the rich -- the famous fomenters of fiscal fear have moved to the right, calling for even less revenue and even more spending cuts.
But you aren't interested, are you? Almost nobody is. Messrs. Bowles and Simpson had their moment -- the annus horribilis of 2011, when Washington was in thrall to deficit scolds insisting that, in the face of record-high long-term unemployment and record-low borrowing costs, we forget about jobs and concentrate exclusively on a ''grand bargain'' that would supposedly (not actually) settle budget disputes for ever after. 
That moment has now passed; even Mr. Bowles concedes that the search for a grand bargain is on ''life support.'' Let's convene a death panel! But the legacy of that year of living foolishly lives on, in the form of the ''sequester,'' one of the worst policy ideas in our nation's history.
Here's how it happened: Republicans engaged in unprecedented hostage-taking, threatening to push America into default by refusing to raise the debt ceiling unless President Obama agreed to a grand bargain on their terms. Mr. Obama, alas, didn't stand firm; instead, he tried to buy time. And, somehow, both sides decided that the way to buy time was to create a fiscal doomsday machine that would inflict gratuitous damage on the nation through spending cuts unless a grand bargain was reached. Sure enough, there is no bargain, and the doomsday machine will go off at the end of next week.
There's a silly debate under way about who bears responsibility for the sequester, which almost everyone now agrees was a really bad idea. The truth is that Republicans and Democrats alike signed on to this idea. But that's water under the bridge. The question we should be asking is who has a better plan for dealing with the aftermath of that shared mistake.
The right policy would be to forget about the whole thing. America doesn't face a deficit crisis, nor will it face such a crisis anytime soon. Meanwhile, we have a weak economy that is recovering far too slowly from the recession that began in 2007. And, as Janet Yellen, the vice chairwoman of the Federal Reserve, recently emphasized, one main reason for the sluggish recovery is that government spending has been far weaker in this business cycle than in the past. We should be spending more, not less, until we're close to full employment; the sequester is exactly what the doctor didn't order.
Unfortunately, neither party is proposing that we just call the whole thing off. But the proposal from Senate Democrats at least moves in the right direction, replacing the most destructive spending cuts -- those that fall on the most vulnerable members of our society -- with tax increases on the wealthy, and delaying austerity in a way that would protect the economy.
House Republicans, on the other hand, want to take everything that's bad about the sequester and make it worse: canceling cuts in the defense budget, which actually does contain a lot of waste and fraud, and replacing them with severe cuts in aid to America's neediest. This would hit the nation with a double whammy, reducing growth while increasing injustice.
As always, many pundits want to portray the deadlock over the sequester as a situation in which both sides are at fault, and in which both should give ground. But there's really no symmetry here. A middle-of-the-road solution would presumably involve a mix of spending cuts and tax increases; well, that's what Democrats are proposing, while Republicans are adamant that it should be cuts only. And given that the proposed Republican cuts would be even worse than those set to happen under the sequester, it's hard to see why Democrats should negotiate at all, as opposed to just letting the sequester happen.
So here we go. The good news is that compared with our last two self-inflicted crises, the sequester is relatively small potatoes. A failure to raise the debt ceiling would have threatened chaos in world financial markets; failure to reach a deal on the so-called fiscal cliff would have led to so much sudden austerity that we might well have plunged back into recession. The sequester, by contrast, will probably cost ''only'' around 700,000 jobs.
But the looming mess remains a monument to the power of truly bad ideas -- ideas that the entire Washington establishment was somehow convinced represented deep wisdom.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); DEBT CEILING (78%); RECESSION (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); HISTORY (73%); HOSTAGE TAKING (72%); VOTERS & VOTING (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); US PRESIDENTS (63%)

PERSON: ERSKINE BOWLES (89%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2013



796 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 542 words

HEADLINE: Markets, Uneasy Over Weak Reports, Fall Again

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Wall Street lost ground for a second day on Thursday after weak economic reports, reflecting continued investor concern about the Federal Reserve's resolve to keep bolstering the economy.
Signaling that the labor market remains in a slow recovery, the government said more people applied for unemployment benefits last week. The four-week average, a less volatile measure, rose to the highest in six weeks.
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 46.92 points, or 0.3 percent, to close at 13,880.62. 
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropped 9.53 points, or 0.6 percent, to 1,502.42, setting it on a path for its first weekly loss of the year. The Nasdaq composite index lost 32.92 points, or 1 percent, to 3,131.49.
The stock market indexes have climbed this year to the highest levels since the financial crisis, but Wall Street may be ready to retreat, said Kim Caughey Forrest, senior analyst with Fort Pitt Capital Group, a portfolio management firm.
''I think the market has gotten ahead of itself,'' she said. She said fourth-quarter earnings had generally met expectations, but only after those expectations were reduced because of dire projections companies made in November and December.
Wal-Mart Stores rose $1.05, or 1.5 percent, to $70.26 after beating analysts' profit forecasts in the fourth quarter. However, the company, the nation's largest retailer, warned of a slow start to the year.
After a strong start to the holiday season, Wal-Mart Stores said, the first three weeks of December were weak, and business has been volatile since then. The company attributed some of the weakness to a delay in tax refund checks that have left people short of cash. Walmart customers also have less money to spend because a temporary payroll tax cut expired in December.
''Everybody's gotten a 2 percent pay cut, and people who file their taxes early are not getting a refund back in a timely manner,'' Ms. Forrest said.
The Safeway supermarket chain was the biggest gainer in the S.& P. 500, rising $2.84, or 14.1 percent, to $22.97, after it said its net income jumped 13 percent in the fourth quarter, helped by higher gift and prepaid card revenue.
Tesla Motors plunged a day after reporting that its fourth-quarter net loss grew 10 percent on costs related to production of its new Model S electric car. The stock fell $3.38, or 8.8 percent, to $35.16.
Earlier, Asian and European stocks had closed sharply lower. The sell-off began Wednesday afternoon in New York after minutes from the Fed's latest meeting were released. The account showed that some policy makers want to wind down bond purchases and other measures aimed at bolstering the economy.
The account also revealed new divisions over the Fed's low-interest rate policies. There is no sign of inflation, yet there was more evidence that some Fed officials are ready to ease off the stimulus programs before the economy has fully recovered.
''Thinking maybe interest rates will creep higher, this is a very chilling scenario'' for the market, Ms. Forrest said.
Interest rates, however, slipped on Thursday as demand increased for safer assets than stocks. The price of the Treasury's 10-year note rose 11/32, to 100 88/32, while its yield fell to 1.97 percent from 2.01 percent late Wednesday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BONDS (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (74%); COMPANY LOSSES (74%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (73%); INCOME TAX (71%); RETAILERS (70%); TAX LAW (63%); CORPORATE TAX (62%); MOTOR VEHICLES (60%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (57%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (50%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (50%)

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (68%); TESLA MOTORS INC (51%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (68%); TSLA (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (68%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (68%); NAICS336350 MOTOR VEHICLE TRANSMISSION & POWER TRAIN PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2013



797 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1161 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Governors Providing a Lift For Health Law

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH and ROBERT PEAR

 BODY:
Under pressure from the health care industry and consumer advocates, seven Republican governors are cautiously moving to expand Medicaid, giving an unexpected boost to President Obama's plan to insure some 30 million more Americans.
The Supreme Court ruled last year that expanding Medicaid to include many more low-income people was an option under the new federal health care law, not a requirement, tossing the decision to the states and touching off battles in many capitols.
The federal government will pay the entire cost of covering newly eligible beneficiaries from 2014 to 2016, and 90 percent or more later. But many Republican governors and lawmakers immediately questioned whether that commitment would last, and whether increased spending on Medicaid makes sense, given the size of the federal budget deficit. Some flatly declared they would not consider it.
In Florida, where Gov. Rick Scott reversed his position and on Wednesday announced his support for expanding Medicaid, proponents say that doing so will not only save lives, but also create jobs and stimulate the economy. Similar arguments have swayed the Republican governors of Arizona, Michigan, Nevada, New Mexico, North Dakota and Ohio, who in recent months have announced their intention to expand Medicaid. 
The shift has delighted supporters of the law.
''I think this means the dominoes are falling,'' said Ronald F. Pollack, the executive director of Families USA, a consumer group. ''The message is, 'Even though I may not have supported and even strongly opposed the Affordable Care Act, it would be harmful to the citizens of my state if I didn't opt into taking these very substantial federal dollars to help people who truly need it.' ''
Nationwide, Medicaid covers 60 million people, most of them low-income or disabled. The Congressional Budget Office has estimated that 17 million more people could be enrolled if all states took the expansion option. So far, 22 states have said they will expand the program, 17 have opted against it, and 11 have not yet decided, according to Avalere Health, a consulting firm.
Some Republican governors remain firmly opposed to the expansion of Medicaid. In her State of the State address, Gov. Nikki R. Haley said, ''As long as I am governor, South Carolina will not implement the public policy disaster that is Obamacare's Medicaid expansion.''
Gov. Rick Perry affirmed that ''Texas will not expand Medicaid'' and said he was proud that Texas did not follow other states ''scrambling to grab every tax dollar they can.''
The change of heart for some Republican governors has come after vigorous lobbying by health industry players, particularly hospitals. Hospital associations around the country signed off on Medicaid cuts under the health care law on the assumption that their losses would be more than offset by new paying customers, including many insured by Medicaid.
Politics could also be a factor in states where Republican governors have decided to expand Medicaid. Mr. Obama won all of those states except Arizona and North Dakota in last year's election, a fact that may have influenced several of the governors' decisions. Some of the seven are also up for re-election next year.
Religious leaders have added a moral dimension to the campaign in some states. The Roman Catholic bishops of Salt Lake City and Little Rock, Ark., for example, have urged state officials to expand Medicaid.
The Obama administration has tried to win over skeptical state officials by offering new flexibility to manage Medicaid as they like. On the same day that he agreed to expand Medicaid in Florida, Mr. Scott got federal permission to move more Medicaid beneficiaries into private managed care plans.
Mr. Scott's support for expanding Medicaid is particularly significant -- Florida is the fourth most populous state -- and surprising. A onetime hospital executive, he has been among the most strident critics of the health care law, and his opposition to it was a cornerstone of his 2010 campaign for governor.
The battle is not over, however. In Florida, as in many other states, expansion is subject to approval by the Legislature, whose Republican leaders have expressed misgivings. The legislative session begins next month, and advocates say they plan to press ahead with a lobbying campaign.
Leah Barber-Heinz, a spokeswoman for Florida Chain, a health advocacy group, said it was trying to inform lawmakers and the public about who would benefit from an expansion of Medicaid. More than one-fifth of Florida residents, roughly 4 million of 19 million people, lack health insurance.
''There are so many misperceptions about the uninsured,'' Ms. Barber-Heinz said. ''So we're trying to show faces of who would be impacted: people who have been hit by the recession, people who have been laid off, educated people, people who own homes.''
Jeanie Vincent of Hawthorne, Fla., who has been uninsured since she lost her job teaching middle school in 2010, would probably be eligible for Medicaid if the state expanded its program. Ms. Vincent, 61, fell behind on her mortgage after she got emergency retinal surgery in 2011 and owed $2,000. She owes an additional $3,000 for a knee surgery, which she is paying off at the rate of $10 per month.
Qualifying for Medicaid would provide peace of mind, she said.
''It would be amazing because I wouldn't have to worry,'' she said. ''What happens if I fall and break something or if I have a heart attack?''
Every few days, state hospital associations and advocates for poor people issue reports asserting that the economic benefits of expanding Medicaid would outweigh the costs. In recent weeks, such reports have been issued in Idaho, Indiana, Mississippi, Missouri, Texas, Virginia and Wisconsin. The existence of such a report was a decisive factor in Ohio, where Gov. John R. Kasich decided to embrace an expansion after months of lobbying by coalitions of churches, hospitals, business groups and others.
Publication of that study -- by Ohio State University, the Health Policy Institute of Ohio, the Urban Institute and Regional Economic Models -- was ''a major watershed moment,'' said Ari Lipman, lead organizer of Greater Cleveland Congregations and chairman of the Northeast Ohio Medicaid Expansion Coalition.
The study, Mr. Lipman said, helped proponents reframe the expansion of Medicaid as something that would help the state budget and the state economy while providing health insurance to more than 455,000 people by 2022.
Gov. Jan Brewer of Arizona, a Republican, noted an even more striking anomaly last month when she recommended expanding Medicaid. If a state does not expand Medicaid, some United States citizens will be unable to obtain health insurance, but some legal immigrants with the same income in the same state could get it.
''For poor Arizonans below 100 percent of the federal poverty level,'' Ms. Brewer said, ''only legal immigrants, but not citizens, would be eligible for subsidies.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jeanie Vincent of Hawthorne, Fla., uninsured since 2010, said that if she qualified for Medicaid ''I wouldn't have to worry.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARAH BETH GLICKSTEEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14) GRAPHIC: States Planning to Expand Medicaid: The Supreme Court ruled last year that the expansion of Medicaid was an option for states under the health care law, not a requirement. Democratic governors have generally been more eager to take the option. But seven Republican governors have announced that they want to expand Medicaid. (Sources: Avalere Health) (A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (92%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); MEDICAID (90%); HEALTH CARE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HOSPITALS (78%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); SUPREME COURTS (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (75%); BUDGET DEFICITS (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (61%); JOB CREATION (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); NIKKI HALEY (58%); RICK SCOTT (58%); RICK PERRY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2013



798 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1265 words

HEADLINE: A Tax That May Change The Trading Game

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and the economy at nytimes.com/economix.

 BODY:
To the dismay of the United States government -- not to mention Wall Street -- much of Europe seems poised to begin taxing financial trading as soon as next year.
The idea is hardly new, but until now financial markets and institutions have been able to ward off any such tax in most major markets. The financiers claimed a tax would hurt economic growth and raise the cost of capital for companies. They said it would drive trading to other countries, leaving the country that adopted it with less revenue and fewer jobs.
But those arguments have not proved persuasive in Europe, which thinks it has found a way to keep institutions from avoiding the tax.
If Europe proves to be correct, it could turn out to be a seminal moment in the relation of governments to large financial institutions. 
The tax would be tiny for investors who buy and hold, but could prove to be significant for traders who place millions of orders a day.
Under the proposal, a trade of shares worth 10,000 euros would face a tax of one-tenth of 1 percent, or 10 euros. A trade of a derivative would face a tax of one-hundredth of 1 percent. But that tax would be applied to the notional value, which can be very large relative to the cost of the derivative. So a credit-default swap on 1 million euros of debt would have a tax of 100 euros, or about 0.4 percent of the annual premium on such a swap.
I'll get to how Europe thinks it can prevent widespread evasion in a minute. But for now, assume the Europeans could accomplish that. And assume, as European officials say they hope will happen, that the tax spreads to other major markets, something Europe is trying to encourage by offering to share the tax revenue with other countries that impose a similar tax.
What would happen?
It would not destroy markets that have good reason to exist -- that is, markets that serve actual investors. The tax would be far smaller than the fixed commissions that American investors once took for granted, and even less than the costs implicit in the fact that until decimalization arrived in 2001, that most stocks could move only in increments of one-eighth of a dollar, or 12.5 cents. Markets, and the American economy, managed to prosper.
But there would nevertheless be significant changes -- changes that might be for the better in some ways. High-frequency trading, which was encouraged by allowing prices to move in increments of a penny or less, and by technological advances, would be discouraged. So too would be some of the strategies used by hedge funds that involve trades expected to yield very narrow -- but presumably very safe -- profits. To make such trades worth doing, funds borrow a lot of money and make the trades using very little equity. That is a strategy that is guaranteed to work -- or to blow up disastrously if markets do not act as expected. Discouraging it might be a good thing.
One objective, says Algirdas Semeta, the European Union commissioner in charge of tax policy, ''is to reorient the financial system back to financing the real economy.''
But can Europe pull it off? Will trading simply migrate to other jurisdictions, such as the United States and Britain, which want nothing to do with the tax? Europeans seem confident. The tax would be owed no matter where the trade took place, as long as a European security or European institution was involved. The law has been written so broadly that if a French bank bought shares in an American company on the New York Stock Exchange, the tax would be owed.
Manfred Bergmann, the European Commission director for indirect taxation and tax administration and a primary designer of the tax plan, calls it a ''Triple A approach -- all markets, all actors and all products.''
To get out of the tax, a financial institution would have to do more than simply move its headquarters out of the 11 countries that now plan to impose the tax. It would also have to forgo serving clients in any of those countries and trading in securities or derivatives from any of the countries. Officials are confident that no major institution will be willing to forsake such large markets as France, Germany, Italy and Spain.
The other countries that have at least preliminarily agreed to impose the tax are Belgium, Austria, Greece, Portugal, Slovakia, Slovenia and Estonia.
The scope of the tax is very broad. The proposal has exceptions for currency trading and the physical trading of commodities, but not for derivatives like currency or commodity futures contracts. When a company sold newly issued securities to investors, that transaction would not be taxed, but subsequent market trades would be. Over-the-counter trades would be subject to tax just as would transactions on a stock exchange, as long as a financial institution -- a term that is also defined very broadly -- was involved. You could sell your shares in Daimler to a friend without paying tax, but not if you got a broker involved.
There is every chance that markets from other countries will not be very cooperative, meaning that to learn if a German bank traded in New York the authorities might have to rely on the bank to report it to them. But then there would be the risk that the tax authorities would learn of it otherwise, perhaps through an audit or from a report by an Italian bank that happened to be on the other side of that trade.
Mr. Bergmann, himself an economist, compared that to ''the prisoners' dilemma,'' a classic concept in economics in which two people arrested for a crime would do best if neither confessed, but either would do very badly if he did not confess while the other did. If the authorities did find out, it would be tax fraud under the proposed law.
The tax would be split, in normal circumstances, between the countries whose institutions were involved. In that German trade with an Italian institution, the two countries would share. But if one of the countries had no such tax, all the money would go to the other government.
Some in Europe hope that the lure of that cash might eventually tempt Americans. Europe thinks it can bring in 31 billion euros -- about $41 billion at current exchange rates -- from the tax. The United States presumably could collect more if it adopted a similar tax, including some of the money that will now go to European countries.
Legislation such as this probably would have gone nowhere before the financial crisis. The fact this now seems to be on the verge of enactment, perhaps to go into effect as soon as next year, reflects the widespread scorn for, and anger at, banks. Allocating capital is a major -- perhaps the most important -- job of a financial system, and the banks failed spectacularly at that. Money went to mortgage loans for properties that never should have been built and that were ''sold'' to people who could not afford them.
Now the European Commission says it is time to ensure that ''financial institutions make a fair and substantial contribution to covering the costs of the crisis.'' A secondary benefit is said to be ''creating appropriate disincentives for transactions that do not enhance the efficiency of financial markets, thereby complementing regulatory measures to avoid future crises.''
Will it work? It appears that Europe is going to find out. Perhaps it will turn out that the dire warnings of disaster that have come from banks, who say such a tax will make capital more expensive for companies that need it and damage already stumbling economies, will prove to be no more accurate than the financial models those same banks used to justify the lending orgy that went so spectacularly wrong.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Algirdas Semeta of the European Commission said a tax could help reorient the financial system. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JULIEN WARNAND/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (66%); HEDGE FUNDS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (97%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2013



799 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; WHITE HOUSE MEMO; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 962 words

HEADLINE: For Obama and Team, Calm, Not Crisis, in Latest Fiscal Battle

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY and JONATHAN WEISMAN; Megan Thee-Brenan contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama is just seven days away from the first significant test of his second term as deep spending cuts loom, yet inside the White House a clear sense of confidence stands in contrast to the air of crisis that surrounded previous fiscal showdowns with Republicans.
The confrontation holds peril for both the president and Republicans. But for now, Mr. Obama believes he is acting from a greater position of strength, advisers say, pointing to several recent polls that show he holds an upper hand in the budget debate. Yet his standing would be at risk if the so-called sequester caused economic growth to collapse. 
With little sign of movement as the March 1 deadline approaches, the president placed calls on Thursday to Speaker John A. Boehner and Senator Mitch McConnell, the Republican leader, in an outreach that Republicans interpreted as aimed as much at fending off criticism for not reaching out sooner to Congressional leaders as trying to open a new dialogue.
The calls came as the White House pursued a balancing act: use the power of the presidency to demonstrate the consequences of the $85 billion in across-the-board spending reductions while not allowing the fight to consume the administration and derail its second-term priorities.
As a result, the sense of urgency from earlier budget fights, which included all-night meetings and dueling news conferences at the White House and on Capitol Hill, have given way to more of a business-as-usual feeling in the West Wing. The budget debate is taking place alongside immigration and gun control discussions, rather than overtaking them.
It is a lesson, the president told his aides this week, drawn from the experience of back-to-back fights in 2011 over shutting down the government and raising the nation's borrowing power. He has repeatedly personalized the argument and taken it outside Washington, including a trip on Tuesday to Newport News, Va., where the strong military presence will be affected if deep budget cuts are enacted.
The standoff with Republicans may not be a new one, but it is fundamentally different from the previous clashes that have ended with Obama victories. Several of Mr. Obama's advisers who helped guide the administration through the previous fights are no longer at the White House.
The second-term team, led by the new chief of staff, Denis R. McDonough, is confronting its biggest challenge yet. While Mr. McDonough was in the West Wing for past budget battles, his portfolio was national security.
Other advisers dealing with the sequester are also new, including Miguel Rodriguez, the top liaison to Congress, who was meeting aides to Congressional Republicans for the first time on Thursday. The positions of both sides seem to have hardened in recent weeks, rather than moved toward a compromise.
A new poll released Thursday suggests that after the last few years of repeated financial crises and wrangling between Congressional Republicans and the president, Americans may be increasingly inured to threats of economic doomsday.
The poll, by Pew Research Center/USA Today, found that 49 percent say the automatic cuts should be delayed if no deal is struck by the deadline, but a full 40 percent say it would be preferable to let the cuts go into effect. Even one-third of Democrats back letting the cuts take effect; Republicans and independents are evenly split on the issue.
The public is not paying much attention to the issue, as a plurality of Americans say they have heard ''a little'' about the sequester, the poll found, and about 3 in 10 say they have heard nothing at all. But the public continues to support a mix of tax increases and spending cuts to reduce the deficit, with 7 in 10, including wide majorities across party lines, agreeing it is essential for the president to enact major deficit legislation this year.
The nationwide telephone survey was conducted on landlines and cellphones Feb. 13-18 with 1,504 adults. The margin of sampling error is plus or minus three percentage points.
In 2011, the president and Democrats were able to rally overwhelming public support for an extension of an expiring cut to the payroll tax -- and against the Republican position that such an extension had to be paid for by spending cuts. But in that case, doing nothing was intolerable to most Republicans because it meant raising taxes.
That was even truer in December in the showdown over the ''fiscal cliff,'' when every tax cut signed by President George W. Bush was set to expire. Republicans wanted to stop taxes from rising on anyone, but by refusing to let taxes rise on the wealthy, they would effectively allow taxes to rise on everyone. Again, inaction was unacceptable.
This time, Mr. Obama needs Republicans to affirmatively take action to raise taxes when inaction, to many members of Congress, is entirely preferable.
By allowing the across-the-board cuts to go into force, Republicans would be showing their voters they had done something tangible -- and painful -- to scale back the government, the primary reason that many Republicans ran for office. Federal spending subject to Congress's annual discretion will drop to levels not seen since the 1950s, as measured against the size of the economy.
Yet if Mr. Boehner met Mr. Obama's demands, he would be breaking promises he made to ardent conservatives in the House Republican Conference.
''At this point, we continue to reach out to the Republicans and say this is not going to be good for the economy, and it's not going to be good for ordinary people,'' Mr. Obama said Thursday in one of three radio interviews he gave from the Oval Office. ''But I don't know if they're going to move, and that's what we're going to have to try to keep pushing over the next seven, eight days.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Denis R. McDonough, an adviser who became President Obama's chief of staff last month, was in the West Wing for previous budget battles with Republicans, but his portfolio then was national security. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (65%); IMMIGRATION (50%); ARMED FORCES (50%); GUN CONTROL (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); JOHN BOEHNER (57%); MITCH MCCONNELL (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2013



800 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 996 words

HEADLINE: Answers to Questions On Capital's Top Topic

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WEISMAN

 BODY:
Unless Congress intervenes, the law requires the Obama administration to impose $85 billion in across-the-board spending cuts to military and domestic programs on March 1. Those cuts would be the start of $1 trillion in cuts over the next decade.
These cuts have come to be known as the sequester, and they are dominating the current political discussion in Washington. Here is a primer on what the sequester is and how we got here. 
Q. What is the origin of the sequester?
A. It emerged from the refusal of House Republicans to raise the debt ceiling in 2011 without significant deficit reduction. In response, the two parties agreed to the Budget Control Act, which cut domestic spending over the next 10 years by about $1 trillion. Democrats refused to agree to more cuts without additional revenue from taxes, and Republicans refused to agree to tax increases.
Instead, Congress set up a committee to find further deficit reduction. To push the committee to reach a deal, negotiators established a fallback mechanism meant to be so onerous it would never happen: $1.2 trillion in across-the-board, automatic cuts to both military and domestic programs, set to begin this year.
Q. Why didn't they take effect on Jan. 1?
A. The New Year's Eve deal to head off automatic tax increases delayed the cuts for two months. The deal also reduced the size of the cuts by $24 billion, out of a total of $109 billion this year, with a combination of cuts and tax revenue measures.
Q. Why the word ''sequester''?
A. In past decades, budget laws have periodically allowed the executive branch to make small across-the-board spending cuts to the levels initially appropriated by Congress. These cuts are known as ''sequestration'' because the government withdraws the money after Congress has released it.
The looming sequestration is much larger than previous ones, though. Over the full fiscal year -- Oct. 1 to Sept. 30 -- the cuts would equal roughly 5 percent of nonmilitary programs and 8 percent of defense programs. Because they would hit almost halfway through the fiscal year, the White House Office of Management and Budget estimates the true impact for the final seven months to be closer to 9 percent for nondefense programs and 13 percent for defense programs.
Q. Whose idea was it?
A. That is in dispute. Republicans say the White House came up with the idea. Democrats agree, to a point. But Democrats explain that the president proposed a mix of automatic tax increases and domestic cuts.
Republicans rejected that mix and said they would instead accept another idea they had traditionally opposed: military cuts. Regardless, the Budget Control Act, including the cuts, passed on a bipartisan vote that included almost all Republican leaders, and President Obama signed it.
Q. Can the federal departments and agencies choose which programs to cut, sparing those that officials consider vital?
A. No. Under the rules, the percentage cuts must apply to specific programs, projects and activities. Everything is subject to the same percentage cut. That spreads the pain, but it also prevents agency managers from focusing the cuts on programs that may be ineffective or inefficient -- and protecting those that may affect public health and safety.
Q. When will people begin to notice the cuts?
A. Around March 1, federal offices must tell contractors, grant recipients, governors and others how much money they stand to lose. By the end of the month, people will begin to notice changes.
The first checks that go out after that deadline to the unemployed -- likely around March 7 -- will have a substantial reduction, 9.4 percent. The first checks to doctors and others who care for Medicare patients will also be nicked.
The secretary of defense notified Congress on Wednesday that employee furloughs were necessary. By April 6, 45 days from that notice, layoffs and furloughs will begin in the Defense Department's enormous civilian work force. Other furloughs, affecting air traffic controllers, meat inspectors and others, will begin in April and are likely to accelerate as the departments struggle to meet savings targets by Sept. 30.
Q. In the coming weeks and months, could Congress and the White House cancel or replace the cuts?
A. Yes, but right now the parties are far apart on an alternative. Mr. Obama wants a 50-50 mix of spending cuts and tax increases to replace the sequester. Congressional Republicans say they are willing to shift the cuts to ''mandatory'' programs not subject to Congress's annual discretion, like food stamps, children's health insurance and Medicaid, and spread them out over 10 years. Republicans say they will not raise taxes.
Democrats hope to force Republicans to the negotiating table with a pressure campaign aimed at the public, but even they concede that is not likely to work until the pain of the cuts becomes apparent this spring.
Q. What might such a deal look like?
A. Mr. Obama wants the mini-deal that pushed the sequester from January to March to be the precedent: Half revenues, one-quarter military cuts, one-quarter domestic cuts. He also wants it to be large enough to put off the sequester until Sept. 30. That delay could give the White House and Congress time to negotiate a larger budget deal that included both cuts to Social Security and Medicare and tax increases.
Republicans say they will not accept any additional tax revenue. Any deal is likely to fall somewhere between the two parties' current positions.
Q. The two years have been filled with one budget deadline after another. Is this the end?
A. Not necessarily. Any subsequent deal to cancel the sequester would probably include a new deadline. If negotiators fail to meet, the next nine years of sequestration cuts would presumably kick in.
Beyond the sequester, the budgetary authority to keep the federal government operating runs out on March 27. Unless the two parties can agree on a new deal, portions of the federal government could be required to shut down that day.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US BUDGET CONTROL ACT OF 2011 (89%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); DEBT CEILING (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (74%); BUDGET FORECASTS (69%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2013

 
