

201 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ARTS | NEW JERSEY; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1363 words

HEADLINE: Fresh Look for the Fall Theater Season

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SOMMERS

 BODY:
The most celebrated play ever to originate in New Jersey is arguably Thornton Wilder's ''Our Town,'' which had a one-night-only shakedown showing at the McCarter Theater in Princeton in 1938, before moving to Boston for tryouts and ultimately to Broadway.
The hits keep on coming from the Garden State. Last fall, McCarter -- now McCarter Theater Center -- presented ''Vanya and Sonia and Masha and Spike,'' by Christopher Durang, which later won a Tony Award for best play on Broadway. And ''Newsies the Musical'' still bounds along Broadway after its premiere at Paper Mill Playhouse in 2011.
More than a dozen fresh plays and musicals, either brand-new works or those being seen for the first time in New Jersey, are expected to be among the productions at the state's theaters this fall. 
''There is nothing like producing new works -- it is like giving birth,'' said Cheryl Katz, the artistic director of Luna Stage in West Orange. Like many companies, Luna mixes new and vintage dramas in its season. Its newborn event this fall is written by Ben Clawson, whose play ''The Dangers of Electric Lighting'' was given its premiere by the company in 2011. Mr. Clawson's latest, ''The High Water Mark,'' is about two middle-aged women, longtime friends, who compare how their lives have turned out (Oct. 10 to Nov. 10).
In association with commercial producers, Paper Mill Playhouse is readying another potential Broadway-bound contender in Millburn: the musical ''Honeymoon in Vegas,'' which Andrew Bergman has shaped from his 1992 movie about a fellow who loses his fiancÃ©e to a gambler in a poker game (Sept. 26 to Oct. 27). Jason Robert Brown (''Parade'') provides the score, the ''Chaplin'' star Rob McClure portrays the unlucky groom and Tony Danza plays the card shark. Paper Mill then plans to revive Lionel Bart's Dickens musical ''Oliver!'' (Nov. 21 to Dec. 29).
At George Street Playhouse in New Brunswick, ''Gettin' the Band Back Together'' is a collaboration by Ken Davenport and a collective known as the Grundleshotz with the songwriter Mark Allen. Their musical concerns a middle-aged, recently unemployed New Jersey man who re-connects with his former garage-band buddies (Sept. 24 to Oct. 27). Alison Fraser will be in the cast, directed by John Rando. George Street then has the premiere of ''Clever Little Lies,'' Joe DiPietro's contemporary comedy-drama concerning marital fidelity (Nov. 19 to Dec. 22). Also in New Brunswick, ''Kansas City Swing,'' written by Ricardo Khan and Trey Ellis, with music by Bobby Watson, is a melding of 1940s baseball history, racial integration themes and jazz staged by Mr. Khan at Crossroads Theater Company (Oct. 10 to 27).
The Shakespeare Theater of New Jersey in Madison will introduce audiences to ''A Most Dangerous Woman,'' Cathy Tempelsman's bio-drama about the Victorian novelist George Eliot, directed by Richard Maltby Jr. (Sept. 18 to Oct. 12). Then the troupe presents ''Our Town'' (Oct. 17 to Nov. 17), followed by Shakespeare's far-flung saga of ''Pericles'' (Dec. 4 to 29).
A company that always delivers something new to its audiences, the New Jersey Repertory Company in Long Branch will stage John Biguenet's ''Broomstick,'' a poetic one-woman play regarding a witch (Sept. 19 to Oct. 13), as the first stop on the National New Play Network's Rolling World Premiere, and the state premiere of ''Middlemen,'' David Jenkins's comedy of corporate existence (Nov. 7 to Dec. 8).
Having begun its season with the current revival of David Auburn's Pulitzer-winning ''Proof'' directed by Emily Mann (through Oct. 6), McCarter Theater Center will present the state premiere of ''The White Snake,'' a mini-epic created from a Chinese myth by the writer-director Mary Zimmerman (Oct. 15 to Nov. 3).
The Two River Theater opens the fall with ''On Borrowed Time,'' Paul Osborn's cozy 1938 fantasy about a boy and his grandpa chasing the incarnation of Death up an apple tree in their backyard (Sept. 14 to Oct. 13). Joel Grey, who played the role of the boy in a Cleveland production in 1941, is directing the revival. Then the Obie Award-winning writer-actor Martin Moran will bring two solo pieces, ''The Tricky Part'' (Oct. 26 to Nov. 17) and ''All the Rage'' (Nov. 3 to 17), to Red Bank under the omnibus title ''A Map of the Soul.'' Acclaimed Off Broadway, these memoirs about personal forgiveness and redemption will be performed by Mr. Moran in repertory.
At the American Theater Group in Rahway, Jim Brochu will perform ''Character Man,'' his recent Off Broadway salute to song-and-dance featured players (Sept. 25 to Oct. 6). Then comes ''Bubble Boy,'' the world premiere of a musical comedy by Cinco Paul and Ken Daurio, the writers of the film ''Despicable Me,'' about the romantic troubles of a teenager born without an immune system (Nov. 6 to 24).
The Bickford Theater in Morristown will offer the local debut of Mr. DiPietro's ''The Last Romance,'' a 2008 comedy about an octogenarian's love affair (Sept. 26 to Oct. 13). Next it will stage a new whodunit by Paul Falzone, ''Sherlock Holmes: Knight's Gambit'' (Oct. 24 to Nov. 10), a coproduction with the Oldcastle Theater Company of Bennington, Vt.
At Premiere Stages at Kean University in Union, a new drama by Erik Gernand, ''The Beautiful Dark,'' studies a woman who fears that her teenager may be planning an act of terror (through Sept. 22). In Summit, Dreamcatcher Repertory Theater will offer the state's first look at Sharr White's ''The Other Place,'' which appeared on Broadway last season and depicts a brilliant woman coping with incipient dementia (Oct. 3 to 20). In Trenton, the Passage Theater Company will stage the premiere of E. M. Lewis's ''True Story,'' a thriller involving a ghost writer's collaboration with an acquitted murder defendant (Nov. 7 to 24).
Other companies are preparing works of various vintages. Centenary Stage Company in Hackettstown will produce Ira Levin's murderous thriller ''Deathtrap'' (Oct. 4 to 20). The Theater Project in Maplewood will present Steven Canny and John Nicholson's farcical three-actor version of ''The Hound of the Baskervilles'' (Sept. 26 to Oct. 13). East Lynne Theater Company in Cape May will resurrect ''The Late Christopher Bean,'' Sidney Howard's 1932 comedy-drama about a neglected painter and his masterpieces (Sept. 18 to Oct. 13). Cape May Stage, where Marc Camoletti's ''Boeing Boeing'' continues through Sept. 13, next schedules Mark St. Germain's recent Off Broadway success ''Freud's Last Session,'' about an encounter between the psychiatrist and the writer C. S. Lewis (Sept. 18 to Oct. 19). It will be followed by ''A Walk in the Woods,'' Lee Blessing's 1988 drama about the conversations between two arms negotiators (Oct. 23 to Nov. 16).
Appropriately, ''Our Town'' materializes at least twice this fall. In addition to the Shakespeare Theater of New Jersey's production, the great American drama will be revived by Surflight Theater in Beach Haven (Sept. 25 to Oct. 4). â--
Theaters
BEACH HAVEN Surflight Theater, surflight.org; (609) 492-9477
CAPE MAY Cape May Stage, capemaystage.com; (609) 770-8311
CAPE MAY East Lynne Theater Company, (609) 884-5898; eastlynnetheater.org
HACKETTSTOWN Centenary Stage Company, (908) 979-0900; centenarystageco.org
LONG BRANCH New Jersey Repertory Company, (732) 229-3166; njrep.org
MADISON Shakespeare Theater of New Jersey, (973) 408-5600; shakespearenj.org
MAPLEWOOD The Theater Project, thetheaterproject.org; (973) 763-4029
MILLBURN Paper Mill Playhouse, papermill.org; (973) 376-4343
MORRIS TOWNSHIP Bickford Theater, bickfordtheatre.org; (973) 971-3706
NEW BRUNSWICK Crossroads Theater Company, (732) 545-8100; crossroadstheatrecompany.org
NEW BRUNSWICK George Street Playhouse, (732) 246-7717; gsponline.org
PRINCETON McCarter Theater Center, mccarter.org; (609) 258-2787
RAHWAY American Theater Group, americantheatergroup.org; (732) 499-8226
RED BANK Two River Theater, (732) 345-1400; trtc.org
SUMMIT Dreamcatcher Repertory Theater, (800) 838-3006; dreamcatcherrep.org
TRENTON Passage Theater Company, passagetheatre.org; (609) 392-0766
UNION Premiere Stages, (908) 737-7469; kean.edu/premierestages
WEST ORANGE Luna Stage, (973) 395-5551; lunastage.org

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Emily Mann, above at center, directs ''Proof'' at McCarter Theater Center through Oct. 6, with, from left, Kristen Bush, Jessica Dickey, Michael Siberry and Michael Braun. Rob McClure, near right, and Tony Danza are set to perform in the musical ''Honeymoon in Vegas'' at the Paper Mill Playhouse. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MATT PILSNER
ANDREW KELLY/REUTERS
 SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (93%); THEATER & DRAMA (91%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (78%); FILM (77%); MUSICAL THEATER (77%); SONG WRITING (75%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (75%); FILM DIRECTORS (72%); DRAMA FILMS (71%); WOMEN (64%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (64%); POKER (62%); PAPER & PACKAGING (57%)

ORGANIZATION: PAPER MILL PLAYHOUSE (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2013



202 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; BIG CITY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 984 words

HEADLINE: Bloomberg's Creature?

BYLINE: By GINIA BELLAFANTE

 BODY:
One morning last month, not long before Bill de Blasio was scheduled to appear in Greenwich Village to talk about the dangers of hospital closings -- something he has done during the mayoral campaign as regularly as others take their morning juice -- supporters of Christine C. Quinn staged a rival news conference to counter the criticism she has endured over the demise of St. Vincent's Hospital.
Former State Senator Thomas K. Duane was just beginning to speak on her behalf when a cluster of people who didn't care much for Ms. Quinn started to shout over him. An incensed man in his 80s emerged, began yelling and slapped two people -- one of them an intern for Ms. Quinn and another a state senator. 
The assailant, George Capsis, the publisher of a community newspaper, explained his derailment, telling reporters that his wife had just died in a hospital in the Bronx, far from where he lived. If St. Vincent's had remained open, he felt, he would have had more time with her during the final hours.
The photographs of an unhinged Mr. Capsis, a fist in the air, make an apt visual metaphor for the mood surrounding Ms. Quinn, who has fallen sharply in the polls in advance of the Democratic primary on Tuesday. They speak to an antipathy many New Yorkers have toward her that is at once visceral and vague and immune to mutation.
Ms. Quinn's unfavorables, to use the pollsters' argot, are high. In a New York Times/Siena College poll of 505 likely Democratic voters conducted in late August, 45 percent said their opinion of Ms. Quinn was unfavorable (putting her second only to Anthony D. Weiner by that measure). A striking 59 percent of labor union members held that position. More than 45 percent of those with college and graduate degrees shared a negative view of her. Men and women appear to dislike her in equal measure. More older voters dislike her than younger voters, and older voters, of course, vote in greater numbers.
Anger toward Ms. Quinn is readily in evidence. There are T-shirts that read ''Anybody but Quinn,'' part of a campaign to defeat her that is a joint effort of public-sector office workers and animal rights advocates upset over her unwillingness as City Council speaker to try to end the horse carriage trade. A Web site titled Quinn Hates Animals features pictures of her chosen to make her look so devoid of compassion that you imagine her denying a cool bowl of water to a panting retriever.
How has this come to pass, this intensity of distaste for a candidate whose greatest sin is not an authoritarian Giulianiesque vision for New York, but really not much of a vision at all?
While all the candidates in the Democratic field have variously compromised themselves for the purpose of political gain, the taint of the transactional has adhered with the most constancy to Ms. Quinn. She has been cast as the hack, the soul-seller, the expedient manipulator of self-interested deal-making. And yet for all that she is perceived as Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's handmaiden and replica, she could not even engender enough reciprocal loyalty and affection to keep him from asking Hillary Rodham Clinton to consider entering the race.
When you ask people why they don't like Ms. Quinn, they cite her closeness to the mayor, her reversal on term limits and the incredibly long time it took her to support paid sick leave for privately employed workers. This in particular makes her seem not merely opportunistic but petty and unfeeling, especially given that her efforts to humanize herself to voters have turned on her struggles with addiction and her mother's early death from cancer. In a debate on Tuesday, when the new front-runner, Mr. de Blasio, asked Ms. Quinn why it took her three years to come around on sick leave, her maddening response was simply that the bill eventually passed.
For someone with a bully's reputation, Ms. Quinn can seem oddly prone to avoidance. At a rally for Mr. de Blasio in Cobble Hill in Brooklyn on Tuesday, Natalie Green Giles, a mother active in PTA circles and local politics, told me that Ms. Quinn had garnered a lot of ill will among public-school parents in her area when she failed to show up in the spring at an education forum at Public School 29 that was moderated by Diane Ravitch, the country's most vocal antagonist to the school reform movement championed by Mr. Bloomberg. (At the time, Ms. Quinn's campaign cited a scheduling conflict.)
Part of the problem of Ms. Quinn's appeal is that she has been in a continuing mode of response, first having had to contend with the threat of Mr. Weiner's surprise candidacy and then with the tireless and obviously resonant messaging of Mr. de Blasio. Even as she continues to steer the City Council, she is always reacting to an agenda rather than setting one; she is always having to defend herself -- and defensiveness in politics and in life rarely leaves people wanting more of you.
There are other aspects of Ms. Quinn's profile that fail to inspire potential supporters. I've had acquaintances tell me that they find her too provincial, too suburban, which is to say not quite sophisticated enough to manage the gleaming global city she is criticized for helping to create. Worldly intellectuals of the left have flocked to Mr. de Blasio: the celebrity economists Joseph E. Stiglitz and Jeffrey Sachs, and Katrina vanden Heuvel, editor and publisher of The Nation. Mr. de Blasio also has the support of George Soros.
Alternatively, among Ms. Quinn's most recent endorsements was one from George Takei of ''Star Trek.'' When the actor, who is well known in the gay rights movement, voiced his support for Ms. Quinn on his popular Facebook page, the value wasn't necessarily apparent. Fans expressed displeasure.
''Are you nuts?'' wrote one. ''The woman is Bloomberg's creature. Rather than listen to her speaking voice for four years, I'd move to Dubuque.''
E-mail: bigcity@nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The public's distaste for Christine C. Quinn is clear in polls as she seeks to become the Democratic nominee for mayor on Tuesday. For instance, 45 percent of respondents late last month viewed her unfavorably. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); HOSPITALS (78%); CLOSINGS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (72%); CITIES (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (69%); LABOR UNIONS (68%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (64%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (60%)

PERSON: ANTHONY D WEINER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2013



203 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: China Looks Westward As It Bolsters Regional Ties

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ; Bree Feng contributed reporting.

 BODY:
ASTANA, Kazakhstan -- President Xi Jinping of China, evoking the camel caravans of the old Silk Road that traversed the ancient plains of Kazakhstan on their way from China to Europe, said Saturday that he wanted to create a contemporary version that would bind together China and its Central Asian neighbors.
Fresh from the Group of 20 summit meeting in St. Petersburg, Russia, Mr. Xi referred to Kazakhstan as an increasingly important energy supplier for China and an anchor for its new ''marching westwards'' policy, which looks to quickly strengthen economic and strategic relations with Central Asia. 
China remains dependent on the Middle East to feed its huge oil needs, but wants to diversify, experts say, so that more oil and gas providers are closer to home. Energy from Central Asia comes via land-based pipelines that are considered safer than the more vulnerable sea routes from the Middle East.
Mr. Xi is visiting four Central Asian countries on his current swing through the region: Turkmenistan, where he stopped last week; Uzbekistan; Kyrgyzstan, where he will attend the Shanghai Cooperation Organization meeting; and Kazakhstan. In each country, oil and gas, and regional security, are at the top of the agenda.
In a show of the importance of Kazakhstan's energy, President Nursultan A. Nazarbayev and Mr. Xi together pushed a button at the Palace of Independence here in Astana, the capital, to symbolically open a 700-mile pipeline that will take gas from the Caspian Sea in western Kazakhstan to the south. The pipeline, built jointly by the Chinese and the Kazakhs, will then connect to the vast Central Asia-China pipeline in Turkmenistan, and take gas all the way to China's coastal cities.
The two leaders signed trade and finance accords worth $30 billion, including loans from China's Development Bank and the Export-Import Bank.
''China highly values its friendship with these countries and takes them as a foreign policy priority,'' Mr. Xi said in a speech here at Nazarbayev University, founded by the president. He pledged support for each other's ''core interests'' and spoke of a ''strategic partnership with Central Asian countries.''
The old Silk Road, which took Chinese silk, porcelain and jade to Europe, started in his home province, Shaanxi, in central China, Mr. Xi said. ''I can almost hear the ring of the camel bells and the wisps of smoke in the desert,'' he said.
Under Mr. Xi, China has flexed its maritime strength in the waters surrounding it, challenging some American allies, including Japan and the Philippines, over territorial issues, and responding to President Obama's policy of refocusing American military and economic interests on the Asia-Pacific region.
But at the same time, Mr. Xi has sought to consolidate relations with Central Asia, a path that would broaden China's interests beyond its traditional base in the Asia-Pacific area and serve its vast energy needs as well.
The strategy also has the advantage of countering, and complementing, American plans for a ''new Silk Road'' announced by Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton in 2011, said Wang Jisi, dean of the Center for International and Strategic Studies at Peking University. Mr. Wang is an architect of the ''march westwards'' policy, and an occasional adviser to the government on foreign affairs.
Mrs. Clinton proposed the ''new Silk Road'' for postwar Afghanistan, and said the United States would foster private sector investment in transportation and energy infrastructure throughout the region. But there is no need to wait for the Americans, Mr. Wang suggested.
Moreover, China does not need to limit itself to ''first becoming an Asia-Pacific power, then becoming a global power,'' Mr. Wang said in a paper last November for the International and Strategic Studies Report, a publication of Peking University, that was widely noted by American and Chinese foreign policy experts.
In Kazakhstan, China has made some important energy investments, including the purchase this year of an 8.4 percent stake in the Kashagan oil field in the Caspian Sea, a vast project being developed by an international consortium including KazMunaiGaz, Kazakhstan's state-owned energy company; Exxon Mobil; Royal Dutch Shell; and the Italian company Agip.
The final details of that purchase are almost complete, officials said. The oil field, which is scheduled to start operation next month, is described as the largest reserve of oil outside Saudi Arabia.
About 22 percent of Kazakhstan's oil production comes from joint ventures between Chinese and Kazakh companies, according to the Oil and Gas Ministry here. For Kazakhstan, China's new interests reverse an earlier policy of close relations with the West. ''It has found that China is an easier economic partner and has more cash,'' said Deirdre Tynan, Central Asia project director of the International Crisis Group. ''China is able to step in and provide massive loans without strings attached.''
In 2009, China stepped in to salvage Kazakhstan's banks, lending $5 billion to the state-owned Development Bank of Kazakhstan and $5 billion to KazMunaiGaz.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Xi Jinping of China and Kazakhstan's president, Nursultan Nazarbayev, opened a gas pipeline in Astana on Saturday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SERGEY PONOMAREV FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (76%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (76%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (74%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); EXPORT TRADE (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (71%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (67%); FOREIGN LENDING (62%); EXPORT IMPORT BANKING (62%)

ORGANIZATION: SHANGHAI COOPERATION ORGANIZATION (55%)

PERSON: XI JINPING (91%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) EAST CHINA (79%); CENTRAL CHINA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); CASPIAN SEA (79%); SHAANXI, CHINA (58%) CHINA (99%); ASIA (97%); CENTRAL ASIA (96%); KAZAKHSTAN (95%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); EUROPE (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); TURKMENISTAN (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); UZBEKISTAN (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); KYRGYZSTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2013



204 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 966 words

HEADLINE: Prices Are Rising for New Homes, and the Land They Are Built On

BYLINE: By SHAILA DEWAN

 BODY:
MINNEAPOLIS -- A few months ago, Michael N. Felix's phone started ringing again after four years of silence. Mr. Felix is a land broker whose business dried up when the housing market crashed. But with home prices now rising faster than anyone expected, builders are again looking for what, in the land trade, is referred to as dirt.
Already, developers report that the cost of land in the most desirable areas is double what it was two years ago. At least three golf courses in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area are being carved into millions of dollars' worth of residential lots. The race has even sent builders back to outer suburbs like Otsego, 30 miles from downtown Minneapolis, where bulldozers are laying the groundwork for four-bedroom houses with three-car garages, in subdivisions bordered by cornfields. 
''Lot buyers and sellers!!!!!!!!'' Mr. Felix's Web site reads. ''It is time to get moving again....!''
Or past time. The latest land rush is in full swing, as developers realize that they have failed to feed the zoning, permitting and mapping pipeline, which can take months or years to turn raw fields into buildable lots. They are realizing another thing, too: they have been sorely missed.
''For the first time, I've seen cities want to work to help figure it out, rather than doing us a favor all the time to let us develop,'' said Scott Carlston of Hunter Emerson, a development partnership. Hunter Emerson won a victory when the city of Eagan, a suburb of Minneapolis, allowed Parkview Golf Club to be converted into a high-end single-family subdivision.
The hunt for dirt is not limited to the Twin Cities. After builders across the country spent decades feeding acre after acre of raw land into the maw of demand for single-family homes, the housing crash left them with a land surplus so large that lots were selling for pennies on the dollar. At the peak of supply, in 2009, there were enough lots to last almost eight years, according to MetroStudy, a firm that tracks housing data. Now there is less than four year's worth, and only about a quarter of that is in the more desirable A- or B-rated locations.
''We have gone from a situation where five years ago everyone was saying, 'There's too many lots,' to today, builders are literally crying on our shoulder saying, 'There's not enough lots. We can't find any,''' said Bradley F. Hunter, the chief economist at MetroStudy.
The shortage of lots is slowing the housing recovery, the National Association of Home Builders said last week. In August, 59 percent of builders surveyed said lot supply was low or very low, the association said. Housing is a critical driver for the economy, not just because of the jobs and supplies needed to build homes but also the appliances and furnishings that new occupants buy.
At the peak of the housing boom, builders were finishing more than 1.6 million single-family houses a year. That number plunged to less than half a million during the recession. This year, the industry is on track to complete more than 570,000 homes, still substantially below the level considered necessary to replace aging homes and provide for new households. A return to more normal rates of construction would substantially lift the economy's anemic growth rate of about 2 percent over the last year.
Mr. Carlston said some cities in the Twin Cities area had adjusted their rules to allow fewer parking spaces or smaller lots. Otsego has lowered some of its development fees and allowed a developer to change an approved plan so that a partly built town house project could be finished with more salable detached homes. Rick Packer, a land development manager for Centra Homes, said some suburbs were relaxing requirements that homes be made of brick or stucco.
Even the Sierra Club, which once placed Minneapolis among the top 10 sprawl-threatened cities, has backed off a bit. An annual bike ride by the local chapter, once known as the ''Tour de Sprawl,'' has been given a less pejorative name and refocused to include not just threatened green space but what the group considers model development and transportation projects.
Mayor Mike Maguire of Eagan, a co-chairman of the Regional Council of Mayors Housing Initiative, said one reason his city had approved a land use change for the golf course was that so little new housing was built in the last few years. ''When there's no new development, you have stock that's increasingly out of date and that tends to bring your home values down,'' he said. ''That was one of the things we were hearing back from Realtors, was they had people who wanted to move to Eagan but couldn't find the home they wanted.''
Last year, Hunter Emerson agreed to pay $8.6 million for the golf course, wagering that the city would approve the land use change. The partnership sold the property to a national home builder for $13.1 million, Mr. Carlston said. The houses will cost from $400,000 to $700,000, he said.
The excess left from the boom -- land in various stages of development ranging from untouched to what builders call PVC farms, named for the hard plastic plumbing pipes that, with electrical lines, were virtually all that was on the lots -- is quickly being absorbed. Developers have gone from buying foreclosed acreage from banks to buying from farmers, family trusts, manufacturers and even homeowners with outdated homes on single lots.
''What we've seen is the inner ring of the suburbs, all those areas have come back,'' said Rod Just of Key Land Homes, a Twin Cities builder. ''The outer ring, they've taken just a little bit longer because of gas prices, but they're going to come back.''
For builders, there is even a sense of déjà vu. ''The new lots that are coming out,'' Mr. Just said, ''are almost the prices that they were in 2005 when everything crashed.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A partly finished housing development in Otsego, Minn. Like other cities in the Twin Cities area, Otsego has relaxed development fees to encourage development. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TIM GRUBER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHARTS: Fewer Places to Build: While housing construction and prices have been rising, the supply of vacant developed lots available for home-building is at its lowest since 2007. That shortage might be slowing the housing recovery, according to the National Association of Home Builders. (Sources: U.S. Census Bureau
 MetroStudy) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); HOME PRICES (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); CURRENCIES (76%); ZONING (72%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (92%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (72%) MINNESOTA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2013



205 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1058 words

HEADLINE: David S. Landes, Historian And Author, Is Dead at 89

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
David S. Landes, a distinguished Harvard scholar of economic history, saw tidal movements in the rise of seemingly small things. He suggested that the development of eyeglasses made precision tools possible. Maybe, he said, using chopsticks helped Asian workers gain the manual dexterity needed to make microprocessors.
In his 482-page ''Revolution in Time: Clocks and the Making of the Modern World'' (1983), Professor Landes, who died last month at 89, examined the growth of the industrial age through the history of timepieces, tracing their origin to medieval European monasteries; monks, he wrote, needed something to tell them when to gather for a regular round of group prayer. 
To Professor Landes, the development of timepieces -- more than steamships -- drove the industrial age by molding the very culture of capitalism. Factory owners, for example, awarded watches to punctual workers, while workers bought watches to make sure they were not being misused by the factory clock.
Professor Landes was preoccupied by the importance of culture in shaping economic and social progress or stagnation. His most influential work, ''The Wealth and Poverty of Nations: Why Some Are So Rich and Some So Poor'' (1998), answered the question posed in its title (a play on that of Adam Smith's classic work) by pointing to the importance of the Protestant work ethic and European attitudes toward science and technology.
Mitt Romney, the Republican presidential nominee in 2012, acknowledged Professor Landes as an influence. ''There are superior cultures and ours is one of them,'' Mr. Romney wrote in his 2010 book, ''No Apology: The Case for American Greatness.'' ''As David Landes observed, 'Culture makes all the difference.' ''
Professor Landes's views lay behind a controversial remark Mr. Romney made in July 2012 at a campaign fund-raiser in Jerusalem. In a speech in which he mentioned ''The Wealth and Poverty of Nations,'' Mr. Romney suggested that a superior culture explains why Israelis are more economically successful than Palestinians. Palestinians called the remark racist and criticized Mr. Romney for not acknowledging the trade restrictions that Israel has imposed on them.
But in a joint statement issued to The Boston Globe, Professor Landes and his son, Richard, a historian at Boston University, expressed support for Mr. Romney and approved of his remarks about Israeli culture.
The statement also sought to pay Palestinians a compliment by lauding their culture and praising their economic success in comparison with that of other Arab peoples. ''Much of that comes from their close association with the Zionists,'' the statement said of Palestinians.
Professor Landes was often lumped with the branch of academia and politics known as neoconservativism, partly for his praise of the European model of development over those of other cultures. But his positions were not always predictable.
He split from conservative economists by questioning their view that free trade is always good for development. And even though he thought colonialism was not to blame for the stagnation of former colonies in Africa, Latin America and elsewhere, he compared Columbus's atrocities against indigenous people in the New World to Hitler's Holocaust.
Richard Landes said that his father died on Aug. 17 in Haverford, Pa., where he lived, and that his health had failed since his wife, the former Sonia Tarnopol, died in April. Besides his son, survivors include two daughters, Jane Foster and Alison Fiekowsky; eight grandchildren; and nine great-grandchildren.
David Saul Landes was born on April 29, 1924, on the kitchen table of his parents' home in the Seagate neighborhood of Coney Island in Brooklyn. His father, Harry, was a real estate investor.
As a youth, David built an immense vocabulary by religiously reading the dictionary. He skipped four grades on his way to the City College of New York, from which he graduated in 1942. The next year he earned a master's degree in history from Harvard and was drafted into the Army.
As it happened, he had been taking mail-order courses in cryptanalysis, and so he was assigned to the Signal Corps. He worked on deciphering Japanese messages about the atomic bombs dropped on Japan. He later worked on a history of German preparations for the invasion of Normandy.
After being honorably discharged, he returned to Harvard to work on his doctorate. His dissertation became his first book, ''Bankers and Pashas: International Finance and Economic Imperialism in Egypt.'' He received his Ph.D. in history from Harvard in 1953.
He also pursued his studies at Columbia University and taught there from 1952 to 1958. While there, he was a member of the Society of Fellows, which supported interdisciplinary studies, and in 1957-58 he was a fellow at the Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences at Stanford University. He then joined the faculty at the University of California, Berkeley, where he was a professor of history and economics until 1964.
That year he wrote a letter to The New York Times criticizing the protests known as the free speech movement, which he called ''the most serious assault on academic freedom in America since the McCarthy era.''
He joined Harvard in 1964 as a professor of history and went on to hold appointments in political science and economics as well. Since 1987 he had been a senior fellow of Harvard's Society of Fellows, which was created as an alternative to the Ph.D. degree for exceptionally qualified candidates. At his retirement, in 1996, he was Coolidge Professor of History and an emeritus professor of economics.
In more than a half-dozen books and scores of articles, Professor Landes's writing was often as light as his subjects were heavy. Reviewing his 2006 book, ''Dynasties: Fortunes and Misfortunes of the World's Great Family Businesses,'' for The Times of London, Christopher Silvester described the writing as pithy, thoughtful and sprightly. The book offers 13 sketches of tycoons, including Henry Ford, John D. Rockefeller and Armand Peugeot.
In one scene Nathan Rothschild, of the legendary financial family, is hard at work at his desk in London. A peer of the realm is brought in. Rothschild, intent on his ledgers, invites him to take a seat. Offended, the visitor blusters about his high standing. ''Take two seats,'' Rothschild says.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: David S. Landes in 2002. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JANE REED/HARVARD UNIVERSITY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (86%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (86%); WRITERS (75%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); ETHICS (67%); FUNDRAISING (67%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (64%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (91%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); ADAM SMITH (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); ISRAEL (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2013



206 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1145 words

HEADLINE: Tuition Aid From a Zombie Elf

BYLINE: By BRENDAN SPIEGEL

 BODY:
Douglas Johnson began his sophomore year at the State University of New York at Oswego last week in an enviable position. He made the dean's list his freshman year and expects to graduate early with a double major in psychology and public justice. Even better, his family back in Watertown, N.Y., didn't have to take out any loans this fall, thanks to a scholarship that covers about half of his tuition.
And for that he has Glissa, the Traitor -- a zombie elf -- to thank.
''Friends and parents had told me to look for scholarships in everything,'' Mr. Johnson, 18, recalled. ''But I was surprised that there is a scholarship just for Magic players.'' 
Last year, Mr. Johnson received one of the first two grants given by Gamers Helping Gamers, a nonprofit organization founded by a group of successful young New Yorkers to assist a very specific group of students: those who play the fantasy trading card game Magic: The Gathering.
A cousin to role-playing games like Dungeons & Dragons, Magic pits two players in strategic combat, each armed with colorful cards representing creatures, spells and magical lands. In a twist that has turned the game into a global phenomenon and its publisher, Wizards of the Coast, into a juggernaut, players collect and trade cards to customize their decks. Magic is fundamentally a game of skill, but a stronger hand might be one $3.99 booster pack away.
Twenty years after Magic was introduced, it is more than a fringe pastime. Game shops and comic book stores like Kings Games in Brooklyn and Get There Games on Staten Island hold weekly Friday Night Magic events. And Wizards of the Coast hosts an international Pro Tour with purses that can reach $250,000.
The founders of Gamers Helping Gamers are stars in this world. By day, Jon Finkel is a partner in the hedge fund Landscape Capital. But he leads another life in the realm of Magic, as an international champion and Hall of Fame player who is frequently asked to sign fans' cards at tournaments and has even been immortalized in a card bearing his likeness.
The idea for the scholarship, Mr. Finkel said, was to find highly intelligent students who could benefit from a little extra engagement.
He coasted through high school in New Jersey, he said, never really exerting himself, then failed and had to leave Rutgers before returning to graduate.
''There was just nothing enjoyable or fun about high school, so I got my mental stimulation elsewhere,'' Mr. Finkel, 35, said. ''I would play Magic until midnight and never do my homework.''
Mr. Johnson could relate. ''My senior year, I'll admit I was pretty lazy,'' he recalled. ''I did nothing but float by. I got A's and B's, but I definitely didn't do the best I could.''
He won his scholarship -- $5,000 a year for college -- after writing essays about playing Magic in his small-town high school cafeteria and about his favorite card: Glissa, the Traitor. He said he knew about Mr. Finkel from watching him play in tournaments streamed online, never suspecting that the champion's winnings would soon pay for his own education.
''When a group of your biggest role models gives you a bunch of money, that motivates you to do really well,'' Mr. Johnson said.
The scholarship fund came about after Timothy McKenna, another of the founders, floated the idea to a group of friends who play together once or twice a week in New York City, usually at Mr. Finkel's roomy SoHo apartment.
While passing cards around on a rainy evening this June, Mr. McKenna, Mr. Finkel and their cohort explained that they regularly encountered teenagers at tournaments who were extremely smart, but not the type of extroverts with hordes of extracurricular activities that college admissions officers value.
''There are definitely a lot of scholarship opportunities for people who are more outgoing,'' Mr. McKenna, a 37-year-old economic consultant, said. ''We have an applicant pool that isn't being reached by a lot of scholarships, but should be.''
Throughout the evening, more friends popped in, looking for a match. But first, two of them joined Mr. Finkel and Mr. McKenna -- with a fifth piped in via iPhone -- as they gathered to review this year's applications. Amid friendly trash talk about the results of recent competitions, they touched on financial need, SAT scores and grade point averages, but saved most of their enthusiasm for the applicants' essays peppered with terms like ''deathtouch,'' ''planeswalker'' and ''hexproof.''
''Interestingly enough, his favorite Magic cards are the Shock Lands, which I love,'' Mr. Finkel said, as he re-reviewed one applicant's submission. ''But then I also loved one of the other candidates' essays, where he said that his least favorite cards are the Shock Lands. They both made good points.''
Impressed by an essay about lessons learned from nearly a decade playing Magic, the group awarded this year's sole new scholarship to Isaac Goldstein, a rising sophomore studying math at Lewis & Clark College in Portland, Ore.
The awards are not limited to those whose promise has been overlooked. Dylan Fay, last year's other award winner, was already excelling at the University of Florida and applying to law school. ''I had to buy study books, practice tests, visit all the law schools, and the applications cost about $100 each,'' said Mr. Fay, who used his $5,000 award to cover those costs. ''Without this scholarship I don't think all that would have been possible.''
Mr. Fay started Yale Law School last week after graduating with a triple major in English, classics and history. ''I'm probably never going to have time ever again to devote to it like I did in high school,'' he said of Magic, ''but I think I'll always go back to it from time to time.''
That's perfectly fine with Gamers Helping Gamers. ''The scholarship is not set up to find a guy or girl who devotes their whole life to Magic,'' said Mr. McKenna, who plans to play in a Pro Tour qualifier next week at the Hotel Pennsylvania in Manhattan; the winner will advance to a professional event in Valencia, Spain. Rather, the friends see their fund as an opportunity to help young people within this tight-knit community build a successful life outside of Magic. In the future, they hope to offer career advice and help with skills like résumé building.
''When we started playing Magic it was brand-new,'' Mr. Finkel said. ''There weren't players in their mid-30s. Now we're in a place to help out, and in 10, 20 years, you'll probably see a lot of Magic players in senior positions. They'll be in a position to help these young kids, to understand the ways in which they'll work well and won't work well, and maybe get a lot more out of them.''
With their scholarship winner selected, Mr. Finkel and friends began eagerly tearing open packs of new Magic cards and passing them around the table in rapid succession, preparing to enter the battlefield.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In Magic, trading cards represent creatures, spells and magical lands. (MB1)
Jon Finkel, center, a worldclass Magic champion, was a founder of a scholarship program for players of the game. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JABIN BOTSFORD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Douglas Johnson, 18 and a sophomore at SUNY Oswego, received a grant. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HEATHER AINSWORTH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TUITION FEES (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); CARD GAMES (74%); HOBBY TOY & GAME STORES (74%); GRANTS & GIFTS (73%); PSYCHOLOGY (72%); COLLECTORS SHOPS (72%); TOURNAMENTS (67%); BOOKSTORES (64%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: WIZARDS OF THE COAST INC (91%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5092 TOYS & HOBBY GOODS & SUPPLIES (91%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2013



207 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1383 words

HEADLINE: House Republicans in California Find a Struggle on Immigration

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MEDINA

 BODY:
HANFORD, Calif. -- When Representative David Valadao came out in favor of a path to citizenship for millions of people living in the country illegally at an open forum this summer, the crowd erupted in applause, and young activists nearly knocked one another down as they rushed to embrace him.
Since then, Mr. Valadao, a freshman Republican, has become a bit of an unlikely celebrity among Latino farmworkers and their families in California's Central Valley, where immigration has shaped the agricultural industry for decades.
As the immigration debate simmers in Washington, California Republicans face a very different reality than a majority of their party colleagues, who elsewhere largely represent districts that are overwhelmingly white. 
More than half of California's 15 Republican members of Congress have districts that are at least 30 percent Latino, making them potentially vulnerable to Democratic challenges and prime targets for those pushing for a path to citizenship. In Mr. Valadao's district, Latinos make up 70 percent of the population.
With Republicans all but relegated to a minority party in California -- Democrats hold every statewide elected office, maintain a large majority in the State Legislature and hold a vast majority of Congressional seats -- many here blame the party's decline on its stance on immigration.
''We're finally breaking out of denial,'' said Allan Hoffenblum, a longtime Republican consultant in state politics. ''Until we solve our Latino problem, we're not going to be a viable state party, and it's hard to understand how that's possible without fixing immigration.''
Mr. Valadao, the son of Portuguese immigrants, is one of a few Republicans in the state offering full-throated support for sweeping changes to the country's immigration laws. Representatives Jeff Denham and Devin Nunes, whose districts include northern stretches of the state's agricultural center, have said they would support some kind of legalization process for the nation's roughly 11 million illegal immigrants, the most divisive issue in the debate.
All of this has put pressure on Representative Kevin McCarthy, a Republican whose district is about one-third Latino and includes part of Bakersfield, a working-class, immigrant-heavy city that Mr. Valadao also represents. As the majority whip, the third-ranking leader of the Republican-controlled House, Mr. McCarthy is expected to play an important role in deciding which legislative proposals end up being voted on and which are squelched this fall.
In the past, Mr. McCarthy has called the immigration process broken, saying that the priority must be on securing borders and that he is opposed to an amnesty. Aides to the lawmaker did not respond to repeated requests for an interview.
One commercial appearing on cable television in his district attacks ''obstructionists'' blocking an immigration overhaul. Another accuses him of ''talking about legalizing 11 million illegal aliens, making it easier for them to take jobs.''
After a union-backed protest in Mr. McCarthy's district in August, demonstrators marched into his office with pictures of immigrants, along with farm tools and produce, in an attempt to illustrate their impact on the community here. In the arid Central Valley, where dairy farms and peach and almond orchards stretch for miles, immigrants have provided the steadiest source of agricultural and service employees.
Mr. McCarthy told a local radio station last week that most of the protesters had come from outside his district. Mr. McCarthy also faces pressure from those against illegal immigration. ''He's shown that he is flexible on immigration and has said we need to be more open to foreign workers, but the great irony is that he's in a district with high unemployment,'' said Joe Guzzardi, the national media director for Californians for Population Stabilization, which opposes any kind of citizenship for those in the country illegally.
Advocates of a comprehensive immigration overhaul argue that California is a cautionary tale for Republicans in the rest of the country and that if the party does not help pass legislation this year, it will risk losing Latino votes for decades to come. Frank Sharry, the executive director of America's Voice, which is pushing for an immigration overhaul, points to 1994 as the start of problems for the state Republican Party. Pete Wilson, the governor at the time, led the campaign for a state ballot initiative severely limiting access to public services, including schools and emergency medical care, for illegal immigrants. Voters approved the measure, but it was ruled unconstitutional by federal courts.
''California became one of the bluest states in the country because the Republican Party followed Pete Wilson off the anti-immigration cliff,'' Mr. Sharry said. ''McCarthy isn't going to want to lose more seats, and he has to see that members who are becoming champions of immigration reform aren't just living to tell about it, but they're getting love letters.''
Across the state, other Republicans have softened their stance on immigration. Representative Ken Calvert, whose district covers Riverside County, has said he supports citizenship for those who were brought to the country as children and would consider some kind of legal status for others. Representative Gary G. Miller, whose district in San Bernardino, east of Los Angeles, is roughly 50 percent Latino and considered a prime target by Democrats, removed several strongly worded statements against immigration from his Web site this year.
Mr. Valadao's experience during an open house one recent evening illustrates the competing pressures. Minutes before a group of young students thanked him effusively for his immigration stance, two longtime residents denounced him, saying he was ''rewarding lawbreakers'' and ''stealing American jobs.''
He politely argued that illegal immigrants already made up about half of the agricultural employees in the area and that he had heard from dozens of farmers who said they could not fill jobs fast enough. But neither woman appeared swayed.
It is a point he has grown practiced at making. ''It's complicated, but the more I looked at it here, the more convinced I became that we need to give some kind of hope to people who are working here, supporting their families and doing everything else right,'' Mr. Valadao said in an interview at his district office in Hanford, a small farming town in the middle of the state.
Angelica Salas, the executive director of the Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights of Los Angeles, said Republicans were ''sort of wedged between a rock and a hard place of their own doing.'' The coalition organized dozens of events singling out Republican congressmen last month.
She said Mr. McCarthy had met with her and other activists and signaled that he was open to supporting citizenship. ''What I see him trying to deal with is the recognition that there's a real interdependence on immigrant labor in his district,'' Ms. Salas said, ''but also some very shrill Republicans who either don't get it or don't care.''
While Mr. Valadao said he did not have plans to increase pressure on his Republican colleagues, other local leaders have been more willing to openly voice criticism.
''We have people who graduated from our colleges who can't get jobs because they can't get citizenship,'' said Mayor Harvey L. Hall of Bakersfield, a Republican who spoke onstage at a protest directed at Mr. McCarthy. ''All you have to do is go out on the weekend, and you can see that our growth as a city depends on the immigrant population.''
For the most part, immigration campaigners are counting their successes. By one tally, about two dozen House Republicans have said they might support a path to citizenship. But Mr. Nunes, who is included in that number, said the attention focused on Mr. McCarthy could backfire, as Republicans in other parts of the country see unions and other Democratic allies focus on immigration as a partisan issue.
''Making a lot of noise and ruckus with someone open to change is just not credible -- it makes people harden their stance,'' Mr. Nunes said. ''I want to come up with a way to get something done, but it's looking like people just want the issue as a piñata for political rhetoric.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Immigration campaigners nearing the end of a 285-mile ''Pilgrimage for a Pathway to Citizenship'' last week. Their final stop was Representative Kevin McCarthy's office in Bakersfield, Calif.
Representative David Valadao talking to constituents last month in Hanford, Calif. Mr. Valadao, whose district is 70 percent Latino, has recently come out in favor of a path to citizenship for illegal immigrants. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MATT BLACK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A15)
Immigration activists gathered outside Representative Kevin McCarthy's office in Bakersfield last week. Mr. Mc- Carthy, left, faces pressure from both sides on the issue. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MATT BLACK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 CAROLYN KASTER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); IMMIGRATION (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); AGRICULTURE (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); BORDER CONTROL (73%); FARM LABOR (72%)

PERSON: DAVID VALADAO (93%); KEVIN MCCARTHY (89%); DEVIN NUNES (58%); JEFF DENHAM (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAKERSFIELD, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2013



208 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; THE NEW SEASON; Pg. 

LENGTH: 4349 words

HEADLINE: New Dance: From Jetés to Jookin

BYLINE: By SIOBHAN BURKE

 BODY:
September
BEAT FESTIVAL When you think of Downtown Brooklyn's cultural attractions, large, expensive buildings come to mind (the Barclays Center, the Brooklyn Academy of Music). Stephen Shelley looked elsewhere when organizing this festival of site-specific performance, which pops up at plazas and other communal spaces throughout Downtown Brooklyn and nearby neighborhoods. One palatial landmark does play a role in this second edition: the Brooklyn Museum, where an opening-night bash, among other events, features the dance artists Yanira Castro, Third Rail Projects, LeeSaar The Company and Storyboard P. Thursday-Sept. 21. Various sites, (347) 762-3281, beatbrooklyn.com.
TIME-BASED ART FESTIVAL If you're curious about contemporary performance in Belgium, Portugal, Morocco, Algeria, Croatia, France, Minneapolis, San Francisco or Portland, this festival, hosted by the Portland Institute of Contemporary Art, is a good place to be. This year's thoroughly international projects confront everything from ''fantasies around death'' (Laura Arrington and Jesse Hewit's ''Adult'') to perennial questions of what it means to look and be looked at (Ivana Müller's ''We Are Still Watching''). Thursday-Sept. 22. (503) 224-7422, pica.org. 
FALL FOR DANCE The festival kicks off its 10th anniversary with two free outdoor performances at Central Park's Delacorte Theater (Sept. 16-17), featuring New York City Ballet, Ronald K. Brown/Evidence, the Paul Taylor Dance Company and Streb Extreme Action. The samplers (and annual scrambling for cheap tickets) continue a week later at City Center (Sept. 25-Oct. 5), with 20 international companies on five programs. A few highlights: the imaginative Irish dancer Colin Dunne, the maverick tap artist Michelle Dorrance and commissioned works by ballet's most sought-after men of the moment, Justin Peck and Liam Scarlett. 131 West 55th Street, (212) 581-1212, nycitycenter.org.
NEW YORK CITY BALLET Whether you call it the Koch Theater or the State Theater (its original name, still preferred by some), City Ballet has been in its Lincoln Center home for nearly 50 years. In honor of the milestone, the company will perform some 50 ballets during its 2013-14 season. Three of those -- world premieres by Benjamin Millepied, Angelin Preljocaj and Justin Peck -- will be unveiled, outfitted in designer costumes, at the fall gala, Sept. 19. Works by Balanchine, Robbins, Alexei Ratmansky, Christopher Wheeldon and Mauro Bigonzetti complete the fall lineup (through Oct. 13). Then, like clockwork, comes Balanchine's ''Nutcracker'' (which predates the State Theater by 10 years), Nov. 29-Jan. 4. David H. Koch Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 496-0600, nycballet.com.
JAPAN SOCIETY Basil Twist may technically be a puppeteer, but his work displays a knowledge of the human body, its physics and anatomy, that rivals any dancer's or choreographer's. Bookending the Japan Society's 60th-anniversary season are his acclaimed ''Dogugaeshi'' (Sept. 18-22) and, next spring, a more conventional kind of dance, Luca Veggetti's ''Pleiades,'' featuring the percussionist Kuniko Kato and the former Nederlands Dans Theater member Megumi Nakamura (May 2-3). 333 East 47th Street, (212) 715-1258, japansociety.org.
THE CHOCOLATE FACTORY THEATERThe perception that Long Island City is ''far away'' prevents some New Yorkers from visiting this excellent little theater. It's worth bridging the psychological distance for the distinctive, adventurous artists that the artistic director Brian Rogers has assembled, including Megan V. Sprenger (Sept. 18-21), Karinne Keithley Syers (Oct. 2-5), Will Rawls (Nov. 13-16), Jon Kinzel (Dec. 4-7) and Liz Santoro (May 14-17). Through June 21. 5-49 49th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (212) 352-3101, chocolatefactorytheater.org.
JOFFREY BALLET For historical accuracy, no ''Rite of Spring'' can compete with the Joffrey's. The meticulous reconstruction by Millicent Hodson and Kenneth Archer of the Nijinsky original (which, as you've probably heard, turns 100 this year) completes its national tour at the company's home theater, sharing a Russian Masters program with Balanchine's ''Allegro Brillante'' and Yuri Possokhov's ''Bells.'' Sept. 19-22. Auditorium Theater, Chicago, (800) 982-2787, joffrey.com.
CROSSING THE LINE Labels like ''dance'' and ''theater'' don't go very far in describing what happens at the French Institute Alliance Française's interdisciplinary festival. Its astute curators Lili Chopra, Simon Dove and Gideon Lester seek out work that says what it needs to say by whatever means necessary. This year's dancier events include a new piece by the Moroccan artist Bouchra Ouizguen, Nora Chipaumire's ''riot'' (her answer to ''The Rite of Spring'') and ''a (micro) history of world economics, danced'' by the French playwright and director Pascal Rambert. Sept. 19-Oct. 13. Various sites, (212) 355-6160, fiaf.org.
PEAK PERFORMANCES New Jersey holds its own as a dance-going destination largely thanks to Jedediah Wheeler, the artistic director of this performing arts series at Montclair State University. Liz Gerring gets the season started with her expansive, athletic movement in the world premiere of ''glacier'' (Sept. 19-22). The months ahead bring Douglas Dunn's new ''Aubade'' with video by Charles Atlas (Jan. 24-Feb. 1) and Wayne McGregor's London-based company, Random Dance, in ''Atomos,'' his latest exploit at the intersection of technology and the hyperkinetic human form (March 15-23). Alexander Kasser Theater, Montclair, N.J., (973) 655-5112, peakperfs.org.
NEW YORK LIVE ARTS While some things have changed at the former Dance Theater Workshop since its rebirth as New York Live Arts in 2011, we can still count on Carla Peterson, the artistic director, for her bold, diverse programming. The new season -- a balance of local and international, rookie and veteran artists -- opens with ''The Inkomati (dis)cord'' by Boyzie Cekwana (from South Africa) and Panaibra Canda (from Mozambique), part of Crossing the Line Sept. 25-26. New works from John Jasperse, Kimberly Bartosik, Donna Uchizono and many others are also in store. The Replay Series brings back productions worthy of a longer life, like Big Dance Theater's 2012 ''Ich, Kürbisgeist'' (Oct. 31-Nov. 9) and Ms. Uchizono's 1999 ''State of Heads'' (Dec. 7). Through May 31. 219 West 19th Street, (212) 924-0077, newyorklivearts.org.
PACIFIC NORTHWEST BALLET Peter Boal's multifaceted season begins with a Twyla Tharp triptych: the return of ''Nine Sinatra Songs,'' the company premiere of ''Brief Fling'' and a world premiere to music by the venerable New Orleans composer Allen Toussaint (Sept. 27-Oct. 6). Jumping ahead to the spring season, Mr. Boal offers a more unorthodox combination with his Director's Choice program (March 14-23): Susan Marshall's ''Kiss,'' Molissa Fenley's ''State of Darkness'' and a new work by the Chicago choreographer Alejandro Cerrudo. Through June 8. Seattle, (206) 441-2424, pnb.org.
October
ABRONS ARTS CENTER In addition to American Realness in January, a few intriguing productions will be passing through the Henry Street Settlement's arts wing this fall, including a new work by Pavel Zustiak (Oct. 2-12), Miguel Gutierrez's ''myendlesslove'' (publicized as ''not quite a solo performance about sex, desire and objectification,'' Oct. 9-19) and Arturo Vidich's ''142241,'' which hinges on our willingness to believe in invisible worlds (Nov. 14-16). Abrons Arts Center, (866) 811-4111, abronsartscenter.org.
BILL T. JONES/ARNIE ZANE DANCE COMPANY Mr. Jones's meditation on ''The Rite of Spring,'' a collaboration with Anne Bogart and SITI Company, has its New York premiere Oct. 3-5 at the Brooklyn Academy of Music, followed by its West Coast premiere at San Francisco's Yerba Buena Center for the Arts, Oct. 11-13. Also at Yerba Buena, he offers ''/Time: Study 1'' (Oct. 8-9), building on last year's ''Story/Time,'' which employed chance operations in the spirit of John Cage. The company's 30th-anniversary tour also heads to the Dance Center of Columbia College Chicago (Oct. 24-26) and Boston's Institute of Contemporary Art (Feb. 21-23). newyorklivearts.org.
JOANNA HAIGOOD After last year's ''Paseo'' -- a site-specific salute to the South Bronx and its Latin music renaissance of the 1940s, '50s and '60s -- Ms. Haigood returns to the neighborhood and moves on to the 1970s. In ''The Bronx Revolution and the Birth of Hip Hop,'' presented (free of charge) by Dancing in the Streets, she joins forces with Theodore Livingston (the D.J. better known as GrandWizzard Theodore) and the photographer Joe Conzo Jr. for an afternoon of multimedia storytelling by veteran hip-hop dancers, graffiti artists and emcees. Oct. 5. Starting at Casita Maria Center for Arts and Education, 928 Simpson Street, Bronx, dancinginthestreets.org.
STEVE PAXTON The Dia Art Foundation embarks on its two-part tribute to Mr. Paxton, the latest in its thoughtful series of postmodern performance retrospectives. The septuagenarian improviser (best known as the pioneer of Contact Improvisation) and his longtime collaborator Lisa Nelson bring their 2002 ''Night Stand'' to Dia:Chelsea for its United States premiere (Oct. 10-19). We'll have to wait awhile for part two, the full survey of Mr. Paxton's work, which comes to Dia:Beacon next fall. 535 West 22nd Street, (212) 989-5566, diaart.org.
ON THE BOARDS This Seattle institution, directed by Lane Czaplinski, supports both local and international artists prone to taking big risks. First in its dance lineup is Heather Kravas, who after years in New York has moved back to her native coast. At once wild and militant, she commands cohesion from four dancers in ''the quartet'' (Oct. 10-13). The season continues with Gregory Maqoma, Zoe/Juniper and Alain Buffard, to name just a few, through May 11. Behnke Center for Contemporary Performance, Seattle, (206) 217-9888, ontheboards.org.
NEXT WAVE FESTIVAL Between the Brooklyn Academy of Music's three theaters, there's a lot to keep up with at its annual fall festival. For example: at the Howard Gilman Opera House, the United States premieres of William Forsythe's ''Sider'' (Oct. 9-12) and Hofesh Shechter's ''Sun'' (Nov. 14-16); at the more intimate BAM Fisher, new works by Brian Brooks (Oct. 22-26), John Heginbotham (Oct. 29-Nov. 2), Kate Weare (Nov. 6-9) and Susan Marshall (Nov. 20-23); and at the BAM Harvey Theater, David Dorfman Dance (Oct. 16-19) and the contemporary circus duo Zimmermann & de Perrot (Oct. 23-26). Through Dec. 14. Various sites, (718) 636-4100, bam.org.
SAN FRANCISCO BALLET The company arrives at Lincoln Center for two weeks (Oct. 16-27) bearing an embarrassment of ballet riches: eight New York premieres, including works by Alexei Ratmansky, Wayne McGregor, Helgi Tomasson (the artistic director) and Christopher Wheeldon, whose opulent ''Cinderella'' gets a week to itself. Later in the season, back at home, Mr. Ratmansky's ''Shostakovich Trilogy,'' created for American Ballet Theater, will have its West Coast premiere, April 2. (415) 865-2000, sfballet.org.
ROSAS The words ''late medieval music'' might not send you running to the box office, but in this case -- as with anything involving this Belgian company and its visionary choreographer, Anne Teresa De Keersmaeker -- they should. In her recent companion pieces ''En Atendant'' and ''Cesena'' (presented on separate programs at the Next Wave Festival, Oct. 19-20), Ms. De Keersmaeker explores the haunting 14th-century musical style known as ars subtilior, taking us on dual journeys from light into darkness and darkness into light. In ''Cesena,'' the Antwerp-based choral group Graindelavoix joins the dancers onstage. bam.org.
November
MATTHEW BOURNE Following up on his cheeky ''Nutcracker!'' (1992) and his gender-bending ''Swan Lake'' (1995), the British choreographer offers the latest in his trilogy of extravagantly reimagined Tchaikovsky ballets. His ''Sleeping Beauty,'' which opened to mixed reviews in London last year, hurtles from the Victorian gothic bedroom of Aurora's youth to the bondage-themed nightclub where she gets married 100 years later. After its New York premiere at City Center (Oct. 23-Nov. 3), the production heads to the Kennedy Center (Nov. 12-17) and the Music Center in Los Angeles (Nov. 21-Dec. 1); new-adventures.net.
KEIGWIN + COMPANY Dependably light and fun, clever and carefree -- but never at the expense of clean, eye-catching structure -- Larry Keigwin has been thriving in the dance-making business for a decade. For his company's 10th anniversary (Oct. 29-Nov. 3), he presents the oldest work in his repertory, ''Mattress Suite,'' and his 2004 ''Natural Selection,'' alongside the New York premiere of ''Girls,'' complete with sparkling rain curtains and Frank Sinatra tunes. The Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth Avenue, at 19th Street, Chelsea; (212) 242-0800, joyce.org.
AMERICAN BALLET THEATER The company's fall season, usually far too short, happily expands from one week to two. It also relocates to a bigger stage, from City Center to New York City Ballet's turf, the David H. Koch Theater. The world premiere of ''The Tempest,'' by the resident choreographer Alexei Ratmansky, will surely benefit from the extra space, as will the revivals of Michel Fokine's ''Sylphides,'' Twyla Tharp's ''Bach Partita'' and Mark Morris's ''Gong.'' Oct. 30-Nov. 10. abt.org.
PERFORMA RoseLee Goldberg's ''visual art performance'' biennial is back, having downsized (a good idea) just slightly, with more than 100 events in more than 40 locations over three and a half weeks (Nov. 1-24). The dance presentations (of those that have been announced) include Maria Hassabi's ''Premiere'' at the Kitchen (Nov. 6-9), Noé Soulier's ''Ideography'' at Danspace Project (Nov. 7) and Boris Charmatz's ''Musée de la Danse'' at the Museum of Modern Art, which re-envisions the museum as a malleable, animated space (Oct. 18-Nov. 3). (212) 366-5700, performa-arts.org.
DANSPACE PROJECT Judy Hussie-Taylor's innovative Platform series, in which choreographers serve as curators for several weeks at a time, appears to be on hiatus. The fall season, more loosely structured, features premieres by Rashaun Mitchell and Silas Riener (Nov. 14-16) and Cori Olinghouse (Dec. 12-14), plus a reprise of Katy Pyle's ''Firebird: A Ballez.'' Okwui Okpokwasili and Vanessa Anspaugh are among the thought-provoking artists scheduled for 2014. The Platform format resumes in May with ''Diary of an Image,'' four weeks devoted to the work of DD Dorvillier (May 19-June 14). St. Mark's Church, 131 East 10th Street, East Village; (866) 811-4111, danspaceproject.org.
WALKER ART CENTER Rapturously received in Europe, Jérôme Bel's ''Disabled Theater'' -- his collaboration with Theater Hora, a Swiss company of disabled actors -- arrives at this dynamic Twin Cities theater (Nov. 21-23) by way of New York Live Arts (Nov. 12-17). In more local news, the popular Choreographers' Evening returns on Nov. 30 to showcase rising talent from Minneapolis, selected this year by Chris Yon and Taryn Griggs. The daredevil duo Hijack, an influential force on the city's dance scene, celebrates 20 years, Dec. 5-7. (612) 375-7600, walkerart.org.
MARK MORRIS Spiritual transcendence, the theme of Lincoln Center's White Light Festival, is a tall order, but many would claim that Mr. Morris can deliver with his ''L'Allegro, il Penseroso ed il Moderato.'' His company makes its White Light debut with that work, widely considered his greatest, Nov. 21-23. Another Handel score inspires Mr. Morris's next project, ''Acis and Galatea,'' which has its world premiere at Cal Performances April 25-27. markmorrisdancegroup.org.
December
ALVIN AILEY AMERICAN DANCE THEATER At a 55-year-old institution, where leaders tend to stick around for several decades, two years isn't very long. In that time, the artistic director Robert Battle has considerably refurbished the company's repertory, bringing in big names from abroad (Jiri Kylian, Ohad Naharin) and invigorating young voices like Kyle Abraham. He continues in that vein this season with a world premiere by Aszure Barton and two company premieres: Bill T. Jones's classic ''D-Man in the Waters'' and ''Chroma'' by the brainy British choreographer Wayne McGregor. Dec. 4-Jan. 5. (212) 581-1212, alvinailey.org.
TERE O'CONNOR After 30 years of making dances, how does a choreographer avoid repeating himself? One approach is to work with different groups of dancers, which Mr. O'Connor has done in three works -- ''Secret Mary,'' ''poem'' and ''Untitled'' -- over the past two years. Taking the process further, he now collapses those three into a fourth; like particles colliding, their disparate elements should fuse into something delightfully unexpected. The resulting composite, ''Bleed,'' has its world premiere at the Next Wave Festival, Dec. 11-14. bam.org.
JUILLIARD DANCE The trailblazing German choreographer Pina Bausch owed her dance education, in part, to Juilliard. Partnering with her other alma mater, the Folkwangschule in Essen, Germany, the conservatory reconstructs her 1975 ''Wind von West'' (''Wind From the West'') as part of its New Dances program, becoming the first United States institution -- and only the third in the world, after the Paris Opéra Ballet and her Tanztheater Wuppertal -- to perform Ms. Bausch's work. Dec. 11-15. Peter Jay Sharp Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500, juilliard.edu/newdances.
January
FOCUS DANCE The buying and selling of live performance is in full force this month, thanks to the annual conference of the Association of Performing Arts Presenters. Amid what often feels like a cultural meat market, this showcase (with a sweeping ''focus'' on American choreographers) is a felicitous recent development, bringing together compelling artists who you don't usually see back to back. This year's curator, Laurie Uprichard, assembles some particularly interesting pairings, like Vicky Shick with Doug Elkins and Yvonne Rainer with Urban Bush Women. Jan. 7-12. joyce.org.
AMERICAN REALNESS Plans are still under way for Ben Pryor's fifth annual festival of contemporary performance at Abrons Arts Center, but if it's anything like past years, we can expect 11 days packed with smart, strong-minded artists who aren't afraid of making a mess. Confirmed, so far, are Michelle Boulé's ''Wonder,'' Juliana F. May's ''Commentary = not thing'' and Adrienne Truscott's ''Too Freedom.'' There will, no doubt, be much more, maybe too much; over-stimulation comes with the Realness territory. Jan. 9-19. tbspMGMT.com.
LIAM SCARLETT America has latched onto this British choreographer, a former dancer with the Royal Ballet who, last year, became its artist in residence at the age of 26. Having created two pieces for Miami City Ballet, he moves on to New York City Ballet, making his choreographic debut there on Jan. 31. His first work for San Francisco Ballet has its premiere on April 29.
February
PAM TANOWITZ There are two opportunities this month to see Ms. Tanowitz's exacting, elaborate choreography: during the Joyce Theater debut of her company (Feb. 4-6) and at Florence Gould Hall, where the small but highly regarded New York Theater Ballet performs her ''Short Memory,'' praised by the New York Times critic Brian Seibert for its ''brilliant use of stage space'' (Feb. 28-March 1).
ROYAL NEW ZEALAND BALLET Yes, it's been 13 years, but for some of us Ethan Stiefel will always be Cooper Nielsen in the 2000 teen dance movie ''Center Stage.'' Of course, he was also a principal dancer with American Ballet Theater, then he took off for New Zealand to become the artistic director of this company. Touring the United States for the first time under his leadership, the troupe arrives at the Joyce Theater (after stopping at the Music Center in Los Angeles, Jan. 31-Feb. 2). Feb. 12-16. joyce.org.
92ND STREET Y The annual tradition of stripping and dressing resumes at the Harkness Dance Festival, where the curator Doug Varone invites artists to ''strip down'' their work, sharing aspects of the process, before presenting a more polished, ''dressed'' product. This year those artists are Nora Chipaumire, casebolt and smith, Netta Yerushalmy, Kyle Abraham and David Dorfman, all makers of luscious, space-gobbling movement. Feb. 21-March 23. 92nd Street Y, 1395 Lexington Avenue, (212) 415-5500, 92y.org.
LUCIANA ACHUGAR For ''Otro Teatro,'' the darkly poetic Ms. Achugar began with the image of a collapsed theater. In a kind of ritualistic rebuilding, the Uruguayan choreographer probes beneath so-called civilized exteriors to expose more instinctual layers of society and self. The work has its world premiere at Walker Art Center (Feb. 27-March 1), then heads to New York Live Arts (April 2-5).
March
FLAMENCO FESTIVAL A large proscenium theater isn't ideal for flamenco, a form best experienced up close. For this annual City Center festival -- featuring Antonio Canales, Carlos Rodríguez, Karime Amaya and Jesús Carmona (March 6-7) and Eva Yerbabuena (March 8-9) -- get tickets early to snag seats at the front of the house. nycitycenter.org.
PAUL TAYLOR Six decades of making dances, and Mr. Taylor is still churning them out. His company's three-week Lincoln Center engagement includes a world premiere, a New York premiere and 19 other works from its ever-expanding repertory. March 11-30. (646) 214-5815, ptdc.org.
BETH GILL The title of Ms. Gill's new piece, ''New Work for the Desert,'' captures a certain tension in her work: her minimalist landscapes, while sometimes bleak, can also feel lush, regenerative, nourishing for the heart and mind. The cast here includes several dancers from her highly acclaimed ''Electric Midwife,'' plus a few newcomers. March 20-22. newyorklivearts.org.
MARTHA GRAHAM DANCE COMPANY The company continues its balancing act of preserving Graham's legacy while not getting stuck in the past. Its City Center season, while honoring the 70th anniversary of ''Appalachian Spring,'' also includes new works by Spain's esteemed Nacho Duato and the Greek choreographer Andonis Foniadakis. Let's hope that the expository speeches and video montages, a distracting part of last year's Joyce performances, are kept to a minimum. March 19-22. nycitycenter.org.
April
STEPHEN PETRONIO This year marks the big three-oh for Mr. Petronio's company. In addition to a revival of ''Strange Attractors, Part I'' from 1999, he's celebrating with two new, presumably contrasting works at the Joyce Theater: one to Philip Glass, the other to a commissioned score by the hip-hop producer Clams Casino. stephenpetronio.com.
REGGIE WILSON The best term for Mr. Wilson's bracing, rhythmically resonant works might be the one that often appears in his press materials: ''post-African/neo-HooDoo modern dances.'' In his latest, ''moses(es),'' he draws from Zora Neale Hurston's ''Moses, Man of the Mountains'' and his own travels to Egypt, Turkey and Mali to explore themes of leadership and migration. His Fist & Heel Performance Group takes the piece to the Dance Center of Columbia College Chicago (April 3-5), following its New York premiere at the Next Wave Festival (Dec. 4-7); colum.edu/dancecenter.
AMERICAN TAP DANCE FOUNDATION From its West Village headquarters, this organization directed by Tony Waag works hard to preserve tap's history and nurture fresh talent. Rhythm in Motion, its annual showcase of new dances by artists in residence, returns to the Theater at the 14th Street Y, April 8-13. 344 East 14th Street, (646) 230-9564, atdf.org.
WENDY WHELAN The New York City Ballet principal's admirable experiment in self-transformation, ''Restless Creature,'' comes to the Joyce Theater, April 2-6. Its spring tour also touches down in New Jersey; Chicago; Pittsburgh; Ann Arbor, Mich.; Boston; Louisville, Ky.; and Chapel Hill, N.C. Through April 11.
TRISHA BROWN DANCE COMPANY With the aging Ms. Brown no longer making new works, her dancers channel their energies into reconstructing older ones. The rarely seen ''Son of Gone Fishin' '' (1981) -- whose structure Ms. Brown has called '' the most rigorous of all my works'' -- should be a high point of the troupe's New York Live Arts season, which also includes ''Opal Loop/Cloud Installation #72503'' (1980), ''Solo Olos'' (1976) and ''Rogues'' (2011). newyorklivearts.org.
May
DANSE: A FRENCH-AMERICAN FESTIVAL OF PERFORMANCE AND IDEAS For this inaugural, citywide endeavor, the French Embassy partners with 14 presenters to host 17 United States premieres by a wide array of France-based artists, from Cecilia Bengolea and François Chaignaud at the Kitchen to Lyon Opera Ballet at the Brooklyn Academy of Music. Meanwhile, an editorial team will be chronicling it all, producing two publications to fulfill what the news release calls ''an increasing demand for critical analysis in the performance world.'' May 1-18. frenchculture.org.
FESTIVAL OF 21ST-CENTURY CHOREOGRAPHERS If you've ever found yourself feeling burnt out on Balanchine and Robbins, scouring the New York City Ballet calendar for dances made in this century, it's your lucky week. The company highlights its wealth of contemporary repertory -- by William Forsythe, Justin Peck, Alexei Ratmansky, Peter Martins, Liam Scarlett, Christopher Wheeldon and others -- with this much welcome festival (April 29-May 4). We'll see more of the fiercely talented Mr. Peck the following week, when his latest collaboration with Sufjan Stevens has its premiere at the spring gala (May 8). nycballet.org.
KENNEDY CENTER It's not often that musical ensembles commission dancers (the opposite is far more common), but in a rare reversal of roles, the National Symphony Orchestra has invited three companies -- Jessica Lang Dance, Keigwin + Company and New Ballet Ensemble, the troupe where the Memphis jookin virtuoso Lil Buck got his start -- to create works for ''New Moves: Symphony + Dance'' (May 7-17). Also this month: a visit from the Bolshoi Ballet (May 20-25), one of the many illustrious companies passing through the center this year. 2700 F Street, NW, Washington, (202) 467-4600, kennedy-center.org.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); DANCE (89%); DANCERS (89%); BALLET (89%); DANCE COMPANIES (89%); THEATER (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); CITIES (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (72%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); CROATIA (79%); BELGIUM (56%); MOROCCO (56%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2013



209 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; AUTO EGO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1322 words

HEADLINE: One Man's Toyota Rescue Mission

BYLINE: By JIM KOSCS

 BODY:
WEST NYACK, N.Y. -- Luis Bonilla was inching his brown 1982 Toyota Corolla from a tight parking space outside the Clarksville Inn when something caught his eye. As he watched his mirrors for traffic approaching on Strawtown Road here, a Corolla nearly identical to his, but with shinier paint, drove by.
''I don't believe it -- two of them together,'' said the 41-year-old father of two, his voice betraying a level of excitement people rarely display for 30-year-old econocars. But Mr. Bonilla is enthusiastic about his hobby, customizing and racing Toyotas that he calls old school, the term describing the carmaker's rear-wheel drive models built until the late 1980s.
He followed the Corolla, two cars ahead in traffic, as it turned east onto Rt. 59. At the next stoplight he admired its well-preserved condition and snapped photos with his phone. The driver, an older man, never seemed to notice. 
''It's an '83,'' Mr. Bonilla said, explaining that the color was offered on Corollas for just that one year.
Aside from its color, a Champagne-like shade called Shell Metallic, the car looked identical to Mr. Bonilla's 1982 four-door sedan. A daily-driver with 170,000 miles that he bought two years ago, it is one of his family's seven Toyotas.
Mr. Bonilla's zeal for such an unremarkable model might puzzle car enthusiasts who look down on Corollas of any vintage as prosaic. His devotion to Toyotas, he says, is rooted in their reliability and the ease of modifying them for much more power and performance.
''They're also part of my heritage,'' he said, referring to the popularity of Toyotas -- and people racing them -- in Puerto Rico, where he was born. His family left the island in 1979, when he was 7.
Mr. Bonilla said he inherited his love of cars from his father, who did body repair work, and his uncle, who always drove an older Cadillac and still drives a 1980 Toyota Corolla in Puerto Rico.
''I just shipped him a dashboard,'' he said.
Mr. Bonilla's family lived half a mile from a dragstrip, where, he said, there was an active Toyota racing scene. His mother, concerned about safety, would not allow him to go to the track, but he remembers when the motorcycle daredevil Evel Knievel came to do one of his famous stunts.
''I climbed a tree outside the track to watch,'' he said.
Mr. Bonilla, who now lives in Stratford, Conn., and drives a tractor-trailer for a living, took up his Toyota hobby as a teenager, after seeing a friend's car.
''It was a '76 Corolla with a 3TC,'' he said, using the carmaker's code for the 1.8-liter 4-cylinder engine that is popular with Toyota hot-rodders.
Like a BMW or Porsche buff, Mr. Bonilla refers to his Toyotas by the manufacturer's internal codes rather than their familiar model names. His favorite Toyota, the '70s Celica coupe, is known as an RA21, and the 1969 Corona coupe belonging to his 21-year-old son, Luis Jr., is an RT43.
Mr. Bonilla said that in the 1990s he and his friends encountered anti-Toyota prejudice at car shows, where their efforts were ignored.
''No matter how good our workmanship, we could not get respect or awards,'' he said. ''They were never going to give a 'best paint' trophy to a Toyota over a Chevelle.''
His response was to start the Old School Toyota Car Club of Bridgeport in 2000. Its 11 members, many from nearby towns in Connecticut, own 25 cars among them.
Ten years ago, Mr. Bonilla began organizing his own shows. Although skewed to older Japanese models, the events welcomed any cars, including American muscle cars like his neighbor's 1969 Chevelle SS396.
Mr. Bonilla took some inspiration from a big import car show he attended in Southern California, organized by a Toyota owners club run by Terry Yamaguchi and her husband, Koji.
''My shows offered a new playing field,'' he said. ''At the first one, we had 32 cars. At our tenth and final show this year, we had 330. Cars came from as far away as South Carolina.''
This year, Mr. Bonilla organized his club's first drag racing track day, renting Lebanon Valley Dragway near Albany, N.Y., on a weekday in May.
''It was a family event,'' he said. ''The guys brought their wives and kids, and we grilled.''
Most of the 38 cars that participated were older Toyotas, Datsuns and rotary-engine Mazdas. Modifications to the cars include souped-up engines, bigger wheels and brakes and lowered suspensions -- similar to what the owners of American models, who were also invited to participate, do to their cars.
''We used to not talk to each other,'' said Mr. Bonilla of the muscle car owners. ''Now we exchange ideas, we learn from each other.''
They could certainly learn something from Mr. Bonilla. The 1973 Celica that he drag races would impress even the most devoted fan of Detroit's products. The turbocharged 3TC engine he built for it makes 462 horsepower, as measured on a dynamometer. The car has blazed down the quarter-mile in 10.2 seconds at 131 m.p.h.
Because there are few speed parts available for older Toyotas, Mr. Bonilla must adapt parts from other cars and even make some of his own. For his Celica, he bolted an aftermarket turbocharger to an exhaust manifold that he fabricated. The car's 5-speed manual transmission came from a wrecked 1990s-vintage Ford Mustang GT.
''Old school'' certainly doesn't apply to Mr. Bonilla's approach to engine technology. He does not bother with the carburetors that came on the older cars, but installs modern computer-controlled fuel injection.
''I incorporated everything I've learned into that car,'' he said. He plans to make the Celica even faster by building a turbocharged 4-cylinder engine from a Toyota Tacoma pickup truck, which he estimates will produce 900 horsepower.
Mr. Bonilla also owns a second Celica, a 1972 model that he rescued from a scrapyard in Norwalk, Conn., 20 years ago, paying $200. He drove it for years and now he's replacing its 4-cylinder engine with a 3-liter in-line 6 from a 1990s Lexus SC 300.
''When I finish, it will look like it came factory-installed,'' he said. ''I do that with all my engine swaps.''
A 1969 Toyota Corona that he is customizing with Luis Jr. has a 400-horsepower V-8 from a Toyota Tundra pickup. For now, the young man's daily transportation is a mildly customized '82 Corolla coupe with a 2RZ 2.4-liter 4-cylinder engine from an older Tacoma truck.
Mr. Bonilla's wife, Madeline, and the couple's 16 year-old son, Jonathan, also enjoy the Toyotas. Mrs. Bonilla drives a 2006 Avalon, and a ''fun'' car for her, a 1985 Corolla GT-S, is in the works. It's a rear-drive model with its own loyal following among Toyota buffs around the world, who know it as the AE86.
Organizing more drag race days is in Mr. Bonilla's plans, with an eye toward growing participation. He cited the Pan American Nationals, an event held each July at Atco Raceway in southern New Jersey. That event, for older Japanese cars, began 19 years ago with a few dozen participants. It grew into one of the track's two largest annual events, the other being Honda Day, according to Joe Sway, who owned the track until last December and remains a consultant there.
''We had to limit the number of racecars to 350,'' Mr. Sway said. ''Cars come from as far away as Aruba, Canada, Curaçao and Puerto Rico to race.''
Mr. Bonilla did not finish the engine work on his Celica in time to make this year's race. Instead, he installed a turbocharged Tacoma 4-cylinder engine in his son's Corolla for the race.
''Nothing crazy, a simple swap,'' he said in an e-mail. The Corolla ran the quarter-mile in 12.07 seconds at 110 m.p.h., but driveshaft problems kept it from further competition.
Mr. Bonilla's brand loyalty is not absolute. He tows his racecars to the track with the one vehicle in his family that's not a Toyota, a Dodge Dakota pickup.
''It's a well-made, reliable truck,'' he said.
Luis Bonilla
Location Stratford, Conn.
Occupation Commercial truck driver
Vehicles 1982 Toyota Corolla, 1973 Celica
Acquired 2011 (Corolla) and 2001 (Celica)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FAITHFUL: Top, Luis Bonilla with his Toyota daily driver, a 1982 Corolla sedan. Above, Mr. Bonilla at work on his '73 Celica racecar in a garage that he and members of the Old School Toyota Car Club of Bridgeport rent. (AU1)
Clockwise from top, Luis Bonilla working on a transmission swap with his son Luis Jr.
gauges added to the Celica racecar
 the engine installation in a trial fitting. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (AU2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (78%); CAR ENTHUSIASTS (78%); SEDANS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (50%) CONNECTICUT, USA (50%) PUERTO RICO (90%); UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2013



210 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1676 words

HEADLINE: He Was Born Dandy

BYLINE: By GERALDINE FABRIKANT

 BODY:
When Hamish Bowles was a toddler walking down the street with his mother near their home in the leafy north London neighborhood of Hampstead Garden Suburb, an elegant Indian woman came toward them dressed in an elaborate sari. ''Hamish rushed up to her and plucked at it,'' his mother, Anne Bowles, recalled recently. '' 'Mummy, mummy, look, it has gold threads,' '' she remembers her small son saying.
''It was a wake-up call, definitely, that Hamish was interested in fashion,'' Mrs. Bowles said.
Threads of all colors were not a passing fancy for Mr. Bowles, the dapper international editor at large for Vogue who has been tapped to fill the shoes (if not the billowing caftans) of André Leon Talley, the longtime columnist who left the magazine last February to edit Numero Russia. 
''We wanted to fill that void with another compelling voice that could bring you into the world of fashion, travel and all the extraordinary places Hamish goes and all the people he sees,'' said Anna Wintour, Vogue's editor.
For the daylong celebration that Ms. Wintour arranged last June for Mr. Bowles's 50th birthday, Ralph Lauren made a three-piece suit in sherbet pink, to which the guest of honor added an antique fob chain and a diamond and emerald Art Deco pin. ''Long live the lilac queen,'' the writer Christopher Mason toasted Mr. Bowles (known for his love of that color) in song, who can ''find in piles of schlock, some Balenciaga frock.''
That is an understatement. If Mr. Talley was Vogue's resident peacock, swooping about in capes and issuing edicts, Mr. Bowles is more its professor, with one of the largest private collections of vintage clothing in the world, which he stores in the Bronx and Queens. At the invitation of Oscar de la Renta, he curated the ''Balenciaga in Spain'' exhibition that showed in New York and San Francisco two years ago. He also curated ''Jacqueline Kennedy and the White House Years'' at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in 2001. His new Vogue column began with a visit to Chatsworth, home of the Duke and Duchess of Devonshire.
But Mr. Bowles has also displayed a comical side, reveling in unlikely immersive journalism like a stint at the Boulder Survival School, surfing with Blake Lively and, at the suggestion of Ms. Wintour, auditioning for ''The X Factor.'' (He has been known to sing Broadway show songs by heart at Marie's Crisis in Greenwich Village.)
''Those experimental stories I have been given are coming from Anna and my fellow editors,'' he said the other day, sitting in his chic, small East Village duplex, decorated by friends Roberto Peregalli and Laura Rimini, protégés of the Italian design master Lorenzo Mongiardino. ''The ideas spring from their fiendish minds,'' he said, only half-joking.
With his back to the double-height window in the living room, Mr. Bowles looked the perfect gentleman in a blue Dries Van Noten suit, a purple, magenta and lilac Charvet tie and loafers made for him ''in a little cubbyhole in the medina in Tangiers,'' he said, running his hand periodically through light brown hair and speaking in a British accent.
The living room was covered with pediment-topped bookcases crammed with works carefully organized into biographies, fashion and decorating. ''We were going for something Proustian,'' he said. ''Upstairs, we wanted more of a Madeleine Castaing look,'' he added, alluding to the French decorator famous for mixing French, Russian, British and junk pieces.
One might expect Mr. Bowles to be uncomfortable in any other world but that of the aristocratic grandeur he loves to study. But Ms. Wintour said that would be a misapprehension. ''We have this vision of Hamish being this special person who lives in a special world, and he is not that at all,'' she said. ''He can be at home anywhere.''
An editor at a rival publication, who did not want to be identified commenting on the competition, suggested that giving Mr. Bowles wacky assignments has been a conscious strategy on Ms. Wintour's part to make him more accessible. ''His focus was too Mandarin,'' the editor said. ''I think Anna wanted to expand his brand to something more readers could relate to. If you are part of Twitter and the social media, you can't be the person who can only talk about the French flea market.''
Mr. Bowles did not entirely disagree. ''The new mandate brings a sense of range to what might have been perceived as a sequestered gilded Vogue life,'' he said.
Yet Charlie Scheips, a former Condé Nast archivist who helped research photos for the Kennedy exhibition, believes that Mr. Bowles has ''helped burnish Anna's image, too,'' he said. ''His knowledge of fashion and the history of Vogue has been very good for her. She was mainly interested in contemporary fashion. She is not a fashion historian. I think he helped her realize that she was historically important.''
Mr. Bowles's own history seems rather charmed. He and a younger sister, Sarah, grew up in a home he calls ''left of liberal''; his father was vice provost of University College of London and his mother, who loved antique stores and photography, was a ''deeply intrepid maverick and adventurer,'' he said.
When Hamish was 6, the family drove across North Africa in a Volkswagen camper. ''In Morocco he drew women's clothes,'' his mother said. ''He drew every evening. From the age of 9 he would go directly into a charity shop and look at the linings. That was when he started collecting. We would visit antique fairs. Lots of women would befriend him and give him little Victorian pieces of lace.''
As Mr. Bowles remembers it: ''I started looking at fashion magazines, specifically British Vogue. I was reading a lot about Cecil Beaton. Then I thought maybe I should start collecting.''
He took index cards to events like a fund-raising sale for the Sadler's Wells ballet, where he saw a Balenciaga toreador jacket donated by the prima ballerina Margot Fonteyn. He was not among the bidders. ''It would've been 120 weeks of pocket money and there were Pez sherbet sweet dispensers to be bought,'' he said. (Providentially, he found the bolero in a vintage store in Los Angeles about eight years ago and used a still life of it as the cover for ''Balenciaga in Spain.'')
Of a suit, also Balenciaga, donated by a Lady Scott, ''I remember writing that it was 'French navy' rather than 'navy' and the provenance,'' Mr. Bowles said. ''That was my fashion Rosebud moment.''
He was not just scribbling on the little cards. ''Hamish would write plays and send them to his dad to have them photocopied,'' Mrs. Bowles said. ''The children would dress up and put the plays on.''
By 14, Hamish had submitted drawings and writing on his favorite designer to a British Vogue contest; he won a special mention. ''That was the turning point,'' Mrs. Bowles said. ''He was invited to Vogue, given Champagne and orange juice and he never looked back.''
If his fashion focus and outré style made him somewhat of a misfit growing up, Mr. Bowles found his niche when he was accepted at the Saint Martin's School of Art, where he studied fashion journalism. At 19 he was hired to work on the teenage issue of Harpers & Queen. Three years later, after distinguishing himself with talent that could sometimes be extravagant, like one shoot that came to be known as ''Murder on the American Express,'' he became its youngest fashion editor.
The wunderkind caught Ms. Wintour's eye. In 1993, a year American Vogue did a fashion shoot of his minute lilac flat in London, Mr. Bowles accepted her job offer in New York. ''Some things had come along; they were intriguing but resistible,'' Mr. Bowles said. ''Then this came along.''
His rise has not been entirely smooth. He was charged with helming Vogue Living in 2006, although the spinoff petered out, in part because of the economic meltdown. ''We were testing the waters and the waters were too choppy,'' Mr. Bowles said.
But he has built an armada of celebrity and socialite friends. At the request of Sarah Jessica Parker, Mr. Bowles escorted the actress at the Costume Institute's gala last May. (He also had to chaperon her hairpiece, which was sufficiently monumental that the actress had to sit on the floor of the limousine on their way uptown. Unfazed, Mr. Bowles ''was sitting properly like a real lady and taking pictures of me,'' Ms. Parker said. )
And his travel schedule is formidable even among the international fashion set. In late June he flew to Miami for the wedding of the Knicks star Amar'e Stoudemire, a previous profile subject, to Alexis Welch. From there he zipped to Paris for the couture shows and then to Venice, where Dolce & Gabbana hosted a masked ball for 400.
The next morning he packed in the Manet show at the Palazzo Ducale, pronouncing it ''breathtaking'' before getting on to a plane for New York, where he used some spare time to ''agonize,'' he said, over a piece on the philanthropic work of Emma Bloomberg, the eldest daughter of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg.
According to Ms. Wintour and others, deadlines are not Mr. Bowles's strong suit, but his coverage of the glamorous globe-trotting managed to find its way into the September issue of the magazine, along with a remark from Caroline Sieber, the stylist and Chanel brand ambassador (whose wedding he had also attended), that she had sought Mr. Bowles's advice about her dress. It was modeled after a Charles Worth gown with balloon sleeves worn by the wife of Austrian Emperor Franz Joseph, Empress Elisabeth, in a Winterhalter portrait. Mr. Bowles knew that Karl Lagerfeld had created a similar sleeve in his 1985 collection.
Belying his humble affect, Mr. Bowles wrote about his own birthday party. In a toast there, Ms. Wintour said she had been ''quite flattered when Hamish asked me to host a small dinner for 20.'' It swelled to 100 guests and was followed by two dinners and a fête champêre in England.
''I learned I was first in a list of tour dates, not unlike Jay Z's, scheduled all over the world,'' Ms. Wintour said with a note of pride. ''I was simply the hors d'oeuvre in a series of celebrations.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Hamish Bowles, far left, is taking over the Vogue editorial space once reserved for the columnist André Leon Talley. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW TESTA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ST1)
Clockwise from top left, Hamish Bowles with Anna Wintour
Mr. Bowles at an exhibit reception in San Francisco
Joseph Altuzarra, Alexander Wang, Olivier Theyskens, Mr. Bowles, Haider Ackermann and Aymeline Valade at the Monkey Bar
and the curator Andrew Bolton with Mr. Bowles. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CRAIG BARRITT/GETTY IMAGES
HEIDI SCHUMANN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
EVAN SUNG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
ELIZABETH LIPPMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Mr. Bowles in ''Vintage Bowles,'' a Vogue video series. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CONDÉ NAST ENTERTAINMENT) (ST12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); FASHION DESIGNERS (89%); WRITERS (88%); FASHION & APPAREL (75%); JOURNALISM (74%); BRITISH NOBILITY & GENTRY (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (69%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (65%)

PERSON: RALPH LAUREN (58%); OSCAR DE LA RENTA (55%); BLAKE LIVELY (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); SPAIN (52%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2013



211 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1282 words

HEADLINE: Vocational Training From a Label Near You

BYLINE: By ALEX HAWGOOD

 BODY:
Camille Lapierre always wanted to be a fashion writer. As an undergraduate at the University of Nîmes, she majored in English and spent a year studying journalism at the University of Central Lancashire. She went on to receive a master's degree in literature at the Sorbonne, where she wrote dissertations on the works of Zelda Fitzgerald and Virginia Woolf.
There was one very important piece of text, however, that her academic training left her unprepared to scrutinize: a magazine masthead.
''It's all a bit fuzzy when you look at that list of titles and you don't really know what the jobs are and who is doing what,'' said Ms. Lapierre, 25. ''I wanted to understand what it meant to have a career in fashion in one broad sweep,'' she said. ''But I needed to learn in a short period of time.'' 
A Google search for ''fashion colleges in London'' led her to the Condé Nast College of Fashion and Design, a new educational program in Central London offering a 10-week course costing £6,600 (or about $8,500) on what it takes to break into an industry known for, among other things, occasionally confusing professional titles. (''Fashion closet freelancer'' or ''social media architect,'' anyone?)
Currently interning for a fashion public relations and consulting agency called In+Addition, Ms. Lapierre is one of many college graduates (and some dropouts) who are adding to their formal educations with vocational training offered by commercial brands.
Last June, 12 digital ''beauty gurus,'' online personalities who create makeup-tutorial style video clips that attract millions of eyeballs, descended upon the YouTube Space Los Angeles, a production facility, for a month of schooling about the popular video-sharing site. Google, which owns YouTube, last year began offering free four-week programs for would-be online media moguls to produce digital shorts, swap tips with fellow ''content creators'' and receive instruction from in-house experts on topics like subscriber retention tactics, lighting techniques and revenue opportunities. (There are also ''campuses'' in London and Tokyo, and one planned to open in New York next year.)
The Red Bull Music Academy, founded in 1998 by the caffeinated energy drink popular in late-night club culture as a low-key workshop operating out of a garage in Berlin, has over the past few years transformed into a nexus of learning for laptop-friendly musicians. (Alumni include the drum-and-bass D.J. Om Unit and the experimental rapper Flying Lotus.) The academy now roams through cities that have included Barcelona and Toronto, stopping at state-of-the-art, custom-built music production facilities that host star lecturers like Brian Eno, who dispense wisdom on what it means to be a working musician in the hazy climate of today's recording industry.
As to be expected from a beverage that has nearly twice the kick as a can of Coke, the Red Bull Academy's courses are speedy, at five weeks. Admission to them is also more selective than that to an Ivy League school. At the school's most recent pit stop in a three-story space in Chelsea last May, a symposium featuring lectures from Erykah Badu and Debbie Harry had 62 participants (divided into two terms), chosen from more than 4,000 applicants.
To some extent, such untraditional institutes of learning resemble places like UnCollege, a San Francisco-based, self-declared ''hackademic'' center that on its Web site touts tutorials on ''the basic and advanced skills required to participate in today's information economy'' for approximately $15,000 per two-season semester. But as Dale J. Stephens, who started UnCollege in 2011 after he dropped out of Hendrix College in Conway, Ark., pointed out, his corporate-sponsored competition is not just teaching but potentially recruiting. ''I think what is most interesting about these educational programs is that it forces the education to be relevant to the market, because the education is being funded by the market,'' Mr. Stephens said, adding that the programs allow both student and company to figure out ''whether or not someone is a cultural fit for the employer.''
Certainly that was the case for Antonius and Vijay Nazareth, two brothers who run AVbyte, a YouTube channel that features mash-up showtune clips, and who both believe their experience at a YouTube program called NextUp better prepared them for the digital media job market than their undergraduate educations. Antonius, 20, dropped out of City College of New York because he didn't feel as if he was getting the training required to be a digital content creator. ''My professors didn't quite believe what I was saying about my dreams of running my own YouTube channel as a viable profession,'' he said.
Vijay, 24, who attended a music composition program at New York University's Steinhardt School of Education, said he too would have dropped out if he hadn't already completed three years by the time his younger brother left school. ''I think it's time that some of these universities wake up and realize what the online media space is offering,'' he said.
The younger Mr. Nazareth chimed in: ''Who do you trust: Google or a school like U.C.L.A.? I mean right now it's hard to say. I don't think schools are providing skills for students to make it in the online space.''
Members of traditional academia say the rise of these new vocational institutions is understandable, given the constantly touted can-do possibilities of the Web combined with the deluge of depressing news about college debt and high unemployment numbers. ''There is no question that there is anxiety and concern toward employability that I see freshmen enter with that is more intense that it would have been 10 years ago or so,'' said Susanne Wofford, dean of New York University's Gallatin School of Individualized Study. ''In addition to that, there is a great deal of excitement and interest in all of the things going on in the digital space and, in particular, social media.''
The question of who can ''provide a space for students to develop something that will allow them to be employed'' is a pressing one, Ms. Wofford said, for both schools and corporations. Indeed, increasingly the lines between the two are blurring. A foundation set up by the Guess clothing company recently donated $2.5 million to the Gallatin school to establish the Guess Distinguished Visiting Professorship in Fashion and Fashion Business. The position has been held by Christine Beauchamp, a former president at Victoria's Secret, and Eugenia Ulasewicz, who has worked for Burberry, Saks Fifth Avenue, and Bloomingdale's.
Though there is some curriculum overlap with Condé Nast College, Ms. Wofford said, ''I'm not sure what these courses run by companies have for students to gain is more valuable than the courses we are offering here at Gallatin.''
Susie Forbes, the Condé Nast College's principal, didn't disagree. ''There are elements of the traditional university that cannot be replaced by shorter and more bespoke courses. It's just different,'' she said. ''But there is no doubt that there is a gap in the market.''
So can attest August Rosenbaum, 26, an experimental jazz pianist and alumnus of both the Rhythmic Music Conservatory in Denmark and the Red Bull Music Academy in New York, who acknowledged that the latter credit might draw snickers from some. ''The interaction between corporations and education is fairly young,'' he said. ''I don't think in 10 years the debate will be the same. It will be much more of an accepted part of employment survival for young people. People are still getting used to the idea that this type of educational playground will come from, I don't know, an energy drink.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Questlove, center left, lectures at the Red Bull Music Academy in New York. (ST14)
 Alex Farnha, right, and Don Monopoli film a music video for Mr. Farnha's channel as part of the YouTube Creator Camp. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHANIE DIANI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ST15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOURNALISM (90%); WRITERS (90%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (86%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (78%); FASHION DESIGN (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (76%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (75%); LITERATURE (73%); SOCIAL MEDIA (72%); SOFT DRINKS (64%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (63%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (63%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (63%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (63%); ENERGY DRINKS (60%); MUSIC (60%); HIP HOP CULTURE (60%); RAP MUSIC (60%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (50%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (56%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); BERLIN, GERMANY (74%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (74%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2013



212 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1008 words

HEADLINE: Betting On the Apocalypse

BYLINE: By PAUL SABIN. 
An associate professor of American history at Yale and the author of ''The Bet: Paul Ehrlich, Julian Simon, and Our Gamble Over Earth's Future.''

 BODY:
ONE day in October 1990, the iconoclastic economist Julian L. Simon walked out to get the mail at his house in the Washington suburb of Chevy Chase, Md. In a small envelope sent from Palo Alto, Calif., he found a sheet of metal prices, along with a check for $576.07 from the biologist Paul R. Ehrlich. There was no note.
Ten years earlier, Mr. Simon and Mr. Ehrlich, joined by two scientific colleagues, had made a wager on the future prices of five metals: chromium, copper, nickel, tin and tungsten. The bet -- in which the loser would pay the change in price of a $1,000 bundle of the five metals -- was a test of their competing theories of coming prosperity or doom. 
For years Mr. Ehrlich, the author of the landmark 1968 book ''The Population Bomb,'' had warned that rising populations would cause resource scarcity, even famine, with apocalyptic consequences for humanity. Mr. Simon, who died in 1998, optimistically countered that human welfare would flourish thanks to flexible markets and our collective ingenuity.
Mr. Ehrlich believed the metal prices would rise over the decade; Mr. Simon thought the prices would stay stable or even drop. Mr. Simon won: the prices of the five metals in 1990 hovered at around 50 percent of their 1980 levels, even as the world population grew by 800 million.
Conservatives have celebrated Mr. Simon's victory ever since, using it to denounce environmentalists for alarmism and to criticize environmental regulation. The columnist George Will recently used Mr. Simon's triumph to illustrate how ''ingenuity thwarts doomsday.'' In a sign of the bet's symbolic value, the Competitive Enterprise Institute created the Julian L. Simon Memorial Award in 2001 to celebrate his ''vision of Man as the Ultimate Resource.'' The award trophy: a statue of a leaf with its veins made from the five metals featured in the bet.
Environmentalists, in contrast, have tended to deny the significance of the Ehrlich-Simon bet, arguing that commodity prices illustrate little about real environmental threats. Also, they say, Mr. Simon just got lucky: indeed, when economists later ran simulations for every 10-year period between 1900 and 2008, they found that Mr. Ehrlich would have won the bet 63 percent of the time. These sweeping declarations of triumph and insignificance miss the point -- and the true lessons of the bet for each side.
Environmentalists need to better understand the ways in which markets for natural resources function. There is rarely a simple linear path from abundance to scarcity.
Mr. Ehrlich's view of looming scarcity was hardly radical in the years after the 1970s oil shocks. Many investors in the late 1970s shared his faith that rising metal prices reflected finite supply and impending shortages. The Hunt brothers, for example, famously gambled billions of their oil fortune on the rising price of silver, and then lost their shirts in 1980 when prices faltered and they failed to corner the market.
During the 1980s, macroeconomic factors, including falling oil prices and economic slowdowns, far outweighed new pressures from population growth and drove down the prices of many metals. Everyday market forces -- technological change, price-driven competition and new sources of supply -- also helped reduce prices. The international tin cartel collapsed under pressure from new Brazilian mines. Aluminum, plastic, fiber-optic cables and satellites began to replace copper, even as copper production soared in response to 1970s highs; by 1985, the copper industry struggled to create demand.
This dynamic relationship between scarcity and abundance matters for public policy. Exaggerated fears of resource scarcity can lead to stifling price controls, panicked efforts to limit production or consumption, and public investment strategies predicated on high prices that turn out to be ephemeral.
The same thing is true in business. Solyndra, the now-bankrupt solar-panel company, failed in part because its model depended on the price of polysilicon, used by its competitors, remaining high. When prices instead collapsed, so did its competitive strategy and the company.
YET if environmentalists need to better account for human creativity and adaptability, conservatives, in turn, should better understand the limited nature of Mr. Simon's victory.
Setting aside the vagaries of market forces, can we continue to increase resource production and adapt to unprecedented environmental changes like global warming? Our past experience should give us some hope, but that hope should be greatly tempered by the realization that climate change is an unprecedented threat, and we really might not keep pace.
Mr. Simon liked to argue that new problems prompt solutions that ultimately leave people better off than before. But we cannot surmount our challenges if we simply deny that they exist.
Instead of using science as a resource for human betterment, conservatives who reject the evidence of human-caused global warming prevent the very creative problem-solving that Mr. Simon advocated. And if environmentalists like Mr. Ehrlich hadn't urged action back in the 1970s, would all that creativity have been channeled into the cleaner air and water that we enjoy today?
We face choices about our future direction. As Mr. Ehrlich and many other environmental scientists have documented, by pouring carbon dioxide into the atmosphere, we put things we value and love in danger, from the coral reefs to the Jersey Shore, from homes threatened by wildfire to farms endangered by drought.
And even if Mr. Simon is right that humans can adapt and prosper on this rapidly changing planet, we have to ask ourselves whether the risks and inequalities of this change are desirable.
Ultimately, humanity's course will be determined less by iron laws of nature or by unbounded market powers, Mr. Ehrlich and Mr. Simon's dueling lodestars, and more by the social and political choices that we make. Neither biology nor economics can substitute for the deeper ethical question: what kind of world do we want to live in?

GRAPHIC: PHOTO:The Antamina copper mine, in central Peru. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER VAN AGTMAEL/MAGNUM PHOTOS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASE METALS MARKETS (90%); CHROMIUM MARKETS (90%); MINOR METALS MARKETS (90%); POPULATION GROWTH (90%); TUNGSTEN MARKETS (90%); TIN MARKETS (90%); METALS MARKETS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (86%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (77%); NATURAL RESOURCES (75%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (73%); WRITERS (73%); POPULATION SIZE (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); MARYLAND, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2013



213 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; THE NEW SEASON; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 7925 words

HEADLINE: Oh, Romeo, Romeo, What a Season Ahead

BYLINE: By STEVEN McELROY

 BODY:
All dates are subject to change.
September
STOP. RESET. Those reading this in print will appreciate the timeliness of this plot: As e-books proliferate, the sales of printed ones fall, so the owner of the oldest African-American publishing company in Chicago needs to take stock, decide which employees are most relevant and determine how to survive in this new play, written and directed by Regina Taylor. She is one of the Residency Five playwrights working at Signature Theater Company in a five-year program to give each of them three premiere productions. In previews. Opens Sunday. Closes Sept. 29. Romulus Linney Courtyard Theater at Pershing Square Signature Center, 480 West 42nd Street, (212) 244-7529, signaturetheatre.org.
BRENDAN AT THE CHELSEA The Irish actor Adrian Dunbar stars as the Irish playwright Brendan Behan in a very New York story about Behan's years living in Manhattan at the Chelsea Hotel during the early 1960s (he died in 1964, at 41), when the hotel was a hub for bohemian artists. Mr. Dunbar also directs the five-character drama, written by Behan's niece Janet Behan, which comes to New York courtesy of the Lyric Theater of Belfast. In previews. Opens Sunday. Closes Oct. 6. The Acorn Theater at Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street, Telecharge, brendanchelsea.com. 
FETCH CLAY, MAKE MAN New York Theater Workshop will open its season with Will Power's play about the unlikely friendship between the boxer Cassius Clay (later known as Muhammad Ali) and the comedian and film actor Stepin Fetchit, as both men try to control their legacies during the 1960s. The play, based on a true story, is directed by Des McAnuff. In previews. Opens Thursday. Closes Oct. 13. New York Theater Workshop, 79 East Fourth Street, Ticket Central, nytw.org.
MR. BURNS, A POST-ELECTRIC PLAY This imaginative play by Anne Washburn (''The Internationalist'') ''is the sort of once-in-a-blue-moon show that stays stuck in your brain long after it has chilled you to the bone,'' Peter Marks wrote in The Washington Post when the show had its premiere at the Woolly Mammoth Theater in Washington last year. The wacky premise here is that in a world where the electric grid has malfunctioned, a group of people commits one particular episode of ''The Simpsons'' to memory, and the story is told over the years. Naturally it unravels as in a game of telephone, highlighting the ever-changing nature, and needs, of pop culture across the generations. In previews. Opens next Sunday. Closes Oct. 6. Playwrights Horizons Mainstage Theater, 416 West 42nd Street, Ticket Central, playwrightshorizons.org.
WOMEN OR NOTHING Two women, a couple, very much want a child and are willing to bring a man into the picture in this new comedy, the first full-length play by Ethan Coen. Though better known as a filmmaker to many, he's known to Atlantic Theater Company attendees as a playwright too, but thus far only of one-acts. David Cromer directs. In previews. Opens Sept. 16. Closes Oct. 6. Linda Gross Theater, 336 West 20th Street, Theatermania, atlantictheater.org.
PHILIP GOES FORTH A young rebel leaves his father and the family business to move to New York and become a playwright -- a path traveled by many before and since this comedy by George Kelly played on Broadway in 1931. One obstacle for poor Philip, though, is that he can't write. In previews. Opens Sept. 22. Closes Oct. 20. Mint Theater, 311 West 43rd Street, Theatermania, minttheater.org.
ROMEO AND JULIET Shakespeare is always one of the most produced playwrights around town, but this season it seems that, even by those standards, he is having a moment. To start things off, Orlando Bloom and Condola Rashad will play the title characters in a Broadway production of this tale of doomed lovers. (Another high-profile version of the tragedy is coming from Classic Stage Company; see below.) The Montagues are white and the Capulet family black in this modern-set production, directed by David Leveaux and featuring a cast that also includes Brent Carver, Jayne Houdyshell, Chuck Cooper and Christian Camargo. In previews. Opens Sept. 19. Richard Rodgers Theater, 226 West 46th Street, Ticketmaster, romeoandjulietbroadway.com .
THE VELOCITY OF AUTUMN With the threat of a move to a nursing home looming, an artist locks herself in her home, prepared to blow up the place -- and the entire block, if needed. Estelle Parsons stars in this new play by Eric Coble, the opening production in what looks like a vibrant Arena Stage season. The show, which also features Stephen Spinella as her estranged son, had been announced for a Broadway run. A transfer is still a possibility, and the Arena Stage production is billed as pre-Broadway. Arena's artistic director, Molly Smith, is the director. In previews. Opens Sept. 19. Closes Oct. 20. Kreeger Theater at the Mead Center for American Theater, 1101 Sixth Street, SW, Washington, (202) 488-3300, arenastage.org.
THE GLASS MENAGERIE ''Memory is a force of gravity in this 'Glass Menagerie,' which is such a thorough rejuvenation of Tennessee Williams's 1944 drama that I hesitate to call it a revival,'' Ben Brantley wrote in The Times, referring to this production when staged at American Repertory Theater in Cambridge, Mass., this year. The same cast -- Cherry Jones as Amanda Wingfield; Zachary Quinto as her son, Tom; Celia Keenan-Bolger as the fragile Laura; and Brian J. Smith as Jim, the gentleman caller -- now comes to Broadway. Directed by John Tiffany, the show features movement by his frequent collaborator Steven Hoggett. In previews. Opens Sept. 26. Booth Theater, 222 West 45 Street, Telecharge, theglassmenageriebroadway.com .
BIG FISH Norbert Leo Butz stars as Edward Bloom, a father and a spinner of tall tales whose penchant for embellishment frustrates his son (Bobby Steggert) in this new musical, based on the 1998 novel by Daniel Wallace and the 2003 film directed by Tim Burton. The show, which was presented in Chicago last spring, is directed and choreographed by Susan Stroman, with music and lyrics by Andrew Lippa and a book by John August. Kate Baldwin co-stars as Bloom's wife, Sandra. In previews. Opens Oct. 6. Neil Simon Theater, 250 West 52nd Street, Ticketmaster, bigfishthemusical.com.
ARGUENDO A 1991 Supreme Court case about go-go dancers and public nudity is the subject of this latest concoction by Elevator Repair Service (Gatz''). Using actual court transcripts and parts of interviews with the justices, the inventive company, with the director John Collins, questions whether erotic dancing is art or immorality. Previews begin Tuesday. Opens Sept. 24. Closes Oct. 6. Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, (212) 967-7555, publictheater.org.
THE FILM SOCIETY A teacher tries to keep the film club free of politics at a South African school for boys, but an apartheid controversy makes this impossible in this 1989 drama by Jon Robin Baitz. This opening production in the Keen Company season, about a man who ends up being torn between supporting a colleague and advancing his own career, will be directed by Jonathan Silverstein, Keen's artistic director. The cast includes Euan Morton and Roberta Maxwell. Previews begin Tuesday. Opens Oct. 1. Closes Oct. 26. Clurman Theater at Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street, Telecharge, keencompany.org .
THE WHEEL A woman who claims to be averse to rearing children finds herself trying to return a young girl to her father in a surreal, war-torn world in this odd and intriguing drama by Zinnie Harris, which was presented in 2011 a the Edinburgh Festival Fringe in a National Theater of Scotland production. The production coming to the Steppenwolf Theater Company will star Joan Allen and is directed by Tina Landau. Previews begin Thursday. Opens Sept. 22. Closes Nov. 10. Downstairs Theater, 1650 North Halsted Street, Chicago, (312) 335-1650, steppenwolf.org.
ALL THE WAY The Emmy-winning actor Bryan Cranston (''Breaking Bad'') portrays Lyndon B. Johnson in this play by Robert Schenkkan (the Pulitzer-winning ''Kentucky Cycle'') about the suddenly appointed president's difficult first year in office. Brandon J. Dirden, Michael McKean and Reed Birney are among the rest of the cast, directed by Bill Rauch, in this American Repertory Theater production, which follows a world premiere at the Oregon Shakespeare Festival last year. Friday through Oct. 12. Loeb Drama Center, 64 Brattle Street, Cambridge, Mass., (617) 547-8300, americanrepertorytheater.org .
ON BORROWED TIME Long before Joel Grey won both Tony and Academy Awards for his portrayal of the M.C. in ''Cabaret,'' he took to the stage at the Cleveland Playhouse 1941, at age 9, to play Pud in this 1938 work by Paul Osborn. Now Mr. Grey will direct the play, about an orphaned boy and his grandfather who is able to cheat death, at Two River Theater, kicking off the company's 20th anniversary season. Previews begin on Saturday. Opens Sept. 20. Closes Oct. 13. Two River Theater, 21 Bridge Avenue, Redbank, N.J., (732) 345-1400, tworivertheater.org.
THE BLUE DRAGON The creative and versatile theater director Robert Lepage will present a sequel to his 1985 ''The Dragons' Trilogy'' as part of the annual Next Wave Festival at the Brooklyn Academy of Music (through Dec. 22). The new show, which Mr. Lepage developed along with his longtime collaborator, Marie Michaud, is about a Canadian artist living in China and facing issues of aging, creativity and the cultural differences between East to West. Mr. Lepage plays the artist, the same character he played in 1985. ''The Blue Dragon'' runs Sept. 18-21 at the Academy's Harvey Theater (651 Fulton Street, Fort Greene, Brooklyn). Next Wave includes dozens of other theater, music, opera and dance productions, including ''The Rime of the Ancient Mariner'' (Dec. 10-22, Harvey Theater), an adaptation of the Samuel Taylor Coleridge poem performed by Fiona Shaw with the dancer Daniel Hay-Gordon. Phyllida Lloyd directs. (718) 636-4100, bam.org .
BRONX BOMBERS Eric Simonson, who has written sports-themed shows about basketball (''Magic/Bird'') and football (''Lombardi'') in recent seasons, turns his attention to America's pastime in this new play about the New York Yankees, which he will also direct for Primary Stages. The cast includes Keith Nobbs as Billy Martin, Joe Pantoliano as Yogi Berra and Christopher Jackson as Derek Jeter. Sept. 17-Oct. 19. Duke on 42nd Street, 229 West 42nd Street, (646) 223-3010, primarystages.org .
NATURAL AFFECTION A young man returns home from a reform school stay to find that his single mother is living with a new man. Tensions in the disjointed family escalate and lead to brutality in this 1963 drama by William Inge, being revived by the Actors Company Theater, known as TACT. Kathryn Erbe and John Pankow are among the cast, directed by Jenn Thompson. Previews begin Sept. 17. Opens Sept. 26. Closes Oct. 26. Beckett Theater at Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street, Telecharge, tactnyc.org.
BAD JEWS Joshua Harmon's comedy about a family squabble that digs into issues of faith gets remounted by the Roundabout Theater Company, following a well-received run at the company's Black Box Theater last fall. The four-member cast -- Tracee Chimo, Philip Ettinger, Molly Ranson and Michael Zegen -- will return, again under the direction of Daniel Aukin. Previews begin Sept. 19. Opens Oct. 3. Closes Dec. 15. Laura Pels Theater, 111 West 46th Street, (212) 719-1300, roundabouttheatre.org.
A NIGHT WITH JANIS JOPLIN It's a tough imitation to master, that screeching passion of the legendary singer whose songs -- ''Cry Baby'' among them -- will always be tied to the voice. But this concert-theater event, which arrives on Broadway after hitting several regional theaters (most recently, Arena Stage in Washington), boasts a lead performer who can come impressively close to the real deal. Mary Bridget Davies plays Joplin in a show written and directed by Randy Johnson. Previews begin Sept. 20. Opens Oct. 10. Lyceum Theater, 149 West 45th Street, Telecharge, anightwithjanisjoplin.com .
THE WINSLOW BOY When a 14-year old boy (Spencer Davis Milford) is accused of stealing, he is expelled from military school and his family pulls together in a costly fight to save their honor in this 1946 play by Terence Rattigan. The director Lindsay Posner brings his successful production from the Old Vic to Broadway with a new cast, including Mr. Milford, Zachary Booth, Michael Cumpsty, Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio, Alessandro Nivola and Roger Rees. Previews begin Sept. 20. Opens Oct. 17. Closes Dec. 1. American Airlines Theater, 227 West 42nd Street, (212) 719-1300, roundabouttheatre.org.
TAMAR OF THE RIVER A young woman bravely pursues peace in a mythical, war-ravaged world in this new musical being presented by the Prospect Theater Company (''Working -- A Musical''). The book is by Marisa Michelson and Joshua H. Cohen, with music by Ms. Michelson and lyrics by Mr. Cohen. Daniel Goldstein (''Godspell'') is the director. Sept. 21-Oct. 20. Baruch Performing Arts Center, 55 Lexington Avenue; Theatermania, prospecttheater.org.
BEAUTIFUL -- THE CAROLE KING MUSICAL The story of the transformation of a Brooklyn kid, Carol Klein, into the successful singer-songwriter -- who, incidentally, wrote ''Will You Still Love Me Tomorrow'' when she was only 17 -- is told in a musical, naturally. This show, starring Jessie Mueller as Ms. King, features songs by Ms. King and Gerry Goffin, who was her husband from 1959 to 1968, as well as other songs of the period. The book is by Douglas McGrath and direction by Marc Bruni. A Broadway bow is planned after this West Coast premiere, with previews beginning Nov. 21 at the Stephen Sondheim Theater. But first, San Francisco: Sept. 24-Oct. 20, SHN Curran Theater, 445 Geary Street, (888) 746-1799, shnsf.com and beautifulonbroadway.com.
BIKE AMERICA Penny dumps her boyfriend in Boston and heads to California, on a bike, and encounters many characters in her quest to find some meaning in her life in this new play by Mike Lew (''microcrisis''), presented by Ma-Yi Theater Company. Moritz von Stuelpnagel (''Hand to God'') directs. Previews begin Sept. 24. Opens Oct. 1. Closes Oct. 20. Theater at St. Clement's, 423 West 46th Street, Theatermania, mayitheatre.org.
THE SUNSHINE BOYS Danny DeVito's physical weirdness and comic fearlessness make him well-suited to the role of an aging vaudeville comedian in this 1972 Neil Simon comedy, which was well-received at the Savoy Theater in London last year. In the American version, Judd Hirsch will play the other half of a comedy team that's been on nonspeaking terms for a decade. Richard Griffiths, who played the Hirsch role in London, died last spring. Fortunately, Mr. DeVito and his new co-star have teamed up quite successfully in the past, in the television series ''Taxi.'' Thea Sharrock directs. Previews begin Sept. 24. Opens Oct. 2. Closes Nov. 3. Ahmanson Theater at the Music Center, 135 North Grand Avenue, Los Angeles, (213) 972-4400, centertheatregroup.org.
SARAH FLOOD IN SALEM MASS The playwright Adriano Shaplin (''Sophie Gets the Horns''), the artistic director and co-founder of the Riot Group, reimagines the events leading up to the Salem Witch Trials in this new play, to have its premiere at the Flea Theater. Rebecca Wright will direct a cast that features members of the Bats, the company's resident acting company. Previews begin Sept. 24. Opens Oct. 6. Closes Oct. 27. 41 White Street, near Church Street, Theatermania, theflea.org.
I CAME TO LOOK FOR YOU ON TUESDAY This new drama by Chiori Miyagawa (I Have Been to Hiroshima Mon Amour'') tells the stories of 20 characters who have lost something in the wake of natural disaster, centering on Maia, whose mother's sacrifice during a tsunami allowed her to survive. The show, directed by Alice Reagan, is one of a slew of offerings at the downtown mainstay La MaMa this fall, including a solo series, the Queer NY International Arts Festival (Oct. 25-Nov. 3), and adaptations of both Virginia Woolf's ''Room of One's Own'' and ''La Vie Matérielle'' by Marguerite Duras, directed by Irina Brook (''Waiting for the Dream''). ''I Came to Look for You on Tuesday'' is part of a the Tuesday Project, which will also include art installations and other events around the city related to the aftermath of war. Sept. 26-Oct. 13. First Floor Theater, 74 East Fourth Street, (212) 475-7710, lamama.org.
NIGHTMARE: KILLERS2 Charles Manson and other famous killers will haunt the twisty halls of this immersive haunted house in the 10th anniversary installment of the ''Nightmare'' experience, which offers a fresh take each time. Last year's serial killer haunt was apparently popular -- and horrifying -- enough to prompt a sequel, with new killers both historical and fictional. Sept. 26-Nov. 2. 107 Suffolk Street, near Rivington Street, hauntedhousenyc.com .
ROMEO AND JULIET There will be dual Montague-Capulet duels going on in New York this fall, as Classic Stage Company presents an Off Broadway version of this Shakespeare tragedy of young love gone off the rails, at the same time a Broadway revival is on the boards (see above). In this Off Broadway version, Elizabeth Olsen is Juliet and Julian Cihi her Romeo, with T. R. Knight as Mercutio and Daphne Rubin-Vega as the Nurse. Tea Alagiae directs. Previews begin Sept. 27. Opens Oct. 16. Closes Nov. 3. Classic Stage Company, 136 East 13th Street, Theatermania, classicstage.org.
THE FEW A woman tries to keep her small-town Idaho newspaper afloat by running personal ads for love-starved truckers in this new play by Samuel D. Hunter (''The Whale''), which will have its world premiere at the Old Globe (and a New York production via Rattlestick Playwrights Theater next spring). Davis McCallum directs this comedy about the need for human connection. Previews begin Sept. 28. Scheduled to open Oct. 3. Closes Oct. 27. Old Globe, 1363 Old Globe Way, San Diego, (619) 234-5623, theoldglobe.org.
A TIME TO KILL John Grisham's Mississippi-set novel about a white lawyer defending a black man who took justice into his own hands was turned into a 1996 movie, but now a Grisham novel is being adapted to the stage for the first time. If all goes well, he's got more than 20 others, including his latest book, ''Sycamore Row,'' which features the hero of ''A Time to Kill'' in another courtroom battle three years later. The new play, adapted by Rupert Holmes and directed by Ethan McSweeny, features Sebastian Arcelus as the lawyer and John Douglas Thompson as his client. Previews begin Sept. 28. Opens Oct. 20. John Golden Theater, 252 West 45th Street, Telecharge, atimetokillonbroadway.com.
FUN HOME Alison Bechdel's autobiographical graphic novel ''Fun Home,'' about her childhood and her relationship with her father -- who died suddenly -- gets the musical treatment in this new show with a book and lyrics by Lisa Kron (''Well'') and music by Jeanine Tesori (''Caroline, or Change''). Sam Gold directs. Previews begin Sept. 30. Opens Oct. 22. Closes Nov. 3. Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, (212) 967-7555, publictheater.org.
October
THE SNOW GEESE One of a small number of new plays coming to Broadway this fall, this drama by Sharr White (''The Other Place''), set during World War I, stars Mary-Louise Parker as a newly widowed mother trying to keep her family, and her finances, together. Daniel Sullivan directs the co-production of Manhattan Theater Club and MCC Theater. Previews begin Oct. 1. Opens Oct. 24. Samuel J. Friedman Theater, 261 West 47th Street, Telecharge, manhattantheatreclub.org.
BETRAYAL The married couple Daniel Craig (''A Steady Rain'') and Rachel Weisz will portray another married couple in this revival of Harold Pinter's bleak 1978 drama about infidelity, one of two Pinter plays on Broadway this fall (see ''No Man's Land,'' below). Ms. Weisz is making her Broadway debut, as is the English actor Rafe Spall, who plays the best friend of Robert, Mr. Craig's character, and who is having an affair with Robert's wife. Mike Nichols directs the three-member cast, and tickets are already getting scarce. Previews begin Oct. 1. Opens Oct. 27. Closes Jan. 5. Barrymore Theater, 243 West 47th Street, Telecharge, betrayalbroadway.com.
DISPLACED HINDU GODS The Hindu gods that represent creation (Brahma), preservation (Vishnu) and destruction (Shiva) are placed in the contemporary Western world in this trilogy of new plays by Aditi Brennan Kapil. The three plays -- ''Brahman/i: A One-Hijra Stand-Up Comedy Show,'' ''The Chronicles of Kalki'' and ''Shiv'' -- are presented in three different styles; stand-up comedy, girl-gang thriller and sci-fi fantasy. Previews begin Oct. 2. Opens Oct. 5. Closes Oct. 27. Mixed Blood Theater, 1501 South Fourth Street, Minneapolis, (612) 338-6131, mixedblood.com.
THE SEAGULL Culture Project presents an adaptation of Chekhov's play about an aging actress and the frustrated artists around her, transplanting the story to late-19th-century Ireland. Max Stafford-Clark directs the adaptation by Thomas Kilroy, with a cast including Trudie Styler (Sting's wife), Alan Cox and Amanda Quaid. Previews begin Oct. 3. Scheduled to open Oct. 13. Closes Nov. 3. Lynn Redgrave Theater at Culture Project, 45 Bleecker Street, Theatermania, cultureproject.org.
THE LANDING Three thematically connected stories form the basis of this new musical by the perhaps unlikely team of the young book and lyrics writer Greg Pierce (''Slowgirl'') and the veteran composer John Kander. Walter Bobbie will direct a cast that includes David Hyde Pierce, Julia Murney and Paul Anthony Stewart. Previews begin Oct. 3. Opens Oct. 23. Closes Nov. 10. Vineyard Theater, 108 East 15th Street, (212) 353-0303, vineyardtheatre.org.
JULIUS CAESAR The director Phyllida Lloyd's (''Mary Stuart'') all female, rock 'n' roll-infused production of Shakespeare's political tragedy comes from the Donmar Warehouse in London to St. Ann's Warehouse in Brooklyn. The London production was well-received and will arrive in New York with most of its cast intact and with the same play-within-a-play concept -- inmates and guards at a women's prison are performing the Shakespeare play. Oct. 3-Nov. 3. St. Ann's Warehouse, 29 Jay Street, Brooklyn, (718) 254-8779, stannswarehouse.org.
GRASSES OF A THOUSAND COLORS A doctor finds an unusual if somewhat revolting way to battle world hunger in this play by Wallace Shawn, who is collaborating with the director André Gregory again soon after the summer run of ''The Designated Mourner.'' A co-production of the Public Theater and Theater for a New Audience, ''Grasses'' features Julie Hagerty, Emily Cass McDonnell, Mr. Shawn and Jennifer Tilly. Previews begin Oct. 7. Opens Oct. 28. Closes Nov. 10. Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, near Astor Place, (212) 967-7555, publictheater.org.
ROOSEVELVIS Ann, a slaughterhouse worker, comes to the realization that she is not entirely female or male and sets off on a surreal road trip with her lover, to Graceland from the Badlands, as they encounter the America of the moment -- while transitioning into Teddy Roosevelt and Elvis. How's that for an inventive plot? The Brooklyn company the Team (''Mission Drift'') has plenty of 'em. The company's latest was co-commissioned by Bushwick Starr in Brooklyn and the Gate and Almeida Theaters in London. Oct. 8-Nov. 2. Bushwick Starr, 207 Starr Street, Brooklyn, Theatermania, theteamplays.org.
JUNO AND THE PAYCOCK The Irish Repertory Theater will present Sean O'Casey's 1924 drama about the dashed hopes of a poor Dublin family during the Irish Civil War of the 1920s, with the theater's artistic director, Charlotte Moore, directing. The cast includes J. Smith-Cameron, Ciaran O'Reilly and John Keating. Previews begin Oct. 9. Opens Oct. 20. Closes Dec. 8. Francis J. Greenburger Mainstage, 132 West 22nd Street, (212) 727-2737, irishrep.org.
EAGER TO LOSE The burlesque performer Tansy stars in this new show set in the fictitious Tim Tam Room, where the club's star (conveniently named Tansy) announces that she is quitting, throwing the M.C. for a loop. The show, written by Matthew-Lee Erlbach (''Handbook for an American Revolutionary''), was developed through the ANT Fest and Project Residency programs at Ars Nova. Previews begin Oct. 9. Opens Oct. 22. Closes Nov. 2. Ars Nova, 511 West 54th Street, Theatermania, arsnovanyc.com.
THE TALLEST TREE IN THE FOREST The singer, actor and outspoken human rights advocate Paul Robeson is the subject of this new solo show, written and performed by Daniel Beaty (Emergence-see!'') and directed by Moisés Kaufman. The show is a co-production among several theaters, is now running at Kansas City Repertory Theater (through Sept. 28) and will be presented at Arena Stage in Washington from Jan. 10 to Feb. 16. In La Jolla: Previews begin Oct. 10. Scheduled to open Oct. 12. Closes Nov. 3. Sheila and Hughes Potiker Theater, La Jolla Playhouse, 2910 La Jolla Village Drive, San Diego, (858) 550-1010, lajollaplayhouse.org.
DOMESTICATED A married couple (Jeff Goldblum and Laurie Metcalf) become enmeshed in a scandal in this new play by the Pulitzer Prize- and Tony Award-winning playwright Bruce Norris (''Clybourne Park''). Anna D. Shapiro (''August: Osage County'') will direct the Lincoln Center Theater commission. Previews begin Oct. 10. Opens Nov. 4. Mitzi E. Newhouse Theater, 150 West 65th Street, lct.org.
THE DOWNTOWN LOOP 3-Legged Dog Productions puts its extensive video capabilities to use in this new show by Ben Gassman. Audiences will take a virtual guided bus tour through the streets of Manhattan in the production, directed by Meghan Finn, which explores gentrification and economic revitalization. Oct. 15-Nov. 17. 3LD Art & Technology Center, 80 Greenwich Street, 3ldnyc.org.
LITTLE MISS SUNSHINE Hopeful little Olive Hoover (Hannah Rose Nordberg) and her eccentric family set out on a cross-country trek on a quest for Olive to win the preteen Little Miss Sunshine pageant in this new musical comedy based on the 2006 film written by Michael Arndt. Stephanie J. Block, Will Swenson and Rory O'Malley are among the rest of the cast of this Second Stage Theater production. The book and direction are by James Lapine and the music and lyrics by William Finn. Previews begin Oct. 15. Opens Nov. 14. Closes Dec. 8. Second Stage's Tony Kiser Theater, 305 West 43rd Street, (212) 246-4422, 2st.com.
TWELFTH NIGHT and RICHARD III The two-time Tony Award-winning actor Mark Rylance (''Jerusalem,'' ''Boeing-Boeing'') -- who likes to give bizarre Tony acceptance speeches -- will offer what Shakespeare fans must surely consider a golden opportunity: to see him in two classic roles in a rotating repertory on Broadway. (Though usually rare, this is one of two repertory events coming to Broadway; see ''No Man's Land'' and ''Waiting for Godot,'' below.) Mr. Rylance will play a woman, the grieving Countess Olivia, in ''Twelfth Night'' and the title character in the history play. Stephen Fry, making his Broadway debut, is among the rest of the company in these productions, directed by Tim Carroll, which ran in London last fall. Previews begin Oct. 15. Opens Nov. 10. Belasco Theater, 111 West 44th Street, Telecharge, shakespearebroadway.com.
ONE NIGHT ... The Pulitzer Prize-winning playwright Charles Fuller (''A Soldier's Story'') turns to a military theme again in his new drama about women in the armed forces and the price of serving one's country. Clinton Turner Davis directs the co-production of the Cherry Lane Theater and Rattlestick Playwrights Theater. Previews begin Oct. 17. Opens Oct. 30. Closes Nov. 24. Cherry Lane Theater, 38 Commerce Street, Theatermania, cherrylanetheatre.org.
AFTER MIDNIGHT The 17-member Jazz at Lincoln Center All-Stars, led by Wynton Marsalis, feature prominently in this reinvention of an evening at the Cotton Club, the famous Harlem nightclub where Duke Ellington, Cab Calloway, Count Basie and a slew of other African-American performers wowed the crowds in the 1920s and '30s. The show, which was presented as ''Cotton Club Parade'' at City Center in 2011 (and briefly reprised in 2012), is directed and choreographed by Warren Carlyle and will feature Dulé Hill (last on Broadway in ''Stick Fly'') as the host and Fantasia Barrino as the first of several planned guest stars in limited engagements. Previews begin Oct. 18. Opens Nov. 3. Brooks Atkinson Theater, 256 West 47th Street, Ticketmaster, aftermidnightbroadway.com.
A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM Julie Taymor's visually imaginative direction ought to turn one of Shakespeare's most produced comedies into something seemingly new in this production, the first for Theater for a New Audience at the company's new Brooklyn home. Previews begin Oct. 19. Opens Nov. 2. Closes Jan. 12. Theater for a New Audience, 262 Ashland Place, Brooklyn, (212) 229-2819, tfana.org.
THE COMMONS OF PENSACOLA Blythe Danner and Sarah Jessica Parker will portray a mother and daughter grappling with the aftermath of a Wall Street scam perpetuated by their husband and father. The play marks the playwriting debut of the actress Amanda Peet and will be directed by Lynne Meadow for Manhattan Theater Club. Previews begin Oct. 22. Opens Nov. 21. Closes Jan. 5. City Center Stage I, 131 West 55th Street, (212) 581-1212, manhattantheatreclub.org.
A GENTLEMAN'S GUIDE TO LOVE AND MURDER The chameleonlike actor Jefferson Mays plays multiple roles -- and dies multiple times -- in this musical comedy that comes to Broadway after critically lauded runs at Hartford Stage and the Old Globe. The story, about a frustrated Edwardian man (Bryce Pinkham) separated from a family earldom by eight living relations, features Mr. Mays (known for being similarly adaptable in ''I Am My Own Wife'') as all of those relations. The book is by Robert L. Freedman, music by Steven Lutvak and lyrics by both men, and the show is directed by Darko Tresnjak. Previews begin Oct. 22. Opens Nov. 17. Walter Kerr Theater, 219 West 48th Street, Telecharge, agentlemansguidebroadway.com.
THE APPLE FAMILY PLAYS: SCENES FROM LIFE IN THE COUNTRY The final play in Richard Nelson's four-play series about the liberal Apple family, ''Regular Singing,'' will be presented this fall in rotation with revivals of his previous Apple plays. Each of the earlier works opened on the nights they were set: ''That Hopey Changey Thing'' took place -- and opened -- on election night, 2010; ''Sweet and Sad'' on the 10th anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks; and ''Sorry'' on election night, 2012. The newest Apple play takes place, and opens, on Nov. 22, the 50th anniversary of the assassination of President John F. Kennedy. Previews begin Oct. 22. Opens Nov. 22. Closes Dec. 15. Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, (212) 967-7555, publictheater.org.
MONA'S HOUSE OF DANCE Personal fears and desires come to the fore as students prepare for a competition in a small-town tap dance studio in this new collaboration between two unorthodox companies: Richard Maxwell's New York City Players (''Neutral Hero'') and Tina Satter's company Half Straddle (''Seagull (Thinking of you)''). Ms. Satter is the writer and director of the show, which will be presented in a dance studio at Abrons Arts Center. Previews begin Oct. 23. Opens Oct. 27. Closes Nov. 9. Abrons Arts Center, 466 Grand Street, Theatermania, abronsartscenter.org.
MACBETH With Alan Cumming's (nearly) one-man adaptation of Shakespeare's bloody Scottish tragedy still fresh in our minds, here comes a version in which the title character and his doomed Lady Macbeth will not be played by the same performer: Ethan Hawke and Anne-Marie Duff take on the blood-soaked married couple. Jack O'Brien directs the Lincoln Center Theater production. Previews begin Oct. 24. Opens Nov. 21. Vivian Beaumont Theater, 150 West 65 Street, Telecharge, lct.org.
THE JACKSONIAN His marriage crumbling, a dentist (Ed Harris) is booted from home by his wife (Amy Madigan) and takes up residence in a creepy hotel in this dark tale by Beth Henley (''Crimes of the Heart''), set in the racially divided Jackson, Miss., of 1964. Glenne Headly and Bill Pullman are also in the cast of this New Group production, directed by Robert Falls, that follows the premiere last year at the Geffen Playhouse in Los Angeles. Previews begin Oct. 25. Opens Nov. 7. Closes Dec. 15. New Group at the Acorn Theater, Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street, Telecharge, thenewgroup.org.
NO MAN'S LAND and WAITING FOR GODOT Ian McKellen, Patrick Stewart, Billy Crudup and Shuler Hensley will perform together in Harold Pinter's enigmatic comedy ''No Man's Land'' and Samuel Beckett's existentialist tragicomedy, which play an alternating schedule -- even allowing theatergoers to completely scramble their brains by seeing both shows in the same day on select dates. Sean Mathias directs. Previews begin Oct. 26. Opens Nov. 24. Closes Feb. 1. Cort Theater, 138 West 48th Street, Telecharge, twoplaysinrep.com.
SMALL ENGINE REPAIR Former high school buddies Frank, Swaino and Packie gather years later in Frank's repair shop, where old wounds and new mysteries come up in this psychological thriller by John Pollono. The play was produced by Rogue Machine Theater Los Angeles in 2011, and now Jo Bonney directs the New York premiere for MCC Theater. Previews begin Oct. 30. Opens Nov. 20. Closes Dec. 8. MCC Theater at the Lucille Lortel Theater, 121 Christopher Street, Theatermania, mcctheater.org.
November
THE MUTILATED Two utterly singular performers, Mink Stole and Penny Arcade, will star in Tennessee Williams's strange late-career play about Trinket and Celeste -- two women, an oil heiress and an aging prostitute, whose friendship is almost destroyed when one reveals a secret about the other. Following an appearance at the annual Provincetown Tennessee Williams Theater Festival (Sept. 26-29), the production, directed by Cosmin Chivu, comes to New York City. Previews begin Nov. 1. Opens Nov. 10. Closes Nov. 24. New Ohio Theater, 154 Christopher Street, (888) 596-1027, newohiotheatre.org.
APPROPRIATE A disturbing memento is discovered among the belongings left behind by a recently deceased patriarch, stirring up the Arkansas family he has left behind, in this play by Branden Jacobs-Jenkins (''Neighbors''), which was presented at the Humana Festival lastspring and will also take a bow at Signature Theater Company, where Mr. Jacobs-Jenkins is in a residency, early next year. This fall, though, Liesl Tommy directs the show for the Woolly Mammoth Theater Company. Nov. 4-Dec. 1. 641 D Street NW, Washington, (202) 393-3939, woollymammoth.net.
ALL THAT FALL Trevor Nunn's stage adaptation of this haunting Samuel Beckett radio play, starring Eileen Atkins and Michael Gambon, was well-received in London last year. In the seemingly simple plot, a woman goes to meet her blind husband at a train station. She encounters a number of people along the way, and her husband tells a disturbing tale on the way home, in what turns out to be a typically Beckettian meditation on death. Nov. 5-Dec. 8. 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, Ticket Central, 59e59.org.
IF/THEN About to turn 40, Elizabeth (Idina Menzel) seeks a fresh start in New York City, where the possibilities seem limitless, in this new musical by the team behind the Pulitzer-winning ''Next to Normal'' (music by Tom Kitt, book and lyrics by Brian Yorkey and direction by Michael Greif). LaChanze (''The Color Purple'') and Anthony Rapp are among the rest of the cast. A Broadway production of ''If/Then'' is planned for the spring, with previews beginning at the Richard Rodgers Theater on March 4 for a March 27 opening, but first an out-of-town tryout. Yes, some productions still do those. Nov. 5-Dec. 8. The National Theater, 1321 Pennsylvania Avenue, Washington, Etix, ifthenthemusical.com.
700 SUNDAYS Billy Crystal's autobiographical play, which won a Tony Award for special theatrical event after opening on Broadway in 2004, is back for a limited run. Mr. Crystal, who wrote the script with some contributions from Alan Zweibel, has presented ''700 Sundays'' in many other sites over the years, and press materials say this will be the final engagement. Des McAnuff directs. Previews begin Nov. 5. Opens Nov. 13. Closes Jan. 5. Imperial Theater, 249 West 45th Street, Telecharge, 700sundaysonbroadway.com.
RADIO CITY CHRISTMAS SPECTACULAR Like the tree at Rockefeller Center and the decorated store windows along Fifth Avenue, this annual holiday extravaganza with the high-kicking Rockettes is New York holiday traditional at its finest. Nov. 8-Dec. 30. Radio City Music Hall, Ticketmaster, radiocitychristmas.com.
AND AWAY WE GO This new backstage comedy by Terrence McNally was to have its premiere at the Pearl Theater Company last spring, but that was delayed as the theater worked through some financial problems. This fall the time-jumping play, about the many challenges facing theater companies from ancient Athens to the present, is happily back on the company's schedule. Jack Cummings III, artistic director of Transport Group, will direct. Previews begin Nov. 12. Opens Nov. 24. Closes Dec. 15. Pearl Theater, 555 West 42nd Street, (212) 563-9261, pearltheatre.org.
FAMILY FURNITURE The Flea Theater presents a new play by A. R. Gurney, a coming-of-age tale set in the 1950s, directed by Thomas Kail (''In the Heights''). Previews begin Nov. 12. Opens Nov. 24. Closes Dec. 22. 41 White Street, Theatermania, theflea.org.
THE (CURIOUS CASE OF THE) WATSON INTELLIGENCE Remember when that computer Watson competed on the game show ''Jeopardy!'' in 2011? The playwright Madeleine George (''The Zero Hour'') sure does. Leigh Silverman will direct this premiere for Playwrights Horizons, a time-hopping tribute to several Watsons, including the computer, the Sherlock Holmes sidekick, the engineer who built Alexander Graham Bell's first telephone and a modern-day tech-geek searching for love. Previews begin Nov. 17. Opens Dec. 9. Closes Dec. 29. Playwrights Horizons Mainstage Theater, 416 West 42nd Street, Ticket Central, playwrightshorizons.org.
December
THE LIFE AND DEATH OF MARINA ABRAMOVIC The visionary director Robert Wilson's look at the life of the performance artist Marina Abramovic stars Ms. Abramovic, Willem Dafoe and the singer Antony in a production that was commissioned by the Manchester International Festival and Teatro Real, Madrid with Theater Basel, Art Basel, Holland Festival, Salford City Council, and deSingel, Antwerp. Dec. 12-21. Park Avenue Armory, 643 Park Avenue, (212) 616-3930, armoryonpark.org.
MACHINAL Rebecca Hall will star in the first Broadway revival of this drama by Sophie Treadwell since its 1928 premiere. The play, about a woman living a stifled, boring existence in the male-dominated 1920s who takes extreme actions to break out, is directed by Lyndsey Turner. Previews begin Dec. 20. Opens Jan. 16. Closes March 2. American Airlines Theater, 227 West 42nd Street, (212) 719-1300, roundabouttheatre.org.
January
OUTSIDE MULLINGAR Brian F. O'Byrne (''Frozen'') and Debra Messing (of ''Smash'' and ''Will & Grace'' fame, and in her Broadway debut) will star in this world premiere romantic comedy by John Patrick Shanley (''Doubt'') about two painfully shy souls living next door to each other in rural Ireland and watching the years slowly roll by as they fear they will lose their chance for romance. Doug Hughes directs. Previews begin Jan. 2. Opens Jan. 23. Samuel J. Friedman Theater, 261 West 47th Street, Telecharge, manhattantheatreclub.org.
KING LEAR Frank Langella plays the monarch slowly falling from grace in this Chichester Festival Theater production of Shakespeare's monumental tragedy, directed by Angus Jackson. The show comes to the Brooklyn Academy of Music after a fall run at the Minerva Theater in Chichester (Oct. 31-Nov. 30). Jan. 7-Feb. 9, Harvey Theater, 651 Fulton Street, Brooklyn, (718) 636-4100, bam.org.
THE LONELINESS OF THE LONG DISTANCE RUNNER Alan Sillitoe's 1959 short story about a teenager in a prison school who turns to long-distance running as an escape, is adapted for the stage and moved to the 21st century by the British playwright Roy Williams. Leah C. Gardiner directs the Atlantic Theater Company production. Previews begin Jan. 8. Opens Jan. 21. Atlantic Stage 2, 330 West 16th Street, Ticket Central, atlantictheater.org.
THE BRIDGES OF MADISON COUNTY Robert James Waller's best-selling 1992 novel was already turned into a (not entirely well-reviewed) 1995 film starring Meryl Streep and Clint Eastwood, and now Marsha Norman (book) and Jason Robert Brown (music and lyrics) have transformed the romantic tale into a Broadway musical. Kelli O'Hara stars as an Italian woman turned Iowa housewife whose chance meeting with a National Geographic photographer (Steven Pasquale) incites her passion and forces her to choose between love and security. The show, which had its premiere at the Williamstown Theater Festival lastmonth, is directed by Bartlett Sher. Previews begin Jan. 13. Opens Feb. 27. Gerald Schoenfeld Theater, 236 West 45th Street, Telecharge, bridgesofmadisoncountymusical.com.
LUNA GALE When a social worker takes on the case of two drug-addicted teenagers accused of neglecting their infant child, she opens a can of worms and becomes mired in the conflicts of a family with a secretive past in this new drama by Rebecca Gilman (''Spinning Into Butter''). Robert Falls will direct the premiere in Chicago for the Goodman Theater, where Ms. Gilman is an artistic associate. Jan. 18-Feb. 23. Albert Theater at the Goodman, 170 North Dearborn Street, Chicago, (312) 443-3800, goodmantheatre.org.
February
TALES FROM RED VIENNA A woman widowed thanks to World War I finds an illicit way to survive, but she struggles to keep separate her public and private identities in this new play by David Grimm (''Measure for Pleasure''), directed by Kate Whoriskey (''Ruined'') for Manhattan Theater Club. Previews begin Feb. 26. Opens March 18. Closes April 20. City Center Stage I, 131 West 55th Street, (212) 581-1212, manhattantheatreclub.org.
LITTLE ME The annual Encores! series of too-short runs of seldom-performed musicals will start with Neil Simon's first musical, about obsession with celebrity status, that might feel just as timely today as it did in 1962. Christian Borle (''Smash'' and ''Peter and the Starcatcher'') stars in seven roles as the lovers of the main character in this show, directed by John Rando, which is the first in the Encores! season that will also include a special event this fall, ''A BED AND A CHAIR: A New York Love Affair'' (Nov. 13-17), to feature Stephen Sondheim's music arranged and performed by the Jazz at Lincoln Center Orchestra with Wynton Marsalis and directed by John Doyle and two other regular Encores! season shows, ''The Most Happy Fella'' (April 2-6) and ''Irma La Douce'' (May 7-11). The ''Little Me'' music is by Cy Coleman and the lyrics by Carolyn Leigh. Feb. 5-9. City Center, 131 West 55th Street, (212) 581-1212, nycitycenter.org.
ROCKY The unknown Philadelphia boxer Rocky Balboa gets his shot at the big time in this new musical based on the romantic Oscar-winning 1976 film. The show, with a book by Thomas Meehan, lyrics by Lynn Ahrens and music by Stephen Flaherty, had its premiere in Hamburg, Germany, in late 2012 and was well-received there. The powerful creative team also includes the director Alex Timbers (''Bloody Bloody Andrew Jackson''), the choreographer Kelly Devine and Steven Hoggett -- a guy who knows his way around the boxing ring -- handling fight choreography. Previews begin in February with an opening planned for March. Winter Garden Theater, 1634 Broadway, rockybroadway.com.
March
LES MISÉRABLES I dreamed a dream that this show was on Broadway not long ago. Oh wait, that was real. When this French Revolution epic was revived in 2006 (after a long run from 1987-2003), there was a palpable ''again?'' feeling among some theatergoers. So the producer Cameron Mackintosh will have that to contend with that as the show, based on Victor Hugo's novel of the same name, makes its way to Broadway once again. The current version has apparently been reimagined, and the cast has yet to be announced. Previews begin March 1. Opens March 23. Imperial Theater, 249 West 45th Street, Telecharge, lesmiz.com.
A RAISIN IN THE SUN Diahann Carroll will return to Broadway after three decades to play Lena Younger, the beleaguered matriarch of a struggling black family in 1950s Chicago in this drama by Lorraine Hansberry. Denzel Washington plays her frustrated son, Walter Lee, and the cast, directed by Kenny Leon, also includes Sophie Okonedo (''Hotel Rwanda''), Anika Noni Rose (''Caroline, or Change''), Stephen Tyrone Williams (''Lucky Guy'') and Jason Dirden and Stephen McKinley Henderson (both ''Fences''). Previews begin March 8. Opens April 3. Closes June 15. Barrymore Theater, 243 West 47th Street, Telecharge.
BULLETS OVER BROADWAY If a new playwright wants to have his work on Broadway, he'd better cast a mobster's talent-free gal in a key role or fuggedaboutit. That's the premise of the 1920s-set Woody Allen movie ''Bullets Over Broadway'' (1994), in any case. (Today it seems more likely that playwrights need to adapt film scripts rather than write from scratch.) This new musical is to feature Zach Braff as the playwright, Vincent Pastore as the mobster and Hélene Yorke as his girlfriend. Happily, Mr. Allen is doing the adaptation himself, and Susan Stroman will direct and choreograph the show, using music from the 1920s. Previews begin March 11. Opens April 10. St. James Theater, 246 West 44th Street, Telecharge, bulletsoverbroadway.com.
THESE PAPER BULLETS Yale Repertory Theater has sure pulled together an impressive creative team for what sounds like an interesting new musical: A rock 'n' update of Shakespeare's ''Much Ado About Nothing,'' with a Beatles-like band at its core. The writer Rolin Jones (''The Intelligent Design of Jenny Chow'') is adapting the script, and Green Day's Billie Joe Armstrong (''American Idiot'') is writing the songs. Jackson Gay (also ''Jenny Chow'') directs. Previews begin March 14. Opens March 20. Closes April 5. University Theater, 222 York Street, New Haven, (203) 432-1234, yalerep.org.
ACT ONE James Lapine is both the writer and director of this adaptation of the autobiography by Moss Hart, the playwright and director who famously teamed up with George S. Kaufman on several comedies, including ''The Man Who Came to Dinner'' and ''You Can't Take It With You.'' The Lincoln Center Theater production will begin previews March 20. Opens April 17. Vivian Beaumont Theater, 150 West 65 Street, Telecharge, lct.org.
HEDWIG AND THE ANGRY INCH A Broadway production of this John Cameron Mitchell/Stephen Trask rock musical that started out Off Off Broadway in the 1990s was rumored awhile back, but now it is apparently on track for the spring. The show, about a decidedly nonfamous German singer whose ''sex-change operation got botched,'' has its fans, so don't let us down! Neil Patrick Harris has signed on for the lead role and seems like a good casting choice, and the director Michael Mayer, who clearly knows his way around a rock musical (see ''American Idiot'' and ''Spring Awakening''), is also on board. Previews are planned for March at a theater to be announced.
Compiled with the assistance of Suzanne O'Connor.
For more listings: nytimes.com/theater
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top: ''Mr. Burns, a Post-Electric Play''
clockwise from above, Cherry Jones and Celia Keenan-Bolger in ''The Glass Menagerie''
Ray Fisher and Nikki M. James in ''Fetch Clay, Make Man''
and Orlando Bloom and Condola Rashad in ''Romeo and Juliet.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES
MICHAEL J. LUTCH) (AR18)
Right, Mark Rylance (a two-time Tony winner for best actor, in ''Boeing-Boeing'' and ''Jerusalem'') returns to Broadway in ''Richard III,'' which will play in repertory with an all-male ''Twelfth Night.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY SIMON ANNAND) (AR22)
Far left, Billy Crystal in ''700 Sundays''
and Michael Gambon and Eileen Atkins in Samuel Beckett's ''All That Fall.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 POLLY HANCOCK) (AR24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (93%); THEATER (91%); WRITERS (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); FILM DIRECTORS (89%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (78%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (77%); THEATER COMPANIES (76%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (73%); PUBLISHING (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (72%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (55%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (58%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%)

PERSON: MUHAMMAD ALI (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (56%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTHERN IRELAND (56%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2013



214 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 64

LENGTH: 2034 words

HEADLINE: 'We Are the Establishment Now'

BYLINE: By MANOHLA DARGIS and A. O. SCOTT

 BODY:
When Joel and Ethan Coen were growing up, they used to make Super 8 films, including remakes of Hollywood movies that they had watched on TV. Since then, the Coens have continued to let their imagination loose while ranging wide across cinematic and literary genres, drawing on pulp literature (''Blood Simple,'' ''Miller's Crossing''), screwball cinema (''The Hudsucker Proxy,'' ''Intolerable Cruelty''), Homer's Odyssey (''O Brother, Where Art Thou?''), the Bible and their own suburban Minneapolis childhood (''A Serious Man'') to make movies that, increasingly, have the quality of an evolving, distinctly American mythopoeia. 
In July, Manohla Dargis and A. O. Scott, the chief film critics for The New York Times, met with Joel Coen, now 58, and Ethan Coen, 55, in Santa Monica, Calif., to discuss their work, including their latest film, ''Inside Llewyn Davis'' (Dec. 6) about a 1961 folk singer (played by Oscar Isaac), who's struggling with his music, the world, the changing times and -- this being the Coens -- his comically flawed humanity. The brothers sat across from each other and at times seemed to share a single (very large and fast-moving) brain. These are excerpts from the conversation.
Q. Can you talk about the genesis of ''Inside Llewyn Davis''?
Ethan Coen We were in the office and Joel said, ''O.K., suppose Dave Van Ronk gets beat up outside of Gerde's Folk City. That's the beginning of a movie.''
Joel Coen It was an idea we kept coming back to. We were thinking 1961 is interesting, because it's the scene that Dylan came into, not the one he created or transformed, because people know more about that. Dylan once said something -- and I'm paraphrasing him -- ''Really, all I wanted is to be as big as Dave Van Ronk.'' That's how limited that scene was, in terms of the people in the broader culture.
Did you grow up listening to that music?
Ethan Yeah, sort of, through Bob Dylan, like everybody else, probably.
Joel I'm a little older than Ethan, but I have very vague early memories of hearing folk music, my mother playing it or something, when I was fairly little.
Ethan We had a fantastic record of a concert, a rock concert, of Big Bill Broonzy and Pete Seeger, which is kind of ----
Joel Yes, that was a really early record that was a concert in Chicago, where Pete played. In fact, that's how we met T Bone [Burnett]. T Bone called us up sort of out of the blue after he saw ''Raising Arizona,'' because he thought it was very amusing that we played Beethoven on banjo in the score in the movie. We said to him, ''Well, we really stole that from Pete Seeger,'' because Pete Seeger played that. We knew it from this concert record.
Ethan Oh, the one disclaimer I should've made when we talked about the genesis of the movie: We did start thinking about Dave Van Ronk, and in fact read his memoir, which is kind of great, ''The Mayor of Macdougal Street.'' But the movie's not about Dave Van Ronk, although Oscar, the character, has his kind of repertoire. It's his music. It's a fictional character we gave his music to.
How did you find Oscar Isaac?
Joel After we wrote the movie and we started casting it, we knew that there was going to be a lot of performance in the movie, and that actually when you heard a song in the movie, we really wanted to hear the whole song. And it's also a story where we felt like there's got to be something about the character that you only know through his performance and his music -- you know, like a real musician. So we only auditioned real musicians.
Ethan [Laughs.]
Joel You know, that was not so great. It's often possible -- sometimes it's even easy -- to get somebody like that through a scene or two scenes or three scenes or whatever, and it's great, it's fine. But this character's literally in every scene in the movie, so we realized we were going the wrong direction, and we just started seeing actors who could play, as opposed to musicians who could act. And there are more of those, by the way.
Ethan And we've been doing this like, 30 years. You'd think we know something as basic as this, that you need an actor.
Joel I know. It was a little insane. Oscar came in and he said, ''Most actors, if you ask them if they play guitar, they'll say they played guitar for 20 years, but what they really mean is they've owned a guitar for 20 years.'' Oscar's actually played guitar since he was little little, you know? He played, and we sent the tape to T Bone, and T Bone said, ''This guy's actually a better musician than a lot of the studio guys I work with.'' So we went, ''We found him.''
Can we talk a little bit about how you write? Are you locked in a room together?
Joel It's always been the same. We don't split it up. You know: ''You write this scene. You write that.'' There's a lot of just sitting around talking ideas before we start writing anything. So there's kind of a long period of that, and then we generally start at the beginning and just kind of start hammering the scenes out. We don't outline stuff or any of that, although there are some movies where we kind of have a pretty good idea of the shape of it. Or we even know how it's going to end when we start, and then others where we just have no idea whatsoever, and it goes where it goes. They don't all ----
Ethan This one actually ----
Joel Don't get finished. They get put aside for a while, you know.
Ethan The rule is: It goes where it goes, although in the case of this one, we kind of knew either at the beginning or near the very beginning, that it was going to circle back.
Who's typing?
Ethan Usually me, because I type faster, but sometimes Joel. We'll just talk the scene back and forth, and occasionally, one of us will sit down and say, ''Oh, wait, I've got something.'' If it's an idea that consists of a few lines, an exchange, one of us will type without consulting the other.
Are you comfortable throwing out each other's bad ideas?
Ethan Oh, sure, yeah.
Joel Perfectly comfortable, very comfortable. But you know, someone asked us once how we adapt novels, and Ethan said, ''Joel holds the book open by the spine, while I retype it into the computer.''
Your recent adaptations [of ''True Grit'' by Charles Portis and ''No Country for Old Men'' by Cormac McCarthy] are remarkably faithful.
Ethan Yeah, they're really good books, man.
Joel Don't change it if it's not broken!
Has working together changed over the 30 years?
Joel Not really.
Have other things changed?
Joel Well, the craft of it's changed a lot, just because of digital technology. That's the thing that's been the most radical. I mean, outside of that, it's still the same as when we were making Super 8 movies, basically. This movie was not shot digitally. We shot it on film. It's probably ----
Ethan Probably the last one.
Joel It might be the last one we ever do on film.
Ethan ''True Grit'' was the last film that Roger Deakins shot on film.
Joel We were one of the last people to stop cutting on film. And when we stopped, people would say, ''Why?'' Honestly, the answer was because we couldn't find assistants who knew how to work on film. They didn't exist anymore. I mean, it was -- I remember being in Ken Loach's cutting room around then, and I said -- he was cutting on a Steenbeck back then -- and I said, ''How do you do this?'' And he pointed like that [points] and there was this, like, 96-year-old guy on the rewinds.
When did you make the shift to digital editing?
Ethan ''Intolerable Cruelty'' was the first one we cut.
Have you tried out any digital cameras yet?
Ethan We've seen Roger's tests of the Alexa, which are pretty remarkable, which is the eerie thing.
Joel I think both of us -- and T Bone I would throw in here, too -- are very sort of analog. I'd rather listen to vinyl than to a CD. I'd rather see a movie shot on film. I don't think they look the same. I think you can duplicate things with digital technology, but what you end up doing is trying to recapture elements of photochemical technology that aren't there, and they always look a little screwy.
Ethan The analog texture feels so good.
Joel There was a period of time when you could choose whether you were shooting in black and white or in color, and depending on the subject matter -- and usually it's sort of genre-driven and all the rest. It would be great if you could say, ''This movie lends itself to digital shooting, this one, black and white,'' without there being any kind of arty stigma put on it. It's just another thing you can try.
You make movies that are released by studios and win Oscars, yet on some level, you are still not mainstream guys. It's kind of a contradictory position.
Joel Yeah, I know. You know, we've talked about that ourselves. It's weird.
Ethan Yeah. If you'll pardon me, the indie thing might all just be a journalists' thing. James Cameron makes huge movies that are what he wants to do, and they're financed and released by studios. Indie is like, a term of praise that you use for us, fortunately, and some of you bash Jim Cameron for not being, although he kind of is.
But certainly there were people who were making movies outside of the studio system.
Joel Maybe that's more what it is. Because when we started out, it was just the default place because no one would give us money to make a movie. We would've taken it if it had been offered when we were making our first movie. We would've gone, ''Is there somebody who will pay for this in a big Hollywood studio?'' We were moving toward the indie thing, but in another way we were always hoping a big studio would release the movies. And there was a point where we looked at each other, and we went, ''I guess we're kind of the mainstream guys.'' You know, when we won the Oscar.
Ethan That's true.
Joel We said, ''How'd that happen?''
Ethan We are the establishment now.
Some of that is generational.
Ethan I was just talking about that, actually, with our dear friend Steven Spielberg. The three of us ----
Joel It's true. It's true. Because even he's had to go: ''How did I get here? Why am I the establishment guy?'' -- you know?
Ethan Is there a way to half-put irony quotes around the ''dear friend'' thing?[Laughter.]
Since you mention him: He and George Lucas recently talked about the state of the movie business and how frustrated they are with it. Do you have thoughts on it?
Ethan God, I don't know. What do you say? I don't know. What do you say?
A lot. Or nothing.
Ethan You know, moaning about that stuff: it might be true, and it might be a hallmark of getting old, and it might be both. You know? Isn't that what you complain about when you get old, about how it's harder?
It's a recurrent theme -- the crisis in film.
Joel It's definitely harder now. On the other hand, I think you can exaggerate that, too, because the movie business in the United States, despite the sort of ups and downs of the economy, is still a very healthy business. And that healthy business is going to support -- and it always has -- a lot of niche moviemaking. More than you might expect it to, given the mentality. There's still a lot of interesting stuff being made which is completely outside of the kind of trend that we're describing, you know?
Ethan We've always actually been remarkably commercially successful. Not in terms of making huge amounts of money, which we rarely do, but in terms of not losing money and making modest amounts of money. We're actually strangely consistent in that respect. We've been able to keep making movies because of that and also because, strangely, we've had studio patrons, starting from Barry Diller. Sometimes they're establishment people who know they're not going to make huge amounts of money, but they like your movies. They're moviegoers, too.
Joel And mostly they're making blockbusters, but when you get in a room with them, they go, ''Go off and make your movie, and I'll do it as long as I can't get hurt too bad.'' You know? They're completely open to that still. They don't want to get burned.
Ethan They don't want to look stupid.
Joel Nobody wants to look stupid or lose lots of money. On the other hand, they're not afraid of doing other stuff if they can trust you to keep it reasonable. So, yeah, they kind of let us wander off without any adult supervision and do what we want.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Clockwise from right: Joel, seated, and Ethan Coen in Santa Monica, Calif.
Javier Bardem in ''No Country for Old Men'' (2007)
Oscar Isaac in ''Inside Llewyn Davis,'' scheduled to open on Dec. 6. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL LEWIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
RICHARD FOREMAN/MIRAMAX FILMS AND PARAMOUNT VANTAGE
ALISON ROSA/CBS FILMS)
Dan Hedaya and Frances McDormand in ''Blood Simple'' (1984). (PHOTOGRAPH BY USA FILMS)
Tim Robbins in ''The Hudsucker Proxy'' (1994). (PHOTOGRAPH BY WARNER BROS. PICTURES)
From left, John Turturro, Tim Blake Nelson and George Clooney in ''O Brother, Where Art Thou?'' (2000). (PHOTOGRAPH BY MELINDA SUE GORDON/TOUCHSTONE PICTURES) (AR64)
Clockwise from right: Ethan, left, and Joel Coen accepting the Oscar for best adapted screenplay for ''No Country for Old Men'' in 2008
the Coens at the Cannes Film Festival in 1996
Joel on the ''Fargo'' set, with Frances McDormand
from left, Oscar Isaac, Justin Timberlake and Adam Driver in ''Inside Llewyn Davis.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL YADA/AMPAS, VIA EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY
LAURENT REBOURS/ASSOCIATED PRESS
MIRAMAX, VIA REUTERS
ALISON ROSA/CBS FILMS)
Billy Bob Thornton, far left, in ''The Man Who Wasn't There'' (2001). (PHOTOGRAPH BY MELINDA SUE GORDON/USA FILMS)
George Clooney and Catherine Zeta-Jones in ''Intolerable Cruelty'' (2003). (PHOTOGRAPH BY UNIVERSAL PICTURES)
Michael Stuhlbarg in ''A Serious Man'' (2009). (PHOTOGRAPH BY WILSON WEBB/FOCUS FEATURES)
 Jeff Bridges and Hailee Steinfeld in ''True Grit'' (2010). (PHOTOGRAPH BY PARAMOUNT PICTURES) (AR65) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (91%); MUSIC (87%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (87%); MOVIE REVIEWS (73%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (72%); LITERATURE (72%); POP & ROCK (67%); LITERATURE GENRES (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE CLOONEY (73%); JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2013



215 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 572 words

HEADLINE: Reader Comments

 BODY:
''YOU FOR SALE,'' a series of articles on the business of personal data, turned last Sunday to how one company was opening part of its vast data vault to consumers.
The article, ''A Data Broker Offers a Peek Behind the Curtain,'' described how the Acxiom Corporation was creating a free Web site, Aboutthedata.com, where people can view some information that the company has collected about them.
Unveiled on Wednesday, the site lets consumers view information like biographical facts, homeownership and vehicle details, categories of recent purchases and household interests. It also allows people to opt out entirely from having Acxiom collect and store marketing data about them. 
Readers had varying reactions to plans for the site, and to the idea of data collection in general. Comments have been edited and condensed from nytimes.com:
I think each of us should own our data and have fine-grained control on how it is used. Right now, companies like Acxiom profit by selling our data. Instead, consumers should receive more of the benefits. Most consumers would be happy to sell their data on a case-by-case basis in return for case-by-case benefits (coupons, discounts, etc.). But this ''sale'' should be single-use. I might be willing to sell my data with blanket permission to share and reuse it indefinitely, but the price tag would be quite high.
I would gladly share my ''data income'' with data brokers in return for assistance in providing me a single place to correct errors and services in auctioning my data in accordance with my preferences. Aboutthedata.com is a good first step.
FREQUENT FLYER, USA
Think about it this way: When I was a child, the clerk at the cash register was a fixture at the store -- knew our names or could associate us with our parents. And a really good clerk could actually help us in the store. Contrast that with what we have now and you might consider the coupons and mailers as an effort to replace that experience, albeit in a much less -- and, at times, seemingly much more -- personal way. What makes me angry is poor handling and sharing of that info with others.
MARGARET, ATLANTA
Reveal ''some'' of the info? What good is that?
I would want all of the information, not just what they want to let me know they have and sell about me.
ACHILLESMJB, NYC, NY
You'd better believe I am opting out on Day 1, period.
PALE FIRE, BOSTON
I find this a rather interesting proposition and will log in to check it out. This data collection is already happening, but now we can be a part of the process, which is a thought I find refreshing.
I am O.K. with giving out some of my information and would like to hear about targeted products and services that may match my interests based on my demographic, past purchase behavior, etc.
M, BROOKLYN
Have you ever filled out an information form for a store and gotten a store registration card, such as at your grocery store, gas station, etc.? You just waived the personal part. Where do you think that data goes? Yes, you get a few bargain prices, but the store collects your purchasing record forever. So, too, with credit cards, etc.
Want part of the profit? Buy Acxiom stock.JAY26, PA.
If it is my information that Axciom and others are selling, how come I am not getting any money from those transactions? It seems to me that the way the economy is being structured in the 21st century, we consumers need to profit from our personal information, too.
ROBB, WASHINGTON

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKET RESEARCH (78%); AUCTIONS (74%)

COMPANY: ACXIOM CORP (84%)

TICKER: XIM (FRA) (84%); ACXM (NASDAQ) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (84%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (65%) NEW YORK, USA (65%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2013



216 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; THE NEW SEASON; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 4036 words

HEADLINE: People in Motion, From Jetés to Jookin

BYLINE: By SIOBHAN BURKE

 BODY:
All dates are subject to change.
September
BEAT FESTIVAL When you think of Downtown Brooklyn's cultural attractions, large, expensive buildings come to mind (the Barclays Center, the Brooklyn Academy of Music). Stephen Shelley looked elsewhere when organizing this festival of site-specific performance, which pops up at plazas and other communal spaces throughout Downtown Brooklyn and nearby neighborhoods. One palatial landmark does play a role in this second edition: the Brooklyn Museum, where an opening-night bash, among other events, features the dance artists Yanira Castro, Third Rail Projects, LeeSaar The Company and Storyboard P. Thursday-Sept. 21. Various sites, (347) 762-3281, beatbrooklyn.com.
TIME-BASED ART FESTIVAL If you're curious about contemporary performance in Belgium, Portugal, Morocco, Algeria, Croatia, France, Minneapolis, San Francisco or Portland, this festival, hosted by the Portland Institute of Contemporary Art, is a good place to be. This year's thoroughly international projects confront everything from ''fantasies around death'' (Laura Arrington and Jesse Hewit's ''Adult'') to perennial questions of what it means to look and be looked at (Ivana Müller's ''We Are Still Watching''). Thursday-Sept. 22. (503) 224-7422, pica.org. 
FALL FOR DANCE The festival kicks off its 10th anniversary with two free outdoor performances at Central Park's Delacorte Theater (Sept. 16-17), featuring New York City Ballet, Ronald K. Brown/Evidence, the Paul Taylor Dance Company and Streb Extreme Action. The samplers (and annual scrambling for cheap tickets) continue a week later at City Center (Sept. 25-Oct. 5), with 20 international companies on five programs. A few highlights: the imaginative Irish dancer Colin Dunne, the maverick tap artist Michelle Dorrance and commissioned works by ballet's most sought-after men of the moment, Justin Peck and Liam Scarlett. 131 West 55th Street, (212) 581-1212, nycitycenter.org.
NEW YORK CITY BALLET Whether you call it the Koch Theater or the State Theater (its original name, still preferred by some), City Ballet has been in its Lincoln Center home for nearly 50 years. In honor of the milestone, the company will perform some 50 ballets during its 2013-14 season. Three of those -- world premieres by Benjamin Millepied, Angelin Preljocaj and Justin Peck -- will be unveiled, outfitted in designer costumes, at the fall gala, Sept. 19. Works by Balanchine, Robbins, Alexei Ratmansky, Christopher Wheeldon and Mauro Bigonzetti complete the fall lineup (through Oct. 13). Then, like clockwork, comes Balanchine's ''Nutcracker'' (which predates the State Theater by 10 years), Nov. 29-Jan. 4. David H. Koch Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 496-0600, nycballet.com.
JAPAN SOCIETY Basil Twist may technically be a puppeteer, but his work displays a knowledge of the human body, its physics and anatomy, that rivals any dancer's or choreographer's. Bookending the Japan Society's 60th-anniversary season are his acclaimed ''Dogugaeshi'' (Sept. 18-22) and, next spring, a more conventional kind of dance, Luca Veggetti's ''Pleiades,'' featuring the percussionist Kuniko Kato and the former Nederlands Dans Theater member Megumi Nakamura (May 2-3). 333 East 47th Street, (212) 715-1258, japansociety.org.
THE CHOCOLATE FACTORY THEATERThe perception that Long Island City is ''far away'' prevents some New Yorkers from visiting this excellent little theater. It's worth bridging the psychological distance for the distinctive, adventurous artists that the artistic director Brian Rogers has assembled, including Megan V. Sprenger (Sept. 18-21), Karinne Keithley Syers (Oct. 2-5), Will Rawls (Nov. 13-16), Jon Kinzel (Dec. 4-7) and Liz Santoro (May 14-17). Through June 21. 5-49 49th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (212) 352-3101, chocolatefactorytheater.org.
JOFFREY BALLET For historical accuracy, no ''Rite of Spring'' can compete with the Joffrey's. The meticulous reconstruction by Millicent Hodson and Kenneth Archer of the Nijinsky original (which, as you've probably heard, turns 100 this year) completes its national tour at the company's home theater, sharing a Russian Masters program with Balanchine's ''Allegro Brillante'' and Yuri Possokhov's ''Bells.'' Sept. 19-22. Auditorium Theater, Chicago, (800) 982-2787, joffrey.com.
CROSSING THE LINE Labels like ''dance'' and ''theater'' don't go very far in describing what happens at the French Institute Alliance Française's interdisciplinary festival. Its astute curators Lili Chopra, Simon Dove and Gideon Lester seek out work that says what it needs to say by whatever means necessary. This year's dancier events include a new piece by the Moroccan artist Bouchra Ouizguen, Nora Chipaumire's ''riot'' (her answer to ''The Rite of Spring'') and ''a (micro) history of world economics, danced'' by the French playwright and director Pascal Rambert. Sept. 19-Oct. 13. Various sites, (212) 355-6160, fiaf.org.
PEAK PERFORMANCES New Jersey holds its own as a dance-going destination largely thanks to Jedediah Wheeler, the artistic director of this performing arts series at Montclair State University. Liz Gerring gets the season started with her expansive, athletic movement in the world premiere of ''glacier'' (Sept. 19-22). The months ahead bring Douglas Dunn's new ''Aubade'' with video by Charles Atlas (Jan. 24-Feb. 1) and Wayne McGregor's London-based company, Random Dance, in ''Atomos,'' his latest exploit at the intersection of technology and the hyperkinetic human form (March 15-23). Alexander Kasser Theater, Montclair, N.J., (973) 655-5112, peakperfs.org.
NEW YORK LIVE ARTS While some things have changed at the former Dance Theater Workshop since its rebirth as New York Live Arts in 2011, we can still count on Carla Peterson, the artistic director, for her bold, diverse programming. The new season -- a balance of local and international, rookie and veteran artists -- opens with ''The Inkomati (dis)cord'' by Boyzie Cekwana (from South Africa) and Panaibra Canda (from Mozambique), part of Crossing the Line Sept. 25-26. New works from John Jasperse, Kimberly Bartosik, Donna Uchizono and many others are also in store. The Replay Series brings back productions worthy of a longer life, like Big Dance Theater's 2012 ''Ich, Kürbisgeist'' (Oct. 31-Nov. 9) and Ms. Uchizono's 1999 ''State of Heads'' (Dec. 7). Through May 31. 219 West 19th Street, (212) 924-0077, newyorklivearts.org.
PACIFIC NORTHWEST BALLET Peter Boal's multifaceted season begins with a Twyla Tharp triptych: the return of ''Nine Sinatra Songs,'' the company premiere of ''Brief Fling'' and a world premiere to music by the venerable New Orleans composer Allen Toussaint (Sept. 27-Oct. 6). Jumping ahead to the spring season, Mr. Boal offers a more unorthodox combination with his Director's Choice program (March 14-23): Susan Marshall's ''Kiss,'' Molissa Fenley's ''State of Darkness'' and a new work by the Chicago choreographer Alejandro Cerrudo. Through June 8. Seattle, (206) 441-2424, pnb.org.
October
ABRONS ARTS CENTER In addition to American Realness in January, a few intriguing productions will be passing through the Henry Street Settlement's arts wing this fall, including a new work by Pavel Zustiak (Oct. 2-12), Miguel Gutierrez's ''myendlesslove'' (publicized as ''not quite a solo performance about sex, desire and objectification,'' Oct. 9-19) and Arturo Vidich's ''142241,'' which hinges on our willingness to believe in invisible worlds (Nov. 14-16). Abrons Arts Center, (866) 811-4111, abronsartscenter.org.
BILL T. JONES/ARNIE ZANE DANCE COMPANY Mr. Jones's meditation on ''The Rite of Spring,'' a collaboration with Anne Bogart and SITI Company, has its New York premiere Oct. 3-5 at the Brooklyn Academy of Music, followed by its West Coast premiere at San Francisco's Yerba Buena Center for the Arts, Oct. 11-13. Also at Yerba Buena, he offers ''/Time: Study 1'' (Oct. 8-9), building on last year's ''Story/Time,'' which employed chance operations in the spirit of John Cage. The company's 30th-anniversary tour also heads to the Dance Center of Columbia College Chicago (Oct. 24-26) and Boston's Institute of Contemporary Art (Feb. 21-23). newyorklivearts.org.
JOANNA HAIGOOD After last year's ''Paseo'' -- a site-specific salute to the South Bronx and its Latin music renaissance of the 1940s, '50s and '60s -- Ms. Haigood returns to the neighborhood and moves on to the 1970s. In ''The Bronx Revolution and the Birth of Hip Hop,'' presented (free of charge) by Dancing in the Streets, she joins forces with Theodore Livingston (the D.J. better known as GrandWizzard Theodore) and the photographer Joe Conzo Jr. for an afternoon of multimedia storytelling by veteran hip-hop dancers, graffiti artists and emcees. Oct. 5. Starting at Casita Maria Center for Arts and Education, 928 Simpson Street, Bronx, dancinginthestreets.org.
STEVE PAXTON The Dia Art Foundation embarks on its two-part tribute to Mr. Paxton, the latest in its thoughtful series of postmodern performance retrospectives. The septuagenarian improviser (best known as the pioneer of Contact Improvisation) and his longtime collaborator Lisa Nelson bring their 2002 ''Night Stand'' to Dia:Chelsea for its United States premiere (Oct. 10-19). We'll have to wait awhile for part two, the full survey of Mr. Paxton's work, which comes to Dia:Beacon next fall. 541 West 22nd Street, (212) 989-5566, diaart.org.
ON THE BOARDS This Seattle institution, directed by Lane Czaplinski, supports both local and international artists prone to taking big risks. First in its dance lineup is Heather Kravas, who after years in New York has moved back to her native coast. At once wild and militant, she commands cohesion from four dancers in ''the quartet'' (Oct. 10-13). The season continues with Gregory Maqoma, Zoe/Juniper and Alain Buffard, to name just a few, through May 11. Behnke Center for Contemporary Performance, Seattle, (206) 217-9888, ontheboards.org.
NEXT WAVE FESTIVAL Between the Brooklyn Academy of Music's three theaters, there's a lot to keep up with at its annual fall festival. For example: at the Howard Gilman Opera House, the United States premieres of William Forsythe's ''Sider'' (Oct. 9-12) and Hofesh Shechter's ''Sun'' (Nov. 14-16); at the more intimate BAM Fisher, new works by Brian Brooks (Oct. 22-26), John Heginbotham (Oct. 29-Nov. 2), Kate Weare (Nov. 6-9) and Susan Marshall (Nov. 20-23); and at the BAM Harvey Theater, David Dorfman Dance (Oct. 16-19) and the contemporary circus duo Zimmermann & de Perrot (Oct. 23-26). Through Dec. 14. Various sites, (718) 636-4100, bam.org.
SAN FRANCISCO BALLET The company arrives at Lincoln Center for two weeks (Oct. 16-27) bearing an embarrassment of ballet riches: eight New York premieres, including works by Alexei Ratmansky, Wayne McGregor, Helgi Tomasson (the artistic director) and Christopher Wheeldon, whose opulent ''Cinderella'' gets a week to itself. Later in the season, back at home, Mr. Ratmansky's ''Shostakovich Trilogy,'' created for American Ballet Theater, will have its West Coast premiere, April 2. (415) 865-2000, sfballet.org.
ROSAS The words ''late medieval music'' might not send you running to the box office, but in this case -- as with anything involving this Belgian company and its visionary choreographer, Anne Teresa De Keersmaeker -- they should. In her recent companion pieces ''En Atendant'' and ''Cesena'' (presented on separate programs at the Next Wave Festival, Oct. 19-20), Ms. De Keersmaeker explores the haunting 14th-century musical style known as ars subtilior, taking us on dual journeys from light into darkness and darkness into light. In ''Cesena,'' the Antwerp-based choral group Graindelavoix joins the dancers onstage. bam.org.
November
MATTHEW BOURNE Following up on his cheeky ''Nutcracker!'' (1992) and his gender-bending ''Swan Lake'' (1995), the British choreographer offers the latest in his trilogy of extravagantly reimagined Tchaikovsky ballets. His ''Sleeping Beauty,'' which opened to mixed reviews in London last year, hurtles from the Victorian gothic bedroom of Aurora's youth to the bondage-themed nightclub where she gets married 100 years later. After its New York premiere at City Center (Oct. 23-Nov. 3), the production heads to the Kennedy Center (Nov. 12-17) and the Music Center in Los Angeles (Nov. 21-Dec. 1); new-adventures.net.
KEIGWIN + COMPANY Dependably light and fun, clever and carefree -- but never at the expense of clean, eye-catching structure -- Larry Keigwin has been thriving in the dance-making business for a decade. For his company's 10th anniversary (Oct. 29-Nov. 3), he presents the oldest work in his repertory, ''Mattress Suite,'' and his 2004 ''Natural Selection,'' alongside the New York premiere of ''Girls,'' complete with sparkling rain curtains and Frank Sinatra tunes. The Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth Avenue, at 19th Street, Chelsea; (212) 242-0800, joyce.org.
AMERICAN BALLET THEATER The company's fall season, usually far too short, happily expands from one week to two. It also relocates to a bigger stage, from City Center to New York City Ballet's turf, the David H. Koch Theater. The world premiere of ''The Tempest,'' by the resident choreographer Alexei Ratmansky, will surely benefit from the extra space, as will the revivals of Michel Fokine's ''Sylphides,'' Twyla Tharp's ''Bach Partita'' and Mark Morris's ''Gong.'' Oct. 30-Nov. 10. abt.org.
PERFORMA RoseLee Goldberg's ''visual art performance'' biennial is back, having downsized (a good idea) just slightly, with more than 100 events in more than 40 locations over the course of three and a half weeks (Nov. 1-24). The dance presentations (of those that have been announced) include Maria Hassabi's ''Premiere'' at the Kitchen (Nov. 6-9) and Noé Soulier's ''Ideography'' at Danspace Project (Nov. 7). (212) 366-5700, performa-arts.org.
DANSPACE PROJECT Judy Hussie-Taylor's innovative Platform series, in which choreographers serve as curators for several weeks at a time, appears to be on hiatus. The fall season, more loosely structured, features premieres by Rashaun Mitchell and Silas Riener (Nov. 14-16) and Cori Olinghouse (Dec. 12-14), plus a reprise of Katy Pyle's ''Firebird: A Ballez.'' Okwui Okpokwasili and Vanessa Anspaugh are among the thought-provoking artists scheduled for 2014. The Platform format resumes in May with ''Diary of an Image,'' four weeks devoted to the work of DD Dorvillier (May 19-June 14). St. Mark's Church, 131 East 10th Street, East Village; (866) 811-4111, danspaceproject.org.
WALKER ART CENTER Rapturously received in Europe, Jérôme Bel's ''Disabled Theater'' -- his collaboration with Theater Hora, a Swiss company of disabled actors -- arrives at this dynamic Twin Cities theater (Nov. 21-23) by way of New York Live Arts (Nov. 12-17). In more local news, the popular Choreographers' Evening returns on Nov. 30 to showcase rising talent from Minneapolis, selected this year by Chris Yon and Taryn Griggs. The daredevil duo Hijack, an influential force on the city's dance scene, celebrates 20 years, Dec. 5-7. (612) 375-7600, walkerart.org.
MARK MORRIS Spiritual transcendence, the theme of Lincoln Center's White Light Festival, is a tall order, but many would claim that Mr. Morris can deliver with his ''L'Allegro, il Penseroso ed il Moderato.'' His company makes its White Light debut with that work, widely considered his greatest, Nov. 21-23. Another Handel score inspires Mr. Morris's next project, ''Acis and Galatea,'' which has its world premiere at Cal Performances April 25-27. markmorrisdancegroup.org.
December
ALVIN AILEY AMERICAN DANCE THEATER At a 55-year-old institution, where leaders tend to stick around for several decades, two years isn't very long. In that time, the artistic director Robert Battle has considerably refurbished the company's repertory, bringing in big names from abroad (Jiri Kylian, Ohad Naharin) and invigorating young voices like Kyle Abraham. He continues in that vein this season with a world premiere by Aszure Barton and two company premieres: Bill T. Jones's classic ''D-Man in the Waters'' and ''Chroma'' by the brainy British choreographer Wayne McGregor. Dec. 4-Jan. 5. (212) 581-1212, alvinailey.org.
TERE O'CONNOR After 30 years of making dances, how does a choreographer avoid repeating himself? One approach is to work with different groups of dancers, which Mr. O'Connor has done in three works -- ''Secret Mary,'' ''poem'' and ''Untitled'' -- over the past two years. Taking the process further, he now collapses those three into a fourth; like particles colliding, their disparate elements should fuse into something delightfully unexpected. The resulting composite, ''Bleed,'' has its world premiere at the Next Wave Festival, Dec. 11-14. bam.org.
JUILLIARD DANCE The trailblazing German choreographer Pina Bausch owed her dance education, in part, to Juilliard. Partnering with her other alma mater, the Folkwangschule in Essen, Germany, the conservatory reconstructs her 1975 ''Wind von West'' (''Wind From the West'') as part of its New Dances program, becoming the first United States institution -- and only the third in the world, after the Paris Opéra Ballet and her Tanztheater Wuppertal -- to perform Ms. Bausch's work. Dec. 11-15. Peter Jay Sharp Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500, juilliard.edu/newdances.
January
FOCUS DANCE The buying and selling of live performance is in full force this month, thanks to the annual conference of the Association of Performing Arts Presenters. Amid what often feels like a cultural meat market, this showcase (with a sweeping ''focus'' on American choreographers) is a felicitous recent development, bringing together compelling artists who you don't usually see back to back. This year's curator, Laurie Uprichard, assembles some particularly interesting pairings, like Vicky Shick with Doug Elkins and Yvonne Rainer with Urban Bush Women. Jan. 7-12. joyce.org.
AMERICAN REALNESS Plans are still under way for Ben Pryor's fifth annual festival of contemporary performance at Abrons Arts Center, but if it's anything like past years, we can expect 11 days packed with smart, strong-minded artists who aren't afraid of making a mess. Confirmed, so far, are Michelle Boulé's ''Wonder,'' Juliana F. May's ''Commentary = not thing'' and Adrienne Truscott's ''Too Freedom.'' There will, no doubt, be much more, maybe too much; over-stimulation comes with the Realness territory. Jan. 9-19. tbspMGMT.com.
LIAM SCARLETT America has latched onto this British choreographer, a former dancer with the Royal Ballet who, last year, became its artist in residence at the tender age of 26. Having created two pieces for Miami City Ballet, he moves on to New York City Ballet, making his choreographic debut there on Jan. 31. His first work for San Francisco Ballet has its premiere on April 29.
February
PAM TANOWITZ There are two opportunities this month to see Ms. Tanowitz's exacting, elaborate choreography: during the Joyce Theater debut of her company (Feb. 4-6) and at Florence Gould Hall, where the small but highly regarded New York Theater Ballet performs her ''Short Memory,'' praised by the New York Times critic Brian Seibert for its ''brilliant use of stage space'' (Feb. 28-March 1).
ROYAL NEW ZEALAND BALLET Yes, it's been 13 years, but for some of us Ethan Stiefel will always be Cooper Nielsen in the 2000 teen dance movie ''Center Stage.'' Of course, he was also a principal dancer with American Ballet Theater, then he took off for New Zealand to become the artistic director of this company. Touring the United States for the first time under his leadership, the troupe arrives at the Joyce Theater (after stopping at the Music Center in Los Angeles, Jan. 31-Feb. 2). Feb. 12-16. joyce.org.
92ND STREET Y The annual tradition of stripping and dressing resumes at the Harkness Dance Festival, where the curator Doug Varone invites artists to ''strip down'' their work, sharing aspects of the process, before presenting a more polished, ''dressed'' product. This year those artists are Nora Chipaumire, casebolt and smith, Netta Yerushalmy, Kyle Abraham and David Dorfman, all makers of luscious, space-gobbling movement. Feb. 21-March 23. 92nd Street Y, 1395 Lexington Avenue, (212) 415-5500, 92y.org.
LUCIANA ACHUGAR For ''Otro Teatro,'' the darkly poetic Ms. Achugar began with the image of a collapsed theater. In a kind of ritualistic rebuilding, the Uruguayan choreographer probes beneath so-called civilized exteriors to expose more instinctual layers of society and self. The work has its world premiere at Walker Art Center (Feb. 27-March 1), then heads to New York Live Arts (April 2-5).
March
FLAMENCO FESTIVAL A large proscenium theater isn't ideal for flamenco, a form best experienced up close. For this annual City Center festival -- featuring Antonio Canales, Carlos Rodríguez, Karime Amaya and Jesús Carmona (March 6-7) and Eva Yerbabuena (March 8-9) -- get tickets early to snag seats at the front of the house. nycitycenter.org.
PAUL TAYLOR Six decades of making dances, and Mr. Taylor is still churning them out. His company's three-week Lincoln Center engagement includes a world premiere, a New York premiere and 19 other works from its ever-expanding repertory. March 11-30. (646) 214-5815, ptdc.org.
BETH GILL The title of Ms. Gill's new piece, ''New Work for the Desert,'' captures a certain tension in her work: her minimalist landscapes, while sometimes bleak, can also feel lush, regenerative, nourishing for the heart and mind. The cast here includes several dancers from her highly acclaimed ''Electric Midwife,'' plus a few newcomers. March 20-22. newyorklivearts.org.
MARTHA GRAHAM DANCE COMPANY The company continues its balancing act of preserving Graham's legacy while not getting stuck in the past. Its City Center season, while honoring the 70th anniversary of ''Appalachian Spring,'' also includes new works by Spain's esteemed Nacho Duato and the Greek choreographer Andonis Foniadakis. Let's hope that the expository speeches and video montages, a distracting part of last year's Joyce performances, are kept to a minimum. March 19-22. nycitycenter.org.
April
STEPHEN PETRONIO This year marks the big three-oh for Mr. Petronio's company. In addition to a revival of ''Strange Attractors, Part I'' from 1999, he's celebrating with two new, presumably contrasting works at the Joyce Theater: one to Philip Glass, the other to a commissioned score by the hip-hop producer Clams Casino. stephenpetronio.com.
REGGIE WILSON The best term for Mr. Wilson's bracing, rhythmically resonant works might be the one that often appears in his press materials: ''post-African/neo-HooDoo modern dances.'' In his latest, ''moses(es),'' he draws from Zora Neale Hurston's ''Moses, Man of the Mountains'' and his own travels to Egypt, Turkey and Mali to explore themes of leadership and migration. His Fist & Heel Performance Group takes the piece to the Dance Center of Columbia College Chicago (April 3-5), following its New York premiere at the Next Wave Festival (Dec. 4-7); colum.edu/dancecenter.
AMERICAN TAP DANCE FOUNDATION From its West Village headquarters, this organization directed by Tony Waag works hard to preserve tap's history and nurture fresh talent. Rhythm in Motion, its annual showcase of new dances by artists in residence, returns to the Theater at the 14th Street Y, April 8-13. 344 East 14th Street, (646) 230-9564, atdf.org.
WENDY WHELAN The New York City Ballet principal's admirable experiment in self-transformation, ''Restless Creature,'' comes to the Joyce Theater, April 2-6. Its spring tour also touches down in New Jersey; Chicago; Pittsburgh; Ann Arbor, Mich.; Boston; Louisville, Ky.; and Chapel Hill, N.C. Through April 11.
TRISHA BROWN DANCE COMPANY With Ms. Brown no longer making new works, her dancers channel their energies into reconstructing older ones. The rarely seen ''Son of Gone Fishin' '' (1981) -- whose structure Ms. Brown has called '' the most rigorous of all my works'' -- should be a high point of the troupe's New York Live Arts season, which also includes ''Opal Loop/Cloud Installation #72503'' (1980) and ''Solo Olos'' (1976). newyorklivearts.org.
For more listings: nytimes.com/dance

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, Storyboard P will take part in Downtown Brooklyn's Beat Festival
left, the New York City Ballet's fall lineup will include Alexei Ratmansky's ''Namouna, a Grand Divertissement.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARC BAPTISTE
 PAUL KOLNIK) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); DANCE (89%); DANCERS (89%); BALLET (89%); DANCE COMPANIES (89%); THEATER (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); CITIES (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (72%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); CROATIA (79%); BELGIUM (56%); MOROCCO (56%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2013



217 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINIONATOR; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1551 words

HEADLINE: The Great Stagnation of American Education

BYLINE: By ROBERT J. GORDON. 
Robert J. Gordon, a professor of the social sciences at Northwestern University, is at work on a book about the American standard of living since the Civil War.

 BODY:
For most of American history, parents could expect that their children would, on average, be much better educated than they were. But that is no longer true. This development has serious consequences for the economy.
The epochal achievements of American economic growth have gone hand in hand with rising educational attainment, as the economists Claudia Goldin and Lawrence F. Katz have shown. From 1891 to 2007, real economic output per person grew at an average rate of 2 percent per year -- enough to double every 35 years. The average American was twice as well off in 2007 as in 1972, four times as well off as in 1937, and eight times as well off as in 1902. It's no coincidence that for eight decades, from 1890 to 1970, educational attainment grew swiftly. But since 1990, that improvement has slowed to a crawl.
Companies pay better-educated people higher wages because they are more productive. The premium that employers pay to a college graduate compared with that to a high school graduate has soared since 1970, because of higher demand for technical and communication skills at the top of the scale and a collapse in demand for unskilled and semiskilled workers at the bottom. 
As the current recovery continues at a snail's pace, concerns about America's future growth potential are warranted. Growth in annual average economic output per capita has slowed from the century-long average of 2 percent, to 1.3 percent over the past 25 years, to a mere 0.7 percent over the past decade. As of this summer, per-person output was still lower than it was in late 2007. The gains in income since the 2007-9 Great Recession have flowed overwhelmingly to those at the top, as has been widely noted. Real median family income was lower last year than in 1998.
There are numerous causes of the less-than-satisfying economic growth in America: the retirement of the baby boomers, the withdrawal of working-age men from the labor force, the relentless rise in the inequality of the income distribution and, as I have written about elsewhere, a slowdown in technological innovation.
Education deserves particular focus because its effects are so long-lasting. Every high school dropout becomes a worker who likely won't earn much more than minimum wage, at best, for the rest of his or her life. And the problems in our educational system pervade all levels.
The surge in high school graduation rates -- from less than 10 percent of youth in 1900 to 80 percent by 1970 -- was a central driver of 20th-century economic growth. But the percentage of 18-year-olds receiving bona fide high school diplomas fell to 74 percent in 2000, according to the University of Chicago economist James J. Heckman. He found that the holders of G.E.D.'s performed no better economically than high school dropouts and that the rising share of young people who are in prison rather than in school plays a small but important role in the drop in graduation rates.
Then there is the poor quality of our schools. The Program for International Student Assessment tests have consistently rated American high schoolers as middling at best in reading, math and science skills, compared with their peers in other advanced economies.
At the college level, longstanding problems of quality are joined with the issues of affordability. For most of the postwar period, the G.I. Bill, public and land-grant universities and junior colleges made a low-cost education more accessible in the United States than anywhere in the world. But after leading the world in college completion, America has dropped to 16th. The percentage of 25- to 29-year-olds who hold a four-year bachelor's degree has inched up in the past 15 years, to 33.5 percent, but that is still lower than in many other nations.
The cost of a university education has risen faster than the rate of inflation for decades. Between 2008 and 2012 state financing for higher education declined by 28 percent. Presidents of Ivy League and other elite schools point to the lavish subsidies they give low- and middle-income students, but this leaves behind the vast majority of American college students who are not lucky or smart enough to attend them.
While a four-year college degree still pays off, about one-quarter of recent college graduates are currently unemployed or underemployed. Meanwhile, total student debt now exceeds $1 trillion.
Heavily indebted students face two kinds of risks. One is that they fall short of their income potential, through some combination of unemployment and inability to find a job in their chosen fields. Research has shown that on average a college student taking on $100,000 in student debt will still come out ahead by age 34. But that break-even age goes up if future income falls short of the average.
There is also completion risk. A student who takes out half as much debt but drops out after two years never breaks even because wages of college dropouts are little better than those of high school graduates. These risks are acute for high-achieving students from low-income families: Caroline M. Hoxby, a Stanford economist, found that they often don't apply to elite colleges and wind up at subpar ones, deeply in debt.
Two-year community colleges enroll 37 percent of American undergraduates. The Center on International Education Benchmarking reports that only 13 percent of students in two-year colleges graduate in two years; that figure rises to a still-dismal 28 percent after four years. These students are often working while taking classes and are often poorly prepared for college and required to take remedial courses.
Federal programs like No Child Left Behind and Race to the Top have gone too far in using test scores to evaluate teachers. Many children are culturally disadvantaged, even if one or both parents have jobs, have no books at home, do not read to them, and park them in front of a TV set or a video game in lieu of active in-home learning. Compared with other nations where students learn several languages and have math homework in elementary school, the American system expects too little. Parental expectations also matter: homework should be emphasized more, and sports less.
Poor academic achievement has long been a problem for African-Americans and Hispanics, but now the achievement divide has extended further. Isabel V. Sawhill, an economist at the Brookings Institution, has argued that ''family breakdown is now biracial.'' Among lower-income whites, the proportion of children living with both parents has plummeted over the past half-century, as Charles Murray has noted.
Are there solutions? The appeal of American education as a destination for the world's best and brightest suggests the most obvious policy solution. Shortly before his death, Steve Jobs told President Obama that a green card conferring permanent residency status should be automatically granted to any foreign student with a degree in engineering, a field in which skills are in short supply..
Richard J. Murnane, an educational economist at Harvard, has found evidence that high school and college completion rates have begun to rise again, although part of this may be a result of weak labor markets that induce students to stay in school rather than face unemployment. Other research has shown that high-discipline, ''no-excuses'' charter schools, like those run by the Knowledge Is Power Program and the Harlem Children's Zone, have erased racial achievement gaps. This model suggests that a complete departure from the traditional public school model, rather than pouring in more money per se, is needed.
Early childhood education is needed to counteract the negative consequences of growing up in disadvantaged households, especially for children who grow up with only one parent. Only one in four American 4-year-olds participate in preschool education programs, but that's already too late. In a remarkable program, Reach Out and Read, 12,000 doctors, nurses and other providers have volunteered to include instruction on the importance of in-home reading to low-income mothers during pediatric checkups.
Even in today's lackluster labor market, employers still complain that they cannot find workers with the needed skills to operate complex modern computer-driven machinery. Lacking in the American system is a well-organized funnel between community colleges and potential blue-collar employers, as in the renowned apprenticeship system in Germany.
How we pay for education shows, in the end, how much we value it. In Canada, each province manages and finances education at the elementary, secondary and college levels, thus avoiding the inequality inherent in America's system of local property-tax financing for public schools. Tuition at the University of Toronto was a mere $5,695 for Canadian arts and science undergraduates last year, compared with $37,576 at Harvard. It should not be surprising that the Canadian college completion rate is about 15 percentage points above the American rate. As daunting as the problems are, we can overcome them. Our economic growth is at stake.
Robert J. Gordon, a professor of the social sciences at Northwestern University, is at work on a book about the American standard of living since the Civil War.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JAVIER JAÉN)
 GRAPHIC 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (88%); WAGES & SALARIES (88%); HISTORY (78%); FAMILY (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (77%); MINIMUM WAGE (73%); GRADUATION RATES (72%); HIGH SCHOOL EQUIVALENCY (72%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (70%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (67%); BABY BOOMERS (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (70%) ILLINOIS, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2013



218 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: Barry's War Within

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- THE winner of the Nobel Peace Prize had been up late pleading for war.
The president looked exhausted as he met the press in St. Petersburg on Friday. The man elected because of his magical powers of persuasion had failed to persuade other world leaders at dinner the night before about a strike on Syria.
He said he had told his fellow leaders, ''I was elected to end wars and not start them.'' 
But in life, and especially in Washington, people sometimes end up becoming what they start out scorning.
It is uncomfortable to watch the president struggle to reconcile his two conflicting identities as he weighs what he calls the unappetizing choices on Syria, and as he is weighed down by the malignant choices on the Middle East made by his predecessor.
In his head, is Barry at war with the commander in chief?
One side of him is Barry, the smooth consensus builder and community organizer, the former constitutional professor and the drive-by senator who must stand by the argument he made when he ran for president excoriating W.'s and Dick Cheney's highhandedness: checks and balances must be observed. As he told Charlie Savage, then reporting for The Boston Globe, in 2007, ''The president does not have power under the Constitution to unilaterally authorize a military attack in a situation that does not involve stopping an actual or imminent threat to the nation.''
W. and Tony Blair were not honest about the imminent threat from Saddam. President Obama said in Russia Friday that ''I put it before Congress because I could not honestly claim that the threat posed by Assad's use of chemical weapons on innocent civilians and women and children posed an imminent, direct threat to the United States.''
When it came time to act as commander in chief, he choked and reverted to Senator Barry -- even though many lawmakers in both parties privately wish the president had just gone ahead and hurled a few missiles, Zeus like, and not put them on the spot.
Now the president who saw no benefit in wooing Democrats on the Hill is desperate for their love. Nancy Pelosi, the San Francisco peacenik, will have to win Barry the right to bomb.
Those around him say that, after the British poodle slipped its leash, Obama faced a gut check on his decision to have a strike. He had to dig deep and decide ''This is who I am,'' and be true to himself. To be Barry, editor of the Harvard Law Review.
In some ways, his reaction reflects his tendency toward mixing high principles with low motives. He believes it is proper to get Congressional approval and let the people chime in. But he also wanted to make life difficult for Congressional Republicans who like to ''snipe,'' using his word, from the sidelines with no accountability. He wanted to call their blustery bluff.
But who is going to get bluffed?
Obama had to know that once he threw this into the Congress, it was likely done for. Congress now is a paralyzed domestic version of the U.N., with Republicans going ''nyet'' as often as the Russians, and Democrats acting like the don't-look-at-us-for-help Chinese.
Many Republicans are trying to use this as an attempt to emasculate the president, but can they really send the message that the U.S. president is weak?
Obama has told Israel, when it has threatened to go it alone on striking Iran, to back off, guaranteeing the U.S. would use force if necessary to prevent Iran from getting a nuclear weapon. If Congress ratifies that there's no appetite among Americans to police the Middle East, does it doom any chance of a U.S. pre-emptive strike on Iran and indicate that the U.S. won't be there for Israel?
Barack Obama first made his mark as an Illinois legislator with a speech in 2002 about Iraq, which he warned would be ''a rash war, a war based not on reason but on passion,'' a war that would ''distract'' from our own problems with the economy and poverty.
Now agitated constituents at town halls across the country are asking why the president wants to distract from our own problems with the economy and poverty.
As Maryland Congressman Elijah Cummings said on NPR, a nurse at Johns Hopkins confronted him, saying: ''Folks have been using chemical weapons for a long time. Do you realize when I took my son to school, they didn't even have books for him to'' learn from?
As commander in chief, Obama knows that if he doesn't punish Bashar al-Assad, America and his presidency will be forever reduced. He thinks a limited strike -- not a war, as some are calling it -- is the right thing to do.
But as Barry talked to the press in St. Petersburg, his lack of enthusiasm came across. He was not thundering from the top of the moral ramparts. He made his usual nuanced, lawyerly presentation, talking about the breach of international ''norms.'' It's a weak, wonk word.
Norms don't send people to the barricades.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOBEL PRIZES (90%); AWARDS & PRIZES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); NANCY PELOSI (57%); TONY BLAIR (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%) UNITED STATES (94%); SYRIA (93%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2013



219 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINIONATOR; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1212 words

HEADLINE: The Short Sentence as Gospel Truth

BYLINE: By ROY PETER CLARK

 BODY:
As a writer and teacher, I try to learn something about the craft every day. A gold coin of inspiration may come in my reading, in a conversation with another writer or even in the process of revising this essay.
I learned an important lesson, somewhat unwittingly, on July 19, 1975, while watching an interview with two of my favorite writers, William F. Buckley Jr. and Tom Wolfe. Mr. Wolfe was making fun of an art critic who had begun an essay with the sentence ''Art and ideas are one.''
''Now, I must give him credit for this,'' said Mr. Wolfe. ''If you ever have a preposterous statement to make ... say it in five words or less, because we're always used to five-word sentences as being the gospel truth.''
The five-word sentence as the gospel truth. 
Granted, Mr. Wolfe was being a little cynical, but the truth of what he was saying still applies. Express your most powerful thought in the shortest sentence.
In a 2006 article in The St. Petersburg Times, the writer Thomas French showed off this move, describing the memorable life and influential tenure in a Tampa zoo of a chimpanzee named Herman.
''Altogether,'' wrote Mr. French, ''he lived at Lowry Park Zoo for 35 years. He lasted there longer than any other creature and longer than any of the humans. Each of the 1,800 animals at the zoo is assigned a number. His was 00001.''
In an interview, Mr. French explained that the most telling detail in Herman's story was that number: 00001. Herman was Elvis, No. 1, the primal primate, Adam in this garden of captives.
Finding that number -- with all those zeros -- is good reporting; how Mr. French decided to use it is more revealing. He could have listed it in a catalog of details. Instead, to deliver it full force, he placed the magic number at the end of a paragraph at the end of a section in the story's shortest sentence. ''His was 00001.''
Using short sentences to their full effect is a centuries-old strategy, found in opinion writing, fiction and nonfiction, poetry and plays. It works in a formal speech or in a handwritten letter. Shakespeare had a messenger deliver the news to Macbeth in six words: ''The Queen, my lord, is dead,'' a message that could fit easily inside a 140-character tweet.
A familiar and effective place for the short sentence is at the end of a long paragraph. Here is the critic Greil Marcus riffing on the poetry of the beat poet Allen Ginsberg:
SIN! SIN! SIN! Ginsberg shouted again and again, in scores of other words -- single words, elaborate travelogues, sexual fantasies, the American pastoral as it passed by under his eye on the highway, unable to outrun the American berserk in Vietnam. He was there, ''lone man from the void, riding a bus/hypnotized by red tail lights on the straight/space road ahead,'' to judge the country. And he was there to save it.
Let's measure the economy of that final sentence, an efficiency that brings with it the ring of truth: Seven words, all of one syllable. Twenty-one letters. That's three letters per word.
There are times when these truth-bearing (truth-baring!) sentences come in a cluster, heightening the drama. The sentences also can appear as a stand-alone paragraph, swimming in white space. George Orwell plays with these techniques in ''Animal Farm'':
It was a pig walking on his hind legs.
Yes, it was Squealer ... And finally there was a tremendous baying of dogs and a shrill crowing from the black cockerel, and out came Napoleon himself, majestically upright, casting haughty glances from side to side, and with his dogs gambolling round him.
He carried a whip in his trotter.
A long sequence of short sentences slows the reader down, each period acting as a stop sign. That slow pace can bring clarity, create suspense or magnify emotion, but can soon become tedious. It turns out that the short sentence gains power from its proximity to longer sentences, as Orwell demonstrates with that final image of the whip appearing after a sentence that stretches to 38 words.
Another British dystopian, Anthony Burgess, might have learned this trick from Orwell. In the last paragraph of ''A Clockwork Orange,'' his savage teenage narrator is about to be liberated from the re-programming designed to suppress his violent impulses. Listening to his beloved Beethoven's Ninth Symphony, he expresses his joy via an invented gang-slang of the future:
Oh, it was gorgeosity and yumyumyum. When it came to the Scherzo I could viddy myself very clear running and running on like very light and mysterious nogas, carving the whole litso of the creeching world with my cut-throat britva. And there was the slow movement and the lovely last singing movement still to come. I was cured all right.
Notice the metrical echoes in that final sentence: five words. All of one syllable. None longer than five letters. And with this added benefit: It comes not just at the end of a passage or a chapter, but as the last chilling words of the novel.
What makes a short sentence short is determined by the sentences around it. In the land of 40-word sentences, the 20-word sentence bears a special power. The following passage ends the historical novel ''Libra'' by Don DeLillo and describes the burial of John F. Kennedy's assassin Lee Harvey Oswald. You will notice that all the sentences are relatively short, allowing the emotional tension to build. The woman in question is Oswald's mother:
Marguerite felt a weakness in her legs. The wind made the canopy snap. She felt hollow in her body and heart. But even as they led her from the grave she heard the name Lee Harvey Oswald spoken by two boys standing fifty feet away, here to grab some clods of souvenir earth. Lee Harvey Oswald. Saying it like a secret they'd keep forever. She saw the first dusty car drive off, just silhouetted heads in windows. She walked with the policemen up to the second car, where the funeral director stood under a black umbrella, holding open the door. Lee Harvey Oswald. No matter what happened, how hard they schemed against her, this was the one thing they could not take away -- the truth and lasting power of his name. It belonged to her now, and to history.
Consider the variety of lengths in this excerpt: 7, 6, 8, 32, 3, 8, 13, 23, 3, 28, 8. The two shortest verbless sentences of three words (Lee Harvey Oswald) appear immediately after two of the longer sentences. That change of pace, that abruptness, that slamming on of brakes, carries significant meaning as does that final truth bearing/baring sentence: ''It belonged to her now, and to history.''
I thank Tom Wolfe for that 1975 lesson on the disproportional power of the short sentence. It stuck. I owe it to him to restore his original context, that writers can use it to give even preposterous statements the ring of truth. The bigot can use it to foment hate. The propagandist can slap it on a bumper sticker. But for the writer with good intent, the short sentence proves a reliable method for delivering the practical truth. With punch.
Roy Peter Clark teaches writing at the Poynter Institute. He is the author of ''Writing Tools'' and ''How to Write Short: Word Craft for Fast Times.''
This is an excerpt from Draft, a series on writing, at nytimes.com/opinionator.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); POETRY (89%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (87%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (78%); ANIMALS (71%); PRIMATES (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (87%) FLORIDA, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2013



220 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1283 words

HEADLINE: Two 'Country Strong' Giants Are Finding Way in the City

BYLINE: By BILL PENNINGTON

 BODY:
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. -- David Wilson and Rueben Randle each hail from Southern country towns, one-time Confederate strongholds that eventually endured the effect of shuttered mills and a declining rural economy. Their fathers worked long hours, or two and three jobs, to make ends meet, and Wilson and Randle were weaned on the value of hard work and perseverance.
Separated by several hundred miles -- Wilson in southern Virginia and Randle in northern Louisiana -- each player also starred at football. Last year, Wilson, a running back, and Randle, a wide receiver, were united by an uncommon achievement -- they were the Giants' top two draft picks.
Wilson, the first-round selection, and Randle soon became good friends. They needed each other, as neither was playing much, except on special teams. 
''We'd get together and talk about returning kicks,'' Wilson said. ''Because that's all we were doing.''
All that is very likely to change this year. On a Giants offense stocked with veteran talent, it is two largely unproven second-year players who could assume pivotal roles.
On Sunday in the Giants season-opening game against Dallas, Wilson will not only be the starting running back charged with replacing the departed Giants star Ahmad Bradshaw, he will be standing in the way of blitzing linebackers and asked to preserve the health and well-being of the franchise quarterback Eli Manning. Randle has assumed the third receiver's job, an essential responsibility with opposing defenses double-teaming the featured receivers, Hakeem Nicks and Victor Cruz. In single coverage, Randle could become a favorite receiver for Manning.
''This year when we get together, the conversation has changed to how much return work might be left for us,'' Randle, who is still the team's principal punt returner, said last week. ''There's other things on our plates now.''
But new duties have not changed their off-the-field habits as the two remain close, living on the same floor of an apartment complex in Secaucus, N.J.
''Usually if you see one of us,'' Wilson said, ''the other one is in the vicinity. We're home boys. We relate to one another, we were kind of raised the same.''
The backgrounds and upbringings of both players have come up in the Giants' locker room during the last week as part of the story of how and why each feels prepared for an increased workload this season. When Wilson was being questioned about his height and weight (5 feet 9 inches and 205 pounds) and was asked whether he was sturdy enough to block for Manning, he smiled and insisted he was ''country strong.''
''Don't be fooled by my size; I'm a physical, strong guy,'' he said. ''I grew up chopping wood and building houses with my dad. It takes a lot of strength to lug 50 pounds of shingles up a ladder and onto a roof.''
Especially if you are doing it when you are only 10.
''David worked construction with me since he was probably 6 years old and by the time he was 10, he could lift and carry as much as anybody,'' said Dwight Wilson, David's father. ''And by the time he was in high school, we'd be unloading cinder blocks from a truck, and David would be taking two or three at a time while everyone else was grabbing one.''
Dwight Wilson was a graphic artist and elementary school art teacher who rebuilt and renovated houses to augment his income.
The Wilsons lived in Danville, Va., on the border with North Carolina. Dwight Wilson bought broken-down homes, renovated them and resold them, always with the help of his sons, David and Ronald.
''Rebuilding a roof in that part of the country during a hot July day is no cakewalk, let me tell you,'' Dwight said. ''David got more than strong, he learned toughness.''
He was also a standout track and football athlete, and understood that others were watching him. Beginning in his senior year of high school, Wilson started wearing a collared shirt and tie, with dress pants and shoes, to classes every day. For the most part, he did it throughout his tenure at Virginia Tech as well.
''A lot of the kids were wearing their pants down, and I wanted to look neat,'' Wilson said. ''People treat you different when you're dressed nicely.''
David's mother, Sheila, said: ''David was beginning to get awards and accolades for his athletics, and he wanted positive reactions to how he looked in public, too. He thought he should look a certain way if people were going to notice.
''He was always that kind of kid -- always did his homework, always helped his father. He's in the N.F.L. now, but I think he's still intent on doing things right.''
Growing up in Bastrop, La., Randle was the star on whatever team his father, Emmett, coached. Five generations of Randles have lived in Bastrop, a town of roughly 11,000 that relied on the enormous International Paper Company mill that towered over the community.
Emmett Randle worked 33 years as a paper equipment operator at the mill, sometimes logging 80 hours a week.
''I never knew what my dad did at the mill,'' Rueben Randle said at his locker last week. ''When he came home, he was so tired I didn't want to bother him to ask.''
But Emmett, who had played football and baseball at Bastrop High, made time to coach Rueben and knew exceptional athletic talent when he saw it.
''Rueben was no glory seeker; in fact, he was a shy kid,'' said Emmett, who retired from the mill in 2005, three years before it closed and laid off nearly 600 Bastrop area workers. ''But he was a smart kid who wanted to please everyone, and he could do things athletically that others could not do.''
By the time he left high school, Randle was rated as the No. 1 wide receiver recruit in the nation by Rivals.com. He chose Louisiana State over Alabama and Oklahoma and was an all-Southeastern Conference first-team star.
Although the Giants front office raved about Randle when he was drafted, by the fourth game of last season, the NBC analyst Cris Collinsworth said the Giants were questioning Randle's work ethic and ''hoping that he grows up as he goes along and starts becoming a bit more of a pro.''
Emmett Randle said he listened to the criticism but was not shocked by it.
''I heard the same thing when he was a freshman in high school and when he was a freshman at L.S.U.,'' Emmett said. ''Sometimes, I thought the same thing myself. But I've learned that when Rueben gets in a new environment, it takes a little time for him to trust what his eyes are seeing. The speed of the game picks up, and he's thinking too much.
''Plus, sometimes, he moves so effortlessly he looks like he's not trying. But what he's really doing is learning to adjust, and when he does, then he plays better and better.''
Last month, the Giants' offensive coordinator, Kevin Gilbride, called Randle's play in training camp ''light-years'' ahead of his contributions last season. Giants Coach Tom Coughlin has also been impressed.
''He's hung in there,'' Coughlin said of Randle. ''He's practiced every day. He's been much more mature, if that's the word, as far as his study habits and so on and so forth. We're all rooting for him to come into his own.''
Randle said it was all about understanding the offense well enough to play fast.
''You can't make a lot of plays until you're sure of what you're doing and capable of making adjustments in the midst of the play,'' Randle said. ''I knew what I was capable of. It was just a matter of getting to that point.''
Wilson and Randle, the upper crust of the Giants' draft class, are now cast in crucial roles for an entire offensive unit trying to rebound from an uneven season.
''It's a big-time assignment,'' Wilson said, smiling brightly. ''But it's a big-time league. It's been a long road to get here. And that's what we came for.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Giants running back David Wilson, top, is now a starter with Ahmad Bradshaw gone. Wilson's fellow 2012 draft pick Rueben Randle, a wide receiver, also has a bigger role this season. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BEN SOLOMON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 JARED WICKERHAM/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ATHLETES (90%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2013



221 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FAIR GAME; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1166 words

HEADLINE: Find the Loan Behind the Loans

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
ONLINE lenders who charge borrowers stratospheric interest rates are coming under pressure from state regulators -- and it's about time. But to get at the root of the problem, the regulators may need to dig much deeper.
Last month, for example, the New York attorney general followed other states' regulators in suing Western Sky Financial and its affiliate Cash Call Inc. The lawsuit contended that rates charged to borrowers by the companies -- from 89 to 343 percent, depending on loan size -- far exceed the caps determined by the state's civil and criminal usury laws. A borrower receiving $1,000 could wind up owing almost $5,000 in finance charges, fees and principal over two years, the complaint said.
Last Tuesday, Western Sky suspended operations, saying it was a victim of regulatory overreach, though its affiliate, Cash Call, was still functioning. Katya Jestin, a lawyer at Jenner & Block who represents the companies, said that because Western Sky operated on the Cheyenne River Indian Reservation in Eagle Butte, S.D., New York officials had no jurisdiction over it. 
''We will be moving to dismiss the suit against Cash Call and the other parties,'' Ms. Jestin said in an interview on Thursday. ''Consumers voluntarily entered into the loans and agreed when they signed the loan agreements to be bound by the laws and the courts of the Cheyenne River tribe. The A.G.'s lawsuit is an attempt to sidestep these agreements and is an infringement on the tribe's inherent sovereign rights and the rights of its members.''
It is unclear what more might happen with the New York attorney general's case. But here's a suggestion: When prosecutors pursue payday lenders, why not go further? Investigators should track down -- and disclose -- the institutions and individuals who make these operations possible by providing the capital that such companies need to conduct their business.
The capital needs of companies like Western Sky are crucial because, unlike banks, they don't take in deposits that they can turn around and lend. They have to rely on financing from other sources.
According to the attorney general's complaint, Western Sky makes loans for which Cash Call, based in Anaheim, Calif., provides funding. Cash Call also acts as the servicer on Western Sky's loans, collecting interest and principal payments from borrowers.
The question that the complaint doesn't answer is this: Who is willing to provide the capital that enables Cash Call to finance what regulators say are predatory loans?
When asked if the office was investigating who was financing the company, Damien LaVera, a spokesman for the New York attorney general, declined to comment. He said the investigation was continuing.
I've found a preliminary answer. Documents from a 2007 lawsuit show who was providing financing assistance to Cash Call in previous years. The institutions included Deutsche Bank Securities and a unit of Citigroup, known as the CIGPF 1 Corporation.
That lawsuit was brought by Cash Call against CIGPF in Federal District Court in New York. It related to a dispute over the bank's financing arrangement with Cash Call. The suit was subsequently dismissed, but the court documents remain -- and they provide a glimpse of the relationships between Cash Call and its bankers, Deutsche Bank and Citigroup.
Cash Call, the lawsuit said, obtained financing for its lending business from two credit facilities. The so-called senior facility, totaling as much as $1 billion, provided capital for about 90 percent of Cash Call's consumer loans, the lawsuit said; a junior facility covered the rest.
Deutsche Bank Securities led the senior facility, or line of credit, which was backed by a variety of lenders, including CIGPF. The lawsuit said that this Citigroup unit had $20 million invested in this lending facility.
The smaller line of credit also involved both Deutsche Bank and the Citigroup unit. According to the suit, CIGPF invested $30 million in this facility.
Under these credit agreements, money repaid to Cash Call by its consumer borrowers first went to Deutsche Bank, which deducted ''its interest and other earned fees.'' It is unclear what Deutsche Bank earned from this arrangement.
After the bank deducted what it was owed, the lawsuit said, the remaining money was divvied up among other investors in the credit facility, including CIGPF.
I asked representatives of Citigroup and Deutsche Bank why the banks would want to provide backing for companies making high-cost and possibly predatory loans. Renee Calabro at Deutsche Bank said only that the bank ended the relationship with Cash Call in 2007. That was before the Cash Call unit began operating on the Indian Reservation.
Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a Citibank spokeswoman, said the bank no longer lent to Cash Call. She declined to say why Citibank did business with the lender, noting that the bank does not comment on clients.
Adam J. Levitin, a professor of law at the Georgetown University Law School, said the fact that banks like Deutsche and Citi did any business with Cash Call highlights the problem of large financial institutions enabling questionable practices by smaller outfits.
''It looks as if the New York banks were using online payday lenders to circumvent New York's usury laws,'' Mr. Levitin said in an interview last week. ''The banks provide the financing for payday lenders to make loans the banks think are too unseemly or risky -- or illegal -- to make themselves.''
The funding arrangements used by Western Sky and Cash Call are reminiscent of what occurred in the recent mortgage mania. The most egregious predatory lending wasn't done, for the most part, by big national banks. It was done by smaller subprime mortgage companies like New Century, NovaStar and Fremont General, which made thousands upon thousands of loans.
But these companies wouldn't have been able to make even 100 loans had they not gotten the money they needed from the big Wall Street banks. The warehouse lines of credit provided by those banks, therefore, enabled the underwriting of billions of dollars in dubious mortgages. Without access to that money, most of the worst loans would not have been written. When Wall Street cut off the credit spigot, these companies folded almost overnight.
Another Wall Street-as-enabler example involved Bear Stearns, which financed boiler-room stockbrokers such as A. R. Baron, Stratton Oakmont and Sterling Foster in the 1990s. A case brought against Bear Stearns by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Manhattan district attorney in 1996 said the bank helped A. R. Baron commit securities fraud by providing financing. Bear Stearns, which collapsed in the mortgage meltdown, settled the A. R. Baron suit without admitting or denying the accusations. It paid $38.5 million in fines and restitution.
Regulatory cases that crack down on questionable lenders are surely welcome. But dubious actors can't operate without the help of their financiers. Investigators should follow the money.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITIGATION (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PREDATORY LENDING (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (89%); LAWYERS (89%); JURISDICTION (76%); CRIMINAL LAW (75%); BANKING LAW (75%); CHECK CASHING SERVICES (73%); NATIVE AMERICANS (72%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (72%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (72%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (71%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (71%); INTERVIEWS (66%)

COMPANY: JENNER & BLOCK LLP (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (58%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2013



222 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; THE HUNT; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 904 words

HEADLINE: Outbid, but Not Down or Out

BYLINE: By JOYCE COHEN

 BODY:
For two years, Amber Krause and Deepak Rao were happy in a one-bedroom with a view of the American Museum of Natural History. Then the rent rose from $3,100 a month to $3,600. ''Renting wasn't very economically sound for us,'' Mr. Rao said. ''We were paying more for the location and the view than for anything else.''
So last fall, they decided to buy a two-bedroom -- a place they could ''plan to stay forever,'' Ms. Krause said. With little knowledge about purchasing, they made an appointment at the Corcoran Group's West Side office and met an agent there, Michelle King. 
Ms. Krause wanted a nice kitchen and room for a dining table. Mr. Rao wanted abundant light. The two liked the Upper West Side, but were also interested in parts of Brooklyn. Beyond that, ''we were trying to be as flexible as we could,'' Ms. Krause said. Their budget was up to $800,000.
By late last year, the couple were attending open houses every weekend. The hunt soon became like a second job, said Ms. Krause, who works for CarrotNewYork, an education marketing company. Mr. Rao, who like Ms. Krause, is in his early 30s, is a software developer for a financial analytics company.
''I would research apartments nonstop and figure out how many apartments we could see on Sundays, with Michelle making appointments for us during the week,'' Ms. Krause said. On Saturdays, they visited open houses in Brooklyn.
They ruled out tiny second bedrooms and shabby kitchens. Mr. Rao disliked dark places that ''needed to have a light on during most of the day.''
A two-bedroom in a postwar co-op building on West 103rd Street was ''the first apartment we felt comfortable with and excited to make an offer on,'' Ms. Krause said. It was larger than most, with nearly 1,000 square feet. The asking price was $699,000, with maintenance of almost $1,400 a month. The couple offered $720,000, worried they were overbidding.
But they were outbid, and the apartment sold for $740,000.
On the Bushwick edge of Williamsburg, Brooklyn, they found a duplex of nearly 1,000 square feet in a boutique condominium building. With a price of $795,000, it included three outdoor spaces. Monthly charges were a bit more than $300.
The couple arrived early for the open house, finding ''a line of people standing outside in the snow,'' Ms. Krause said. ''It was by far the nicest apartment we had ever seen. We didn't know a lot about the neighborhood, and what we saw wasn't necessarily charming, but the apartment more than made up for its surroundings.''
That one had 17 bids and sold for $995,000. The couple were stunned.
It was shortly after the holidays and ''the market took off like crazy,'' Ms. King said.
In any event, the couple preferred Park Slope. ''The things we liked about the Upper West Side, we figured we'd like in Park Slope,'' Mr. Rao said. Another similarity: ''Park Slope is really expensive.''
They were outbid on three places there: a new condominium building on Fourth Avenue, and two walk-up buildings.
Back in Manhattan at the West 103rd Street building, they visited an apartment in the same line as the one that got away, but on a lower floor, also for $699,000. Monthly maintenance was in the low $1,300s. The kitchen wasn't quite as nice. Ms. Krause thought, ''O.K., if we didn't get the first one, we could get the second one.'' Again, they were outbid. That one sold for $750,000.
At this point, the couple had made six offers. ''They were despondent,'' Ms. King said. ''For every single one of them, they bid over ask and some went significantly over ask.''
They were worried, too. ''I am a planner,'' Ms. Krause said. But in this case, ''I had no control, so it was hard for me. It was discouraging because we were hearing from Michelle that we were solid candidates in terms of our finances.''
So they downsized. ''We had to seriously consider one-bedrooms because we were essentially priced out of two-bedrooms,'' Ms. Krause said.
Most two-bedrooms were about 800 square feet -- and so were many one-bedrooms. For the same square footage, ''you could get five smaller rooms or four larger ones,'' Ms. Krause said.
One possibility was a one-bedroom in a prewar co-op building in the West 90s. The kitchen was large and the closet space ample, though the bathroom was small. The price was $690,000, with maintenance around $1,100 a month.
''When Amber saw the kitchen she was pretty much sold,'' Mr. Rao said. The light was almost right. They first visited in early afternoon. ''I guess I know why they had the open house at that time,'' Mr. Rao said. ''On a sunny day it actually gets really bright.''
Though the windows faced the back, ''it was a great apartment and didn't require a lot of work,'' Mr. Rao said. ''If I want the views, I can always go up to the roof garden, so at the end of the day this turned out to be a really good option for us.''
They bid $700,000. ''When Michelle called to tell us we got it, I was stunned,'' Ms. Krause said.
They arrived earlier this summer. They haven't yet missed a second bedroom. Visitors sleep on the couch or an air mattress, as they did before.
With room for a dining table, ''I get to have actual dinner parties, as opposed to people standing around holding plates in their hands,'' Ms. Krause said. ''We joke that Deepak will be talking in the kitchen and I am in the bedroom and I can't hear him. That never happened before. It was a struggle but we are happy in the end.''
E-mail: thehunt@nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Upper West Side: A large two-bedroom in a postwar co-op on West 103rd was appealing. Alas, someone offered $20,000 more.
Williamsburg: The line to see a duplex on Conselyea Street should have been a clue. It went for $200,000 over the asking price.
Park Slope: The Novo, a new condominium, joined the list of failed tries, which also included places in two nearby walk-up buildings.
Upper West Side: A one-bedroom in the West 90s with a good kitchen and room for a dining table broke the losing spell.
 The buyers: Amber Krause and Deepak Rao don't miss the second bedroom they did not get. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BENJAMIN NORMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOME PRICES (87%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); HISTORY (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2013



223 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 598 words

HEADLINE: Life Without Fannie and Freddie

BYLINE: By LISA PREVOST

 BODY:
Talk of doing away with Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac is still just that -- talk. But as Congress considers whether and how to get rid of these agencies, consumers ought to be aware of how a substantial reduction in the government's role in housing finance could affect their ability to borrow in the future.
''What's at stake here is access to mortgages at an affordable price,'' said Julia Gordon, the director of housing finance and policy at the Center for American Progress in Washington. 
Fannie and Freddie have been much maligned since their heavy investment in risky loans resulted in a $188-billion taxpayer bailout during the financial crisis. Having since refocused on guaranteeing and securitizing prime mortgages, while also acting as a fill-in for fleeing private capital, the agencies now own or guarantee a majority of the country's home loans.
As the housing market strengthens, Congress is interested in transferring some or all of that risk back to the private sector. Last month, President Obama voiced support for a bipartisan effort in the Senate to replace the government-sponsored agencies with a new agency with a much-reduced role.
A competing bill in the House would go even further to almost completely privatize the mortgage market.
If a winding down of the two agencies is inevitable, some government guarantee should remain to ensure lending is widely available and safe, Ms. Gordon said.
''The private market likes to look at every single loan -- they only want the loans that are the crème de la crème,'' she said. ''If you scale back the government guarantee too much, then you end up with a really segmented market where people who have pristine credit scores and lots of money can get good, safe, well-priced mortgages, but everybody else can't.''
A former administrator at the Federal Housing Finance Agency, Ms. Gordon cited analyses that estimate a half-percentage-point rise in borrowing costs if a ''fairly robust'' government guarantee stays in place, and an increase of at least a whole percentage point if it is dropped completely. The reason for the added expense is that ''the market is going to perceive greater risk associated with the loans,'' said Alan MacEachin, the corporate economist for the Navy Federal Credit Union, a four million-member banking institution in Virginia. ''If there's greater risk, the markets have to be compensated, and that compensation is higher interest rates, or risk premiums, if you will.''
With a greatly reduced government backstop, borrowers would likely have to contend with higher down payment requirements, Mr. MacEachin said. And, he added, ''lending conditions would be more reactionary to what's going on in the market. We could only imagine what could have happened had the government not stepped in during the mortgage crisis.''
Any reform isn't likely to happen for at least a couple of years, especially since the now-profitable agencies are repaying the government for the bailout ''rather handsomely,'' Mr. MacEachin said.
Despite widespread negative perceptions of Fannie and Freddie, the conversations about reform have, in a ''refreshing twist,'' drawn attention to the positive role the agencies play, noted Alex Matjanec, a founder of MyBankTracker.com, a personal finance Web site.
A central argument for eliminating Fannie and Freddie is to get taxpayers off the hook for any further bailouts. But Mr. Matjanec thinks that professed taxpayer protection may be false assurance.
''If a major bank fails,'' he said, ''I think the government will treat them like a General Motors and bail them out anyway.''

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: INDEX FOR ADJUSTABLE RATE MORTGAGES: 1-year Treasury rate (Source: HSH.com) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); CONSUMER LENDING (77%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); RISK MANAGEMENT (77%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); SECURITIZATION (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (57%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (93%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (91%); NAVY FEDERAL CREDIT UNION (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (93%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (93%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (93%); NAICS522130 CREDIT UNIONS (62%); SIC6061 CREDIT UNIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (62%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2013



224 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; THE NEW SEASON; Pg. 82

LENGTH: 929 words

HEADLINE: Architecture in Tune With the Climate

BYLINE: By PHILIP NOBEL

 BODY:
Building ''green'' is nothing new. For decades, many architects have tried to adapt their designs to forestall a new normal, choosing materials that will be less damaging to the environment and arranging rooms to be heated or cooled by the sun and wind, not the grid. As well they might: Buildings, and the industries that make and assemble the materials that become buildings, are among the biggest contributors to the greenhouse gas emissions that are warming the planet.
Today, most designers know to build green, when they can. And they know to try to make a public noise when they do. Green is chic; whether you're designing a skyscraper or a children's spoon, it sells. 
Yet what we are seeing now is a more concerted effort by architects to take a broad view, countering climate change not only by altering the design of buildings, but also the design of the larger systems in which they function.
An emblem of this new seriousness might be the Sims Municipal Recycling Facility, a new state-of-the-art processing center set to open in October at the South Brooklyn Marine Terminal in Sunset Park. Run by Sims Metal Management, which processes all the plastic, metal, and glass collected by New York City's Sanitation Department, the building will exploit its waterfront site to favor the use of barges, eliminating an estimated 70,000 truck trips annually from city streets.
Such buildings don't usually have a design architect. But this one does: Annabelle Selldorf, an architect better known as a designer of museums and art galleries. She has struck a hard balance here -- in the economical use of off-the-shelf steel components, in a logical but accommodating master plan for the 11-acre site -- between making a place that will work and a place that people will want to talk about.
And visit: an elegant outbuilding housing an information center will be a destination for day trips and school outings. It is connected by a bridge to an enormous shed called the ''tipping building,'' where visitors can watch from a mezzanine, as sanitation workers sort through the mountains of plastic, glass and metal that have found their way into blue bags and bins throughout the city.
Two design programs rolling out this year and next, both inspired by the impact of Hurricane Sandy, are evidence of big thinking along the same lines: learning to solve with systems, not style.
This fall and into 2014, the Architectural League of New York will sponsor a series of public programs, workshops and eventually a design study under the rubric ''The 5,000-Pound Life.'' The title refers to a target for an ideal maximum personal contribution of carbon dioxide to the atmosphere, based on the work of the British economist and climate activist Nicholas Stern. Current estimates put the American contribution, per capita, at 44,000 pounds.
In an effort to dramatize that gap, and perhaps to begin to close it, the Architectural League plans to conduct wide-bore educational programs this fall, including a guided reading series about climate change and public lectures in Manhattan by leading scientists in the field. Then, next spring, it will assemble multidisciplinary teams in New York and elsewhere across the country to devise and design scenarios for what a ''5,000-pound life'' might look like.
''We all have our heads in the sand,'' said the league's president, Rosalie Genevro, referring to public awareness of the human impact on the global climate.
A similar effort is planned by Rebuild by Design, a consortium that includes the Rockefeller Foundation, New York University's Institute for Public Knowledge and the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development. The project includes a competition for which 10 teams, including firms like Rem Koolhaas's OMA and the Bjarke Ingels Group, were recently selected to design projects for communities hit hard by Sandy. Their work will continue through next spring with the selection of winning designs, followed by construction in the East Coast study area.
Other environmentally minded efforts are more humble. In December, a new ice-skating and water-play center designed by Tod Williams and Billie Tsien is to be completed in Prospect Park in Brooklyn. It will boast a gold LEED rating for environmentally sustainable architecture, and the project includes the restoration of 26 acres of parkland around its lakefront site. The same month, the design firm WORKac will unveil a 5,000-square-foot organic garden on the rooftop of P.S. 7 in East Harlem, a contribution to the Edible Schoolyard Project, a national educational program founded by the chef Alice Waters.
Herzog and de Meuron's building for the Pérez Art Museum Miami (formerly the Miami Art Museum), opening at the end of the year, harnesses green as a metaphor, at least. Its galleries and public spaces will be sheltered by a giant trellis dripping with tropical foliage. But building 200,000 square feet of new anything is unlikely to be judged as truly kind to the environment.
So it's worth keeping an eye on a project in Buffalo: Henry Hobson Richardson's former Buffalo State Asylum for the Insane, the largest commission of that important 19th century American architect's career. The New York architect Deborah Berke recently won a commission to adapt that hunkering sandstone complex of 11 buildings dating from 1870 into a hotel and conference center that can serve contemporary needs. A groundbreaking is scheduled early next year.
It will be an interesting project to watch, given that the greenest buildings of all are the ones that we never have to build.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Varying shades of green: clockwise from top left, Herzog and de Meuron's building for the Pérez Art Museum in Miami
the Sims Municipal Recycling Facility in Brooklyn, by Selldorf Architects
the Lakeside Center at Prospect Park in Brooklyn, by Tod Williams and Billie Tsien. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PÉREZ ART MUSEUM MIAMI
JONATHAN CHESLEY/SELLDORF ARCHITECTS
 ALEX GARVIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (87%); GREEN BUILDING (79%); CLIMATE CHANGE (77%); EMISSIONS (77%); GREENHOUSE GASES (76%); GLOBAL WARMING (71%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (69%); HARBORS & PORTS (66%); SCHOOL FIELD TRIPS (64%); HURRICANE SANDY (50%)

COMPANY: SIMS METAL MANAGEMENT LTD (55%)

TICKER: SMS (NYSE) (55%); SGM (ASX) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS562920 MATERIALS RECOVERY FACILITIES (55%); NAICS423930 RECYCLABLE MATERIAL MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (55%); NAICS423510 METAL SERVICE CENTERS & OTHER METAL MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2013



225 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 428 words

HEADLINE: A Survivor Celebrates Its Spunk And Spirit

BYLINE: By STEVE SMITH

 BODY:
For any grass-roots performing-arts presenter, surviving and flourishing for a decade in the face of ever-changing aesthetic currents and a treacherous economy is cause for celebration. But for Issue Project Room, reaching that landmark birthday is especially sweet, given the tribulations that this institution has endured since its modest birth in 2003, including multiple changes of location, emergency repairs and the death of its beloved founder, the photographer, gallerist and event producer Suzanne Fiol, in 2009. 
Started by Ms. Fiol with a concert produced in collaboration with Marc Ribot, the progressive jazz and rock guitarist, in an East Village garage adjacent to the Issue Management photo agency, Issue was priced out of Manhattan relatively quickly. Two quirky locations followed -- a storage silo on the Gowanus Canal in Brooklyn, and a loft space in an erstwhile canning factory nearby -- before Issue won a 20-year, rent-free lease in the former Board of Education building at 22 Boerum Place, at Livingston Street, in Downtown Brooklyn. Marty Markowitz, the Brooklyn borough president, provided an additional $1.1 million grant for renovations.
After the new space opened in January 2012, a structural accident forced it to close in August. Repairs were made, and Issue reopened last March. Still more renovation is to come in 2014, and Issue will host another grand reopening in 2015.
All along, Issue's mission of nurturing experimental artists and cross-pollinating genres and idioms has remained airtight. A celebratory series, Ten Years Alive on the Infinite Plain, is already under way, with concerts by Issue-associated performers running through the end of October.
For adventurous classical-music cognoscenti, the signal events are concerts by the composer and improviser Pauline Oliveros (Sept. 14); the cellist Charles Curtis, alone (Sept. 20) and with the Bay Area electronic composer Tashi Wada (Sept. 21); the pioneering Minimalist Tony Conrad (Oct. 18); the ambient soundscaper William Basinski (Oct. 19); and the innovative piano-and-percussion quartet Yarn/Wire (Oct. 26).
Still, Issue is a welcoming place to engage with the unfamiliar and the freshly invented. Go ahead, take a chance on the enveloping drones of Duane Pitre and Eleh (Sept. 21); the inscrutable aural-detritus constructions of Graham Lambkin and Jason Lescalleet (Sept. 28); fractious country-blues by the guitarist Bill Orcutt (Oct. 5); or a wordy, heady trifecta of the turntable artist Marina Rosenfeld, the composer David Grubbs and the poet Susan Howe (Oct. 25).

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The cellist Charles Curtis, top, and the violinist and composer Tony Conrad, above, will perform in tribute concerts for the Issue Project Room. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CAROLINE SCHARFF
 BETTINA HERZNER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (89%); JAZZ & BLUES (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (78%); PHOTOGRAPHY (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); MUSIC (75%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (75%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (75%); POP & ROCK (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); GRANTS & GIFTS (68%); COUNTRY MUSIC (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2013



226 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 667 words

HEADLINE: Deportees, Then and Now

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

 BODY:
Congress returns from recess this week with the immigration system still failing and repairs still undone. President Obama is still promising solutions, but his administration remains a huge part of the problem.
Last Tuesday, Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, wrote to Janet Napolitano, the departing secretary of homeland security, imploring the administration to stop harming her state's economy with ramped-up immigration audits that force farmers and growers to fire workers they desperately need. ''Concentrate instead on removing those who would and have harmed our society,'' she wrote, ''rather than those who contribute to our vital agricultural economy and heritage, and the safe and high-quality food supply that benefits all Americans.''
Mr. Obama speaks of embracing immigrants but has deported nearly two million of them. He and Ms. Napolitano, who left office last week, always said they were focused on catching dangerous criminals, but they cast a wide net that has fallen hard on day laborers, carwash employees, farm workers and others who pose no threat. 
A wiser nation would have long ago reset the dials on this system. But instead it is set to expel and repel. The economy depends on the labor of millions of people who want to work legally and aspire to become full Americans. Instead they become fugitives and deportees. They languish in detention centers. They die in the Arizona borderlands. They work until they are caught and disposed of.
Anti-immigrant forces call this ''attrition,'' the slow expulsion of 11 million people through the steady accumulation of arrests. Mr. Obama says he holds out hope for reform, and a bill that passed the Senate this summer with strong bipartisan support would go far toward bringing those 11 million within the law. But House Republicans refuse to take up the Senate bill, and are proposing or threatening inaction or their own harmful legislation.
One bill, the Strengthen and Fortify Enforcement Act, which passed the House Judiciary Committee, would have devastating consequences. It would give state and local governments the authority to write and enforce their own immigration laws, unleashing the full chaos of free-form foreign policies across 50 states. It would give poorly trained local officers more power to go after unauthorized immigrants, who would be subject to arrest and prosecution the moment the bill became law, and it would turn civil immigration violations into crimes.
The bill would also erase one bright spot in Mr. Obama's immigration record: his program deferring the deportations of thousands of young people, known as Dreamers, who arrived as children. Other legislation the Republicans are considering would allow in hundreds of thousands of temporary immigrant workers but deny them the legal protections, like the right to change jobs, that would help them resist employer abuse.
The day before Ms. Feinstein sent her letter, there was a ceremony at a graveyard in Fresno, Calif., to dedicate a granite slab bearing the names of 28 farm workers who were being deported from California to Mexico in 1948 when their plane crashed. News reports at the time named the pilot, co-pilot, flight attendant and an immigration guard, but not the Mexicans, an omission that led Woody Guthrie to write a poem, later set to music, called ''Plane Wreck at Los Gatos.''
Some of us are illegal, and some are not wanted,
Our work contract's out and we have to move on;
Six hundred miles to that Mexican border,
They chase us like outlaws, like rustlers, like thieves.
We died in your hills, we died in your deserts,
We died in your valleys and died on your plains.
We died 'neath your trees and we died in your bushes,
Both sides of the river, we died just the same.
America has changed a lot in 65 years, but not enough. We are still a country that eagerly, if not desperately, accepts the labor of immigrants but is slow to acknowledge their humanity. When singers perform Guthrie's song today, not a word is out of date.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEPORTATION (91%); IMMIGRATION (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FARM LABOR (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (79%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); FOREIGN LABOR (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); AGRICULTURE (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); JANET NAPOLITANO (79%); DIANNE FEINSTEIN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRESNO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2013



227 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; UNBOXED; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1228 words

HEADLINE: More Data Can Mean Less Guessing About the Economy

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
DAVID TABOR, 37 and a civil engineer, runs an eight-person home-inspection company in Hurricane, W.Va.
Other than their owners, most small businesses have no employees. His is one of the 4.3 million that do have them, and that employ fewer than 20 people each. And while these companies collectively produce roughly 15 percent of the nation's economic output, their activities aren't captured by the official numbers in a timely or detailed way.
Yet this measurement shortfall in the small-business sector, and a series of other information gaps in the economy, may be overcome by what experts say is an emerging data revolution -- Big Data, in the current catchphrase. The ever-expanding universe of digital signals of behavior, from browsing and buying on the Web to cellphone location data, is grist for potential breakthroughs in economic measurement. It could produce more accurate forecasting and more informed policy-making -- more science and less guesswork.
''We're seeing the emergence of new sets of data and knowledge that we've never had before,'' says James Poterba, president of the National Bureau of Economic Research and a professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. ''It's a real opportunity for policy makers.'' 
In the small-business case, Mr. Tabor's company, American Home Inspectors and Engineering Assessments Inc., is one of more than 200,000 that have allowed Intuit, the software maker, to gather data on their use of Intuit's online payroll or online accounting products for research on employment and sales trends. The data are stripped of identifying information, and, in asking permission, Intuit also emphasizes that it uses the data to improve its products.
Mr. Tabor said he had no qualms about contributing his anonymized data. ''I'm happy they use the data for research and to make their services better,'' he says.
Intuit began its research in 2004 on small businesses and has expanded its scope, including many more companies and becoming more fine-grained in its data tracking as it has added products, services and customers.
Researchers at the Bureau of Economic Analysis, the government's statistical scorekeeper of economic activity, are now experimenting with the Intuit data, seeking to tap it to improve the official estimates.
''The promise of new data sources, like Intuit and others, is more accurate, more timely and cheaper data for monitoring the economy,'' says Steve Landefeld, director of the bureau. ''That could be a really big step forward.''
National income accounting emerged in the Great Depression, in an effort to bridge the economic information gap of its day. In June 1930, based on scattered reports available to him, President Herbert Hoover declared, ''The Depression is over,'' when in reality conditions were quickly worsening.
The main tool for government statistics remains telephone and in-person surveys of households and businesses -- surveys that are costly and time-consuming.
Tracking behavior online can pull in far more data, more quickly -- so that governments should be able to see signs of inflation, deflation and employment trends sooner and adjust policy faster.
For example, the Intuit monthly employment data, based on online monitoring, is current. That is eight months to a year ahead of the government's best statistical look at the health of small business, which is culled from quarterly surveys, state unemployment records and tax returns. The monthly Intuit survey data have also proved accurate, almost mirroring the government results when they are finally reported, according to Susan Woodward, a consulting economist for Intuit.
''Whatever is happening, it is better to know sooner,'' Ms. Woodward says.
Yet whether more data, collected faster, will improve economic forecasting is uncertain. So far, the results are mixed. An encouraging study, begun in 2009 and repeatedly updated, has used Google searches to predict home sales and prices three months into the future. In the study, the higher the frequency of search terms like ''house prices,'' ''real estate agent'' and ''mortgage rates,'' the more likely the national housing market would heat up.
The results of the study, ''The Future of Prediction,'' by Lynn Wu, an assistant professor at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, and Erik Brynjolfsson, a professor at the M.I.T. Sloan School of Management, have held up over time. In the most recent version, their model using search data predicted future home sales 24 percent more accurately than the forecasts by experts from the National Association of Realtors.
But another major project using Google search terms points to the limits of such techniques: Google Flu Trends uses the same methods as Big Data-style economic prediction, although it focuses on public health.
The service monitors flu-related search terms and seeks to predict the incidence of flu, ahead of official statistics based on doctors' reports to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. In 2009, with the outbreak of H1N1 flu, Google Flu Trends was prescient.
Yet this past flu season, Google's algorithms stumbled. As an article in the science journal Nature noted in February, Google Flu Trends estimated that nearly 11 percent of Americans were ill at the January peak -- nearly double the 6 percent reported later by the C.D.C. Apparently, the Google algorithms were unable to sift out news reports and social media messages warning of a harsh flu season, which sent flu-related searches spiking.
Google is tweaking its algorithms accordingly. But experts say the episode underlines why the new technology will most likely supplement official economic statistics rather than replace them for the foreseeable future.
''The potential is extraordinarily exciting, but I worry that the expectations are way ahead of the likely reality for the next several years,'' says Mr. Landefeld of the Bureau of Economic Analysis.
THE economics profession is gearing up to exploit new sources of digital data. In a recent paper, ''The Data Revolution and Economic Analysis,'' two Stanford economists, Liran Einav and Jonathan Levin, concluded that ''there is little doubt, at least in our minds, that over the next decades 'big data' will change the landscape of economic policy and economic research.''
At Intuit, the small-business data portray a sector that was ''hurt much more than big business by the recession and its recovery has been far worse,'' says Ms. Woodward, the economic consultant. Over the last three and a half years, payroll employment for all companies has increased 6.9 percent, while small-business employment has risen far less, just 1.9 percent. Hiring among the small companies, though still sluggish, has inched ahead in the last three months.
In West Virginia, Mr. Tabor's company did better than many, but his story echoes the national trend. He bought his home-inspection business in 2007, when times were good. But later, when the economy slowed, hours would go by without the phone ringing. ''I thought, 'Oh dear, what have I done,' '' he recalls.
Mr. Tabor modernized the business, shifting from paper to laptops and smartphones, and expanded into doing valuations for insurance companies and serving as an engineering expert in litigation. Revenue, he said, is up 15 percent this year.
''We are going to be looking to hire, probably next year,'' he says.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MICHAEL WARAKSA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BUILDING & HOUSING INSPECTIONS (78%); ELECTRONIC HUMAN RESOURCES (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); INTERNET & WWW (74%); TRENDS (74%); BIG DATA (69%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (68%); US PRESIDENTS (66%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (65%); GREAT DEPRESSION (62%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (53%)

COMPANY: INTUIT INC (83%)

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (55%); NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (55%)

TICKER: INTU (NASDAQ) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (83%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (83%); NAICS334614 SOFTWARE & OTHER PRERECORDED COMPACT DISC, TAPE & RECORD REPRODUCING (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2013



228 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 860 words

HEADLINE: A Dearth of Investment in Young Workers

BYLINE: By TYLER COWEN. 
Tyler Cowen is a professor of economics at George Mason University.

 BODY:
ONE of the most troubling features of the slow economic recovery is that it has largely bypassed young people. This doesn't bode well for the future of the American economy.
For Americans aged 16 to 24 who aren't enrolled in school, the employment picture is grim. Only 36 percent are working full time, down 10 percentage points from 2007. Longer term, the overall labor-force participation rate for that age group has dropped 20 percentage points for men and 14 points for women since 1989.
This lack of jobs will damage the long-term careers of a big chunk of the next working generation. Not working after you finish school very often means missing out on developing the skills and habits that will serve you well later on. The current employment numbers are therefore like a telescope into the future labor market: a 23-year-old who is working part time as a dog walker, yoga instructor or retail clerk may be having fun, but perhaps will receive fewer promotions as a 47-year-old. 
One culprit in this situation may be the higher minimum wage enacted in 2009, but the root causes run much deeper.
Employers appear to be more risk-averse, more concerned about overhead costs and less willing to invest in developing young workers' skills. And that seems true across a wide variety of sectors.
In the legal profession, for instance, there is less interest in hiring junior associates and grooming them for partner status. Colleges and universities are often more interested in hiring adjuncts than tenure-track young faculty members. And publishing houses, instead of providing a big advance upfront and investing in young authors over a series of books, now expect many writers to earn their share of a book's revenue through royalties.
If we consider how many jobs are being advertised, without asking whether they are being filled, the labor market seems to be booming. If we measure labor market progress in terms of actual hiring, however, it's clear that the economy is recovering slowly. Employers appear to be looking around for workers but then holding out for the very best candidates, and, if need be, making do with few new hires or none at all.
These are signs of a world where next year's business income is less certain, and many employers take greater care to keep weaker workers off the corporate team. Some employers would rather spend on information technology than hire the wrong workers. Some prefer to invest in the developing world with its longer work hours and lower wages. I outline these processes in my forthcoming book, ''Average Is Over: Powering America Beyond the Age of the Great Stagnation'' (Dutton Adult).
Young people who are hired often fail to find desirable, high-paying jobs. If we consider four-year college graduates only, average starting salaries, inflation-adjusted, were higher in 2000 than they are today, a decline that started well before the financial crisis. On balance, though, college remains ''a good deal,'' in part because wages for nongraduates have fallen even more than those for graduates. That is hardly a reassuring sign for the broader economy.
THESE developments put economic pressure on higher education. If it's harder to get a good and lucrative job after college, why should students pay ever-rising tuition rates? College doesn't always prepare students very well for the work force, and most graduates don't enjoy the relatively rosy job prospects of computer science and engineering majors.
As tuition increases slow because of a sluggish labor market, colleges will have to change, making their offerings more relevant. But significant improvements may be hard to come by. Slow-growing or even shrinking revenue will strip colleges of financial resources, and they may suddenly have to focus on managing a decline rather than building for a more innovative future.
Policy changes to bolster economic growth and employment, whether by simplifying the tax code, repealing some occupational licensing, bringing more rigor to K-12 schooling or accrediting cheaper online education, may help reverse or curb these trends. But to focus on policy alone is to miss the gravity of the situation.
Falling wages for new entrants to the job market suggest that a sizable chunk of the American labor force may never achieve middle-class wages in a relatively secure full-time job. And many young people don't want to take physically demanding jobs, which are often filled by immigrants. Some young people are breaking out of these traps by starting new Internet or service-based businesses, in lieu of looking for traditional employment. But others end up in part-time, temporary or low-quality jobs, biding their time and hoping that something changes.
We may not like what the market is indicating here, but it would be a mistake to shoot the messenger -- namely, the market itself. Businesses are measuring value more accurately and choosing more cautiously, and though that raises overall productivity, it isn't good for all workers. Many face the burden of meeting the standards of a more demanding world, and not all are succeeding at that task. It's a problem that won't be solved by any kind of quick fix.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY SABRINA SMELKO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); WRITERS (86%); LABOR FORCE (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); MINIMUM WAGE (77%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (71%); ACADEMIC TENURE (69%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (68%); ROYALTIES (68%); DOGS (67%); LEGAL SERVICES (64%); PUBLISHING (63%); YOGA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2013



229 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1063 words

HEADLINE: Jhumpa Lahiri

 BODY:
The author of the forthcoming novel ''The Lowland'' says there's no such thing as immigrant fiction: ''What do we call the rest? Native fiction? Puritan fiction?''
What are you reading at the moment? Are you a one-book-at-a-time person?
I'm reading the poems of Patrizia Cavalli, whom I've had the great pleasure of meeting in Rome. I adore her personally and I love her poems. She describes desire like no one else. I'm thrilled that a bilingual edition of her poetry, in Italian and English, will be published this fall in the United States. I'm also reading the letters of Cesare Pavese and Pasolini's ''Teorema,'' which was conceived both as a novel and a film. The combination of poetry, fiction and either letters or the diary of a writer I admire is ideal.
What's the best book you've read so far this year? 
''Lovers,'' a novel by a French writer named Daniel Arsand. I read it first in the English translation, then in Italian. It's a harrowing love story with rich historical context. But it's free of bulk, of weight, of all the predictable connective narrative tissue. I found it incantatory, transcendent. It inspires me to tell a story in a different way.
If you had to name a favorite novelist, who would it be?
Thomas Hardy. Ever since I first read him, in high school, I've felt a kinship with his characters, his sense of place, his pitiless vision of humanity. I continue to reread him as often as I can. The architecture of his novels is magnificent, and the way his characters move through time and space is remarkably controlled. The world he creates is absolutely specific, as is the psychological terrain. In spite of the great scope of his work, its breadth and complexity, the prose is clean, straightforward, economical. No scene, no detail, no sentence is wasted.
And your favorite short story writers?
William Trevor, Mavis Gallant, Gina Berriault, Flannery O'Connor, Alice Munro, Andre Dubus. Also Joyce, Chekhov, Cheever, Malamud, Moravia. I recently discovered the work of Giorgio Manganelli, who wrote a collection called ''Centuria,'' which contains 100 stories, each of them about a page long. They're somewhat surreal and extremely dense, at once fierce and purifying, the equivalent of a shot of grappa. I find it helpful to read one before sitting down to write.
What immigrant fiction has been the most important to you, both personally and as an inspiration for your own writing?
I don't know what to make of the term ''immigrant fiction.'' Writers have always tended to write about the worlds they come from. And it just so happens that many writers originate from different parts of the world than the ones they end up living in, either by choice or by necessity or by circumstance, and therefore, write about those experiences. If certain books are to be termed immigrant fiction, what do we call the rest? Native fiction? Puritan fiction? This distinction doesn't agree with me. Given the history of the United States, all American fiction could be classified as immigrant fiction. Hawthorne writes about immigrants. So does Willa Cather. From the beginnings of literature, poets and writers have based their narratives on crossing borders, on wandering, on exile, on encounters beyond the familiar. The stranger is an archetype in epic poetry, in novels. The tension between alienation and assimilation has always been a basic theme.
What kinds of stories are you drawn to? Any you steer clear of?
I am drawn to any story that makes me want to read from one sentence to the next. I have no other criterion.
Any books we would be surprised to find on your shelves?
Almost all the books I have on my shelves now are in Italian. I have been reading predominantly in Italian for over a year. I read more slowly as a result. But also more carefully, less passively.
Do you ever read self-help? Anything you recommend?
Literature has always been and will forever be my only form of self-help.
Did you identify with any literary characters growing up? Who were your literary heroes?
I identified with orphans, like Anne of Green Gables, or pioneers, like the characters of Laura Ingalls Wilder, or children who slipped in and out of different worlds and dimensions, like the siblings in ''The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe.'' And of course there was the writer, Jo, in ''Little Women.'' I loved the brother and sister in ''From the Mixed-Up Files of Mrs. Basil E. Frankweiler,'' who run away from home and survive among works of beauty. I never go to the Metropolitan Museum of Art without thinking of them.
What books have you enjoyed reading with your own children? Any you're especially looking forward to reading together with them?
My husband and I have been reading to our children every night for the past 10 years (our eldest is now 11). We take turns, alternating nights. I love rereading and sharing the books I read and loved as a child, such as the Pippi Longstocking series by Astrid Lindgren and everything by Roald Dahl. And I've loved discovering new books with them. Last summer we read a great series together called ''The Incorrigible Children of Ashton Place,'' by Maryrose Wood. These days I also like to read to my children in Italian, which they can now follow. We just read some beautiful fables adapted by Italo Calvino, and another collection of very brief and amusing stories by Gianni Rodari, called ''Le Favolette di Alice.'' They're about a tiny little girl who keeps finding herself temporarily trapped inside of things, like pockets, ink bottles, birthday cakes and soap bubbles.
If you could meet any writer, dead or alive, who would it be? What would you want to know?
The idea of meeting writers of the books I've read doesn't interest me. That is to say, I wouldn't go out of my way. If the book is alive to me, if the sentences speak to me, that's enough. A reader's relationship is with the book, with the words, not with the person who created it. I don't want the author to explain anything to me or to interfere. Still, I wish I'd met Edward Gorey before he died, if only to salute his brilliance.
If you could be any character from literature who would you be?
I'd like to be Sebastian Flyte from ''Brideshead Revisited,'' but only during the early chapters, before things start to go downhill. I've always wanted to dress for dinner.
What do you plan to read next?
I'm planning to read the travel essays of Antonio Tabucchi.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JILLIAN TAMAKI) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (91%); WRITERS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); POETRY (90%); MULTILINGUALISM (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2013



230 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1357 words

HEADLINE: Bomb Scare

BYLINE: By LESLIE H. GELB. 
Leslie H. Gelb, a former columnist, editor and correspondent for The Times, is president emeritus of the Council on Foreign Relations.

 BODY:
UNTHINKABLEIran, the Bomb, and American Strategy
By Kenneth M. Pollack536 pp. Simon & Schuster. $30.
President Obama is drifting toward an unwarranted and ultimately unwinnable war with Iran, according to the well-known Mideast expert Kenneth M. Pollack. With ''Unthinkable,'' he hopes to persuade the administration to reverse course.
As Pollack hammers home, Obama has explicitly pledged to prevent Tehran from becoming a nuclear power. And he has flat-out rejected a policy of living with a nuclear-armed Iran. In short, he is threatening preventive war.
Some don't take Obama's words seriously because he most notably delivered them before the 2012 presidential election to an audience yearning for just such a threat: those gathered for the annual convention of the intensely pro-Israel American Israel Public Affairs Committee. Nothing terrifies this group, and neoconservatives, more than nuclear weapons in the hands of Israeli-hating Iranians. 
But was Obama's commitment mere campaign catering? Since the election, he has repeated his pledge on several occasions. Administration officials like former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and former Secretary of Defense Leon E. Panetta have made equally tough remarks. Some commentators scoffed at the pledge as simply another phony Obama ''red line,'' pointing to his warning last year to President Bashar al-Assad of Syria against using chemical weapons. After Assad crossed that line this spring, Obama's response consisted of nothing more than a small-arms package to Syrian rebels, slowly delivered -- though additional military options were said to be under consideration as this review went to press.
However, this argument misses an essential fact: There is a much greater commitment in Washington to stopping Iranian nukes than to unseating Assad. In July, for example, the House of Representatives voted 400 to 20 to sharply increase economic sanctions against Tehran.
Pollack, then, is not just crying wolf. Of course, he doesn't desire a nuclear-armed Iran, but at bottom he feels a war would only temporarily delay Iran's weapons program, while stirring up a host of other terrible problems in the Muslim world. And so he stumps for living with a nuclear Iran and trying to contain it.
This antiwar stance may shock those who recall that Pollack, a scholar at the Brookings Institution and a former C.I.A. analyst, helped lead the charge for war against Iraq in 2003. Back then, he thought Saddam Hussein was an unchangeably dangerous guy, and in his highly influential book ''The Threatening Storm,'' he argued that Hussein couldn't be permitted to inch any closer to acquiring nuclear weapons. Military force, he insisted, was necessary to stop him.
It should be noted that Pollack has not just reinvented himself with ''Unthinkable.'' He started moving in a new direction in 2004 with ''The Persian Puzzle,'' when he flirted with the possibility of simply containing a nuclear Iran. Now he is plunging further, not because he has been won over by the allures of containment but because he is convinced of the folly of preventive war.
Here is Pollack's case against it: Tehran already has significant uranium enrichment capacity, sophisticated missile technology and other technical requisites. This knowledge and capability can't be bombed out of scientists' heads by either Israel or the United States. Even a perfectly executed American attack would delay matters only a few years. Inevitably, Ayatollah Khamenei would reconstitute the program and make future facilities far less vulnerable. He would also shut down current international inspections under the nonproliferation treaty, severely hampering American intelligence.
What's more, Washington would have to expect a sharp spike in Iranian-sponsored international terrorism. And then what? Pollack imagines the United States would retaliate and escalate, all as ''a prelude to invasion,'' with Marines storming the beaches of the Persian Gulf. This prediction is extravagant for my taste, but foreign policy is no stranger to the power of idiocy.
To avoid this nightmare, Pollack looks to the cold war model of containment that was successfully used against the Soviet Union: that is, employ all means necessary to limit a hostile nation's influence until it collapses from within. In Iran's case, this would include economic sanctions, building up regional allies militarily and encouraging internal opposition to the ayatollahs. According to Pollack, Washington has been containing Iran in this way since the Islamic Revolution in 1979 and should continue to do so regardless of its nuclear status.
To hawks inside and outside the administration, trying to contain a nuclear Iran is the ultimate sin. Yet these same hawks rarely get as agitated with a nuclear-armed North Korea, and the ayatollahs can't be crazier than the various ''dear leaders'' in Pyongyang. To date, all nuclear states facing the prospect of self-destruction have been prudent, pragmatic and deterrable. (To strengthen deterrence against Tehran, Pollack wisely lays down tough markers should Iran threaten to use nukes or try to supply terrorists with them.)
Inexplicably, Pollack throws away the best single argument for containment: that it worked against Saddam Hussein. He argues that it failed. The facts say otherwise. Hussein abandoned his nuclear program after being subjected to economic sanctions, diplomatic isolation and, yes, the threat of American military force. Perhaps Pollack can't quite let go of his past mistakes.
But the ultimate weakness of Pollack's argument is his pessimism about the possibility of negotiations with Iran. Though he discusses hypothetical deals, like permitting Tehran a very low level of uranium enrichment, he rightly cites the strong opposition any such deals would provoke in both Tehran and Washington. Still, his book was completed before the more hopeful signals that have been coming from both capitals. In Tehran, there is the recent election of Hassan Rouhani, a seeming moderate who wants to alleviate the enormously destructive effects of sanctions on Iran's economy. In Washington, a prominent group of foreign policy thinkers is gently pushing for compromise.
By playing down the chance of negotiations in favor of containment, Pollack ends up proposing too little, rather than too much. Preventive war is as dangerous as he says. But a policy of containment would probably be too fragile to succeed. Soviet leaders were essentially risk-averse (the Cuban missile crisis was an exception). Some present Iranian rulers seem more inclined to take chances that could bring a strong American response. Further, any one of a number of fierce conflicts between the United States and Iran could derail containment and jump to preventive war.
Only a truly bold approach, it would seem, has a chance of avoiding the march to war. Everything has to be put on the table: Iranian security and America's, the nuclear program, sanctions, terrorism, Syria, Afghanistan, Iraq, Israel. The big questions have to be resolved, or at least managed. Anything less would be treated as too little, too late.
This is not nearly so hopeless a task as it might seem. For the Iran that exists just beneath the surface of the nasty clerics' rule is a potential natural ally of the United States. It once was. It helped the United States fight the Taliban in the early days of the Afghan war. It shares America's concerns about Sunni fanaticism and jihadism. For all the shortcomings of its elections, they have been more free and open than those in most Muslim countries. And not to be forgotten, Iranians poured into the streets in great numbers to sympathize with Americans after the 9/11 attacks, in sharp contrast to the response in many Arab countries, where huge crowds thronged public squares to cheer.
If negotiations fail, they fail, and that, of course, would be tragic. But Obama's current path is already heading toward war, and Pollack's position of containment may not be able to prevent it. Only negotiating all the hot-button issues offers the hope of reconciling two enemies -- enemies who should be friends.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Iran's uranium conversion facility at Isfahan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY VAHID SALEMI/ASSOCIATED PRESS (2005)) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); RED LINE ON WEAPONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%)

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BASHAR AL-ASSAD (78%); LEON E PANETTA (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (88%); ESFAHAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (58%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (93%); SYRIA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (91%); IRAN (88%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2013



231 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 705 words

HEADLINE: School's In

 BODY:
To the Editor:
The title of Amanda Ripley's recently reviewed book, ''The Smartest Kids in the World'' (Aug. 25), is misleading because it is based on the assumption that scores on tests of international competition allow valid inferences to be drawn about the intelligence of students and the quality of schools. What these instruments actually measure is a testing meritocracy, rather than a talent meritocracy. The distinction is crucial, but it is given short shrift despite differences in values, culture and history between countries.
WALT GARDNERLos AngelesThe writer's Reality Check blog is published in Education Week. 
â--+
To the Editor:
Amanda Ripley's book and Annie Murphy Paul's review both shortchange the American education system. Paul speaks of ''American students, a quarter of whom fail to graduate from high school.'' But that 25 percent is vastly disproportionately Latino and African-American.
According to the Program for International Student Assessment (PISA) of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (O.E.C.D.), in 2009 the United States ranked 25th in math and 21st in science of 34 O.E.C.D. countries. However, when the American students in science were disaggregated by white, Asian, Latino and black by PISA in 2006, whites and Asians ranked seventh in the world, behind Finland, Canada, Japan, New Zealand, Australia and the Netherlands -- but ahead of South Korea, Germany, the United Kingdom, Switzerland, Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Sweden and Norway.
Studying the Finns makes sense, but focusing attention on the groups that are behind should be a much higher priority.
LAWRENCE HARRISONVineyard Haven, Mass.The writer is a visiting scholar at the Fletcher School, Tufts University, and the author of ''Jews, Confucians and Protestants: Cultural Capital and the End of Multiculturalism.''
â--+
To the Editor:
I was an English teacher in the early 1990s in the Czech Republic. I taught at a four-year academic high school, the kind of school referred to as a ''classical gymnasium.'' Only the most academic students attended this kind of school. The majority of teenagers attended what were called technological schools, where students learned a trade, anything from plumbing to secretarial work to home economics. Similar systems exist throughout Europe and Asia.
In the United States, every student has the opportunity to attend a four-year academic high school.
When American test scores are compared with those from Europe and Asia, all American students are weighed against a small academic elite. If every European or Asian student, in both kinds of schools, were tested against every American student, the scores would even out.
Ultimately, both approaches achieve essentially the same result: only an elite has the good fortune to attend rigorous schools and succeed at a university. But America's system, for all its flaws, is far more egalitarian and flexible. In America you are not permanently tracked at 14 into a particular stratum of society. Educators and politicians need to look at the bigger picture and all the facts before deciding on policy.
MARIGA TEMPLE-WESTDevon, Pa.
â--+
To the Editor:
Both Annie Murphy Paul and Amanda Ripley effectively focus on the enduring American anti-intellectualism that is a chief cause of this nation's educational woes.
Finland, for example, is able to ''ensure high-quality teaching from the beginning, allowing only top students to enroll in teacher-training programs, which are themselves far more demanding than such programs in America,'' precisely because education is valued and teaching is a respected profession in that country -- in marked contrast to the United States, where teaching is generally dismissed as a second-rate occupation and top students gravitate to business school, law school, medicine and other more lucrative pursuits. The overweening American hostility to education, and the corresponding emphasis on the attainment of wealth, fame and celebrity status with minimal intellectual effort, is also the reason sports are ''the core culture'' in American high schools, as Ripley recognizes.
Improving the quality of education in the United States will require a sea change in American values.
JOHN S. KOPPELBethesda, Md.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); WRITERS (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (77%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (76%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (76%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (75%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); ADOLESCENTS (71%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (68%); ECONOMIC POLICY (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); ASIA (92%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); CANADA (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); DENMARK (79%); BELGIUM (79%); NORWAY (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); FINLAND (69%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (69%); GERMANY (54%); CENTRAL EUROPE (54%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2013



232 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1082 words

HEADLINE: Two Indias

BYLINE: By JYOTI THOTTAM. 
Jyoti Thottam is a former South Asia bureau chief for Time magazine.

 BODY:
AN UNCERTAIN GLORYIndia and Its Contradictions
By Jean Drèze and Amartya Sen434 pp. Princeton University Press. $29.95.
In late June, a television reporter named Narayan Pargaien spent three days in the northern Indian state of Uttarakhand to cover the region's devastating monsoon floods, which have killed more than 5,700 people. Like most journalists covering the disaster, Pargaien dutifully described families who had lost everything, including their modest thatch-roofed homes. Unlike most journalists, Pargaien reported from the scene while perched on the shoulders of a flood victim in the middle of a swollen river. As the outrage poured in, Pargaien tried to explain himself. In an interview with the Indian Web site Newslaundry, he said the man who carried him had insisted upon it. ''He was grateful to us and wanted to show me some respect,'' Pargaien said, ''as it was the first time someone of my level had visited his house.'' 
The India captured in that image -- a preening consumer economy built on the backs of the destitute -- is the subject of ''An Uncertain Glory,'' a new book by the economists Jean Drèze and Amartya Sen that aims to bring the poor to the center of public discussion about the country's future. It's an urgent, passionate, political work that makes the case that India cannot move forward without investing significantly -- as every other major industrialized country has already done -- in public services: ''The lack of health care, tolerably good schools and other basic facilities important for human well-being and elementary freedoms, keeps a majority of Indians shackled to their deprived lives in a way quite rarely seen in other self-respecting countries that are trying to move ahead in the world.''
Sen, who won the Nobel in economic science in 1998, and Drèze, his longtime collaborator, begin by retelling the story of India's recent economic boom. They show that, leaving aside per capita income, which has grown impressively, India is actually falling behind its neighbors in South Asia -- never mind America, Europe and China -- in every social indicator that matters, from literacy to child malnutrition to access to toilets. The chapter on the country's woeful schools is a welcome corrective to the idea of India as a nation of brilliant, job-stealing engineers. In fact, large numbers of Indian primary-school students are unable to write a simple sentence or do basic arithmetic. In an alarming chapter on health, Drèze and Sen point out that while the Taliban's opposition to polio vaccines in Pakistan has rightly created an international furor, there is scant attention paid to India's dismal rates of child immunization, which are among the lowest in the world, ''even without a Taliban.''
These comparisons are rhetorical tools; the authors use them to show that India's problems can't be attributed to culture or democracy or a lack of tax revenue. Bangladesh, Nepal and Sri Lanka are all messy, multiparty democracies with deeply conservative religious traditions and legacies of colonial oppression. And yet, with fewer resources, they have made solid progress in improving health and education while India stagnates.
So what's the problem? According to Drèze and Sen, even though the poor constitute a vast majority of Indian voters, they have been shut out of public discourse. ''What a democratic system achieves depends largely on what issues are brought into political engagement,'' they write. That's why ''An Uncertain Glory'' directs so much of its criticism toward the ''celebratory media,'' the proliferation of satellite channels and newspapers dominated by breathless gossip about cricketers, billionaires and Bollywood stars and point-scoring among the political elite. The Indian media are not unique in their love of froth and scandal, but the stakes are higher when these news outlets set the agenda for a country with ''the largest population of seriously undernourished people in the world.''
As if to prove their point, coverage of the book in India, where it was published in July, has been dominated by the ''feud'' between Drèze and Sen, champions of the poor, and the economists Jagdish Bhagwati and Arvind Panagariya, co-authors of ''Why Growth Matters'' and champions of market deregulation, who argue that too much spending on social welfare programs might derail economic growth. But it would be a mistake to read ''An Uncertain Glory'' as a screed against liberalization. This book is something bigger, a heartfelt plea to rethink what progress in a poor country ought to look like. What difference does it make, the authors ask, to lift millions above some notional poverty line if they still lack the basics of a decent life? That is the paradox at the heart of Katherine Boo's best seller ''Behind the Beautiful Forevers: Life, Death and Hope in a Mumbai Slum'' -- it isn't simply want of money that makes the slum dwellers of Annawadi miserable; it's being trapped in a system that's rigged against them.
While Drèze and Sen have called for investing in social welfare before, this book comes at a crucial time. Ineffectiveness and corruption plague India's public sector, but recent data show that when it comes to health and education, outcomes in the private sector are no better. ''There is a real need for pragmatism here,'' they write, ''and to avoid both the crushing inefficiency of market denial . . . and the pathology of ideological marketization.''
In the interest of pragmatism, Drèze and Sen might have devoted more thought to how to make India's existing social-welfare initiatives work better. They describe successes in a few forward-thinking states, but it is not clear how to replicate those results on a national scale. The section on discrimination against girls -- an issue on which Sen is an unquestioned expert -- also cries out for a more prescriptive analysis. When even girls' education seems to have no effect on gender inequality, what's left?
Still, the value of ''An Uncertain Glory'' is its wide-angle view. In a sense, Drèze and Sen are playing a role similar to that of Narayan Pargaien's cameraman. The shot intended for broadcast was supposed to show only the reporter with flood as background -- viewers were never meant to see the man beneath him. But the anonymous cameraman pulled back to reveal the big, unflattering picture. Such small acts of conscience can enrich public reasoning enormously; India, as this important book argues, needs many more of them.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Children in a government lunch program at a village school in Madhya Pradesh. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LYNSEY ADDARIO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); WRITERS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); FLOODS & FLOODING (77%); NATURAL DISASTERS (77%); FAMILY (76%); RIVERS (72%); MALNUTRITION (67%); NOBEL PRIZES (66%); VACCINES (62%); TALIBAN (60%); AWARDS & PRIZES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH INDIA (92%); MADHYA PRADESH, INDIA (58%) INDIA (98%); EUROPE (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); SOUTHERN ASIA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2013



233 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; IT'S THE ECONOMY; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1390 words

HEADLINE: Revenge of The Nerds

BYLINE: By CATHERINE RAMPELL. 
Catherine Rampell is an economics reporter at The Times. Adam Davidson is off this week.

 BODY:
Nearly 40 years ago, a great white dorsal fin sliced through American cinemas with its ominous, minor-second-interval leitmotif, and a new business model was born. ''Jaws,'' which cost $7 million to make, was deemed a good fit for a June release in 1975 partly because it took place at a beach around Independence Day. But its extraordinary success -- the movie went on to earn $471 million at box offices worldwide -- subsequently helped spawn Hollywood's now-conventional wisdom that if you're going to make a blockbuster, then summer, when kids are out of school and people are in search of industrial-strength air-conditioning, is the best time to release it. After ''Star Wars'' became a huge hit two summers later, all the big studios seemed to take notice. 
In the years since, those studios have crammed more man-eating marine life, aliens, pirates, superheroes, robots, dinosaurs and car chases (and their exploding iterations) into an increasingly crowded season. A decade ago, there were 22 films that each ran on 3,000 screens during the summer. This year, there were 31, the most ever. A lot of them, however, bombed. ''R.I.P.D.,'' ''Turbo,'' ''Lone Ranger,'' ''Pacific Rim'' and ''White House Down'' all cost more than $100 million, only to tank at the domestic box office. After a bit of soul searching, several explanations have been suggested -- Ryan Reynolds's inability to open a movie, why anyone would want to see the ''Lone Ranger'' in 2013 and so forth. But a number of economists are coming around to a more unsettling idea: The summer-blockbuster strategy itself may have tanked.
From an economics perspective, this summer schedule is baffling. The studios are choosing to release all of their big films precisely when they know their competitors are doing the same thing. ''There's rational behavior and there's, well, other behavior,'' says Peter Broderick, a film-distribution strategist who runs Paradigm Consulting. ''Decision-making in Hollywood, perhaps more than anywhere else, is driven by conventional wisdom and inertia and a whole lot of things that are more complicated than just being rational.''
There are three main reasons big studios may not be behaving optimally. The first has to do with a poor understanding of statistics. Movie executives see that box-office revenues have been higher in the summer and conclude that there is something inflationary about a summertime release. Yet this thinking is inherently flawed. The summer was never actually as profitable as it seemed. The official season, which lasts about a third of the year (at least the way Hollywood divides the calendar), generates around 40 percent of annual ticket sales. Furthermore, box-office revenue may be higher in the summer precisely because that's when studios have chosen to release their most popular movies. The expected box-office appeal of the film may be driving the release date, in other words, rather than the release date enhancing the box-office performance.
Economists refer to this chicken-and-egg problem, in which cause and effect become entangled, as ''endogeneity.'' It's a problem that muddies all sorts of statistical analysis when you don't have controlled experiments. (Does higher campaign spending win elections, for instance, or does the more popular candidate simply attract more financing?) Liran Einav, an economist at Stanford University, has developed a model that tried to get rid of this endogeneity problem by figuring out a way to control for film quality, which he defined as mass appeal, not Oscar-worthiness. Einav concluded that there was indeed a bigger audience available in the summer; but even so, he determined, a large portion of the seasonal swings in box-office revenue comes from the fact that the biggest crowd-pleasers (''Shrek,'' ''X-Men,'' ''Jurassic Park'') are reliably released on the same handful of weekends each year. In the five decades leading up to ''Jaws,'' the year's top-grossing movie was released in the summer only 20 percent of the time. In the decades since, the figure shot up to 63 percent. In the last decade, it has been 80 percent.
Why do studios chase an ever-diminishing share of what is only a slightly larger market? It probably has to do with overconfidence. Economists tend to think that companies trade off between larger customer demand and competition, but Hollywood studios behave as if the competition doesn't actually exist. Studios, Einav told me, probably have a systemic tendency to overestimate how well their own films will do relative to competitors'. ''When a studio green-lights a big blockbuster movie, they're expecting it to work,'' said Peter Schlessel, the former president of Columbia Pictures, and currently the chief executive of FilmDistrict, an independent distribution company. ''By definition they're not expecting it to not work.'' To some extent that overconfidence can be wielded strategically. Studios claim release dates years in advance in the hope that their rivals will cede the weekend, a tactic economists call deterring entry. Columbia Pictures, for example, is opening ''The Amazing Spider-Man 2'' on May 2, 2014. That's followed by ''The Amazing Spider-Man 3'' on June 10, 2016; and finally ''The Amazing Spider-Man 4'' on May 4, 2018.
Yet many industry experts say that the ubiquitous decisions to release tent poles in the summer is merely the sign of an incredibly risk-averse industry. ''The worst possible scenario,'' says Ricard Gil, an economist at the Carey Business School at Johns Hopkins University, ''is trying to be a maverick and change the strategy in the industry with a big-budget studio release in the middle of March, and no one actually comes that weekend.'' After all, executives at Universal didn't spend $130 million making ''R.I.P.D.'' to test a hypothesis and learn from their mistakes.
The instinct to retrench and overemphasize strategies that have worked in the past is a common problem in companies as they get bigger and have more to lose, particularly as technologies change. Polaroid and BlackBerry doubled down on their time-tested formulas despite market changes, suggesting that this behavior can undermine even the most successful companies. ''The more successful and larger they become, the more antibodies they develop to doing anything new,'' said Alan MacCormack, a Harvard Business School professor. And this may explain why summer 2015 will see sequels in the franchises for ''Batman,'' ''Superman,'' ''Avengers,'' ''Terminator,'' ''Independence Day,'' ''Pirates of the Caribbean'' and ''Smurfs.''
Because persuading an industry's largest companies to experiment is challenging, smaller and more entrepreneurial companies are usually tasked with figuring out the next-generation business model. Some smaller motion-picture companies, like Magnolia Pictures, have tried innovative things like allowing consumers to watch a film on-demand before it's released in theaters. Last year, Lionsgate released ''The Hunger Games,'' which cost $78 million to produce, in March. Lionsgate wouldn't comment for this column, but analysts speculate that executives saw an opportunity to appeal to (and potentially capture large numbers of) the relatively neglected moviegoers of an uncrowded spring. The movie, it turns out, grossed $408 million domestically. That's better than all but one of the eight ''Harry Potter'' movies, in inflation-adjusted terms, even though each of those was released in either the summer or holiday seasons.
But the success of ''The Hunger Games'' is not likely to transform Hollywood game theory just yet. The release timing for the three coming sequels to ''The Hunger Games'' is late November 2013, late November 2014 and late November 2015. That's timed to coincide with the start of the holiday film season -- the other saturated release period -- in what has become known in the industry as ''the 'Twilight' slot.'' Lionsgate, however, is still holding onto that previously snubbed March weekend. Next year it will release the first of what it hopes will be the next big teenage dystopian franchise, ''Divergent.'' Wild cards are for experimenting with; the established blockbusters, it seems, still are not.
1. Hollywood is an incredibly risk-averse industry.
2. What happens when every studio has the same strategy .â[#x20ac][0/00].â[#x20ac][0/00].
3. .â[#x20ac][0/00].â[#x20ac][0/00]. ''R.I.P.D.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JASPER RIETMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); FILM (89%); TICKET SALES (89%); MOVIE REVENUES (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (78%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (78%); BOMBINGS (73%); INFLATION (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); COMPANY PROFITS (62%)

PERSON: RYAN REYNOLDS (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2013



234 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; REPLY ALL | LETTERS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 684 words

HEADLINE: The 8.25.13 Issue

 BODY:
ROGER FEDERER CAN STILL GET HIS GAME FACE ON
Why can't Roger Federer enjoy a long career as No. 7 or No. 12 or even No. 30? Who says life has to end if you're not in the top three anymore? I wish the press would back off and let him gracefully play out his career. It's a lot better to wind down over a few years than to quit and come back a few years later to give it one more try because there's still gas in the tank. JOEL LESKO, Ashland, Ore., posted on nytimes.comThere is too negative an undertone in this article about how changes have ''slowed down'' the game and made power-baseline tennis, à la Lendl, the norm. 
Remember how boring tennis was in the mid-to-late '90s during the fast-paced, attacking, serve-dominated era? I can admire Sampras, but I really can't remember one moment when he was pushed to a sublime place. All I remember of his matches is a blur of aces and service winners. JEREMY KAYE, Los Angeles, posted on nytimes.comMichael Steinberger fails to note that the so-called baseline grinders have developed a much more wide-ranging, adaptable game in the post-Federer era. High-risk, shot-making tennis has become the standard. The Djokovic-Nadal match at the Australian Open that Steinberger refers to was not so much a slugfest in the mode of, say, Williams-Sharapova, but rather a full-scale epic that combined tactical moves complete with cunning traps and numinous shot-making -- a true test of strength and fitness. GREATIDEA, New Orleans, posted on nytimes.comJIMMY CONNORS Q. and A.I loved that Connors acknowledges players who came before him. His pressing style owes its heritage to Jack Kramer in the 1940s. The scowl, the attitude, the street-fighting mentality was first written by Pancho Gonzalez. Even Bill Tilden was an influence -- he felt that the most dangerous but surest way to beat a player was to play to his strength. Watch a tape of Connors, and see how often he demoralizes an opponent by doing this. Other than Federer, today's players live outside of history. RICHARD POLLARA, Tampa, posted on nytimes.comCHINA'S TENNIS REBELLost in the focus on the Chinese government's influence on Li Na is the observation that true excellence often comes from forced sacrifices imposed by authority figures -- parents, coaches, governments. Look at the fathers of Andre Agassi and the Williams sisters. YU CHEN, New York, posted on nytimes.comMANDY PATINKINI attended Mandy Patinkin's 2002 performance of ''Celebrating Sondheim,'' and he stopped the show 20 minutes in and started the entire performance over. From that moment on, the program was more beautiful, and Patinkin's voice was subtly but deeply improved. So although we now know that this rebooting of the show was caused by Patinkin's medication, we want to reassure him that his artistic radar was intact and that his performance thrilled us. ROSEANN FORZIANO, Rocky Point, N.Y.I would have preferred ''inconceivably'' ... @nytimes: Mandy Patinkin: ''I behaved abominably.'' @sophiamacris, via Twitter'ORANGE' IS THE NEW GREENThe phenomenon Adam Davidson describes, in which prisoners have little control of the products sold to them, is more common than he suggests. The ''third-party-decider economy'' is best exemplified by the health care industry, in which insurers negotiate with providers rather than patients. In fact, it's almost a fourth-person economy, since between patient and provider there is insurer and employer. ANDREW FISHER, Pittsburgh, posted on nytimes.comAnother example of third-party deciders is textbook publishing. At the college level, publishers sell to the instructors who teach the courses, not to the students who have to buy the expensive texts. GLENN HOFFMAN, Somerville, Mass., posted on nytimes.com
e-mail letters to magazine@nytimes.com or post comments at nytimes.com/magazine. Letters should include the writer's name, address and daytime telephone number. We are unable to acknowledge or return unpublished submissions. Letters and comments are edited for length and clarity. The address of The New York Times Magazine is 620 Eighth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10018.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER HAPAK) CHART: ANALYTICS: The Way the Ball Bounces: Responding to the U.S. Open issue, readers weighed in on which style of tennis they prefer to watch: 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TENNIS TOURNAMENTS (90%); TENNIS (88%); SPORTS (88%)

PERSON: ROGER FEDERER (90%); RAFAEL NADAL (58%); SERENA WILLIAMS (53%); VENUS WILLIAMS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) OREGON, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); AUSTRALIA (74%); CHINA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2013



235 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 6130 words

HEADLINE: The Conscience of a Strongman

BYLINE: By JEFFREY GETTLEMAN

 BODY:
Paul Kagame, the president of Rwanda, agreed to meet me at 11 a.m. on a recent Saturday. Kagame's office is on top of a hill near the center of Kigali, Rwanda's capital, and I took a taxi there, driven by a man in a suit and tie. Whenever I'm in Kigali, I am always impressed by how spotless it is, how the city hums with efficiency, which is all the more remarkable considering that Rwanda remains one of the poorest nations in the world. Even on a Saturday morning, platoons of women in white gloves rhythmically swept the streets, softly singing to themselves. I passed the Union Trade Center mall in the middle of town, where traffic circulates smoothly around a giant fountain. 
There was no garbage in the streets and none of the black plastic bags that get tangled up in the fences and trees of so many other African cities -- Kagame's government has banned them. There were no homeless youth sleeping on the sidewalks or huffing glue to kill their hunger. In Rwanda, vagrants and petty criminals have been scooped up by the police and sent to a youth ''rehabilitation center'' on an island in the middle of Lake Kivu that some Rwandan officials jokingly call their Hawaii -- because it is so lush and beautiful -- though people in Kigali whisper about it as if it were Alcatraz. There aren't even large slums in Kigali, because the government simply doesn't allow them.
The night before, I strolled back to my hotel from a restaurant well past midnight -- a stupid idea in just about any other African capital. But Rwanda is one of the safest places I've been, this side of Zurich, which is hard to reconcile with the fact that less than 20 years ago more civilians were murdered here in a three-month spree of madness than during just about any other three-month period in human history, including the Holocaust. During Rwanda's genocide, the majority Hutus turned on the minority Tutsis, slaughtering an estimated one million men, women and children, most dispatched by machetes or crude clubs. Rwandans say it is difficult for any outsider to appreciate how horrifying it was. Nowadays, it's hard to find even a jaywalker.
No country in Africa, if not the world, has so thoroughly turned itself around in so short a time, and Kagame has shrewdly directed the transformation. Measured against many of his colleagues, like the megalomaniac Robert Mugabe of Zimbabwe, who ran a beautiful, prosperous nation straight into the ground, or the Democratic Republic of Congo's amiable but feckless Joseph Kabila, who is said to play video games while his country falls apart, Kagame seems like a godsend. Spartan, stoic, analytical and austere, he routinely stays up to 2 or 3 a.m. to thumb through back issues of The Economist or study progress reports from red-dirt villages across his country, constantly searching for better, more efficient ways to stretch the billion dollars his government gets each year from donor nations that hold him up as a shining example of what aid money can do in Africa. He is a regular at Davos, the world economic forum, and friendly with powerful people, including Bill Gates and Bono. The Clinton Global Initiative honored him with a Global Citizen award, and Bill Clinton said that Kagame ''freed the heart and the mind of his people.''
This praise comes in part because Kagame has made indisputable progress fighting the single greatest ill in Africa: poverty. Rwanda is still very poor -- the average Rwandan lives on less than $1.50 a day -- but it is a lot less poor than it used to be. Kagame's government has reduced child mortality by 70 percent; expanded the economy by an average of 8 percent annually over the past five years; and set up a national health-insurance program -- which Western experts had said was impossible in a destitute African country. Progressive in many ways, Kagame has pushed for more women in political office, and today Rwanda has a higher percentage of them in Parliament than any other country. His countless devotees, at home and abroad, say he has also delicately re-engineered Rwandan society to defuse ethnic rivalry, the issue that exploded there in 1994 and that stalks so many African countries, often dragging them into civil war.
But Kagame may be the most complicated leader in Africa. The question is not so much about his results but his methods. He has a reputation for being merciless and brutal, and as the accolades have stacked up, he has cracked down on his own people and covertly supported murderous rebel groups in neighboring Congo. At least, that is what a growing number of critics say, including high-ranking United Nations officials and Western diplomats, not to mention the countless Rwandan dissidents who have recently fled. They argue that Kagame's tidy, up-and-coming little country, sometimes described as the Singapore of Africa, is now one of the most straitjacketed in the world. Few people inside Rwanda feel comfortable speaking freely about the president, and many aspects of life are dictated by the government -- Kagame's administration recently embarked on an ''eradication campaign'' of all grass-roofed huts, which the government meticulously counted (in 2009 there were 124,671). In some areas of the country, there are rules, enforced by village commissars, banning people from dressing in dirty clothes or sharing straws when drinking from a traditional pot of beer, even in their own homes, because the government considers it unhygienic. Many Rwandans told me that they feel as if their president is personally watching them. ''It's like there's an invisible eye everywhere,'' said Alice Muhirwa, a member of an opposition political party. ''Kagame's eye.''
The United States has a long history, of course, of putting aside concerns over human rights and democratic principles and supporting strongmen who can protect its strategic interests, like keeping the oil flowing or Communist sympathizers or Muslim extremists in check. But what makes the Kagame situation different from the one in Egypt, say, where the army has mowed down crowds, or in Saudi Arabia, where misogynistic princes rule, is that there is no obvious strategic American interest in Rwanda. It is a tiny country, in the middle of Africa, with few natural resources and no Islamist terrorists. So why has the West -- and the United States in particular -- been so eager to embrace Kagame, despite his authoritarian tendencies? One diplomat who works in Rwanda told me that Kagame has become a rare symbol of progress on a continent that has an abundance of failed states and a record of paralyzing corruption. Kagame was burnishing the image of the entire billion-dollar aid industry. ''You put your money in, and you get results out,'' said the diplomat, who insisted he could not talk candidly if he was identified. Yes, Kagame was ''utterly ruthless,'' the diplomat said, but there was a mutual interest in supporting him, because Kagame was proving that aid to Africa was not a hopeless waste and that poor and broken countries could be fixed with the right leadership. ''We needed a success story, and he was it.''
My taxi let me off at the gate of the president's compound, guarded by two soldiers toting Israeli machine guns, another distinctive Kagame touch (I've never seen Israeli machine guns in the region before). Kagame's aides led me through a metal detector and into a cavernous reception room with a peach-colored carpet, large TV monitors for video conferencing, heavy curtains and a coffee table.
As I sat on an elegant wooden chair and waited for Kagame, I steeled myself for a forceful, intimidating presence. I'd seen images of him hundreds of times. An official portrait hangs in just about every government office and major business in Rwanda. This is common across Africa, and in other parts of the world, but in Rwanda the portraits are huge -- as big as posters -- and of exceptional quality. Kagame stares down from the flourescent-lighted walls of supermarkets and from within neatly swept ministerial offices, his head slightly tilted, his dark eyes burning with intensity. When I ask Rwandans about Kagame, they often describe him in hyperbolic terms -- as either a savior or the Antichrist. Some people even kneel down in front of his portrait, close their eyes and pray to him. One elder in a western Rwandan village told me: ''Eighty percent of the people support him, 20 percent don't. But those 20 percent don't speak, because they're afraid.''
So I was surprised when Kagame slipped into the reception room so quietly that he materialized next to me before I realized it, welcoming me with a shy smile. Taking his seat in a stiff-backed chair, he looked more nervous than I was, his eyes darting around behind black, owlish glasses. He wore a blue blazer, a pinstriped shirt, slacks and polished black wingtips. I knew Kagame was tall, about 6-foot-2, but I was struck by how thin he was, almost sick-looking, with bony shoulders and delicate wrists.
Kagame, who is 55, grew up in a Ugandan refugee camp in a thatch-roofed hut (like the ones his government has banned), an especially deep humiliation for a Tutsi like him. Tutsi monarchs ruled Rwanda for centuries until the majority Hutus turned the tables in 1959, killing hundreds, possibly thousands, of Tutsis and causing many others, including Kagame's family, to flee for their lives. When Kagame was about 12 and marooned with his family in the Ugandan camp, he asked his father: ''Why are we refugees? Why are we here? Why are we like this? What wrong did we do?''
That, Kagame said, was the birth of his political consciousness. ''This is where the thing starts,'' he whispered, fixing his eyes on me. He told me this story at the beginning of the interview, which lasted about three hours. Kagame seemed in an open, expansive and congenial mood. He nodded eagerly at my questions, prefacing his answers with phrases like ''if you don't mind'' and ''you are right.'' He speaks fluent English, with a thick Rwandan accent. A soldier by training, he joined a Ugandan rebel group shortly out of high school, rose up through the ranks and then did a short stint at the staff college at Fort Leavenworth, Kan., part of the Pentagon's efforts to make African armies more professional.
But Kagame left the program early to help command a Tutsi rebel force that invaded Rwanda in 1990. He would soon become the head of the Rwandan Patriotic Army, which was bent on overthrowing Rwanda's Hutu-led government. In April 1994, after a plane carrying Rwanda's Hutu president was shot down, Hutu extremists exhorted their followers, primarily over the radio, to wipe out the Tutsis. Killing squads swept across the hillsides -- until Kagame's rebel army stormed the capital, putting an end to the genocide and seizing power. Kagame became defense minister, vice president and then president, and under the Rwandan constitution, which limits the president to two seven-year terms, he should be out of office in 2017. But the talk in Kigali at the moment is that he may encourage Parliament to adjust the constitution so he can run again. When I asked one of Kagame's aides about this, she said Kagame has addressed this before, saying that the security and well-being of the Rwandan people cannot be reduced to a simple question of third term or no third term. It appears that he has no plans to give up power.
Though Rwanda has made tremendous strides, the country is still a demographic time bomb. It's already one of the most densely populated in Africa -- its 11 million people squeezed into a space smaller than Maryland -- and despite a recent free vasectomy program, Rwanda still has an alarmingly high birthrate. Most Rwandans are peasants, their lives inexorably yoked to the land, and just about every inch of that land, from the papyrus swamps to the cloud-shrouded mountaintops, is spoken for. When I asked Kagame how he planned to address this, he said one of his top priorities was encouraging women to stop having so many children. ''We educated the woman both in school and generally in society to say: 'No,' '' he told me, his forehead wrinkled in concentration. ''Go for something else. You deserve better.'' Changing such deep-seated attitudes takes a long time, he said, ''but it works.''
Even Kagame's most strident critics acknowledge that much has improved under his stewardship. Rwandan life expectancy, for instance, has increased to 56 years, from 36 in 1994. Malaria used to be a huge killer, but Kagame's government has embarked on a wide-scale spraying campaign and has distributed millions of nets to protect people when they are sleeping -- malarial mosquitoes tend to feed at night -- and malaria-related deaths plummeted 85 percent between 2005 and 2011.
Kagame has built hundreds of new schools and laid miles of high-speed fiber-optic lines, wisely investing in infrastructure projects, including environmentally sound ones like a coming geothermal energy plant. Rwanda now has one of the fastest-growing economies on the continent, despite the fact that it doesn't have significant mineral deposits and is landlocked, deep in the green heart of Africa, hundreds of miles from the sea. Granted, Rwanda will never be a Singapore-like industrial hub -- it simply costs too much to bring in raw materials, and as Kagame explained, many Rwandan workers lack marketable skills. But Kagame hopes to make more money from coffee, tea and gorillas -- Rwanda is home to some of the last remaining mountain gorillas, and each year throngs of Western tourists pay thousands of dollars to see them.
''Rwanda has surpassed everybody's expectations and continues to amaze,'' says Jendayi Frazer, a former assistant secretary of state for African Affairs, who helped steer tens of millions of dollars in American aid to Rwanda.
That aid flows to Rwanda because Kagame is a celebrated manager. He's a hands-on chief executive who is less interested in ideology than in making things work. He loves new technology -- he's an avid tweeter -- and is very good at breaking sprawling, ambitious projects into manageable chunks. Rwanda jumped to 52nd last year, from 158th in 2005, on the World Bank's Ease of Doing Business annual rating, precisely because Kagame set up a special unit within his government, which broke down the World Bank's ratings system, category by category, and figured out exactly what was needed to improve on each criterion.
Corruption, Kagame told me, is ''like a weevil.'' It eats its way into the flesh of a country and ''just kills a nation.'' He said this after an aide gingerly placed a couple of bottles of mineral water in front of us. Someone had shut off the air-conditioner, and it was getting warm in the reception room. I cracked the plastic seal and guzzled about half my bottle. Kagame didn't even touch his.
One innovative way Kagame tightly monitors the various levels of his government is by demanding that officials sign imihigo, or goals. The imihigo function like corporate performance contracts, multipage documents delineating specific targets, from the number of street signs to be posted in a given year to the tons of pineapples harvested. Kagame's staff printed out a couple of imihigo for me, each one signed by Kagame himself. I was struck by the obsessive attention to detail, down to the number of adults in a specific rural district who were going to be taught to read (1,500) to the number of cows inseminated (3,000).
Because Rwanda is so small, it's much easier to implement ambitious plans here than in many other African countries that still have huge swaths of territory cut off from the capital. Several historians told me that Rwanda is unusual in Africa because it has always been tightly controlled. Before Europeans colonized Africa in the 19th century, there were few strong, centralized states. Two exceptions were Rwanda and Ethiopia, where unusually fertile, densely populated highlands gave rise to kingdoms and disciplined militaries that went on to dominate weaker peoples. Even today, Rwanda and Ethiopia are often compared with each other, two postconflict societies with impressive technocratic leadership but also a tradition of authoritarianism and ruthlessness. The same social phenomenon that allowed the Rwandan genocide to unfold with such terrifying swiftness in 1994 also explains how Kagame has turned around his nation so fast today -- Rwandans tend to do what their leaders say, whether it's hacking up their neighbors or stringing up mosquito nets.
One of Kagame's bodyguards, a short man in a bulging vest, popped into the room a couple of times while we were talking, just to check on things. The sun was beating outside, but the heavy curtains blocked out the light and confused the sense of time. Kagame kept the charm offensive going strong, chatting about improvements in agriculture and how Rwandan farmers were using more fertilizer these days. But when I brought up the growing number of Rwandan dissidents who call him a tyrant, he tensed up.
Kayumba Nyamwasa is the dissident, many Rwandans told me, whom Kagame fears the most. The two men used to be very close when they were both living in Uganda 30 years ago, and Nyamwasa was an early member of the Tutsi rebels and later chief of staff of the Rwandan Army. When I went to visit him in South Africa this spring, he was quite open about his hatred for Kagame.
''Kagame has become stupidly arrogant,'' Nyamwasa told me, listing what he considered Kagame's biggest mistakes, including meddling in Congo and alienating anyone who disagreed with him. In 2010, after questioning some of Kagame's decisions and hearing whispers that he was about to be arrested, Nyamwasa swam across a river to escape from Rwanda and eventually made his way to Johannesburg, where he thought he would be safe. One afternoon a few months later, Nyamwasa said, he was pulling into his driveway when he saw a man sprint toward his car, brandishing a pistol. The gunman shot Nyamwasa in the stomach and then tried to finish him off, but the gun jammed. ''Kagame was trying to kill me,'' Nyamwasa told me. ''I have no doubt about it.'' Johannesburg is plagued by violent street crime, but Nyamwasa's assailant didn't try to steal anything. Six people are now on trial in Johannesburg in connection with the shooting; three of them are Rwandan.
Several dissidents said that Rwanda fields a lethal intelligence service with assassins who can operate anywhere. Rene Claudel Mugenzi, a Rwandan human rights activist living in England, told me that in March 2011, Kagame was on a BBC radio show when Mugenzi called in and asked a provocative question -- whether an Arab Spring-like revolution could erupt in Rwanda. A few weeks later, two Scotland Yard bobbies rapped on Mugenzi's door to deliver a letter. ''Reliable intelligence states that the Rwandan government poses an imminent threat to your life,'' it read. Mugenzi was stunned. ''I never thought they would try to kill me in the U.K.,'' he said. (The Rwandan government has denied that it plotted to kill Mugenzi.)
It was hard to square these allegations of Kagame running an international hit squad with the thin, geeky man sitting attentively across from me. When a mosquito buzzed near us, Kagame pushed up his thick glasses and awkwardly swiped at it with his long, spindly fingers. He missed, a couple of times. In response to my questions about the political opposition, he made vague allusions to outspoken dissidents like Nyamwasa, saying they were ''thieves'' who thrived on the perception ''that in Africa nothing good happens, every leader is a dictator, is an oppressor.'' At the word ''oppressor,'' Kagame looked right at me and nervously giggled.
Nyamwasa warned me that I should not be fooled by Kagame's cerebral air, that, in fact, he is quite violent. ''During war, a lot of things go wrong,'' Nyamwasa explained. ''But Kagame always reacts with violence. He's spiteful. His own troops were scared of him and actually hated him.''
David Himbara, another former Kagame confidant who also fled to Johannesburg in 2010, told me a story about Kagame's rage. In 2009, Himbara said, Kagame ordered two subordinates -- a finance director and an army captain -- into his presidential office, slammed the door and started shouting at them about where they had purchased office curtains. Kagame then picked up the phone, and two guards came in with sticks, Himbara said. Kagame ordered the men to lie face down, and he thrashed them. After five minutes, Kagame seemed to tire, and the bodyguards took over beating the men, as if they had done this before. Himbara said he was sick to his stomach witnessing the scene.
Just about every former colleague of Kagame's I spoke to shared some sort of beating story. Noble Marara, a former driver for Kagame, told me that Kagame whipped him twice, once for driving the wrong truck and another time after someone else backed into a pole. ''He really needs help,'' said Marara, now in exile in England. ''If I was to diagnose him, I'd say he has a personality disorder.''
Himbara had a different explanation. He thinks that despite Kagame's self-propelled rise to power, he's still deeply insecure. ''He barely finished high school,'' said Himbara, who holds a Ph.D. from Queen's University, in Kingston, Ontario, and served as one of Kagame's senior policy advisers. ''It was always hard working with him, because we constantly had to figure out how to make him seem like the originator of ideas.'' He went on, ''After I once wrote a speech for him to give, he said to me: 'You think because you have a Ph.D. from Canada you are smarter than me? You are a peasant! You go and read the stupid speech!' And then I would have to say: 'No, sir, you are the president, and in my hands it is a stupid peasant product. But in your hands it is something special.' That's how we had to flatter and appease him,'' Himbara said. ''It was crazy.''
When I asked Kagame about the beatings, he leaned toward me in his seat. We were about three feet apart, then two. I could see the individual gray hairs in his goatee. He didn't interrupt as I detailed my evidence, with names and dates. He didn't deny physically abusing his staff, as I thought he might, though he gave me a watered-down version of the 2009 event that Himbara described, saying that he hadn't swatted anyone with a stick but shoved one of the men so hard that he fell to the floor.
''It's my nature,'' Kagame said. ''I can be very tough, I can make mistakes like that.'' But when I pressed him on other violent outbursts, he responded irritably, ''Do we really need to go into every name, every incident?'' He said that hitting people is not ''sustainable,'' which struck me as a strange word to use, as if the only issue with beating your underlings was whether such behavior was effective over the long term.
He grew even testier when I asked him about an expensive trip to New York in 2011. At the time, I heard that he spent more than $15,000 a night for the presidential suite at the Mandarin Oriental. It seemed out of character for a head of state who prides himself on frugal living, occupying a relatively modest house in central Kigali, not a crystal-chandelier palace like many other African presidents. I began to ask if he thought the Rwandan people would approve of such extravagance when Kagame glared at me and snapped, ''Just a moment!''
It was a little scary how quickly he flipped from friendly to imperious. He clearly wasn't used to confrontational questions, especially from a reporter. Kagame's critics say he has snuffed out much of Rwanda's independent media. One Rwandan journalist, Agnes Uwimana Nkusi, was recently given a prison term of four years for insulting the president and endangering national security after she edited a series of articles critical of Kagame. Another, Jean-Leonard Rugambage, was shot in the head on the day he published a story about Kagame's government being suspected of trying to kill Nyamwasa.
But Kagame quickly calmed himself. He leaned back in his chair and resumed his professorial tone, even injecting a little humor. ''I don't know if I'm supposed to stay in a container,'' he said, referring back to the Mandarin Oriental and laughing his self-conscious laugh. ''I've stayed in trenches and tents. So I don't need any lesson from anyone coming to tell me how to be modest. No.''
We moved on. One topic I was most curious about was his efforts to neutralize ethnic tension by passing laws that criminalize acts of ''sectarianism'' and ''genocide ideology,'' which is defined as ''actions which aim at propounding wickedness or inciting hatred,'' including ''laughing at one's misfortune.'' These laws have been roundly criticized for silencing any discussion of ethnicity, and Kagame's government is currently revising them. Kagame told me that Rwandans were free to identify with their ethnic groups, as long as they didn't preach hate.
But when I tried to talk to people in Kigali about the ethnicity question, I didn't get very far. Most -- including a young taxi driver eager to opine on everything from the cost of living to reggae rap -- refused to even tell me if they were Hutu or Tutsi, simply saying they were Rwandan. I didn't want to seem like an instigator, but at the same time, I had heard from Rwandan dissidents outside the country that many Hutus felt oppressed. So one day I drove to the Nyamasheke district, on Rwanda's far western side, hoping that the distance from the capital might allow people to speak more openly. As I covered the 100 or so miles over a series of hills, I saw men ferrying stacks of freshly sawed wood and women lugging jerrycans of sloshing water and barefoot boys dribbling soccer balls made out of rags. People were everywhere. The busy hills were carved into endless little plots, neat squares of brown and green, bursting with coffee beans, corn, sugarcane and bananas, all worked sunup to sundown by threadbare farmers.
I spent the night with a schoolteacher named Alfred, whom I had met along the road. Alfred lives in a small house with wet floors and a potholder that says ''Jesus Loves Me'' hanging from the wall. He doesn't have electricity or plumbing -- he draws his water from a pipe about a quarter mile way. He teaches 10 hours straight; many Rwandan schools have become so overcrowded that the government has to run double sessions, rotating children out in the morning and bringing in new ones in the afternoon.
But over a dinner of boiled bananas and a can of sardines cracked open in my honor, Alfred said that his family's life had improved under Kagame. ''My kids eat more than I did,'' he said. ''Everything's up -- security, education, health.'' I thought maybe Alfred was just praising Kagame because he was a Tutsi as well. But he just laughed when I asked about his ethnicity. ''Today we don't say that,'' he said. ''But in the past, I was a Hutu.''
The next morning, I met another Hutu man, this one much more critical, who told me that if I used his name, ''they will come for me.'' This man vented that Tutsis were favored by the government for everything from college scholarships to high-ranking jobs under the guise of an affirmative-action program designed to help ''genocide survivors'' who, by definition, are Tutsis. The whole system was rigged to keep Tutsis up and Hutus down, he said, and ''during the elections, party agents would tear up your ballot if you didn't vote for Kagame.'' During the last election, in 2010, Kagame won 93 percent of the vote after his government effectively banned any major opposition parties from running.
Some Rwandans say that Kagame tries to play down ethnicity simply to cover for the fact that his minority ethnic group, the Tutsis, who account for about 15 percent of the population, control just about everything. If no one can talk about ethnicity, then it's hard to talk about Tutsi domination. When I asked Kagame about this, he first tried to convince me that Tutsis actually don't dominate politics or business. When I presented specifics: the health minister, defense minister, foreign minister and finance minister are all Tutsis, along with some of the richest men in the country, he acknowledged that Tutsis might enjoy a few advantages here and there, but this was ''by default and not by design.'' Many Tutsis like him had lived outside Rwanda, where there were more advantages. When I was openly skeptical, he finally said, ''This Hutu and Tutsi thing, if you get lost in it,'' he said, getting exasperated, ''you get lost in the pettiness of the past of our history, and you end up in a mess.''
What's frustrating to many of Kagame's critics is that the country's repression is hardly a secret. Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International have produced many reports detailing the ways Kagame's government has clamped down on Rwandan society. After the presidential election in 2010, Western officials grumbled about a ''lack of political space'' -- meaning Rwanda had essentially become a one-party state -- but the spigot of aid to Kagame wasn't turned off. Support from the United States has remained about the same -- around $200 million a year in direct bilateral aid. Accused of many murderous acts over the years, including allowing his troops in the 1990s to hunt down Hutu civilians in Rwanda and even massacre Hutu families who had fled deep into Congo's jungles, Kagame has capitalized on his powerful connections and his record of achievement to deflect criticism. He also exploits Western guilt, pointedly reminding governments that they abandoned Rwanda on its judgment day; some of his biggest fans, like Bill Clinton, have become teary with regret. The message is clear: No one on the outside occupies the moral high ground when it comes to Rwanda, and nobody should tell Kagame what is right or wrong.
''Rwanda isn't an easy one,'' said one Western official who has worked closely with the Rwandan government on development projects. ''Is Kagame repressive? Yes, definitely. Have we talked to him about this, about opening up? All the time.'' But the official added: ''I don't know how fragile things are. I don't have access to the intelligence he has.'' He said that it was possible that Hutu militants inside Rwanda or in Congo were still trying to overthrow Kagame. ''So we give him the benefit of the doubt.''
Kagame is not the only African leader who is both impressive and repressive, though he may be the most impressive and among the most repressive. Yoweri Museveni in Uganda has stabilized his country and paved a lot of roads in his 27 years in office, while harassing journalists and opposition members. Meles Zenawi of Ethiopia, who ruled for 21 years and died last summer, built Ethiopia's booming economy but also squashed all dissent. Isaias Afewerki, Eritrea's president, was a charming and progressive leader at one point in his career, but he has since shunned Western aid, locked up dissidents in underground shipping containers and turned his country into the North Korea of Africa. Significantly, all these men were rebel leaders who fought their way up from the trenches to the presidential suite. Perhaps there is something in the rebel experience -- the fierce discipline or uncompromising vision -- that helps explain why former rebels are so good at organization and administration but horrible at democracy. ''These guys never, ever open up,'' says John Prendergast, a founder of the Enough Project, a nonprofit anti-genocide group. ''They just fear it.''
Many of the diplomats and analysts I talked to weren't entirely bothered by Kagame's authoritarian streak. Some even told me -- and maybe this has something to do with the low expectations for Africa -- that this is exactly what the continent needs: more Kagames, more highly skilled strongmen who can turn around messy, conflict-prone societies and get medicine in the hospitals and police officers on the street and plastic bags out of the trees. Liberties aren't so important in these places, the argument goes, because who can enjoy freedom of speech or freedom of the press when everyone is killing one another? A premium is put on preserving stability and minimizing physical suffering, saving lives from malaria, from hunger, from preventable, poverty-driven diseases that are endemic across Africa.
But donor nations like the United States have drawn a line at Kagame's involvement in Congo, because of the scale of bloodshed there. Last year, United Nations investigators revealed that Kagame's troops crossed into Congo to fight side by side with a notorious rebel group, the M23, which has murdered civilians and gang-raped women, wreaking destruction on a swath of the eastern part of that country. Congo may be one of the world's biggest tragedies, a country blessed with just about every natural resource imaginable -- diamonds, copper, gold, oil, water, fertile land -- but plagued by a series of interlocking wars that have killed millions of people. A U.N. report from 2002 accused Kagame's army of plundering minerals from Congo and exporting them through Rwanda, at a staggering profit, supposedly with the help of one of the most infamous arms traders, Viktor Bout.
Kagame has always denied any wrongdoing in Congo and strenuously rejected the claim that his government ordered troops into that nation last year, but the United States promptly cut $200,000 in military aid to Rwanda, a token amount, for sure, but a damning signal nonetheless. Several other Western nations then cut or suspended their aid. It was the first time Kagame had ever lost a major public-relations battle, which is one reason I suspect he agreed to meet me, after years of turning down my requests for an interview; perhaps he felt it was time to engage in some image restoration.
When I brought up Congo, he nodded thoughtfully, knowing where the conversation was headed. He walked me through the complicated recent history between the two countries, starting in the early 1990s, when the Congolese government teamed up with Rwanda's Hutu-led government to try to beat back Kagame's rebel force. After Kagame routed the genocidal Hutu army, many of the militia leaders and army officers who orchestrated the genocide fled into Congo and continued to attack Rwanda from refugee camps just inside the Congo border. Believing that Congo's government (at the time called Zaire) was harboring the Hutu militants, Kagame invaded Congo in 1996, and the violence has continued to this day. In late August, tensions were mounting between the two countries again after mortar shells were fired from Congo into Rwanda.
One issue historically has been that the Tutsi-dominated Rwandan Army has been secretly supporting various Congolese forces to carve out a Tutsi-controlled buffer zone along the border, which for decades has been a porous membrane for the flow of people, animals and goods between Rwanda and Congo. Kagame told me that many Rwandan Tutsis fear that their Tutsi brethren inside Congo could be massacred if Rwanda does not protect them. He acknowledged that some Rwandan churches have been sending money to Congolese rebels, as part of a Tutsi self-protection campaign. But Kagame's critics say that is just a flimsy rationale for interfering in a country with glittering spoils that are easy to grab.
The president also admitted -- and this was the first time I was aware of him saying it -- that some Rwandan soldiers were indeed fighting inside Congo, but he insisted they were deserters. ''At one time, we even had some of our soldiers escape, and they just go,'' Kagame said. It was an almost-clever way to explain why Rwandan troops had been spotted inside Congo, but it didn't make much sense. In a place as locked down as Rwanda, how could government soldiers ''just go'' anywhere without someone at the top ordering it or willingly looking the other way? After I questioned Kagame about this, he adamantly defended himself. ''Are you really serious?'' he asked. ''Why has the United States, with all its might, failed to shut off the border with Mexico for the drugs and everything else that crosses? Is it because the United States is not trying? This thing has its own complexity.''
The sun was now starting to slant through the gaps in the curtains, and Kagame's face began to show the strain of sleeping only four or five hours a night. His answers were getting shorter, his pauses longer. As my time with him wound down, Kagame turned almost melancholy. He rose slowly from his chair, smoothed out his slacks and got ready to say goodbye. ''I have all these names associated with me,'' he said, ''some of which I accept, others which are not fair.'' Before I left, he told me, almost in a whisper: ''God created me in a very strange way.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY NADAV KANDER) (MM39)
Kigali, the Rwandan capital, has become one of the cleanest and safest places in Africa. (MM41)
 Kayumba Nyamwasa, once close to Paul Kagame, has fled to South Africa and is now one of Kagame's chief critics. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID SOUTHWOOD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MM43) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEN (77%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (73%); MURDER (72%); HOLOCAUST (67%); HOMELESSNESS (67%); SLUM DWELLINGS (67%); LAKES (66%); GENOCIDE (66%); RESTAURANTS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KIGALI, RWANDA (94%) HAWAII, USA (79%) RWANDA (94%); AFRICA (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (79%); ZIMBABWE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2013



236 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1924 words

HEADLINE: I'll Skip Manhattan

BYLINE: By C. J. HUGHES

 BODY:
With the prevalence of fierce bidding wars for apartments in Manhattan, homes that get poached within a day of the open house, and interest rates that keep inching up, a buyer could become so frustrated by hunting for real estate in the 212 area code that he or she might just decide to give up.
Which might not be such a bad idea, come to think of it.
If those buyers rechanneled their searches away from Manhattan, they might discover there are still hefty discounts to be had in the other boroughs, despite all the drumbeating about how certain areas have recently achieved parity with Manhattan. (Sorry, Brooklyn!) 
Of course, picking a home also means factoring in layouts, style and neighborhood, and more specific qualities, like whether it has a garden. And certain types of homes don't exist in any meaningful way in certain boroughs. If you have your heart set on a high-rise glass-walled starchitect-created condo, chances are you're going to bypass Staten Island, where single-family houses are the rule.
Likewise, two-families are the most frequently traded category in the Bronx, so unless you feel like playing landlord, or have a need to house a mother-in-law, that area may not merit much of a look.
But instead of some ivy-draped West Village town house, say, a buyer could pick up a similar-size split-level ranch in Queens, with a driveway and a garage, and have oodles of cash left over for tomato plants.
A borough-by-borough analysis follows of the median prices for specific segments of the market, based mostly on data supplied by Miller Samuel, the appraisal firm, from Jan. 1 through mid-August. And to expand the range of opportunities, also included is what you might end up with if you decided to stretch and double the median price.
Brooklyn
The condo craze of the past decade, which ebbed during the recession but is surging again, can seem a phenomenon exclusive to Manhattan, with so many developers competing to build the island's tallest condo.
But Kings County has also added condos at a brisk and sustained clip, to the point where they now change hands there more than any other kind of home. Sure, stoop-fronted brownstones may be the first thing that comes to mind when thinking of Brooklyn, but these condos are often one and the same, tucked inside those filigreed row houses, a few units at a time.
And for about $651,000, which is the median condo sale price in the borough, one could be yours.
Consider the unit listed for $657,000 by the Corcoran Group this summer at 88 Quincy Street, a four-apartment limestone row house in Bedford-Stuyvesant that went condo in 2008. Past an angled stoop sits Apartment 3, a 780-square-foot two-bedroom with birch cabinets, oak floors and a washer and dryer.
In late August, it went into contract for above the asking price, said Nichole Thompson-Adams, the listing agent. ''This part of Brooklyn is really taking off.''
Even so, the Quincy Street dwelling went for a fraction of the cost of the typical condo in Manhattan, where the median condo sale price is $1.23 million.
But for all its well-preserved historic districts, Brooklyn has also been awash in some major construction projects, especially in Williamsburg, where warehouses have given way to block-size developments that feature pools, yoga rooms and parking garages, and upstairs, exotic wood finishes.
Double the median condo price in Brooklyn, and you could score something along the lines of Apartment 4-V at 80 Metropolitan Avenue, a two-bedroom, two-bath corner unit with wenge vanities and a Bosch dishwasher. It recently went into contract for the asking price, $1.329 million.
That complex, with 119 units, sold out in 2011, for prices that averaged $730 a square foot, said Jay Overbye, the Halstead Property agent who handled sales for the building before it opened, and also took care of the resale of No. 4-V. Now, though, units routinely sell for $1,200a foot, he said. ''It's certainly not the deal it once was,'' Mr. Overbye said. ''But $1,200 a foot in Manhattan? That would be hard to find.''
The median for single-family homes in Brooklyn is $566,000, and homes for around that price can be more easily found outside of brownstone Brooklyn, in neighborhoods like Midwood and Mill Basin. That's a far cry from Manhattan, where town houses on the Upper East Side, in Greenwich Village and across Harlem go for a median of $3.4 million.
The median for co-ops, which dot Park Slope and Brooklyn Heights, among other neighborhoods, is about $320,000, a steep discount from Manhattan, where the median price is $659,000.
The Bronx
There are many residential flavors to the Bronx, which offers densely settled enclaves that still seem on the mend after years of ruin, but also leafy communities studded with mansions that resemble castles, and that offer Hudson River views.
Still, modest two-family homes sell better than other types of properties in the borough.
Indeed, they make up 28 percent of all sales, as compared with 20 percent for one-family homes, and 18 percent for co-ops. Condos, which pop up in disparate corners of the borough, are a distant 8 percent of the sales pool, based on a New York Times analysis through the first six months of the year.
The preponderance of two-families, often with a unit on the ground floor and another above it, partly explains why the Bronx has the highest percentage of renters in New York, with 81 percent of its residents mailing a monthly check to a landlord, versus 69 percent in the city as a whole, according to data prepared by Susan Weber-Stoger, a researcher in the sociology department at Queens College.
The median price for two-family houses here is around $373,000. Take 1948 Clinton Avenue, near the Cross-Bronx Expressway in the Tremont section. Built in 1899, the six-bedroom house underwent a $100,000 top-to-bottom renovation after it was purchased from the Department of Housing and Urban Development. The 2,500-square-foot house is listed at $395,000 with Joseph Anthony & Associates.
But doubling the median sale price in the Bronx delivers quite a different type of two-family, away from the borough's rougher central portions.
Spend $779,000, for example, and you might wind up with 574 Edison Avenue, a 1935 Craftsman in the Throgs Neck section, next to Long Island Sound and near Westchester County.
The house, listed with Coldwell Banker Residential Brokerage, offers a first-floor unit with two bedrooms and a living room with a beamed ceiling and working fieldstone fireplace. The upstairs second unit also has two bedrooms. The quarter-acre corner property, which includes a garage, is bounded by a picket fence.
''There are also a lot of fruit trees and specimen plants,'' said Clayton Jeffrey, the listing broker. ''Not only will you never find anything like this in Manhattan, it's very rare for the Bronx.''
The median price for single-families in the Bronx is about $365,000, a price that has held almost flat from 2012, and they are scattered from City Island to Woodlawn.
The median price for Bronx condos is $132,000, considerably lower than that in any of the other boroughs. Riverdale, on the Hudson River on the western flank of the Bronx, offers both older and newer varieties. There's RiverPointe, a 1980s development on Johnson Avenue, and from 2008, the Solaria, nearby on West 237th Street.
The median for co-ops is $171,000, which also pop up in this affluent area, like the Whitehall, on the Henry Hudson Parkway. But co-ops can also be found along the Grand Concourse, like No. 1020, near Yankee Stadium, which dates to the 1960s. A bit pricier than co-ops on Staten Island, Bronx co-ops are nevertheless slightly cheaper than their Queens equivalents.
Queens
In Queens, many buyers are looking for single-family houses, and the median price is $485,000.
In that ballpark is a 1935 Tudor at 138-08 175th Street in Jamaica, near the Locust Manor stop on the Long Island Rail Road. Listed at $475,000 with Century 21 Milestone Realty, the house, on a shaded block with similar architecture, has two bedrooms, one-and-a-half baths and an eat-in kitchen.
But with twice as much buying power, the options seem to grow geometrically. A 1965 split-level ranch, with four bedrooms and three-and-a-half baths and a one-car garage, is available for $938,000.
Located at 63-58 252nd Street in the eastern enclave of Little Neck, and looking more like lawn-dotted next-door Nassau County than closer-to-Manhattan Queens, the neighborhood is popular with overseas Asian buyers, says Kimberly Oppy of Laffey Fine Homes, the listing broker.
''Prices are going up out here because of low inventory elsewhere,'' Ms. Oppy said. ''But we are seeing people come this far out who still will commute to Manhattan.''
And alongside the $3.43 million median price for a single-family town house near Central Park, perhaps, that $938,000 offering can seem appealing.
The median for co-ops is $185,000 and is significantly less than the Manhattan median of $659,000. Look for them out here in red brick buildings in Kew Gardens, Corona and Jackson Heights, among other areas.
The median for condos is $390,000. These are less common, brokers say, but turn up in complexes with two-level town houses in Douglaston and Bayside. Others that are far taller, and in more of the midcentury vein, grace Queens Boulevard, like Kennedy House, whose roof has a pool.
Staten Island
Few buyers would ride the ferry to this island seeking co-ops and condos, though a scattering exists.
Indeed, about 165 condos have sold this year, at a median of $245,000, according to data through the first six months of the year from the Staten Island Board of Realtors. Many of those that traded hands were in the Bay Street Landing development in the St. George area.
As for co-ops, 37 sold at a median price of $113,000. Many co-ops are found in the 1960s Fountains complex on Clove Road.
More common were two-families: 334 sold, with the median at $500,000.
But this borough, much of which has the subdivision-like sameness of a New Jersey bedroom community, is proudly single-family.
And, the ownership rates are strong. Just 31 percent of Staten Island's population rents, versus 57 percent in Queens, 71 percent in Brooklyn, 78 percent in Manhattan, and 81 percent in the Bronx, Ms. Weber-Stoger of Queens College said.
The median sale price of single-family houses is $388,000.
For that kind of money, buyers can pick up dwellings like the semidetached home at 217 Slater Boulevard, in the Dongan Hills section of the South Shore. It has three bedrooms and two-and-a-half baths across two floors. Originally listed with Dynasty Real Estate at $389,000, it was recently reduced to $379,000. The home was flooded by Hurricane Sandy, but has been rebuilt with new heating and cooling systems, said Madeline Taormina, the listing agent.
Or, plunk down about twice as much and walk away with a totally different type of structure, like the Second Empire antique at 163 Clinton Avenue, in the North Shore enclave of Randall Manor, listed at $639,000.
Shingled, with a mansard roof and a wraparound porch, the Victorian house is being pitched at Manhattanites unable to afford that island, said Catherine McCarthy-Turer of Stribling & Associates, the listing agent. ''I don't think people know there are these pockets of great architecture on Staten Island,'' she said.
And in words that could augur the next exodus away from the outer boroughs and into even farther-out enclaves, Ms. McCarthy-Turer added that, ''they went to Brooklyn first, and now they are getting priced out of there, too.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: $475,000 Single-family QUEENS
$395,000 Two-family THE BRONX
$379,000 Single-family (right) STATEN ISLAND
$657,000 Condo BROOKLYN (RE1)
$779,000 Two-family THE BRONX
$1,329,000 Condo BROOKLYN
$938,000 Single-family QUEENS
 $639,000 Single-family STATEN ISLAND (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (RE8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); FAMILY (74%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2013



237 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; THE BOSS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 603 words

HEADLINE: A Résumé That Stood Out

BYLINE: By SERAINA MAAG. 
As told to Patricia R. Olsen.

 BODY:
I GREW up in Weinfelden, a Swiss village near Germany. We lived on a hillside, and I could hear cowbells and a neighbor's alphorn. I walked to school and returned home for lunch. It was an idyllic, protected life, reminiscent of ''The Sound of Music.''
My parents owned horses. When I was about 13, they suggested that I try voltige, or acrobatics on horses. I'd take an hour's train ride for instruction. My team won the Swiss championship several times, and when I was 16 I represented Switzerland in the European competition. Then I tore a knee ligament, which ended my riding. 
I didn't know what I wanted to do after high school, so I was an au pair in London for a year. After that, I worked as an assistant for the financial firm Brown Brothers Harriman in Zurich and as an export credit specialist for a dental manufacturer. At night I took management courses.
My stepdad saw a newspaper want ad that offered world travel for a college graduate who was at least 25. I didn't qualify, but I applied anyway and got the job, as an account underwriter at the reinsurance company Swiss Re. I found out that the hiring manager had had a stack of résumés on his balcony. A bird flew over and left a dropping on mine, which is how I got the interview and was hired.
I stayed at Swiss Re for 10 years, worked in Switzerland and Australia and rose to rating agency coordinator. During much of my tenure at the company, I studied at night. I eventually completed an M.B.A. and became a naturalized Australian citizen while working in Australia. Afterward, I became a chartered financial analyst.
I wanted to apply what I had learned and to be more entrepreneurial, so when a group of executives starting a bank contacted me about joining them as a founding partner, I was interested. In 2000, I helped start that bank, NZB Neue Zürcher Bank in Zurich, with 12 men.
In 2002, I was a financial analyst covering Zurich Insurance for the bank when a Zurich executive asked me about joining its investor relations and rating agency management group. I took the job and eventually led the group.
In 2006, while I was on maternity leave with my second child, the head of Zurich North America Commercial offered me the job of chief financial officer in the Zurich North America Specialties in New York. I accepted.
Within a year, my boss moved to a global role and said he'd like me to step in as president. I was not the obvious candidate. I was 38, relatively new to the United States, and seven months pregnant with my third child.
In Switzerland, I had returned to work after each of my first two children was born, which is unusual there. I felt an undertone of criticism, and some female friends even asked why I had children if I wanted to work, especially as an executive. But I liked working and believed I could do both. I was promoted to president of North America Specialties in 2007.
In 2010, the XL Group offered me the job of chief executive of its property and casualty group in North America. Initially, I was lukewarm because the business was smaller than the one I was running, but the C.E.O. of XL, Mike McGavick, convinced me to take the job. He gave me the freedom to bring change as I saw fit, and in three years I've doubled its size and returned it to profitability.
In 2009, I was appointed to the Young Global Leaders group of the World Economic Forum. An executive I met there, now a friend, is leading a project to help women in Congo build businesses and reduce infant mortality. While we're at the start of the project, I text briefly with him almost every day. It's fulfilling to be able to make a difference.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: SERAINA MAAG: C.E.O. of North America Property and Casualty for the XL Group AGE 45 CITIZEN OF Switzerland and Australia HOBBY Skiing RECENT VACATION Tuscany (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOANNE DUGAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); REINSURANCE (87%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (78%); MATERNITY LEAVE (77%); CHILDREN (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); MANAGER TRAINING (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (71%); NATURALIZATION (71%); TRAINS (71%); INSURANCE (71%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (57%); EXPORT TRADE (53%); STEPPARENTS (52%)

COMPANY: SCHWEIZERISCHEN RUECKVERSICHERUNGS-GESELLSCHAFT AG (SWISS RE) (91%); ZURICH HOLDING CO OF AMERICA INC (51%)

TICKER: SREN (SWX) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (91%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (51%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (56%) NEW YORK, USA (75%) SWITZERLAND (94%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); AUSTRALIA (91%); GERMANY (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2013



238 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 3905 words

HEADLINE: Sharkbot

BYLINE: By MICHAEL KAPLAN

 BODY:
Stroll among the games at the Cosmopolitan, the newest casino on the Las Vegas Strip, and you might be overwhelmed by the latest whooping and flashing gambling machines. All the high-resolution monitors and video effects, devoted to themes ranging from deep-sea-fishing expeditions to Spider-Man to the unsubtlest visions of cash washing over lucky winners, are only the most obvious signs of technology's move onto the casino floor. Behind the scenes, server-based gaming now enables managers to rapidly alter payouts, raise or reduce betting minimums, even change games themselves. (In just minutes, a bank of slot machines styled for dance clubbers can be rethemed to appeal to church ladies on a Sunday afternoon.) But a few deceptively prim-looking machines represent an even greater technological leap, the biggest advance in automated gambling since Charles Fey introduced the one-armed bandit in 1895. They owe the way they play to artificial intelligence. 
The machines, called Texas Hold 'Em Heads Up Poker, play the limit version of the popular game so well that they can be counted on to beat poker-playing customers of most any skill level. Gamblers might win a given hand out of sheer luck, but over an extended period, as the impact of luck evens out, they must overcome carefully trained neural nets that self-learned to play aggressively and unpredictably with the expertise of a skilled professional. Later this month, a new souped-up version of the game, endorsed by Phil Hellmuth, who has won more World Series of Poker tournaments than anyone, will have its debut at the Global Gaming Expo in Las Vegas. The machines will then be rolled out into casinos around the world.
They will be placed alongside the pure numbers-crunchers, indifferent to the gambler. But poker is a game of skill and intuition, of bluffs and traps. The familiar adage is that in poker, you play the player, not the cards. This machine does that, responding to opponents' moves and pursuing optimal strategies. But to compete at the highest levels and beat the best human players, the approach must be impeccable. Gregg Giuffria, whose company, G2 Game Design, developed Texas Hold 'Em Heads Up Poker, was testing a prototype of the program in his Las Vegas office when he thought he detected a flaw. When he played passively until a hand's very last card was dealt and then suddenly made a bet, the program folded rather than match his bet and risk losing more money. ''I called in all my employees and told them that there's a problem,'' he says. The software seemed to play in an easily exploitable pattern. ''Then I played 200 more hands, and he never did anything like that again. That was the point when we nicknamed him Little Bastard.''
The pokerbot, which takes on one challenger at a time, can trace its roots to the Norwegian Defense Research Establishment in Kjeller, Norway. Until 2002, that's where an engineer named Fredrik Dahl worked on artificial intelligence for secret government projects on combat simulations. The job involved using neural networks. Functioning much like an extremely focused, one-dimensional version of the human brain, these complex computer algorithms develop strategies that emerge through so many repetitive mathematical calculations that few humans could reproduce, much less endure them. Dahl's work on two-sided, zero-sum games, where there is no mutual interest, proved to be useful in developing strategies to win not only wars but also poker games.
He started with backgammon, though. While a student at the University of Oslo, where he concentrated on computer science, he developed a penchant for the game. He once made it to the finals of the Norwegian National Backgammon Championships. ''One thing I learned from backgammon is how to handle losses, no matter how well I play,'' he says. ''It is not a good game for sore losers.''
Rather than be sore, he used computers to improve his play. Dahl created a neural net that predicted the probability of winning a backgammon match from each position on the board, at every possible stage in a game. Any individual situation is easy enough to solve, Dahl says; the challenge was determining all possible situations, giving value to the importance of each one and choosing a play. ''The program needed to self-train and discover these strategies itself,'' Dahl says.
Dahl spent a year working part time on his program and started selling it by mail order in 1997 for $250 a floppy disk. He figures that he sold thousands of copies, and that its impact was even broader thanks to the pirating of his software. Among those whose play it improved was a Texas-based actuary named Malcolm Davis, whom Dahl describes as a top backgammon player in the world at the time. Davis and Dahl ended up talking over backgammon strategies.
In 2000, Dahl began work on a similar program for poker. He was inspired by the challenge of creating a program that could come up with solutions for a game characterized by incomplete information. Unlike backgammon, in which an opponent's position is visible, a poker player does not know what another player's cards are and so cannot follow pure strategies. Instead, he needs to consider a range of hands that his opponent might have and estimate the best response to the various possibilities. The uncertainty, combined with an opponent's ability to bluff, makes it difficult to write software that plays poker effectively.
Dahl gave his neural nets rudimentary game-playing instructions and programmed them to probe for weaknesses as they played one another. ''They computed probability, based on the other player's actions,'' Dahl says. ''I had the neural nets play training games and experiment with various approaches.'' Eventually, through trial and error, he says, ''they learned to be successful.''
Dahl recalls staring at his computer screen, watching his neural nets compete, when he saw one of them make a fairly sophisticated bluff known as floating. You do this by playing passively, initiating no bets and matching the ones that your opponent makes. If, after the turn card is played, your opponent does not bet, you do. His slowing down usually means that he had been overplaying his cards with the hope that you would fold or his hand would improve. Your bet here signals that you've just made a strong hand or that you have been inducing him to put as much money as possible in the pot because you have had a superior hand from the start. ''At first, I wasn't even familiar with that strategy,'' Dahl says. ''Later, I thought it was amazing that the neural net could come up with a known, successful strategy on its own.''
Even as Dahl recognized the improvement and appreciated that his software played better on its five-billionth hand than on its two-billionth, he dismissed any commercial application for it as too difficult. ''I started doing the poker project for fun,'' he says. ''Then, in 2003, Malcolm talked me into doing it for real.''
Doing it for real meant creating a machine that could be put in casinos. As originally designed by Dahl, the brain of his game adjusted to the opposition. If, for example, an opponent folded a lot, it played aggressively; if it faced aggressive play, it tried to trap. Casino commissions, however, mandate that a gaming machine cannot change its playing style in response to particular opponents. A poker game must play a World Series of Poker champion the same way it does a neophyte, so Dahl's machine would not be able to learn from its experience in a casino.
''The neural net's learning needs to be frozen'' is how Dahl puts it. Yet it would also have to play well enough so that few humans could consistently beat it. For Dahl, now 46 and a natural pessimist, this was a predicament he did not think he could overcome. ''I thought that if it is vulnerable to even one person's strategy, that is a huge problem -- then other people learn how to do it, and the machine collapses,'' Dahl says.
Dahl eventually retooled his neural net so that it would teach itself to play a perfectly defensive game. Rather than steer it to study its opponent and try to capitalize on weaknesses, the net was directed to make itself as hard to beat as possible. ''Ordinarily, you figure out weaknesses in your opponent and find ways to exploit those weaknesses,'' Dahl says. ''But because our program needs to be stable, it can't do that. So instead it does everything it can to prevent itself from being exploited. The theory behind it is almost paranoid.''
Dahl's game grew more unpredictable over time, as the neural nets learned. Eventually, it got to the point where, over thousands of hands, they would each orchestrate the optimal number of bluffs; but in any one hand, the program might do anything. What's more, a second neural net, which plays in a slightly different style, was introduced to reinforce the machine's unpredictability; when an opponent has a reduced stack of chips, a third net takes over and plays in a manner customized for that situation. Like three tag-team fighters, the nets alternate against an opponent. At random moments, the machine's mode of play might change the level of its aggressiveness.
By 2006, after thousands of neural nets, tweaked repeatedly, had played billions of hands, Dahl recruited gifted poker-playing friends to take on his game. It won frequently enough to hold up in a casino environment, he thought. Malcolm Davis then brought it to the attention of Bob Hamman, a frequent backgammon opponent of his and the bridge partner of Bill Gates.
Though Hamman ranks among the world's top bridge players, he plays cards only as a hobby. He makes his living by insuring promotional contests (like those at company outings where attendees might win $10,000 for sinking a 30-foot putt, for example). Intrigued by the software's potential, Hamman tested it against both other poker-playing programs and a young bridge master named Justin Lall. ''Justin also happens to be a skilled poker player,'' Hamman says. ''He's skilled enough that if you think you want to make a living playing against Justin, you might want to reconsider. He said it's a good game. He found it captivating. He came close to beating it.''
Soon after, in October 2006, Hamman called Gregg Giuffria, a neighbor of Gates's at the Del Mar Country Club in Southern California, where both had homes. Giuffria was once better known as a member of the hard-rock band Angel, but now he ran a company that made gambling machines. After a bit of small talk, Hamman told him about Dahl's software. ''It's real smart,'' he said. ''I thought it was only interesting. But then you play against it and realize that it's bluffing you. All of a sudden, you're talking to steel and glass like it's human.''
By the time Giuffria heard from Hamman, he had already wandered far from arena stages. He took the first step in 1990, 15 years after Angel's first album came out, when he had a life-changing dinner with Lee Iacocca, the former Chrysler chairman. (Giuffria's wife, April, knew Iacocca as a family friend.) ''I thought I was not the dumbest guy at the table,'' Giuffria says, ''but the dumbest guy on the planet.'' He suddenly saw himself as a 39-year-old ''white boy chasing rock 'n' roll, with hip-hop coming in -- it was time for me to reinvent myself.''
Days later, he cut his hair and, on the advice of Iaccoca, began analyzing patents that the Defense Department was allowing to be released to the public sector. The hope was that Giuffria would discover an unexploited business opportunity and maybe Iaccoca would partner with him to develop it. Giuffria came across a company called Summit Systems that held a patent for a mathematical process that had an application for slot machines. Iaccoca passed, so Giuffria used royalties from his music career to acquire rights to the patent from the moribund company and eventually helped sell them to International Game Technology, now the world's largest manufacturer of slot machines. ''In one afternoon,'' Giuffria says, ''I made more money from that patent than I had in 18 years of touring, writing songs and getting gold records with Angel.''
That success hooked Giuffria on the gambling industry. He and Iacocca collaborated on casino developments around the country. Later, Giuffria built a Hard Rock casino near New Orleans and got into creating gambling machines. ''It's all entertainment,'' Giuffria says, when describing the transition from rocker to gaming entrepreneur.
Giuffria liked the sound of what Hamman had to offer. What's more, Giuffria had not forgotten the valuable lesson he learned in 1998 when he passed up a chance to invest in Triple Play Draw Poker, a video-poker machine that turned out to be one of the most successful games of its type. Had Giuffria made that earlier investment, he'd be a billionaire today.
Not long after Hamman first called, he and Malcolm Davis flew from Dallas to meet Giuffria in Las Vegas. ''They showed me a gray screen on a computer,'' he says. ''It dealt cards, you played for units, it tallied who won and lost. It was in a very stark form, but, like Bob said, as soon as it started bluffing against me, I realized that this was the most incredible thing I had ever seen. I wouldn't let it walk out the door.''
Giuffria decided to develop the card-playing software into an actual casino machine, knowing that it would cost more than $5 million to devise a prototype with a case, monitor, graphics and sound effects.
For starters, he and his tech guys needed to test each neural net. But because these had been developed through self-training and not created by humans, there was no source code -- the computer instructions written out by programmers -- to analyze. You couldn't track the logic behind the system's actions. ''We had to take a black-box approach,'' says Bob Honeycutt, Giuffria's lead engineer on the project. They had to look at the results without being able to know how they were produced. Honeycutt customized math-based programs that look for probabilities to play poker against Fredrik Dahl's neural nets. Honeycutt's software lost. The neural nets showed no patterns or anomalies.
Next, local poker pros dropped by to test it out. Mike (the Mouth) Matusow, famous for his loquaciousness, ''came over and treated the machine like it was one of his buddies,'' Giuffria says. ''He'd say, 'What, are you drawing down on me with a pair of 4s?' Some pros came in here, sure that they can beat the machine, and then left angry when they couldn't. It really upset people.''
The visceral reactions pleased Giuffria, who saw value in the personification of the machine. ''A lot of people who play this are interested in live poker, but they are too intimidated to jump in there,'' says Anthony Lucas, professor of casino management at the University of Nevada in Las Vegas. ''[This] gives them a chance to play without running the risk of being judged or embarrassed for making a bad move. This is private. Nobody criticizes your strategy.'' In addition, he says, it's perfect for a generation that likes to lose itself in Angry Birds: ''If you prefer not to interact or socialize with people, you can play this game the same way you would watch TV or go online.''
Convinced that he had a market -- and confident that players wouldn't worry about the legitimacy of the ''cards'' dealt by the machine any more than they do about the house's dice being loaded -- Giuffria moved ahead. His team created digitized cards, chips and green felt and added realistic sound effects.
Before Giuffria showed his machine to I.G.T., which had the right of first refusal to whatever games he created, he sent it to the New Jersey-based Gaming Laboratories International, a kind of Underwriters Laboratories for casino gambling. ''We asked them to punch holes in it,'' Giuffria says. It usually takes about a month to test a game, but G.L.I. kept Dahl's neural nets for about nine months.
Giuffria asked how humans would do against it. ''Oh,'' he recalls the lab telling him, ''they'll get killed.''
Because a never-beatable game will not succeed in a casino, the machine was programmed to occasionally play in a weak, passive style, seeming to reduce the game's edge and re-engaging casual players. The result is that this game ''gets accused of having leaks,'' Giuffria says; posters gloat online about its weaknesses. Inevitably, he adds, the take-away is: " 'Of course I will beat it.' They don't know that it might be one of the hands that falls into a gray area where the machine takes a dive deliberately.''
Giuffria seems to take the knocks personally. Nevertheless, he does not correct the mistaken impressions. ''No way did I want to put out there that not only do we have a machine they can't beat, but we've spent two years trying to dummy it down so that it doesn't beat humans all the time. That would have made enemies. We kept our mouths shut.''
Natasha Dow Schull, an associate professor at M.I.T. and the author of ''Addiction by Design: Machine Gambling in Las Vegas,'' describes the experience of playing Texas Hold 'Em Heads Up Poker as feeling as if you're taking on ''a really good medieval automaton'' with ''a little man behind the curtain.'' Giuffria seems to prefer not to break this humanizing spell, so that players who experience the occasional wins will believe that the machine is beatable. ''Gamblers continually overestimate their abilities,'' says Mike Dixon, a psychology professor at the University of Waterloo in Ontario with a specialization in gambling. ''It's like hitting a half-court shot occasionally and thinking it makes you into Carmelo Anthony.''
The game has developed a small but fervent fan base since its slow-drip release began two years ago, with about 200 machines so far located in Las Vegas, Mississippi and California (all states where live versions of poker thrive). When it appeared on the casino floors of Bellagio and Aria, Las Vegas casinos where some of America's highest-stakes poker games take place, Texas Hold 'Em Heads Up Poker captured the imaginations of big-money players.
A very few poker professionals, particularly those who specialize in one-on-one limit Texas Hold 'Em, actually have a shot at winning regularly. Michael Reed, a pro gambler from Pittsburgh, credibly claims to fall into that category. So far, over the course of 500 hours, he says, he averages about $135 per hour in profits, playing at the $20- or $40-bet level. This means that by making the maximum bets throughout a hand, he can win or lose $500 in seconds.
He has not seen many others turning a profit. ''Over all, this machine crushes people,'' he says. ''The machine is far too aggressive and steals far too many pots.''
How does Reed manage to overcome a machine that has been so hard to beat? He says it ''gains its edge by being the aggressor. It almost never check-calls, or simply matches an opponent's bet without a raise. The bot gives credit to your hand when you raise and reraise.'' Unseasoned players, Reed says, have a habit of folding hands that might seem inferior. Reed has discovered that playing connecting cards like 7 and 8 can have unexpected value. ''If a high card comes on the flop, the machine often folds to a bet from you, believing that you have made a high pair. So you have the middle range [of flopped cards] from which you can make hands, and the high range from which you can bluff. If you don't bet, the bot will want to.'' It's been estimated that Reed is among 100 or so people in the world who can steadily beat the machine.
I relayed this to Bill McBeath, Aria's former president and a high-stakes poker player in his own right, and he laughed. McBeath said that when somebody tells him that he can beat the machine, his reply is: " 'Come back and see me in a year, pal.' The game does not have a statistical advantage over players, but the imperfections of human capabilities mean that it inevitably wins.'' I started to explain Reed's experiences, and McBeath cut me off. ''Look, there was a 24-year-old who had beaten it for a while. Now he's broke. And I think this machine had something to do with his demise.''
Only 200 Texas Hold 'Em Heads Up Poker machines are now in circulation. Triple Play Draw Poker can have 100 machines in a single casino. As part of the effort to get closer to this level, the new Hellmuth machine and another new one created with Johnny Chan (who ranks No. 2 in World Series wins) have more than just the endorsements of the poker pros. Their styles and personalities have also been added to the machines. The Pro Series will incorporate neural nets that seem to play according to Hellmuth's tight but forceful approach or the aggressive strategy that inspired Chan's nickname, The Orient Express.
Brian Perego, a movie-industry veteran, recorded Chan and Hellmuth repeating their favorite lines -- ''I dodge bullets, baby!'' is one of Hellmuth's -- and expressing various reactions that will be played on the machines' video monitors. ''When a hand starts to get serious, Phil might put on his sunglasses,'' Perego says. ''It will be fun, but there will be psych-out moves, just like at a real poker table.''
The technology behind Dahl's game has the potential to do a lot more than simply taking money from casino customers. Dahl could see it being adapted to make credibility assessments, like deciding who should get a loan, for example, by analyzing applicants in comparison with databases of borrowers who repaid their loans and those who did not.
Hector Levesque, a professor of computer science at the University of Toronto who specializes in A.I., also sees the bigger picture for this sort of technology. ''Pushing hard on statistics and learning [via neural nets] can have a big impact,'' he says, while cautioning that that should not be mistaken for having the ability to think in the multidimensional, contextual sense. ''The biggest technology coming out of A.I. is getting examples of reasonable behavior and learning from statistics. Google search does so well because it has to do with statistics and adjusts from that. Same with the driverless car. Airline pricing is basically a game, played against people who want to buy tickets. The airline comes up with a price that is not high enough to discourage customers but still maximizes profits. Poker and games are not so far from things that have real economic bite if you can train the neural nets properly.''
For now, however, Dahl's interest is in whether Texas Hold 'Em Heads Up Poker can withstand the onslaught that will come with wider exposure. Back in Vegas one Sunday afternoon, I caught up with Johnny Chan on the gaming floor of MGM Grand Hotel and Casino, where he was about to play in a baccarat tournament. ''I get e-mails all the time, with people challenging me and wanting to play me heads-up,'' Chan said. ''They'll get a chance to do it with this machine.''
I asked him if he thought anyone could win big over the long haul, beyond what Mike Reed has managed to grind out. ''Nothing is impossible,'' Chan said. Then he added that some people see Texas Hold 'Em Heads Up Poker as a potential gold mine. ''You probably have five groups out there right now, testing the machine, writing down all the results, getting every play blow by blow and figuring out what to do on every hand. One hundred percent, I'm sure there are teams working on it.''
The pokerbot just put its sunglasses on.

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY TIM ENTHOVEN) (MM45
MM46
MM47) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAMING (91%); POKER (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); TOURNAMENTS (73%); MONITORS & DISPLAYS (72%); NETWORK SOFTWARE (70%); ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (94%) NEVADA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2013



239 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2013

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 847 words

HEADLINE: A One-Man Hamlet, MacBeth, Romeo and Juliet

BYLINE: STUART MILLER


HIGHLIGHT: Will Barnet, an actor and street performer, is taking Shakespeare into New York City parks, performing soliloquies for passers-by. 

 BODY:
Like so many fledgling actors before him, Will Barnet moved to New York City to become a star. It did not take very long for Mr. Barnet, a recent graduate of Brown University, to learn how unlikely that would be.
Nonetheless, Mr. Barnet has not lacked for work. Since arriving in the city last year, he has been Hamlet, Prince Hal, Richard III, Romeo and even Juliet. 
The key to landing all those plum roles has been his choice of casting director: himself. Last summer, inspired by street performers in Washington Square Park, Mr. Barnet, 23, made "a bet with myself to see if I could get people to stop and listen to 'Hamlet.' "
He began delivering Shakespearean monologues that he had learned in college, and what began as a lark quickly evolved into something bigger: "Will in the Park." Armed with a small sign offering Shakespeare by request ("Cheaper than Broadway," it says), Mr. Barnet performs regularly for hours in Greenwich Village and on the High Line, as well as in Central Park and at farmers' markets, where he often gets food in addition to the tips he receives. (People tip more in winter, he said.)
The High Line is his favorite spot, he said, because its narrow paths deliver him a steady stream of spectators; he especially loves to perform near a bust of Colin Powell in the park, above West 22nd Street. (But, heeding rules that bar performers from monopolizing a space, he stays on the move.)
On a recent Friday evening, the first passers-by offered mostly bemused or intrigued stares. But one monologue typically leads to another; Mr. Barnet, who says he knows three dozen soliloquies and counting, said he performs 10 to 15 an hour.
This time, Hamlet's "To be or not to be" soliloquy, (one of the most requested), led to Macbeth's "Tomorrow and tomorrow." The audience included Sue Ainscough, an Englishwoman who lives in Italy with her husband, Maurizio Calbi, a Shakespeare scholar and the author of the book "Spectral Shakespeares," which examines experimental adaptations of the playwright's work. "It's nice to see people spreading the word in different ways," Mr. Calbi said after watching Mr. Barnet. "And he's very good."
Mr. Barnet, who lives on the Far West Side of Manhattan, was reluctant to discuss how much he earned, though during a one-hour period on the High Line recently, listeners gave him multiple $5 and $20 bills.
He said that people in Central Park were less receptive. The space is vast, and visitors tend to have a more defined agenda, he said, while Washington Square Park and the High Line attract wanderers looking for "events to witness." (The New York University students that typically cross Washington Square Park often make requests that sound more like a challenge, Mr. Barnet said, with queries like, "What's the one I just did in class at Tisch? It's 'Othello,' let's see you do that," referring to the university's arts school.)
On Friday, Lori Marcus and her son, Logan, almost walked past Mr. Barnet on the High Line but stopped and requested a speech from "Hamlet," letting Mr. Barnet choose. He selected "How all occasions do inform against me" from Act IV.
"I usually go to 'Shakespeare in the Park,' " Ms. Marcus said, "but didn't get there this summer so this was my fix."
That speech from "Hamlet" was followed by a request for one from "Othello," which yielded yet another from "A Midsummer Night's Dream."
Mr. Barnet, a native of South Carolina, said the constant performing had sharpened his skills. He has shaken the temptation to declaim too grandly, he said, and has broken other bad habits. He has also learned, he said, how to fix problems on the fly, adapt to a space, and keep an audience's attention. One of his favorite moments, he said, came when a couple requested some sonnets, but their child started crying. Mr. Barnet directed his performance at the stroller "with a more lilting delivery," which, he said, stopped the tears. Another time three older men, one of whom was an actor, took turns trading sonnet recitations with him. And once, a fan yelled down a request from an apartment roof above the High Line. Naturally, he wanted Romeo doing the balcony scene.
Mr. Barnet's public exposure has led to "strange opportunities" including a modeling job, performances at holiday parties, and jobs coaching teenage actors. The sense of constant discovery and the direct connection with his audiences has thrilled him. "I still want to get an agent and do films," he said, "but right now I'm earning money doing what I love to do, and it's much more interesting than what traditional channels allow."
Mr. Barnet is contemplating how to expand the experience. He is toying with the idea of learning all the parts for one play. "I'm not sure how I'll pull it off, but I like the idea of just putting a sign up saying, 'Now Playing: 'Romeo and Juliet.' "

        
Deflation in the Ticket Line
        
On Governors Island, a Blast of Gunpowder, With a Whiff of Toast
        
Plans for a Messy Fight Spur Concern of Harm, to the Battlefield
        
A New Home for Clemente: On a Pedestal in the Bronx
        
It's General Sherman's Time to Shine, but Not Too Much

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (91%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); STREET ART (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); THEATER (78%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); THEATER & DRAMA (73%); WRITERS (65%) High Line (Manhattan, NY); Parks and Other Recreation Areas; Shakespeare, William; Washington Square Park (Manhattan, NY); Offbeat

PERSON: Shakespeare, William

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) High Line (Manhattan, NY); Washington Square Park (Manhattan, NY)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2013



240 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1893 words

HEADLINE: Inside the End of the U.S. Bid to Punish Lehman Executives

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS and SUSANNE CRAIG


HIGHLIGHT: Securities and Exchange Commission officials sparred for months before concluding that suing executives at Lehman Brothers over the bank&#8217;s 2008 collapse would be legally unjustified. 

 BODY:
At a closed-door meeting in early 2011, Wall Street regulators were close to throwing in the towel on their biggest case.
The Securities and Exchange Commission's eight-member Lehman Brothers team, having hit one dead end after another over the previous two years, concluded that suing the bank's executives would be legally unjustified. The group, noting that prosecutors and F.B.I. agents had already walked away from a parallel criminal case, reached unanimous agreement to close its most prominent investigation stemming from the financial crisis, according to officials who attended the meeting, which has not been reported previously.
 But Mary L. Schapiro, the S.E.C. chairwoman, disagreed. She pushed George S. Canellos, who supervised the Lehman investigation as head of the S.E.C.'s New York office, to explain how executives who presided over the biggest bankruptcy in United States history could escape without a single civil charge.
"I don't get it," she said during a tense exchange with Mr. Canellos in her private conference room in Washington, according to the officials, who were not authorized to speak publicly. "Why is there no case?" she continued, staring at Mr. Canellos, instructing him to continue investigating whether Lehman misled investors. "The world won't understand." 
She was right. Five years after Lehman's collapse hastened a worldwide economic panic, the government faces lingering questions about the decision to spare executives like Richard S. Fuld Jr., who ran Lehman for 14 years until its demise. Not a single senior executive from any Wall Street bank faced criminal charges from the crisis, either. And the government's deadline for filing most charges will expire this month, the anniversary of Lehman's collapse, providing a reminder of the case and its unpopular outcome.
Federal prosecutors and the S.E.C. have never officially announced their decision to close the Lehman investigation.
But a New York Times examination of the case, based on interviews with more than a dozen lawyers and officials involved in the inquiry and a review of bankruptcy court documents, pulls back a curtain on private deliberations and clashing philosophies surrounding the decision not to bring charges. The S.E.C. quietly reached the decision in 2012 after officials sparred for months over whether Lehman omitted "material" information in disclosures to investors, an important legal standard. Mr. Canellos argued that the omissions were not material. And those who questioned that reasoning - like Ms. Schapiro, as well as some accountants and enforcement officials - acquiesced to Mr. Canellos's team, which was closest to the evidence.
The S.E.C. also debated the culpability of top Lehman executives. But Mr. Canellos's team argued that Mr. Fuld did not know that Lehman was using questionable accounting practices despite testimony from another Lehman executive that suggested otherwise. Ms. Schapiro did not override his judgment after S.E.C. officials cautioned her that it could be unethical for a political appointee like herself to do so. Mr. Canellos also had the backing of Robert S. Khuzami, who ran the S.E.C.'s enforcement unit at the time.
But at a 2011 meeting of senior S.E.C. officials, Lorin L. Reisner, then the No. 2 enforcement official, suggested preparing a draft of potential charges so the agency could have a concrete document to review. Mr. Canellos's team balked, officials who attended the meeting said.
Mr. Canellos, the officials said, instead proposed that the S.E.C. publish a report that would publicly explain the decision to forgo charges. Ms. Schapiro and other S.E.C. officials rejected that option, concerned that Mr. Canellos's first draft was too sympathetic to Lehman.
While declining to comment on the Lehman case specifically, an agency spokesman said: "There are healthy discussions and debate about legal and factual issues at many levels of the agency in investigations of significance. But in the end decisions are based on the evidence and the law."
The S.E.C.'s decision came in stark contrast to a report by Lehman's bankruptcy-court examiner, who accused executives of using an accounting gimmick to "manipulate" the balance sheet.
"There were many instances where the S.E.C. had information and didn't act," the examiner, Anton R. Valukas, a former federal prosecutor who is now chairman of Jenner & Block, said in an interview.
There is widespread agreement that Lehman failed under the weight of risky real estate investments and an inability to finance its operations amid the economic turmoil of 2008. It has been less clear, especially after Mr. Valukas released his report, whether the government did a thorough review of the firm's collapse.
Yet The Times's examination reveals new details about the breadth of the government's effort - S.E.C. officials reviewed more than 15 million Lehman documents and interviewed some three dozen witnesses. The decision not to bring charges, the officials said, came despite early hope among investigators, whose careers likely would have benefited from bringing such a prominent case.
The S.E.C., which has a lower burden for proving its cases than criminal authorities, has brought civil cases against 66 senior officers in cases linked to the financial crisis. The agency also extracted nine-figure settlements from banks like Goldman Sachs. According to new research by Stanford University's Securities Litigation Analytics, the S.E.C. has declined to charge individual employees in only 7 percent of its securities fraud cases.
The agency's enforcement unit, overhauled by Mr. Khuzami after the crisis, has struck an even harder line in recent months under the S.E.C.'s new chairwoman, Mary Jo White. A former federal prosecutor, Ms. White has pushed the enforcement unit to seek rare admissions of wrongdoing from defendants.
Yet the continued absence of parallel criminal cases against top executives reflects the challenge of white-collar investigations in which prosecutors struggle to pinpoint where risky dealings cross the line into illegality. When the evidence is murky, prosecutors sometimes hesitate to charge top executives, who have the money to fight rather than settle.
"It's not like a murder case, where you have a dead body and you know a crime has been committed," said Rita M. Glavin, a former federal prosecutor who is now a defense lawyer at Seward & Kissel.
The Lehman case once seemed like the exception. Federal prosecutors in Manhattan, Brooklyn and New Jersey, in addition to the F.B.I. and the S.E.C., all swarmed Lehman in the days after its collapse. The S.E.C.'s eight-person team included senior lawyers and accountants, several of whom were assigned exclusively to the Lehman case.
Top Lehman executives feared the fallout. One executive, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said he occasionally met with a former colleague in Queens and would wear a disguise so he would not draw attention.
At the time, authorities had no shortage of leads. Federal prosecutors divided some of the work - prosecutors in New Jersey handled the question of whether Lehman defrauded the state's pension fund - though they overlapped on most pursuits.
The prosecutors and the S.E.C., for example, both focused on whether Lehman executives misled shareholders by offering upbeat assessments of the firm's health, as little as five days before the firm collapsed. The authorities also scrutinized whether Lehman executives overvalued its commercial real estate portfolio.
But it was Lehman's accounting practices that probably drew the most attention. In his report on Lehman's failure, a rebuke that spanned more than 2,200 pages, Mr. Valukas, the bankruptcy-court examiner, outlined accounting maneuvers that he called "balance sheet manipulation."
The practice allowed Lehman to transfer securities off its balance sheet, presenting them as collateral to an outside lender, which in turn offered Lehman a short-term loan. Lehman treated the transactions as sales rather than as debt, which meant the firm looked as if it had less debt than it actually did. "Unable to find a United States law firm" to approve the maneuver, Mr. Valukas said, Lehman hired a law firm in London to bless it.
One Lehman executive, in an e-mail to a colleague, declared that the practice was "another drug" they were on.
Lehman often used the practice, known as Repo 105, at the end of its fiscal quarters just before reporting results. At the end of Lehman's first quarter 2008, its total Repo 105 use was $49.1 billion, so big that it reduced Lehman's leverage ratio.
Lehman highlighted the reduction in a public earnings call but never disclosed that it partly stemmed from Repo 105. As such, Mr. Valukas outlined possible civil claims against Mr. Fuld and his chief financial officers, including Erin Callan, who was the C.F.O. during much of the year in which Lehman collapsed. Mr. Fuld, he said, was "at least grossly negligent" for allowing Lehman to make "materially misleading" statements about the firm's health.
The Valukas report, released in March 2010, appeared to provide a road map for the federal investigation into Lehman executives. But soon after its release, according to the officials involved in the inquiry, prosecutors and the F.B.I. lost interest in the case. They discovered that Repo 105 had nothing to do with Lehman's failure and was technically allowed under an obscure accounting rule. Noting that London lawyers had approved Repo 105, prosecutors in Manhattan also worried they could not prove that executives intended to mislead investors.
The S.E.C. continued its investigation. But by early 2011, Mr. Canellos's team had run out of leads. It ruled out suing Lehman itself, because the firm was in bankruptcy. The team also decided not to sue Mr. Fuld for failing to supervise the firm's risk-taking, believing that the S.E.C. did not have the authority to do so.
So instead, the investigators focused heavily on Repo 105. They needed to prove that Lehman executives intentionally used the accounting practice to mislead investors, or did so recklessly. Ms. Callan had been C.F.O. for only about six months, they concluded, making their burden of proof high. She did not reply to requests for comment for this article.
Mr. Fuld's role was harder to ferret out. Bart H. McDade, another Lehman executive, told Mr. Valukas that Mr. Fuld "was familiar with the term" Repo 105 and "knew about the accounting." But Mr. Fuld told the S.E.C. that he had never heard of Repo 105, officials said, undermining a potential case. A lawyer for Mr. Fuld declined to comment.
The S.E.C. team also concluded that Repo 105 would not have been "material" to investors because the firm's leverage ratio was trending downward regardless of Repo 105.
That conclusion set off a wave of dissent inside the S.E.C. Senior accountants and the head of the S.E.C. unit that oversaw corporate disclosures questioned the findings. Ms. Schapiro urged Mr. Canellos to keep digging.
But Mr. Canellos, a former federal prosecutor who is now the co-head of the S.E.C.'s enforcement unit, did not budge. Despite the political pressure, he told colleagues at one of the meetings, they could not bring a case if the evidence was lacking.
"Our job is to seek justice," he said.

        
Rebuilding Wall St.'s Watchdog
        
Money Market Fund Overhaul Is Early Test for Dodd-Frank

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SECURITIES LAW (91%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); DEREGULATION (87%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); LAWYERS (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (73%); SUBPRIME LENDING (59%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (59%) Accounting and Accountants; Banking and Financial Institutions; Canellos, George S; Fuld, Richard S Jr; Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Schapiro, Mary L; Securities and Commodities Violations; Securities and Exchange Commission; Subprime Mortgage Crisis; Valukas, Anton R; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc; Securities and Exchange Commission

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: RICHARD S FULD (89%); MARY L SCHAPIRO (89%) Canellos, George S; Fuld, Richard S Jr; Schapiro, Mary L

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2013



241 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2013

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: Disruptions: Apple's Next Unveiling Could Make or Break a Business

BYLINE: NICK BILTON


HIGHLIGHT: The annual iPhone unveilings draw fans, entrepreneurs and technology executives who are praying that a new function does not make their company obsolete. 

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO - On Tuesday morning, about 200 people - most of them from the news media - will gather in a Cupertino, Calif., auditorium to watch Timothy D. Cook, Apple's chief executive, unveil new iPhones.
The people who make it their business to know these things say they expect Apple to reveal a long-awaited, less-expensive iPhone to woo buyers in emerging markets; a few brightly colored alternatives - yellow, blue and even pink - to entice teenagers; and a higher-end, gold-and-graphite model to draw those who enjoy spending lots of money.
Of course, the news coverage will be comprehensive. And you will be able to split the followers of the reporters' blogs from the event into three categories: Apple fans; entrepreneurs who hope they can take advantage of new phone features; and rival technology executives worried that Apple could render their businesses irrelevant in one move. 
These annual iPhone unveilings have become a sort of Creative Destruction Day in Silicon Valley. Remember all those companies that were making nifty little digital video recorders? There aren't many of them left, after Apple added video recording to the iPhone in 2008. And with every even slightly improved iPhone that adds features or services offered by others, Apple has tightened the screws on a long list of companies, including other smartphone makers like Nokia and BlackBerry and gaming companies like Nintendo.
The economist Joseph Schumpeter coined the phrase "creative destruction" in 1942 to describe the less-than-tidy way free markets lead to progress: the telephone replaced the telegraph; the cellphone replaced the telephone; the smartphone (we're still in the middle of this one) is replacing the cellphone; and so on. Something gets destroyed and something new and exciting is built on top of it.
Perhaps no other recent product has been quite as much an agent of destruction and renewal as the iPhone, with its long list of features and access to a store of nearly a million apps that can handle thousands of functions.
Need a calendar, a phone book or even a notepad? The phone will do it for you. Forget those pesky paper varieties. Want to take a high-definition photograph, record an interview or play a video game? All you need is your phone. No need for any other single-serving cameras or video recorders.
"By the time it's become obvious to competitors, once Apple has taken the world by storm, then it's a little late to start mounting a response," said Rita Gunther McGrath, a professor at Columbia Business School who studies innovation at big companies and is the author of the book, "The End of Competitive Advantage."
So what else is likely to be disturbed by the iPhone and other smartphones? Expand the question beyond technology and think about smartphones competing for all kinds of consumer dollars. Ask some 20-somethings if they would rather own a cool new car or a cool new smartphone. They'll pick the latter, as car manufacturers are learning.
"The iPhone is the Ford Mustang of today," said Thilo Koslowski, lead automotive analyst for Gartner Research. "These devices offer a degree of freedom and social reach that previously only the automobile offered."
While some might see the iPhone as a destroyer - if you work for Nokia or BlackBerry, for example, you will most likely share this view - there are others that see it as a creator. The apps store connected to the iPhone has allowed thousands of small businesses to thrive. And a handful of them, like Rovio, the maker of the Angry Birds game whose headquarters is not far from Nokia in Espoo, Finland, have become large companies.
"Competing has become so cheap and has been pushed down to such individual units, like app makers" that "what formerly required significant overhead to be successful is now trivial," said Nicco Mele, who teaches classes on the Internet and politics at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard, and the author of the book, "The End of Big: How the Internet Makes David the New Goliath." "The rise of app makers has allowed anyone to compete with a corporation from home."
There is a scary side to that, of course. The destruction and renewal upon which the tech industry has thrived has accelerated thanks to the Internet, cheap smartphone apps and lower costs of doing business. Facebook, for example, which in just a few years has gone from a start-up to one of the most powerful companies in Silicon Valley, has to constantly be on the lookout for the next big threat. And when it can't take those competitors out at the knees, it buys them, like the photo-sharing service Instagram.
So who is safe from the perils of the smartphone? No one, it seems. Not even Apple.
The company is no longer the king of the hill in smartphones. Sure, when a new iPhone is unveiled on Tuesday, it will get outsize attention, and competitors will scramble to copy its latest features.
But these days, Samsung sells the most smartphones, and up-and-coming manufacturers like Huawei and ZTE are nipping at Apple's heels. The new iPhones - at least the ones being spun from the rumor mill that claim color as the big innovation - do not exactly sound like great leaps in technology.
That is the thing about this notion of creative destruction: You never know quite know when you stop creating and get destroyed.
E-mail: bilton@nytimes.com

        
The Wristwatch May Be Making a Comeback, but With Some Smarts
        
Daily Report: Microsoft Seeks to Emulate Apple's Revival With Nokia Purchase
        
The End of an Era in Mobile
        
For BlackBerry, Bad News in the Microsoft-Nokia Marriage
        
Microsoft-Nokia Could Woo Buyers Trading Up to Smartphones

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SMARTPHONES (92%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (89%); DIGITAL RECORDERS (78%); NEWS REPORTING (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); WRITERS (74%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (72%); COMPUTER GAMES (69%); CD & DVD DRIVES (66%) Apple Inc; California; Cook, Timothy D; Smartphones

COMPANY: APPLE INC (98%); BLACKBERRY LTD (54%); NINTENDO CO LTD (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Apple Inc

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (98%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (54%); BB (TSX) (54%); 7974 (TSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (98%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (98%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (98%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (98%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (54%)

PERSON: TIM COOK (90%); STEVEN JOBS (72%) Cook, Timothy D

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) California

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2013



242 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 241 words

HEADLINE: Economic Reports for the Week of Sept. 9

 BODY:
ECONOMIC REPORTS Data to be released includes consumer credit for July (Monday); the National Federation of Independent Business Small Business Optimism report for August (Tuesday); wholesale inventories for July (Wednesday); weekly initial jobless claims and the import price index for August (Thursday); and the producer price index for August, retail sales for August, and the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary consumer sentiment index for September (Friday). 
CORPORATE EARNINGS Companies scheduled to release quarterly results include Hovnanian Enterprises and Palo Alto Networks (Monday); Restoration Hardware (Tuesday); Vera Bradley (Wednesday); Kroger (Thursday); and Pier 1 Imports (Friday).
IN THE UNITED STATES Apple on Tuesday is expected to introduce the latest models of its iPhone at its headquarters in Cupertino, Calif. On Thursday, Dell shareholders are set to vote on the sweetened $13.88-a-share buyout offer by the company's founder, Michael S. Dell, left, and Silver Lake Partners.
OVERSEAS The 65th Frankfurt International Motor Show opens Tuesday. On Thursday, Mario Draghi, the president of the European Central Bank, will speak at a conference in Latvia, while the Bank of England governor, Mark J. Carney, will testify about monetary policy that day at a parliamentary hearing. On Friday, the European Union finance ministers will gather in Vilnius, Lithuania, to discuss a proposal to build a banking union.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); CONSUMER CREDIT (90%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); INVENTORIES (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (79%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (77%); IMPORT PRICES (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); IMPORT TRADE (72%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (71%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); EUROPEAN UNION (71%); EURO (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (69%); MONETARY POLICY (66%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (66%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (66%); RETAIL SALES (56%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (81%); PIER 1 IMPORTS INC (55%); HOVNANIAN ENTERPRISES INC (55%); PALO ALTO NETWORKS INC (55%); SILVER LAKE PARTNERS LTD (53%); BANK OF ENGLAND (51%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FEDERATION OF INDEPENDENT BUSINESS (84%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (52%); EUROPEAN UNION (51%)

TICKER: PIR (NYSE) (55%); HOV (NYSE) (55%); PANW (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS453998 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS STORE RETAILERS (EXCEPT TOBACCO STORES) (55%); NAICS442299 ALL OTHER HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (55%); NAICS442110 FURNITURE STORES (55%); SIC5999 MISCELLANEOUS RETAIL STORES, NEC (55%); SIC5719 MISC. HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (55%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (55%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (55%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (55%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (55%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (53%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (53%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (51%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (51%)

PERSON: MICHAEL DELL (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (76%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); LITHUANIA (92%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (66%); LATVIA (66%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2013



243 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1149 words

HEADLINE: Apple Is Set To Announce Two iPhones

BYLINE: By BRIAN X. CHEN; Eric Pfanner contributed reporting from Tokyo.

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO -- The handset market is so brutally competitive that Apple, the most successful smartphone maker, is preparing to step up its game this week by offering two new iPhones instead of one.
At an event on Tuesday at its Cupertino, Calif., headquarters, the company is set to unveil for customers worldwide a new iPhone with a faster processor, along with another model that will be sold at a lower cost.
The company's profit growth has slowed in response to a saturated handset market in America and parts of Europe. Many people already own a smartphone and are not upgrading to new devices as often as before.
A lower-cost smartphone could allow Apple to expand into overseas markets -- especially China, where the iPhone has been highly desired among many consumers but is just out of reach because of its price. 
''A cheaper model will open up the market significantly for Apple,'' said Chetan Sharma, an independent telecom analyst who consults for phone carriers.
Apple declined to comment on the new products. But analysts expect the higher-priced model to be an improvement over the current iPhone, including a faster processor and better camera flash, as well as a fingerprint sensor for security.
The second iPhone is expected to be a cheaper version of the soon-to-be-outdated iPhone 5, coming in a variety of colors, with a plastic case instead of aluminum. Analysts expect the full price of the lower-cost iPhone to be $300 to $400, positioning it as a midtier product.
Apple has been enormously successful, with the iPhone driving most of its revenue. In the second quarter, the company took 53 percent of the profit in the global smartphone market, with Samsung Electronics, which uses Google Android software to run its smartphones, taking the rest, according to a survey by Canaccord Genuity, an investment bank.
But both Apple and Samsung face a common enemy: the tide of manufacturers that produce dirt-cheap Android phones. While they make all the profits, Apple and Samsung have seen their combined share of the worldwide smartphone market drop to 43 percent in the second quarter from 49 percent a year earlier. The makers of cheaper phones -- including Huawei, Yulong and ZTE of China, and Micromax and Karbonn of India -- are raking in sales in emerging markets where high-end smartphones are not popular.
''We've had several indications from the handset market that vendors are in real trouble,'' said Tero Kuittinen, an analyst for Alekstra, a mobile diagnostics firm. ''The biggest threat to all the companies seems to be the low-end Androids.''
In terms of sales, smartphones surpassed traditional flip phones this year. There are a few markets remaining where traditional cellphones are still outselling the smartphone, including India, Brazil and Russia. Data from Qualcomm suggests that Latin America, China and India are adding substantially higher numbers of smartphone subscriptions than North America, Japan, Korea and Europe.
China, with its huge population, is an attractive target for Apple. But Timothy D. Cook, Apple's chief executive, said recently in a call with investors that the company was puzzled about why sales of its products were struggling in China. Sales there fell 4 percent in the second quarter compared with the same quarter last year. And Apple's sales in Hong Kong were down about 20 percent.
A cheaper iPhone could help it gain traction in China, depending on its cost.
Analysts said the introduction of the cheaper iPhone would probably coincide with an expected partnership deal with China Mobile, which has about 700 million subscribers -- about seven times as many as Verizon Wireless. Capturing even a small percentage of China Mobile customers would translate to tens of millions more iPhone sales.
Apple already sells its phones in China through China Telecom, a major network operator, but it slipped into sixth place among smartphone makers there in the second quarter, with a share of only 4.8 percent, according to Canalys, a research firm. Over all, China is the largest smartphone market in the world, accounting for one-third of worldwide shipments of smartphones in the second quarter; the United States is in second place, accounting for about 14 percent of shipments in the same period, according to Canalys.
Despite Apple's efforts to keep its plans secret, clues about the new iPhones leaked out. China Telecom briefly posted a message last week on a blog platform soliciting early orders for the new devices. It identified the high-end model as the iPhone 5S, and the lower-cost one as the iPhone 5C. The post was later removed. A spokesman for China Telecom declined to comment, citing nondisclosure agreements.
In Japan, where Apple is much stronger but faces a renewed challenge from domestic smartphone makers like Sony, the company has struck a deal to sell the iPhone with the country's biggest mobile phone carrier, NTT Docomo, two people briefed on the situation said Friday. Docomo has 60 million customers, but it has been losing market share to Japan's other two main mobile operators, SoftBank and KDDI, which operates under the brand name au. Both have been marketing Apple's phones aggressively, giving Apple a 40 percent share of smartphone sales in the first quarter, according to IDC, a research firm.
Historically, so that it can protect the quality of its products as well as profit margins, Apple has refused to make cheaper products just to get more customers. Therefore, a lower-cost iPhone would most likely be positioned as a midtier product, similar to the approach Apple took with the iPad Mini. At $330, the iPad Mini is cheaper than the bigger, $500 iPad, but not as affordable as the smaller Android tablets offered by Google and Amazon, which cost from $160 to $230.
Realistically, a lower-cost iPhone will be $300 to $400 at full price, Mr. Kuittinen, the Alekstra analyst, said, significantly less than the current iPhone, which costs $650. Overseas, many phone carriers charge full price because they do not subsidize the upfront cost of a smartphone the way carriers do in the United States. And while a lower-cost iPhone would drive up Apple's revenue, it would probably not be a blockbuster hit in economically disadvantaged markets, Mr. Kuittinen said.
''Nobody is saying Apple should have a $130 iPhone,'' he said, ''but if they price this iPhone 5C at $400 or above, it's just not going to be effective in countries like India, China or even Brazil.''
Still, even if the price is fairly high, a cheaper iPhone should appeal to a subset of people in developing countries who flaunt gadgets as status symbols, like jewelry. People who were on the fence about buying an iPhone might pay a little extra just to be able to show off, Mr. Sharma, the telecom analyst, said. ''Consumers are willing to shell out money to own a brand,'' he said. ''I think a $300 price gives them a chance to own it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A pedestrian in Tokyo last week passing posters for the iPhone. A new model with a faster processor is coming Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TOSHIFUMI KITAMURA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (94%); SMARTPHONES (92%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (89%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (78%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); MARKET SHARE (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (74%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); NEW PRODUCTS (72%); BIOMETRICS (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (67%); POLLS & SURVEYS (66%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (92%); SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS CO LTD (55%); CANACCORD GENUITY INC (53%); QUALCOMM INC (50%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (92%); SMSN (LSE) (55%); 005930 (KSE) (55%); QCOM (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (92%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (92%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (92%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (92%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (89%); TOKYO, JAPAN (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (90%); EUROPE (79%); BRAZIL (79%); JAPAN (78%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2013



244 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 595 words

HEADLINE: A New Leader but a Familiar Scene in Australia

BYLINE: By MATT SIEGEL

 BODY:
SYDNEY, Australia -- The prime minister-elect of Australia, Tony Abbott, wasted no time on Sunday in burnishing his image as a disciplined national leader, amid speculation about the future of the Labor Party led by Kevin Rudd, which was handily defeated by Mr. Abbott's conservatives in national elections held over the weekend.
On Saturday, voters delivered a stinging defeat to the Labor Party after its six tumultuous years in power, giving a strong mandate to the conservative Liberal-National coalition, if not necessarily to its leader. The socially conservative Mr. Abbott has never been a hit with voters, and his first task will be convincing Australians that the coalition's mandate and his own are one and the same. 
After the vote, Australians awoke Sunday morning to find a couple of familiar sights on television: the laser-focused Mr. Abbott clothed in brightly colored Lycra for one of his signature long-distance cycling sessions, and the Labor Party leadership bickering about internal politics.
Mr. Rudd, who served as prime minister from 2007 to 2010, returned to the leadership in June after a nearly two-year campaign by his supporters culminated in a party coup that ousted Julia Gillard, the first woman to serve as Australia's prime minister. Ms. Gillard did not run in this election and has said that she is retiring from politics.
But the Labor Party, which abandoned Ms. Gillard in the hope of averting a landslide loss, was ultimately unable to shake the impression that it was more focused on personal feuds than on pressing issues like the slowing of Australia's mining-driven economy and the record number of asylum seekers trying to reach the country in dangerous and overcrowded boats.
Labor captured 57 seats in the next Parliament, compared with 88 seats for the coalition, a major swing in the 150-seat lower house. Independent candidates and the Greens Party hold the remaining seats, although a handful of races were still too close to call, according to the Australian Electoral Commission. The two main parties are separated by a razor-thin margin in the current Parliament, with Labor holding 72 seats against the coalition's 73.
Although the balance of power is clear in the House of Representatives, the lower house where governments are formed, the situation is far murkier in the Senate. That could cause problems for Mr. Abbott as he seeks to enact major policy changes like a paid parental leave plan he proposed during the campaign and the repeal of Labor's emissions trading program and a tax on mining company profits.
Australia's bicameral legislature is similar in structure to the United States Congress, with both chambers involved in passing legislation. The composition of the Senate remained unclear on Sunday, and a handful of independent senators and single-issue parties seemed poised to take the balance of power in that chamber, a role held by the Greens in the current Parliament.
If a deadlock in the Senate prevents Mr. Abbott from push through his legislative agenda, he has the option of taking the rare step of dissolving Parliament and calling a double-dissolution election, in which all members of both houses must run in an election intended to break the deadlock.
Mr. Rudd conceded defeat shortly after polls closed on Saturday night as it became apparent that the party was headed for a rout. He added that he would not seek the Labor Party's leadership in the new Parliament despite having retained his seat, leading to calls for his resignation from politics and speculation about who might succeed him.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); PRIME MINISTERS (91%); POLITICS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (73%); LEGISLATION (69%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (68%); CYCLING (67%); MINES & MINING (63%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (63%); TAXES & TAXATION (62%); FAMILY LEAVE (50%); EMISSIONS (50%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (50%)

PERSON: JULIA GILLARD (78%); KEVIN RUDD (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (90%) NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (92%) AUSTRALIA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2013



245 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 582 words

HEADLINE: N.S.A. Spied on Brazilian Oil Company, Report Says

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO

 BODY:
RIO DE JANEIRO -- The National Security Agency spied on Petrobras, Brazil's giant national oil company, according to a report here on Sunday night by the Globo television network, in the latest revelation of the agency's surveillance methods that have raised tension between Brazil and the United States. 
Still, details were sparse in the report as to precisely what information the N.S.A. may have obtained from spying on Petrobras, raising questions about what objectives the agency could have in targeting the company, which is controlled by Brazil's government and ranks among the world's largest oil producers.
The report, based on documents obtained from Edward J. Snowden, the former N.S.A. contractor, said Petrobras figured among other prominent N.S.A. targets, including Google; the Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication, or Swift, a consortium based in Belgium that aims to allow banks around the world to securely exchange financial information; and France's Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
It was the latest in a series of reports here in which Glenn Greenwald, an American journalist living in Rio de Janeiro who is working with Globo, has shed light on N.S.A. activities in Latin America from documents given to him by Mr. Snowden.
In a report last week, Globo revealed that the N.S.A. had spied on the presidents of Brazil and Mexico and their top aides, producing an angry reaction from Brazil's president, Dilma Rousseff, who held out the possibility of canceling a state visit to Washington in October that was arranged to recognize Brazil's importance to the United States.
In a statement issued after the Globo report was aired, James R. Clapper, the Obama administration's director of national intelligence, said that it was no secret that the United States government collected intelligence about financial matters. Mr. Clapper said that doing so was needed to gather insight into the economic policies of other countries.
''What we do not do, as we have said many times, is use our foreign intelligence capabilities to steal the trade secrets of foreign companies on behalf of -- or give intelligence we collect to -- U.S. companies to enhance their international competitiveness or increase their bottom line,'' Mr. Clapper said in the statement.
Petrobras did not immediately reply to a request for comment on the televised report on Sunday night.
Globo acknowledged in its report that it was unclear what information the N.S.A. was seeking by spying on Petrobras, but the television network emphasized that the company controlled vast quantities of data on Brazil's offshore oil fields. Brazil is planning to auction exploration licenses in October that would allow foreign oil companies to form ventures with Petrobras to explore for oil in deep-sea areas.
Petrobras has symbolized Brazil's ambition of emerging as a global energy powerhouse after discoveries over the last decade of large offshore oil reserves, but the sprawling company has recently struggled with delays of major oil projects, soaring debt and declining production at some of its older offshore oil fields.
In contrast to some other major oil-producing countries like Mexico and Saudi Arabia, where state-controlled oil companies hold monopolies, Brazil already allows international oil companies to have extensive operations. While Petrobras still wields by far the most influence in Brazil's oil industry, American, Chinese and European energy companies have been seeking to expand here.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); ESPIONAGE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); JOURNALISM (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); OIL EXPLORATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); OFFSHORE OIL & GAS EXPLORATION & EXTRACTION (78%); MINERAL LEASES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (73%); MINING & EXTRACTION RIGHTS & ROYALTIES (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%)

COMPANY: PETROLEO BRASILEIRO SA (PETROBRAS) (92%); GLOBO PLC (90%); GOOGLE INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (94%)

TICKER: PETR3 (BOVESPA) (92%); PBR (NYSE) (92%); GBO (LSE) (90%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (92%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (92%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (92%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (92%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (90%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%)

PERSON: EDWARD SNOWDEN (79%); DILMA ROUSSEFF (79%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (89%) BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); MEXICO (79%); LATIN AMERICA (78%); FRANCE (76%); BELGIUM (56%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2013



246 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; BREAKING BREAD | JAN ELIASSON; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1128 words

HEADLINE: Making Time for Sweetbreads, Even Amid a World Crisis

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN

 BODY:
Jan Eliasson came close to calling off lunch. The Syrian crisis had kicked into high gear a few days earlier, and on this morning a convoy of United Nations chemical weapons inspectors found itself under fire. Mr. Eliasson, No. 2 at the United Nations as its deputy secretary general, was an extremely busy fellow.
''This meeting was in danger, I must say,'' he said after settling into a corner booth at Aquavit, a Scandinavian restaurant on East 55th Street.
It is not every day that a routine appointment in New York is almost undone by a possible war crime thousands of miles away. But Mr. Eliasson, 73 next week, with a long diplomatic résumé both at the world organization and in his native Sweden, wished to keep his commitment to have lunch. So with the yearly convening of the United Nations General Assembly drawing near, he kindly made time to talk about a diplomat's life in New York. (He also came with a watchful security agent, who sat discreetly a short distance away on a bench with a clear view of the booth.) 
In two weeks, world leaders will once again descend upon the city en masse for nonstop speechifying, endless meetings and, yes, hopelessly snarled traffic on the East Side of Manhattan. ''Some call it the Crazy Week,'' Mr. Eliasson said after the waiter took the lunch order. It is ''when we think the science of cloning hasn't advanced fast enough. We need to be in so many places at the same time, the secretary general and I.''
One logistical detail that does not fall to him or his aides is making sure, say, that mutually hostile countries do not wind up by mistake in the same hotel. Let them work that one out on their own. But security is a constant concern. ''I'm not supposed to talk about that,'' Mr. Eliasson said, ''but I think we're in close contact with the N.Y.P.D.'' As for the inevitable traffic jams, ''we are deeply sorry that we cause inconvenience.'' He continued:
''When I was perm rep'' -- that's diplo-speak for a country's permanent representative to the United Nations, in his case Sweden's, from 1988 to 1992 -- ''I had difficulty even getting to the General Assembly through the security screens on Second Avenue and First Avenue. We know it's really a nuisance. But I would hope that New Yorkers realize how enormously we value that New York is the host town.''
''I hope,'' he said, ''that New Yorkers see that maybe there could be discussions inside that building that in the end may result in a cease-fire or peace or an agreement between two nations about fighting polio, or a strong reminder of the importance of human rights to someone who needs to hear it from someone very important.''
Still, he acknowledged, with the faintest of sighs, ''it's hard to see that when you sit in a car stuck in traffic.''
Mr. Eliasson, a former president of the General Assembly who has been in his present position for 14 months, suggested Aquavit after his first choice, a classic French restaurant, turned out to be very French: no way was it open in the final days of August. While Aquavit is Nordic-themed, he is not a regular. ''I've been here twice,'' he said.
Both he and his interviewer started off with charred gravlax in a mustard sauce. A dish of sweetbreads, better known to him by their French name, ris de veau, caught his eye. ''I have a weakness for that,'' he said. ''My wife never serves it.'' It was a temptation that the interviewer easily resisted; he chose a Chilean turbot. Both drank French cider, skipped dessert and finished with coffee -- cappuccino for Mr. Eliasson, a double espresso for his tablemate.
It is no secret that the United Nations is widely unloved in New York. One reason is its perceived hostility to Israel, which led previous mayors like Edward I. Koch and Rudolph W. Giuliani to use it as a punching bag.
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, more globally minded than his predecessors, takes a comparatively benign view. His Economic Development Corporation, relying on figures nearly a decade old, calculates that the United Nations generates 18,000 jobs and $2.5 billion a year in economic activity for New York. And it is more than likely that some local businesses have benefited in recent years from the extensive renovations that are under way at the organization's East Side campus.
There is, too, a belief held by many New Yorkers that diplomats do little more than drive around all day looking for places to park illegally. In fact, as a result of a 2002 agreement with the State Department, most embassies and consulates here have become pretty solid citizens when it comes to paying parking tickets. Their total debt -- put by the city's Finance Department at $16.6 million, which is barely enough to keep the municipal government running for two hours -- has even shrunk a bit in recent years. The chief deadbeats are the same ones just about every year. Egypt perennially tops the list with nearly $2 million in unpaid summonses going back years.
If New Yorkers are angry over a matter like parking, he hasn't heard it, said Mr. Eliasson, who is an easy conversationalist. ''When I go around town and talk to people, when they hear I'm from the U.N., they may ask how things are going with Syria, or what are we doing about this or that,'' he said. ''That's the kinds of reactions I get.''
Not surprisingly, his life here is circumscribed by the nature of his position and by security imperatives. ''I can't move as freely as I sometimes would like to,'' he said.
But that does not mean forgoing all pleasures. In mid-July, for instance, he joined the crowds flocking to Central Park to hear the New York Philharmonic, led by Alan Gilbert -- ''who, by the way, spent eight years in Sweden conducting the Royal Stockholm Philharmonic Orchestra,'' Mr. Eliasson tossed in, a touch of national pride there. ''It was 85 degrees,'' he said. ''The sun was setting in a blue-pink light over the trees. There were 50,000 sitting on chairs or having picnics.''
''In Manhattan, it's incredible,'' he said. ''You still have these oases. I remember when there was snow when I was ambassador. I walked into Central Park and felt like I was in northern Sweden. When I see the barges and ships go down the East River, it's like my hometown, Gothenburg. We have a river going through the city.''
''But I must tell you I get my frustrations also,'' he said, answering a looming question about what he finds irritating here before it could be asked.
''The sirens, why do they sound so enormous?'' he said. ''I'm very high up, and still I'm waking up at night. It sounds like the Third World War has broken out. I don't think I've ever heard a higher decibel level of ambulances, fire and police cars. For me the word 'decibel' has lost its meaning.''
Griping about noise. Does it get more New York than that?

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''This meeting was in danger, I must say,'' Jan Eliasson, the deputy secretary general of the United Nations, said on the day that chemical weapons inspectors came under fire in Syria. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREA MOHIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); RESTAURANTS (78%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (77%); INSPECTIONS (77%); CLONING (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); SYRIA (91%); SWEDEN (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2013



247 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BITS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 907 words

HEADLINE: A Make-or-Break Day Beyond Apple Itself

BYLINE: By NICK BILTON

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO -- On Tuesday morning, about 200 people -- most of them from the news media -- will gather in a Cupertino, Calif., auditorium to watch Timothy D. Cook, Apple's chief executive, unveil new iPhones.
The people who make it their business to know these things say they expect Apple to reveal a long-awaited, less-expensive iPhone to woo buyers in emerging markets; a few brightly colored alternatives -- yellow, blue and even pink -- to entice teenagers; and a higher-end, gold-and-graphite model to draw those who enjoy spending lots of money. 
Of course, the news coverage will be comprehensive. And you will be able to split the followers of the reporters' blogs from the event into three categories: Apple fans; entrepreneurs who hope they can take advantage of new phone features; and rival technology executives worried that Apple could render their businesses irrelevant in one move.
These annual iPhone unveilings have become a sort of Creative Destruction Day in Silicon Valley. Remember all those companies that were making nifty little digital video recorders? There aren't many of them left, after Apple added video recording to the iPhone in 2008. And with every even slightly improved iPhone that adds features or services offered by others, Apple has tightened the screws on a long list of companies, including other smartphone makers like Nokia and BlackBerry and gaming companies like Nintendo.
The economist Joseph Schumpeter coined the phrase ''creative destruction'' in 1942 to describe the less-than-tidy way free markets lead to progress: the telephone replaced the telegraph; the cellphone replaced the telephone; the smartphone (we're still in the middle of this one) is replacing the cellphone; and so on. Something gets destroyed and something new and exciting is built on top of it.
Perhaps no other recent product has been quite as much an agent of destruction and renewal as the iPhone, with its long list of features and access to a store of nearly a million apps that can handle thousands of functions.
Need a calendar, a phone book or even a notepad? The phone will do it for you. Forget those pesky paper varieties. Want to take a high-definition photograph, record an interview or play a video game? All you need is your phone. No need for any other single-serving cameras or video recorders.
''By the time it's become obvious to competitors, once Apple has taken the world by storm, then it's a little late to start mounting a response,'' said Rita Gunther McGrath, a professor at Columbia Business School who studies innovation at big companies and is the author of the book, ''The End of Competitive Advantage.''
So what else is likely to be disturbed by the iPhone and other smartphones? Expand the question beyond technology and think about smartphones competing for all kinds of consumer dollars. Ask some 20-somethings if they would rather own a cool new car or a cool new smartphone. They'll pick the latter, as car manufacturers are learning.
''The iPhone is the Ford Mustang of today,'' said Thilo Koslowski, lead automotive analyst for Gartner Research. ''These devices offer a degree of freedom and social reach that previously only the automobile offered.''
While some might see the iPhone as a destroyer -- if you work for Nokia or BlackBerry, for example, you will most likely share this view -- there are others that see it as a creator. The apps store connected to the iPhone has allowed thousands of small businesses to thrive. And a handful of them, like Rovio, the maker of the Angry Birds game whose headquarters is not far from Nokia in Espoo, Finland, have become large companies.
''Competing has become so cheap and has been pushed down to such individual units, like app makers'' that ''what formerly required significant overhead to be successful is now trivial,'' said Nicco Mele, who teaches classes on the Internet and politics at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard, and the author of the book, ''The End of Big: How the Internet Makes David the New Goliath.'' ''The rise of app makers has allowed anyone to compete with a corporation from home.''
There is a scary side to that, of course. The destruction and renewal upon which the tech industry has thrived has accelerated thanks to the Internet, cheap smartphone apps and lower costs of doing business. Facebook, for example, which in just a few years has gone from a start-up to one of the most powerful companies in Silicon Valley, has to constantly be on the lookout for the next big threat. And when it can't take those competitors out at the knees, it buys them, like the photo-sharing service Instagram.
So who is safe from the perils of the smartphone? No one, it seems. Not even Apple.
The company is no longer the king of the hill in smartphones. Sure, when a new iPhone is unveiled on Tuesday, it will get outsize attention, and competitors will scramble to copy its latest features.
But these days, Samsung sells the most smartphones, and up-and-coming manufacturers like Huawei and ZTE are nipping at Apple's heels. The new iPhones -- at least the ones being spun from the rumor mill that claim color as the big innovation -- do not exactly sound like great leaps in technology.
That is the thing about this notion of creative destruction: You never know quite know when you stop creating and get destroyed.
E-mail: bilton@nytimes.com
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMARTPHONES (91%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (89%); DIGITAL RECORDERS (78%); NEWS REPORTING (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); WRITERS (74%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); COMPUTER GAMES (69%); CD & DVD DRIVES (66%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (96%); BLACKBERRY LTD (54%); NINTENDO CO LTD (54%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (96%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (54%); BB (TSX) (54%); 7974 (TSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (96%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (96%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (96%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (96%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (54%)

PERSON: TIM COOK (72%); STEVEN JOBS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (89%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2013



248 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1153 words

HEADLINE: Verizon-F.C.C. Court Fight Takes On Regulating Net

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Few people would dispute that one of the biggest contributors to the extraordinary success of the Internet has been the ability of just about anyone to use it to offer any product, service or type of information they want.
How to maintain that success, however, is the subject of a momentous fight that resumes this week in the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. The battle pits one of the largest providers of Internet access -- Verizon -- against the Federal Communications Commission, which for nearly 80 years has been riding herd on the companies that provide Americans with telecommunications services.
Verizon and a host of other companies that spent billions of dollars to build their Internet pipelines believe they should be able to manage them as they wish. They should be able, for example, to charge fees to content providers who are willing to pay to have their data transported to customers through an express lane. That, the companies say, would allow the pipeline owner to reap the benefits of its investment. 
The F.C.C., however, believes that Internet service providers must keep their pipelines free and open, giving the creators of any type of legal content -- movies, shopping sites, medical services, or even pornography -- an equal ability to reach consumers. If certain players are able to buy greater access to Internet users, regulators believe, the playing field will tilt in the direction of the richest companies, possibly preventing the next Google or Facebook from getting off the ground.
The court is set to hear oral arguments starting Monday morning in Verizon v. F.C.C., which is billed as a heavyweight championship of the technology world, setting the old era against the new.
''This will determine whether the laws and regulations of the past -- the pre-Internet age -- will apply to the Internet's future,'' said Scott Cleland, the chairman of NetCompetition, a group sponsored by broadband companies, including Verizon. ''It will determine the regulatory power and authority of the F.C.C. in the 21st century.''
Susan Crawford, a supporter of the F.C.C.'s position who is co-director of the Berkman Center for Internet & Society at Harvard and a professor at Yeshiva University's Cardozo School of Law, called the showdown ''a moment of grandeur.''
''The question presented by the case is, does the U.S. government have any role to play when it comes to ensuring ubiquitous, open, world-class, interconnected, reasonably priced Internet access?'' Ms. Crawford said. ''Does the government have good reason to ensure that facility in America?''
European countries are similarly struggling with whether and how to regulate Internet service. The Netherlands has some wireless regulations in place, and France this year introduced strict anti-discrimination measures. But while European Union officials have voiced support for what is known as net neutrality, a recent proposal gives Internet providers great leeway. In December 2010 the F.C.C. issued its ''Open Internet Order,'' an 87-page set of instructions directing Internet service providers not to block or to unreasonably discriminate against any type of Internet traffic deemed not harmful to the system. The only exception to the open access principle is for ''reasonable network management,'' a loosely defined term that allows a company to do what it takes to keep its network up and running.
Internet service providers also were ordered to disclose how they manage their networks and how their systems perform -- like how they handle congestion when a large portion of users are, for example, downloading high-definition video.
The order was necessary, the F.C.C. said in court papers, because ''there were significant threats to openness, and thus to the engine that has driven investment in broadband facilities.'' In the past, the F.C.C. said, ''several broadband access providers had blocked or degraded service.'' One was Comcast, which in 2008 was punished by the F.C.C. for blocking access by some of its users to the file-sharing service BitTorrent, which was often used for the unauthorized exchange of movies or music.
''Other providers have the technological capability and the economic incentive to engage in similar acts,'' the commission said. ''And with the majority of Americans having only two wireline broadband choices (many have only one), market discipline alone could not guarantee continued openness.'' The F.C.C.'s rules generally are more strict for wireless carriers, because those networks are more susceptible to congestion.
In the Comcast case, the cable company appealed the F.C.C. ruling, and the D.C. federal appeals court -- the same court hearing the Verizon case -- said in 2010 that the agency had overstepped its bounds, failing to show that it had the authority to regulate an Internet service provider.
It is in fact far from easy for the F.C.C. to demonstrate that it has such authority. That is because in 2002 the commission, then led by Michael K. Powell, a Republican, voted to classify Internet service as an information service rather than a telecommunications service.
The difference meant that Internet providers were not subject to regulation like a telephone company. Instead, they were free of restrictions on rates and exempt from regulations that would require them to open their networks to allow competitors to offer lower-cost service over the same pipes.
The judge who wrote the Comcast decision, David S. Tatel, is one member of the three-judge panel that will hear Verizon's appeal. Many industry experts view the two other judges as highly likely to take opposing sides, leaving Judge Tatel as the swing vote.
Verizon argues that the F.C.C.'s Open Internet Order should be struck down because it is arbitrary and capricious, and aims to prevent activity that is not taking place. It argues in its court filings that the F.C.C. has documented only four examples, over six years, of purported blocking of Internet content by service providers.
During those six years, the company said, ''end users successfully accessed the Internet content, applications and services of their choice literally billions of times.''
More broadly, Verizon argues that the F.C.C., as in the Comcast case, ''fails to identify any statutory authority for the rules.'' And in fact, Verizon said, the F.C.C. order is so broad that it would give the commission the power ''to regulate all sectors of the Internet economy without limit.''
The court is likely to take several months to issue its decision, lawyers involved in the case say -- perhaps before the end of the year, but more likely in 2014. When the ruling comes, many people will be waiting. More than 400 organizations or individuals weighed in at the F.C.C. when the rules were being considered. More than 60 signed legal briefs supporting the F.C.C., while at least a dozen did so backing Verizon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (91%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (89%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERNET CONTENT PROVIDERS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); INTERNET SERVICE REGULATION (78%); COMPUTER & INTERNET LAW (78%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (78%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (75%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (74%); PORNOGRAPHY (73%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (73%); APPEALS COURTS (71%); LAW SCHOOLS (71%); WIRELESS REGULATION (70%); BROADBAND (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (92%); GOOGLE INC (58%); FACEBOOK INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (93%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (92%); VZ (NYSE) (92%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%); FB (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (92%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2013



249 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1087 words

HEADLINE: After Bold Step on Syria, French Leader Finds Himself Dismissed as Lackey

BYLINE: By SUZANNE DALEY; Scott Sayare and Maïa de la Baume contributed reporting.

 BODY:
PARIS -- As portrayed in a satirical television show here this week, President François Hollande is left behind to hold President Obama's coat while the American leader and President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia hold private talks. Mr. Hollande gullibly concludes he is playing a key role.
Later in the show, ''Les Guignols de L'Info,'' a rough French equivalent of Jon Stewart's ''The Daily Show,'' Mr. Hollande is seen interrupting a visit to a school to ask Mr. Obama's permission to use the bathroom. 
If Mr. Hollande ever thought that his decision to stand steadfast alongside the United States in backing a retaliatory strike against Syria would give him new stature on the global stage or help him at home, the last week has been a sharp shock.
Public opinion is running strongly against him; a poll published this weekend in the conservative daily newspaper Le Figaro showed about two-thirds of the French opposed to military action against Syria. There are growing demands that he grant Parliament a vote on the matter, and considerable speculation that he could lose if he did.
The White House is doing its best to buttress Mr. Hollande -- Secretary of State John Kerry, on a visit here this weekend, used a televised appearance to make the case, in French, that failure to act would be akin to the Munich Agreement of 1938, in which Britain and France sought to appease Hitler by allowing him to control the Sudetenland. But the French president is learning, like British leaders before him, that close alignment with Washington carries as much risk of looking weak as opportunity to look strong.
Earlier this year the French marveled when Mr. Hollande, inexperienced in foreign policy, weighed down by economic woes and often seen as vacillating, executed a swift and successful military strike in Mali. They rewarded him with an increase, though fleeting, in his usually dismal approval ratings.
This time around, so far at least, he has not received even that brief benefit.
Mr. Hollande is facing an avalanche of sometimes contradictory criticism from left and right: that he is acting rashly in committing France to military action; that he is being too timid in awaiting the go-ahead from the United States and the United Nations; that he needs to heed public and parliamentary opinion and that he needs to assert the traditionally broad powers of the French president to employ the armed forces without parliamentary approval.
Perhaps most of all, he is being criticized for failing a basic test of French politics -- protecting the country's pride. Having quickly agreed to join in a military action, France is now forced to wait on the sidelines while Congress debates whether to give its approval. Mr. Hollande's critics say he looks like a lackey.
Even some who have endorsed a military strike have taken Mr. Hollande to task for his handling of the issue. A front-page editorial in Le Figaro by Paul-Henri du Limbert said that no one could criticize Mr. Hollande for wanting to face down barbarity, but nonetheless his strategy left something to be desired. The president, he said, had somehow managed to ''throw a spotlight on his own powerlessness.''
''It is a singular situation,'' Mr. du Limbert concluded. ''but no one can expect that France will come out of it looking stronger. ''
To some degree, Mr. Hollande's decision to stand with the United States and Prime Minister David Cameron of Britain in calling for a military strike against Syria to ''punish'' the Assad government for a chemical weapons attack is well in line with French tradition.
French troops were gassed in World War I and France has been long been active in trying to ban such weapons. Mr. Hollande's Socialist Party is generally sympathetic to humanitarian intervention in the case of atrocities.
Under President Nicolas Sarkozy, Mr. Hollande's predecessor, France sought closer ties with Syria, and invited President Bashar al-Assad to Bastille Day celebrations at the Élysée Palace. As a result a number of business agreements were forged between the two countries, most of which have dissolved since the violence erupted.
France has other reasons to care about what happens in Syria, including protecting neighboring Lebanon, a former French mandate. It is also being pressed by allies including Saudi Arabia to see the conflict in Syria as part of a broader proxy fight over Iran. Mr. Kerry said Sunday that he had received assurances of Saudi support for a strike on Syria.
But for Mr. Hollande, as for Mr. Obama and Mr. Cameron, almost nothing on this issue has unfolded smoothly or quickly.
Under pressure to win more support from other European countries, Mr. Hollande has now said any action should await the completion of a report by United Nations weapons inspectors on the apparent gas attacks, which took place near Damascus last month and according to American intelligence reports killed more than 1,400 people. When he succumbed to pressure to hold a debate on the matter in Parliament, opponents across the ideological spectrum brought up many of the same concerns being discussed in Britain and the United States.
''There was a contagion effect from what was going on in the U.S.,'' said Hubert Védrine, a former French former minister who is member of Mr. Hollande's party. ''And people became very aware that Syria is not Mali. And suddenly there were some very difficult questions being discussed. Can we do it? Is it legitimate to do it? Will it achieve anything?''
Mr. Hollande's supporters say he could hardly have anticipated this turn of events, especially Mr. Obama's decision to seek legislative approval.
''What we have seen in recent years is American presidents trying to get more powers for themselves,'' said one former adviser to Mr. Sarkozy, who declined to be named because he did not want to look like he was meddling in Mr. Hollande's affairs. ''So, I think it natural that it surprised Hollande that Obama would do something like that.''
Nonetheless, Mr. Hollande now faces a Parliament empowered by public opinion, with some members, including his own supporters, still calling for a vote on the issue. Some have suggested that polling the Parliament could even present Mr. Hollande with a deft way of reasserting France's independence.
Noël Mamère, a prominent member of the Green Party who supports Mr. Hollande's stance, said he wanted the French Parliament to hold a vote on the same timetable as the United States Congress.
''I think that is a way to show that we are deciding on our own,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President François Hollande spoke with journalists in France this weekend. His decision to back President Obama's call for a military strike against Syria has been received very badly at home. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SEBASTIEN NOGIER/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); APPROVALS (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (73%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (73%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (72%); CONSERVATISM (72%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (70%); POLITICAL DEBATES (67%); FOREIGN POLICY (65%)

PERSON: FRANCOIS HOLLANDE (93%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); JON STEWART (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (91%) FRANCE (96%); SYRIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); MALI (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2013



250 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; LETTER FROM WASHINGTON; Pg. 

LENGTH: 956 words

HEADLINE: Obama's 2nd Term Reaches a Tipping Point

BYLINE: By ALBERT R. HUNT | BLOOMBERG VIEW

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Congress is like a seamless web where every action has an effect on those that follow, the late Richard Bolling, a longtime member of the House of Representatives and a congressional scholar, used to remind young reporters.
The Obama administration will have to confront that reality this autumn in the aftermath of its request for congressional approval for a military strike against Syria. 
The outcome remains in doubt, though there may be an even chance that after a near-death experience or two, Congress will authorize a strike in a close vote.
There is little doubt, however, that this struggle, which will occupy most of September, will affect other big issues: the high-stakes deficit and debt-ceiling battle; the fate of a comprehensive immigration bill in the House, and perhaps in the Senate; and the nomination of the next chairman of the Federal Reserve.
If President Barack Obama wins on Syria, most Republicans who supported him will want to keep their distance on other issues; the party's base is dominated by Obama haters. Getting the reluctant backing of some liberal Democrats for military action might add to the tension on the fiscal issues and the Fed pick.
Some Obama loyalists make the case that the Syria resolution, if approved, could lead to other successes. Working across party lines might prove contagious, precipitating a search for more common ground.
''It's too early to tell what the fallout from this vote will be on other issues,'' said Representative Chris Van Hollen of Maryland, the leading House Democrat on fiscal issues, but ''there will be ripple effects.''
Others believe a Kumbaya moment just is not possible in the Washington of today: ''If a Republican gives the president a vote on this, they'll have to go back to the base on the fiscal stuff and maybe the Fed,'' said Tom Davis, a former Republican member of Congress and an astute analyst of U.S. politics.
John A. Boehner, the House speaker, who will probably be part of a distinct minority of his caucus in voting for the Syria measure, will be under enormous pressure to move right. ''Coming right on the heels of Syria, House Republicans have to get something in return on debt,'' Mr. Davis said.
The Democrats, who are counting on winning at least the public opinion battle in the fiscal war, may find it harder to depict Republican leaders as partisan nihilists if those leaders have just bailed out the president on Syria.
Democrats are worried that after using all his chits to get barely enough votes for the strike resolution, Mr. Obama -- whose negotiating skills are suspect to many on Capitol Hill -- might then be too eager to cut a fiscal deal.
Especially worrisome would be if Republicans demanded, as the price for Syria, a rollback of the cuts to defense spending under sequestration, as the mandatory $1 trillion in budget cuts is known. There may be an appealing political case for this. Liberals are adamant that any changes to the automatic reductions must apply equally to domestic and military programs.
Immigration reform, which cleared the Senate handily, already faces a tough slog in the Republican-controlled House. As with the deficit and the debt-ceiling increase, the Syria debate and vote won't make this any easier.
Final passage of comprehensive legislation, with a pathway to citizenship for undocumented immigrants, can be achieved only with a minority of Republicans. That would force the speaker to waive the so-called Hastert rule, which asserts that a bill can be considered only if it commands the support of a majority of the Republican caucus. Mr. Boehner will already have had to waive the rule for the Syria vote and might not be able to return to the well.
There is no rational reason the confirmation of the next Fed chairman should be affected by any of this. But Congress is not a rational institution these days, and the president's preferred choice for head of the central bank, the former Treasury secretary Lawrence H. Summers, is a contentious figure in a wide array of political constituencies.
Many conservative Republicans oppose Mr. Summers's nomination because they hold him responsible for the economic stimulus and the rescue of the automobile industry, and because he served as president of Harvard University, a supposed hotbed of liberal orthodoxy.
He has incurred the wrath of some Democratic liberals for spearheading financial deregulation in the late 1990s and working for Wall Street after leaving his position as director of the National Economic Council in 2010.
A top Democratic Senate strategist worries that ''if the White House nominates Summers, they're going to have to go right back to the same liberals -- Tom Harkin, Sherrod Brown, Elizabeth Warren -- that they're working on Syria.''
If Mr. Summers is tapped -- and he is the clear front-runner -- Mr. Obama would count on support from important Republicans like Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina. Mr. Graham is fighting a primary challenge from Tea Party conservatives, who criticize him for supporting the president on immigration and Syria and for his approach to the sequestration.
The stakes for Mr. Obama on Syria are impossible to exaggerate. A loss would make his presidency appear impotent and devastate the United States' global standing. The president realizes this: He called skeptical senators from the Group of 20 meeting outside St. Petersburg; he talked to one Democrat for more than half an hour. The president is scheduled to deliver a national address from the Oval Office on Tuesday. Will he enlist former Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton to lobby wavering Democrats?
A victory in Congress on Syria would be an important achievement; but politically, it might be short- lived.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (79%); DEBT CEILING (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); APPROVALS (76%); LIBERALISM (74%); BUDGET DEFICITS (74%); IMMIGRATION (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); CHRIS VAN HOLLEN (58%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%); TOM DAVIS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) SYRIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2013



251 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1344 words

HEADLINE: Our New Isolationism

BYLINE: By BILL KELLER

 BODY:
THE United States has just spent thousands of American lives in a distant land for a victory that now seems hollow, if indeed it can be called a victory at all. Our own country, moreover, is emerging from a recession, dispirited and self-absorbed, worried about the fragility of the recovery and the state of our democracy. Idealism is in short supply. So, as another far-off war worsens, Americans are loath to take sides, even against a merciless dictator, even to the extent of sending weapons. The voices opposed to getting involved range from the pacifist left to the populist right. The president, fearful that foreign conflict will undermine his domestic agenda, vacillates.
This is the United States in 1940. Sound a little familiar?
I've been reading two engrossing new histories of that time -- ''Those Angry Days'' by Lynne Olson and ''1940'' by Susan Dunn -- both focused on the ferocious and now largely forgotten resistance Franklin D. Roosevelt had to navigate in order to stand with our allies against Hitler. 
Of course, 2013 is not 1940. The Middle East is not Europe. President Obama is not F.D.R. But America is again in a deep isolationist mood. As a wary Congress returns from its summer recess to debate Syria, as President Obama prepares to address the nation, it is instructive to throw the two periods up on the screen and examine them for lessons. How does a president sell foreign engagement to a public that wants none of it?
The cliché of the season is that Americans are war-weary from our long slogs in Iraq and Afghanistan. That is true, but not the whole story. To be sure, nothing has done more to discredit an activist foreign policy than the blind missionary arrogance of the Bush administration. But the isolationist temper is not just about the legacy of Iraq. Economic troubles and political dysfunction have contributed to a loss of confidence. Add to the mix a surge of xenophobia, with its calls for higher fences and big-brotherly attention to the danger within. (These anxieties also helped give rise to the expanding surveillance state, just as nativism in that earlier period gave license to J. Edgar Hoover's obsessive eavesdropping.)
Isolationism is strong in the Tea Party, where mistrust of executive power is profound and where being able to see Russia from your front yard counts as mastery of international affairs. But sophisticated readers of The New York Times are not immune, or so it seems from the comments that arrive when I write in defense of a more assertive foreign policy. (In recent columns I've advocated calibrated intervention to shift the balance in Syria's civil war and using foreign aid to encourage democracy in Egypt.) Not our problems, many readers tell me.
Isolationism is not just an aversion to war, which is an altogether healthy instinct. It is a broader reluctance to engage, to assert responsibility, to commit. Isolationism tends to be pessimistic (we will get it wrong, we will make it worse) and amoral (it is none of our business unless it threatens us directly) and inward-looking (foreign aid is a waste of money better spent at home).
''We are not the world's policeman, nor its judge and jury,'' proclaimed Representative Alan Grayson, a progressive Florida Democrat, reciting favorite isolationist excuses for doing nothing. ''Our own needs in America are great, and they come first.''
At the margins, at least, isolationists suspect that our foreign policy is being manipulated by outside forces. In 1940, as Olson's book documents, anti-interventionists deplored the cunning British ''plutocrats'' and ''imperialists,'' who had lured us into the blood bath of World War I and now wanted to goad us into another one. In 2013, it is supposedly the Israelis duping us into fighting their battles.
Many pro-Israel and Jewish groups last week endorsed an attack on Syria, but only after agonizing about a likely backlash. And, sure enough, the first comment posted on The Washington Post version of this story was, ''So how many Americans will die for Israel this time around?'' This is tame stuff compared with 1940, when isolationism was shot through with shockingly overt anti-Semitism, not least in the rhetoric of the celebrated aviator Charles Lindbergh.
Both Lynne Olson and Susan Dunn, in interviews, were wary of pushing the analogy too far. The Middle East, they point out, is far murkier, far less familiar.
''In 1940 everything was black and white -- there was no gray,'' Dunn told me. ''On one side, Adolf Hitler and ruthless, barbaric warfare; on the other side, democracy, humanism, morality and world civilization itself.'' Yes, at least so it seems in hindsight, but the choice was not so clear in 1940. Both books offer copious examples of serious, thoughtful people who had real doubts about whether Hitler was a threat worth fighting: cabinet members and generals, newspaper publishers and business leaders. At Yale, Dunn reports, an antiwar student movement that included such future luminaries as Gerald Ford, Potter Stewart and Sargent Shriver drafted a petition demanding ''that Congress refrain from war, even if England is on the verge of defeat.''
Olson told me she was startled to hear Secretary of State John Kerry inveighing against ''armchair isolationism'' last week in his testimony on Syria. ''I think to be skeptical now does not mean you're an isolationist,'' said Olson, who is herself skeptical about taking sides in Syria. ''It's become a dirty word.''
Fair enough. But can we dial down the fears and defeatist slogans of knee-jerk isolationism and conduct a serious discussion of our interests and our alternatives in Syria and the tumultuous region around it?
The event that ultimately swept the earlier isolationists off the board was, of course, Pearl Harbor. But even before the Japanese attack the public reluctance was gradually giving way, allowing the delivery of destroyers to the British, the Lend-Lease program, a precautionary weapons buildup and the beginning of military conscription.
One factor that moved public opinion toward intervention was the brazenness of Hitler's menace; Americans who had never given a thought to the Sudetenland were stunned to see Nazis parading into Paris.
Another was a robust debate across the country that ultimately transcended partisanship and prejudice.
Most historians and popular memory credit Roosevelt's leadership for the country's change of heart, but Olson points out that for much of that period Roosevelt was -- to borrow a contemporary phrase -- leading from behind. He campaigned in 1936 on a pledge to ''shun political commitments which might entangle us in foreign wars'' and to seek to ''isolate ourselves completely from war.'' It was a vow he renewed repeatedly as Hitler conquered country after country: there would be no American boots on the ground.
Olson argues that while Roosevelt resolved early to send aid to Britain, it is not at all clear that he would have taken America into the war if it had not been forced upon him by Pearl Harbor. But by December 1941, she writes, ''the American people had been thoroughly educated about the pros and cons of their country's entry into the conflict and were far less opposed to the idea of going to war than conventional wisdom has it.''
''Obviously we got into it because of Pearl Harbor, but that debate made a crucial difference,'' Olson told me. ''And I think that is what's called for now.''
Congress in recent years has not won much respect as an arena of policy debate, but it was heartening last week to hear leaders of both parties moving a little beyond petty obstructionism and bitter partisanship and inviting a serious discussion.
I hope that Congress can elicit from the president this week a clear and candid statement of America's vital interests in Syria, and a strategy that looks beyond the moment. I hope the president can persuade Congress that the U.S. still has an important role to play in the world, and that sometimes you have to put some spine in your diplomacy. And I hope Americans will listen with an open mind.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY NICHOLAS BLECHMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (70%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (67%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (66%); 2011 SYRIAN UPRISING (65%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); SYRIA (92%); IRAQ (92%); EUROPE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); EGYPT (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2013



252 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: The Wonk Gap

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
On Saturday, Senator John Barrasso of Wyoming delivered the weekly Republican address. He ignored Syria, presumably because his party is deeply conflicted on the issue. (For the record, so am I.) Instead, he demanded repeal of the Affordable Care Act. ''The health care law,'' he declared, ''has proven to be unpopular, unworkable and unaffordable,'' and he predicted ''sticker shock'' in the months ahead.
So, another week, another denunciation of Obamacare. Who cares? But Mr. Barrasso's remarks were actually interesting, although not in the way he intended. You see, all the recent news on health costs has been good. So Mr. Barrasso is predicting sticker shock precisely when serious fears of such a shock are fading fast. Why would he do that? 
Well, one likely answer is that he hasn't heard any of the good news. Think about it: Who would tell him?
My guess, in other words, was that Mr. Barrasso was inadvertently illustrating the widening ''wonk gap'' -- the G.O.P.'s near-complete lack of expertise on anything substantive. Health care is the most prominent example, but the dumbing down extends across the spectrum, from budget issues to national security to poll analysis. Remember, Mitt Romney and much of his party went into Election Day expecting victory.
About health reform: Mr. Barrasso was wrong about everything, even the ''unpopular'' bit, as I'll explain in a minute. Mainly, however, he was completely missing the story on affordability.
For the truth is that the good news on costs just keeps coming in. There has been a striking slowdown in overall health costs since the Affordable Care Act was enacted, with many experts giving the law at least partial credit. And we now have a good idea what insurance premiums will be once the law goes fully into effect; a comprehensive survey by the Kaiser Family Foundation finds that on average premiums will be significantly lower than those predicted by the Congressional Budget Office when the law was passed.
But do Republican politicians know any of this? Not if they're listening to conservative ''experts,'' who have been offering a steady stream of misinformation. All those claims about sticker shock, for example, come from obviously misleading comparisons. For example, supposed experts compare average insurance rates under the new system, which will cover everyone, with the rates currently paid by a handful of young, healthy people for bare-bones insurance. And they conveniently ignore the subsidies many Americans will receive.
At the same time, in an echo of the Romney camp's polling fantasies, other conservative ''experts'' are creating false impressions about public opinion. Just after Kaiser released a poll showing a strong majority -- 57 percent -- opposed to the idea of defunding health reform, the Heritage Foundation put out a poster claiming that 57 percent of Americans want reform defunded. Did the experts at Heritage simply read the numbers upside down? No, they claimed, they were referring to some other poll. Whatever really happened, the practical effect was to delude the right-wing faithful.
And the point is that episodes like this have become the rule, not the exception, on the right. How many Republicans know, for example, that government employment has declined, not risen, under President Obama? Certainly Senator Rand Paul was incredulous when I pointed this out to him on TV last fall. On the contrary, he insisted, ''the size of growth of government is enormous under President Obama'' -- which was completely untrue but was presumably what his sources had told him, knowing that it was what he wanted to hear.
For that, surely, is what the wonk gap is all about. Political conservatism and serious policy analysis can coexist, and there was a time when they did. Back in the 1980s, after all, health experts at Heritage made a good-faith effort to devise a plan for universal health coverage -- and what they came up with was the system now known as Obamacare.
But that was then. Modern conservatism has become a sort of cult, very much given to conspiracy theorizing when confronted with inconvenient facts. Liberal policies were supposed to cause hyperinflation, so low measured inflation must reflect statistical fraud; the threat of climate change implies the need for public action, so global warming must be a gigantic scientific hoax. Oh, and Mitt Romney would have won if only he had been a real conservative.
It's all kind of funny, in a way. Unfortunately, however, this runaway cult controls the House, which gives it immense destructive power -- the power, for example, to wreak havoc on the economy by refusing to raise the debt ceiling. And it's disturbing to realize that this power rests in the hands of men who, thanks to the wonk gap, quite literally have no idea what they're doing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (85%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (77%); HEALTH CARE LAW (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (72%); BUDGETS (70%); FOUNDATIONS (62%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); SYRIA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2013



253 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1898 words

HEADLINE: Inside the End Of the U.S. Bid To Get Lehman

BYLINE: By BEN PROTESS and SUSANNE CRAIG

 BODY:
At a closed-door meeting in early 2011, Wall Street regulators were close to throwing in the towel on their biggest case.
The Securities and Exchange Commission's eight-member Lehman Brothers team, having hit one dead end after another over the previous two years, concluded that suing the bank's executives would be legally unjustified. The group, noting that prosecutors and F.B.I. agents had already walked away from a parallel criminal case, reached unanimous agreement to close its most prominent investigation stemming from the financial crisis, according to officials who attended the meeting, which has not been reported previously.
But Mary L. Schapiro, the S.E.C. chairwoman, disagreed. She pushed George S. Canellos, who supervised the Lehman investigation as head of the S.E.C.'s New York office, to explain how executives who presided over the biggest bankruptcy in United States history could escape without a single civil charge.
''I don't get it,'' she said during a tense exchange with Mr. Canellos in her private conference room in Washington, according to the officials, who were not authorized to speak publicly. ''Why is there no case?'' she continued, staring at Mr. Canellos, instructing him to continue investigating whether Lehman misled investors. ''The world won't understand.'' 
She was right. Five years after Lehman's collapse hastened a worldwide economic panic, the government faces lingering questions about the decision to spare executives like Richard S. Fuld Jr., who ran Lehman for 14 years until its demise. Not a single senior executive from any Wall Street bank faced criminal charges from the crisis, either. And the government's deadline for filing most charges will expire this month, the anniversary of Lehman's collapse, providing a reminder of the case and its unpopular outcome.
Federal prosecutors and the S.E.C. have never officially announced their decision to close the Lehman investigation.
But a New York Times examination of the case, based on interviews with more than a dozen lawyers and officials involved in the inquiry and a review of bankruptcy court documents, pulls back a curtain on private deliberations and clashing philosophies surrounding the decision not to bring charges. The S.E.C. quietly reached the decision in 2012 after officials sparred for months over whether Lehman omitted ''material'' information in disclosures to investors, an important legal standard. Mr. Canellos argued that the omissions were not material. And those who questioned that reasoning -- like Ms. Schapiro, as well as some accountants and enforcement officials -- acquiesced to Mr. Canellos's team, which was closest to the evidence.
The S.E.C. also debated the culpability of top Lehman executives. But Mr. Canellos's team argued that Mr. Fuld did not know that Lehman was using questionable accounting practices despite testimony from another Lehman executive that suggested otherwise. Ms. Schapiro did not override his judgment after S.E.C. officials cautioned her that it could be unethical for a political appointee like herself to do so. Mr. Canellos also had the backing of Robert S. Khuzami, who ran the S.E.C.'s enforcement unit at the time.
But at a 2011 meeting of senior S.E.C. officials, Lorin L. Reisner, then the No. 2 enforcement official, suggested preparing a draft of potential charges so the agency could have a concrete document to review. Mr. Canellos's team balked, officials who attended the meeting said.
Mr. Canellos, the officials said, instead proposed that the S.E.C. publish a report that would publicly explain the decision to forgo charges. Ms. Schapiro and other S.E.C. officials rejected that option, concerned that Mr. Canellos's first draft was too sympathetic to Lehman.
While declining to comment on the Lehman case specifically, an agency spokesman said: ''There are healthy discussions and debate about legal and factual issues at many levels of the agency in investigations of significance. But in the end decisions are based on the evidence and the law.''
The S.E.C.'s decision came in stark contrast to a report by Lehman's bankruptcy-court examiner, who accused executives of using an accounting gimmick to ''manipulate'' the balance sheet.
''There were many instances where the S.E.C. had information and didn't act,'' the examiner, Anton R. Valukas, a former federal prosecutor who is now chairman of Jenner & Block, said in an interview.
There is widespread agreement that Lehman failed under the weight of risky real estate investments and an inability to finance its operations amid the economic turmoil of 2008. It has been less clear, especially after Mr. Valukas released his report, whether the government did a thorough review of the firm's collapse.
Yet The Times's examination reveals new details about the breadth of the government's effort -- S.E.C. officials reviewed more than 15 million Lehman documents and interviewed some three dozen witnesses. The decision not to bring charges, the officials said, came despite early hope among investigators, whose careers likely would have benefited from bringing such a prominent case.
The S.E.C., which has a lower burden for proving its cases than criminal authorities, has brought civil cases against 66 senior officers in cases linked to the financial crisis. The agency also extracted nine-figure settlements from banks like Goldman Sachs. According to new research by Stanford University's Securities Litigation Analytics, the S.E.C. has declined to charge individual employees in only 7 percent of its securities fraud cases.
The agency's enforcement unit, overhauled by Mr. Khuzami after the crisis, has struck an even harder line in recent months under the S.E.C.'s new chairwoman, Mary Jo White. A former federal prosecutor, Ms. White has pushed the enforcement unit to seek rare admissions of wrongdoing from defendants.
Yet the continued absence of parallel criminal cases against top executives reflects the challenge of white-collar investigations in which prosecutors struggle to pinpoint where risky dealings cross the line into illegality. When the evidence is murky, prosecutors sometimes hesitate to charge top executives, who have the money to fight rather than settle.
''It's not like a murder case, where you have a dead body and you know a crime has been committed,'' said Rita M. Glavin, a former federal prosecutor who is now a defense lawyer at Seward & Kissel.
The Lehman case once seemed like the exception. Federal prosecutors in Manhattan, Brooklyn and New Jersey, in addition to the F.B.I. and the S.E.C., all swarmed Lehman in the days after its collapse. The S.E.C.'s eight-person team included senior lawyers and accountants, several of whom were assigned exclusively to the Lehman case.
Top Lehman executives feared the fallout. One executive, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said he occasionally met with a former colleague in Queens and would wear a disguise so he would not draw attention.
At the time, authorities had no shortage of leads. Federal prosecutors divided some of the work -- prosecutors in New Jersey handled the question of whether Lehman defrauded the state's pension fund -- though they overlapped on most pursuits.
The prosecutors and the S.E.C., for example, both focused on whether Lehman executives misled shareholders by offering upbeat assessments of the firm's health, as little as five days before the firm collapsed. The authorities also scrutinized whether Lehman executives overvalued its commercial real estate portfolio.
But it was Lehman's accounting practices that probably drew the most attention. In his report on Lehman's failure, a rebuke that spanned more than 2,200 pages, Mr. Valukas, the bankruptcy-court examiner, outlined accounting maneuvers that he called ''balance sheet manipulation.''
The practice allowed Lehman to transfer securities off its balance sheet, presenting them as collateral to an outside lender, which in turn offered Lehman a short-term loan. Lehman treated the transactions as sales rather than as debt, which meant the firm looked as if it had less debt than it actually did. ''Unable to find a United States law firm'' to approve the maneuver, Mr. Valukas said, Lehman hired a law firm in London to bless it.
One Lehman executive, in an e-mail to a colleague, declared that the practice was ''another drug'' they were on.
Lehman often used the practice, known as Repo 105, at the end of its fiscal quarters just before reporting results. At the end of Lehman's first quarter 2008, its total Repo 105 use was $49.1 billion, so big that it reduced Lehman's leverage ratio.
Lehman highlighted the reduction in a public earnings call but never disclosed that it partly stemmed from Repo 105. As such, Mr. Valukas outlined possible civil claims against Mr. Fuld and his chief financial officers, including Erin Callan, who was the C.F.O. during much of the year in which Lehman collapsed. Mr. Fuld, he said, was ''at least grossly negligent'' for allowing Lehman to make ''materially misleading'' statements about the firm's health.
The Valukas report, released in March 2010, appeared to provide a road map for the federal investigation into Lehman executives. But soon after its release, according to the officials involved in the inquiry, prosecutors and the F.B.I. lost interest in the case. They discovered that Repo 105 had nothing to do with Lehman's failure and was technically allowed under an obscure accounting rule. Noting that London lawyers had approved Repo 105, prosecutors in Manhattan also worried they could not prove that executives intended to mislead investors.
The S.E.C. continued its investigation. But by early 2011, Mr. Canellos's team had run out of leads. It ruled out suing Lehman itself, because the firm was in bankruptcy. The team also decided not to sue Mr. Fuld for failing to supervise the firm's risk-taking, believing that the S.E.C. did not have the authority to do so.
So instead, the investigators focused heavily on Repo 105. They needed to prove that Lehman executives intentionally used the accounting practice to mislead investors, or did so recklessly. Ms. Callan had been C.F.O. for only about six months, they concluded, making their burden of proof high. She did not reply to requests for comment for this article.
Mr. Fuld's role was harder to ferret out. Bart H. McDade, another Lehman executive, told Mr. Valukas that Mr. Fuld ''was familiar with the term'' Repo 105 and ''knew about the accounting.'' But Mr. Fuld told the S.E.C. that he had never heard of Repo 105, officials said, undermining a potential case. A lawyer for Mr. Fuld declined to comment.
The S.E.C. team also concluded that Repo 105 would not have been ''material'' to investors because the firm's leverage ratio was trending downward regardless of Repo 105.
That conclusion set off a wave of dissent inside the S.E.C. Senior accountants and the head of the S.E.C. unit that oversaw corporate disclosures questioned the findings. Ms. Schapiro urged Mr. Canellos to keep digging.
But Mr. Canellos, a former federal prosecutor who is now the co-head of the S.E.C.'s enforcement unit, did not budge. Despite the political pressure, he told colleagues at one of the meetings, they could not bring a case if the evidence was lacking.
''Our job is to seek justice,'' he said.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Richard Fuld, left, the former chief of Lehman Brothers, testifying before Congress in 2010 about the bank's collapse in 2008. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); ACCOUNTING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); LAWYERS (74%); SUITS & CLAIMS (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (68%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (91%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: RICHARD S FULD (77%); MARY L SCHAPIRO (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2013



254 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1289 words

HEADLINE: Latest Overhaul of the MGM Studio Appears to Be a Moneymaker

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES -- For much of the last decade, Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer has been troubled by financial turmoil and infuriating production stops and starts, including a debacle in which Tom Cruise helped run its United Artists label.
Is it possible, just maybe, that the studio finally has its act together? It certainly appears that way, even as some questions remain.
Shares of MGM Holdings' thinly traded over-the-counter stock have risen 50 percent since April, to about $58.50. Revenue almost tripled in the last quarter, to $339 million, according to the company. Helped by repeated Standard & Poor's upgrades over the last three years, MGM now has access to revolving lines of credit totaling $750 million.
''The company was on death's doorstep and now has effectively no debt and is generating a ton of cash,'' said Kevin Ulrich, co-founder of Anchorage Capital Group, a New York investment firm that is MGM's largest single owner, with a 30 percent stake. ''That's an outstanding turnaround.'' 
Most important, new movies are flowing from the studio. A remake of ''Carrie'' arrives on Oct. 18, while the blockbuster ''Hobbit'' series returns in December. ''RoboCop,'' ''22 Jump Street'' and ''Hercules'' come next year. MGM's James Bond franchise returns in 2015 and remakes of ''Ben-Hur'' and ''Poltergeist'' are in the works.
MGM's television business -- a vital part of its growth strategy -- is also showing momentum. ''Vikings'' had its debut on the History channel and was an instant hit. ''Teen Wolf'' continues on MTV, while ''Paternity Court'' arrives in syndication on Sept. 23 and a series adapted from ''Fargo'' chugs toward FX.
''The MGM name had become pretty toxic, both in the financial community and the creative one, and that's certainly not the case anymore,'' Gary Barber, MGM's chief executive, said last week in a wide-ranging interview. He added, ''I feel that MGM is fully rehabilitated.''
Hollywood is not entirely convinced. Some movie executives dismiss the studio as little more than a 4,000-movie library that has already been aggressively exploited on DVD and in cable reruns. The studio's library generated about $558 million in revenue in 2007, when the DVD market was strong. The total had plunged to $228 million by 2010.
MGM has in recent years declined to disclose how much revenue its stockpile of old films generates, leading to suspicion that sales are weak. All Mr. Barber will say is that library revenue is ''substantial.''
MGM has blown the comeback trumpets before only to have its owners cash out and leave the studio reeling anew. The billionaire investor Kirk Kerkorian, for instance, bought and sold the studio three times between 1969 and 2005. By that measure, the studio's long-term future is far from clear. In addition to Anchorage, shareholders include hedge funds like Highland Capital Management and Davidson Kempner. Many initially bought MGM debt, which was converted to equity in 2010 as part of a prepackaged bankruptcy. Hedge funds are not known as patient caretakers.
''It's one thing to say the company is doing great, but it's another thing to successfully sell out a position,'' said Steven Azarbad, co-founder of Maglan Capital, a small hedge fund that owns about 1 percent of MGM. ''This thing should either be sold or I.P.O.'d. I'd like to see that happen by the end of the year.''
Selling is a potential option. (Lions Gate Entertainment is seen as the likeliest bidder.) MGM could also potentially expand through an acquisition of its own. As for an initial public offering, the studio last year filed a registration statement for one, but never moved forward with it. Because the studio has since grown, that filing is void.
''An I.P.O. will continue to be an opportunity,'' Mr. Barber said. ''We're carefully evaluating all of our options. Quite frankly, we don't need that capital right now.''
Are his hedge fund shareholders restless? ''No, no, no,'' Mr. Barber said. ''The board of directors is strongly supportive of the business strategy we have developed -- and that's not for tomorrow but for long-term value growth. That's a critical difference from the past.''
Mr. Ulrich, of Anchorage, said, ''As long as the return profile remains very strong we will remain a key shareholder.'' Using standard financial comparisons, Anchorage and others believe that MGM is sharply undervalued compared to other independent studios like DreamWorks Animation and Lions Gate.
If hedge funds are indeed willing to stick with MGM, it would underscore an important shift on Wall Street regarding Hollywood. A few years ago, when the DVD business collapsed and DVRs changed the habits of television viewers, many analysts and investors soured on filmed entertainment.
But lately that opinion has shifted. Movies and TV shows are becoming more valuable again because of box office growth overseas and the eagerness of streaming services like Netflix and Amazon to acquire content.
''It's a bet that the value of the MGM library will go up, for sure, but it's also a bet on Gary Barber, who is a brilliant and extremely disciplined manager,'' said Kevin Tsujihara, chief executive of Warner Brothers. That studio's parent, Time Warner, made an unsuccessful $1.7 billion bid to buy MGM in 2009. (Debt holders rejected the offer as too low and instead pursued the bankruptcy option.)
Mr. Barber, 56, is a bit of an enigma. He dislikes risk -- almost all of MGM's movies are made with partners to ease the financial pain if they flop. But Mr. Barber, raised in South Africa, also likes to gamble: he is an owner or co-owner of dozens of thoroughbreds, which are raced around the world. A former accountant, he made his mark in Hollywood as a co-founder of Spyglass Entertainment, which struck cinematic gold with ''The Sixth Sense'' and ''Seabiscuit.''
''He has managed MGM shrewdly and is now starting to show their talent as producers,'' said Brad Grey, the chairman of Paramount, which is producing ''Hercules'' in partnership with MGM.
When Mr. Barber and a Spyglass partner, Roger Birnbaum, arrived to run MGM in 2010 as part of the bankruptcy package, the studio was choking on more than $4 billion in debt. Production had ground to a halt after several failed resuscitation efforts, including a prominent attempt by Mr. Cruise and his production partner, Paula Wagner, to run MGM's specialty division, United Artists.
''The company was like a melting ice cube,'' Mr. Barber said.
He pared the staff by about 40 percent, to 275 people. (A little more than 300 now work at the studio.) MGM moved from its lavish offices -- marble, orchids -- to a corporate-style space that cost 73 percent less to lease, and cut costs across the company. ''It started from stationery all the way across to travel,'' Mr. Barber said. ''There are no more messengers. None.''
To get production rolling, Mr. Barber made a deal with Warner to cofinance ''The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey,'' which ended up taking in $1 billion at the global box office. A deal with Sony included ''Skyfall,'' which took in $1.1 billion -- the best result ever for a James Bond movie, even adjusted for inflation.
''Gary and his team bring terrific financial discipline and very, very good creative input,'' said Michael Lynton, chief executive of Sony Entertainment. ''They are not passive financiers.''
In addition to teaming with MGM to produce and distribute ''Carrie,'' ''RoboCop'' and ''22 Jump Street,'' Sony will also join with MGM for the next Bond movie. But Sony's contractual rights to new Bond movies expire after that, and it is clear that MGM plans to flex its newfound muscles in any extension talks.
''We're not committed to anyone,'' Mr. Barber said with a grin. ''We will assess it and make a decision when we are ready.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''Skyfall,'' with Daniel Craig as James Bond, took in $1.1 billion. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRANÇOIS DUHAMEL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (90%); FILM (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (87%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (86%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (77%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (76%); MOVIE REVIEWS (72%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (71%); FILM HISTORY (71%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (70%); INTERVIEWS (69%); CD & DVD DRIVES (60%); EXECUTIVES (60%)

COMPANY: METRO-GOLDWYN-MAYER INC (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (96%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (96%)

PERSON: DANIEL CRAIG (79%); TOM CRUISE (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2013



255 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: Kerry Asks European Union to Halt Ban on Aid to Israeli Institutions

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON and ISABEL KERSHNER; Michael R. Gordon reported from London, and Isabel Kershner from Jerusalem.

 BODY:
LONDON -- Secretary of State John Kerry said Sunday that he had asked the European Union to suspend its new restrictions on financial assistance to Israeli institutions in order to show the Israeli public the benefit of pursuing a peace agreement with the Palestinians.
''I think it's important that the Israeli people and the government see that coming to the talks, taking the risk of moving toward peace is worthwhile,'' Mr. Kerry said. 
In June, the European Union issued guidelines that would preclude financing and cooperating with institutions in territories occupied by Israel after the 1967 war. The guidelines, which have yet to take effect, were intended to pressure Israel to change its policy on Jewish settlements in the West Bank and seek a peace agreement with the Palestinians.
The restrictions were of great concern to Israeli officials, who feared they would be the opening salvo in a campaign to isolate Israel and punish its economy.
Mr. Kerry asked for the suspension in a closed-door meeting on Saturday of European Union foreign ministers in Vilnius, Lithuania. Mr. Kerry also discussed the current status of the talks, which have resumed after almost three years.
A senior State Department official said that the European Union was open to the idea of suspending the restrictions, but that it would not make a decision before its foreign ministers meet again in October.
Israeli officials were encouraged by the move. Yigal Palmor, a spokesman for Israel's Foreign Ministry, said that Israel had been involved in an ''intensive diplomatic effort'' with European countries since the guidelines were published to urge that they not be implemented in the strictest possible way. He added that the European Union was sending a delegation to Israel on Tuesday to continue those discussions.
But in a statement that reflected the deeply entrenched differences between the Israelis and Palestinians, a senior Palestinian official said that suspending the European Union guidelines would reduce the pressure on Israel to make meaningful concessions.
''The announcement of the E.U. guidelines was a very positive step which played a significant role in the decision to resume negotiations,'' Hanan Ashrawi, a member of the executive committee of the Palestine Liberation Organization, said in a statement.
''Reports of U.S. lobbying the E.U. on behalf of Israel are extremely discouraging and cast serious doubts on the U.S. mediation role,'' she added.
Mr. Kerry said, however, that the Palestinians were also benefiting from the decision to resume talks, as the Israeli government was allowing communications equipment and building materials to be sent to Gaza and had arranged for the Allenby Bridge, which crosses the Jordan River and links the West Bank with Jordan, to be open 24 hours a day, among other steps.
In a modest move intended to bolster the peace process and the West Bank economy, the Israeli government on Sunday increased by 5,000 the number of permits allocated for Palestinians working inside Israel. Tens of thousands of Palestinians already hold such permits.
As for the Israelis, Mr. Kerry argued that it was important to recognize Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's decision to resume negotiations.
''Because he has paid some political price for making his decision,'' Mr. Kerry said, ''I think it's important for Europe to say in return, 'See what this gets? This gets a change in our relationship, a change for the better.' '' The peace talks between the Israelis and the Palestinians formally resumed in July. Because of the secrecy surrounding the negotiations, it is difficult to say if any meaningful progress has been made.
Mr. Kerry spoke at a news conference after meeting in Paris with Arab foreign ministers whom he hopes to persuade to support the Middle East peace process. They also discussed the Syria crisis.
Mr. Kerry then left for London where he met with Mahmoud Abbas, the president of the Palestinian Authority.
Mr. Kerry had planned a meeting in Rome with Mr. Netanyahu, but the Israeli prime minister decided not to leave Jerusalem because of the tense situation in Syria. Mr. Kerry said that he planned to meet with Mr. Netanyahu ''shortly, as our schedules permit.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gilo, an Israeli development in Jerusalem. European guidelines preclude financing in areas occupied by Israel after 1967. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ABIR SULTAN/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EUROPEAN UNION (94%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); PEACE PROCESS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); LOBBYING (78%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (73%); JEWS & JUDAISM (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (67%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) ISRAEL (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (96%); EUROPE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); JORDAN (92%); LITHUANIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2013



256 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 564 words

HEADLINE: India in Reverse

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

 BODY:
India's once booming economy is sliding into a deep slump. The country grew just 4.4 percent this summer, a far cry from the 7.7 percent average for the past decade. Its currency, the rupee, has tumbled 16 percent against the dollar in the last three months. And analysts expect things to get even worse in the coming months. 
Like Indonesia, Brazil and other developing countries, India has been hurt as investors have moved money to the United States to take advantage of the prospect of higher interest rates. But most of India's biggest problems -- like its high inflation, which was nearly 5.8 percent in July and has been rising partly because of the falling rupee -- have domestic causes. Until the coalition government led by Prime Minister Manmohan Singh reforms the country's economy, India will fall far short of its potential.
During the global financial boom of the mid-2000s, investors indiscriminately dumped cash into fast-growing countries and India's shortcomings were easily overlooked. The financial crisis forced investors to pay more attention to fundamental problems in emerging markets. Analysts and business executives say the country has become even less hospitable in recent years. In the nine years that the coalition government has been in power, several ministers have resigned in corruption scandals; large infrastructure projects have been delayed by mismanagement; the government's budget deficit has ballooned, thanks to wasteful spending like subsidies for diesel fuel; and politics have thwarted reforms in labor and education.
Mr. Singh has been an ineffectual leader without much authority. The real power is held by his political patron, Sonia Gandhi, who leads the Indian National Congress Party, which has expressed little concern for the country's ailing economy.
Sadly, most analysts expect Ms. Gandhi and Mr. Singh to make no politically difficult changes -- like privatizing bloated state-owned enterprises or easing counterproductive regulations and delays on public infrastructure projects -- until after national elections next year.
As the economy slows, India's poor suffer most. Many have lost jobs in hard-hit sectors like construction and manufacturing. They are also seeing their meager incomes eroded by rising food costs. One change that would help is for government to provide welfare payments directly to families instead of funneling subsidized food grains, fuel and other commodities through corrupt officials who siphon off up to 60 percent of the benefits. In Brazil and Mexico, direct transfers to the poor have helped reduce poverty and cut down on corruption and waste.
The new governor of India's central bank, Raghuram Rajan, a respected economist, can also help by pushing through delayed reforms to make the country's financial industry more competitive by, for instance, granting licenses to new banks. But unlike the Federal Reserve, the Reserve Bank of India is subject to significant political meddling, which could limit how far Mr. Rajan can go.
In 1991, when the country was facing a financial crisis and had to pledge its gold reserves for an emergency loan, the Indian government pushed through landmark economic reforms like freeing businesses to produce as much as they wanted without seeking government approval. The situation is not as dire today, but the country needs solutions that are just as far-reaching.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (79%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (79%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); INFLATION (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); CURRENCIES (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); FOOD PRICES (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); POLITICS (74%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (74%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); CORRUPTION (70%); ELECTIONS (70%); LAYOFFS (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); INFRASTRUCTURE (67%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (67%); EXECUTIVES (66%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (66%); SCANDALS (65%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (64%); DIESEL FUEL (64%); BUDGET DEFICITS (64%); GOVERNORS (56%); INTEREST RATES (55%)

COMPANY: RESERVE BANK OF INDIA (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (50%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (50%)

PERSON: MANMOHAN SINGH (79%); SONIA GANDHI (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA (99%); BRAZIL (93%); INDONESIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2013



257 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 438 words

HEADLINE: Mindlessly Gutting Food Stamps

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

 BODY:
Among the many scars of the recession, the most intolerable should be the pangs of chronic hunger that still assail a stunning 14.5 percent of the nation's households, according to the Department of Agriculture's latest survey. A decade ago, the figure was 11 percent -- a group defined as regularly suffering food ''insecurity,'' or having 26 percent less to spend on food than households not going hungry. The survey shows that food insecurity rose with the recession and has remained stubbornly high. 
Instead of providing aid for the hungry, House Republicans want to reduce the food stamp program -- the most basic part of the social safety net -- with $40 billion in cuts across the next decade. A showdown vote over this cruel plan is expected this month. The House majority leader, Eric Cantor, is leading a propaganda drive that invokes reform as its cause while blaming the victims of hunger simply because the food stamp rolls had to double to nearly 48 million people in the crunch of recession.
The Cantor plan would force an estimated four to six million people to lose the food stamps that now sustain them. It would invite state governments to ratchet benefits back further because they could use savings wrenched from the pantries of the poor for various other programs, including tax cuts. The measure's ''work requirements'' provide no job training funds yet mandate that able-bodied, childless adults who cannot find at least part-time employment will lose their food stamps after 90 days, even if the local unemployment rate is prohibitively high.
Even without the House conservatives' turning of the screw, the hunger of the working poor was starkly described by Sheryl Gay Stolberg in The Times last week from Tennessee. Parents told of how they must regularly skip meals to feed their children and hunt game when the food stamp allotment falls short of monthly needs.
The falsehood that cutting food stamps is about saving government money is evident when the House plans rich increases in crop insurance subsidies for farmers. Representative Stephen Fincher of Tennessee, a Tea Party favorite who wants food stamps cut, collected nearly $3.5 million in government farm subsidies from 1999 to 2012. Yet he declared in a debate over food stamps, ''The one who is unwilling to work shall not eat.''
The Republicans play up a few abusers of the program to mask the central fact of their plan: the tens of millions of Americans who rely on food stamps are children, the disabled, the elderly and low-wage families. For their sake, Congress should reject the Cantor proposal as the national embarrassment it plainly is.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD STAMPS (91%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (91%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CHILDREN (88%); FOOD SECURITY (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); FOOD CHARITIES (78%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); FAMILY (77%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); CONSERVATISM (75%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); AGRICULTURAL INSURANCE (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (66%); WAGES & SALARIES (66%); TAX LAW (65%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD STAMP PROGRAM (56%)

PERSON: ERIC CANTOR (74%); STEPHEN FINCHER (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2013



258 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1279 words

HEADLINE: In South Florida, a Polluted Bubble Ready to Burst

BYLINE: By LIZETTE ALVAREZ

 BODY:
CLEWISTON, Fla. -- On wind-whipped days when rain pounds this part of South Florida, people are quickly reminded that Lake Okeechobee, with its vulnerable dike and polluted waters, has become a giant environmental problem far beyond its banks.
Beginning in May, huge downpours ushered in the most significant threat in almost a decade to the bulging lake and its 80-year-old earthen dike, a turn of events with far-reaching consequences. The summer rains set off a chain reaction that devastated three major estuaries far to the east and west, distressing residents, alarming state and federal officials and prompting calls for remedial action.
With lake waters at their limit, there were only two choices, neither of them good. One was to risk breaching the 143-mile dike, a potential catastrophe to the agricultural tracts south of the lake and the small communities that depend on them. The other was to release billions of gallons of polluted water into delicate estuaries to the east and west.
Following its post-Hurricane Katrina guidelines, the Army Corps of Engineers chose the estuaries, rather than test the dike's vulnerabilities. 
As a result, the St. Lucie River estuary in the east and the Caloosahatchee River estuary in the west, which depend on a naturally calibrated balance of salt and fresh water, were overwhelmed. The rush of fresh water from the lake and the estuaries' own river basins, along with the pollutants carried in from farms, ranches, septic tanks and golf courses, has crippled the estuaries and, on the east coast of the state, the Indian River Lagoon.
A breeding ground for marine life, estuaries are crucial to the ecosystem. As algae caused by pollutants quickly spread and fresh water overpowered saltwater, oysters died in droves. Manatees, shellfish and the sea grasses and reefs that help sustain the estuaries all were badly hit.
''These coastal estuaries cannot take this,'' said Mark D. Perry, the executive director of the Florida Oceanographic Society, based in Stuart. ''Enough is enough. This cannot continue to happen. These estuaries are so important to us, our environment and our economies.''
The damage to the estuaries has been so profound and the clamor from local communities so intense that political leaders have pledged action. Gov. Rick Scott, a Republican, visited the affected areas last month and proposed spending a total of $130 million for two separate projects.
One is intended to ease some of the pressure on Lake Okeechobee by allowing more water to go south into the Everglades, where it should flow naturally. The water will flow under a series of bridges that will be completed over the Tamiami Trail. By law, the water flowing into the Everglades is filtered and treated, unlike the water that heads to the estuaries.
South Florida was expressly engineered to prevent too much water from moving south, which is why most of the flow from the lake is pushed east and west. Canals to the south were dug to make way for agricultural fields, mostly containing sugar cane, and for urbanization. The little water that is released flows around those areas.
Environmentalists have fought for decades to correct the flow into the Everglades, a gargantuan and costly undertaking.
A second project would clean more of the polluted water in the St. Lucie River Basin that flows into the river. There are plans for a similar storm water treatment area on the west coast to help curb the damage.
''Every drop of water that we can send south and keep out of the Caloosahatchee and St. Lucie estuaries is a win for Florida families,'' Mr. Scott said recently when he proposed $90 million for one of the projects. ''My message to families being impacted is that we will not give up on you.''
Among other projects quickly moving forward is one to store more water outside the lake, including on private property, and another to unclog culverts south of the lake. A prominent state senator, Joe Negron, recently held a hearing in Stuart to talk about the problems stemming from the lake and possible solutions.
A top priority is repairing the frail Herbert Hoover Dike surrounding Lake Okeechobee, which is more than half the size of Rhode Island and is renowned for its bass fishing. A 2006 report on the lake found that the dike, long ranked among the most vulnerable in the country, posed a ''grave and imminent danger.''
But the repairs take time and large amounts of money.
Last year, the Corps of Engineers finished shoring up one section of the dike. It has now shifted gears and is working on replacing or repairing some of the lake's 32 huge culverts and conducting a further analysis of the dike.
''It doesn't take long at all to realize what a complex web water management is in South Florida,'' said John Campbell, a corps spokesman. ''There are no easy fixes anywhere.''
The corps built the dike after two hurricanes smashed into the region in the 1920s, flooding the area and killing 2,500 people. Decades later, its flaws are evident. For one, it was built with earthen mounds. Hurricanes and storms have taken bites out of it, causing leaks in the past.
But there is another intractable problem, as well. The corps dug channels to funnel water from the Kissimmee River into the lake and prevent flooding to the north. The channels propel the water so swiftly that six times more water can pour into the lake than the corps can pump out. When it rains heavily, the lake swells quickly.
As a result, the corps starts discharging water when the level rises above 15 ½ feet, although some leeway exists depending on the weather. This summer it hit 16 feet, close to a record high for August. The corps began to release water as quickly as it could, further damaging the estuaries.
''There is no button we can push to magically lower the lake if the inflows coming in exceed the outflows,'' Mr. Campbell said.
Mr. Scott has accused the federal government of dragging its feet on making dike repairs and paying its share of the cost. But environmentalists say Mr. Scott and the Legislature have slashed the budget of the South Florida Water Management District, which oversees the state's water flow, and have put in place some inexperienced managers.
Meanwhile, the peak of hurricane season has arrived.
''The lake is slowly beginning to recede a bit,'' said Ernie Barnett, the interim executive director for the South Florida Water Management District. ''But the concern is still there. All it will take is one tropical storm to put us in a massive crisis mode.''
The rush of fresh water, both from the lake and its own river basin, has had an immediate impact on the St. Lucie River estuary to the east. Life in and around it has come to a standstill this summer -- one recent afternoon, boats could be tallied on one hand. Fishing piers sat forlorn. Any fish capable of swimming away have already done so. Salinity in the estuary is at zero percent, said Mr. Perry, of the Florida Oceanographic Society.
The bay, which abuts picturesque downtown Stuart, is about as inviting as someone else's filthy bath water.
''Advisory,'' read the warning signs around the estuary. ''High bacteria levels. Avoid contact with the water. Increased risk of illness at this time.''
Lake Okeechobee, with its prized bass, is also struggling. Phillip Roland, the mayor of Clewiston, a lakeside town of 7,000, has witnessed many of the lake's travails: the 1947 hurricane that drove water over the dike; seasons of drought that starved the lake, followed by storms that weakened the dike.
But he is skeptical of the hubbub, unsure that it will amount to change.
''I've seen this time after time,'' Mr. Roland said wryly. ''This problem hasn't just started.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Lake Okeechobee is bordered on the south by agricultural fields and communities that depend on them. After heavy rains this summer, officials decided to release some of the lake's polluted water into estuaries rather than test its dike. Top, protesters greeted Gov. Rick Scott as he toured the newly polluted areas. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EDWARD LINSMIER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
J PAT CARTER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A11)
 Mayor Phillip Roland of Clewiston worries that too much water in Lake Okeechobee could cause its dike to fail and flood the town. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EDWARD LINSMIER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12) MAP: Polluted water was released from Lake Okeechobee to prevent flooding, devastating the brackish rivers to the east and west. (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WATER POLLUTION (91%); LAKES (90%); WATER QUALITY (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); RIVERS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (77%); MARINE MAMMALS (77%); OCEANOGRAPHY (77%); ENGINEERING (77%); ISLANDS & REEFS (77%); SEAWEED & ALGAE (73%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (72%); HURRICANES (70%); HURRICANE KATRINA (70%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (67%); EXECUTIVES (61%); ARMIES (54%)

ORGANIZATION: ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (55%)

PERSON: RICK SCOTT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2013



259 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 869 words

HEADLINE: Wrestling, With Revamped Rules, Returns to Summer Games

BYLINE: By JERÉ LONGMAN

 BODY:
BUENOS AIRES -- After facing a wide backlash, the International Olympic Committee restored wrestling -- one of the most traditional and elemental sports -- to the Summer Games on Sunday.
Chastened by calls to modernize its leadership and energize its matches, wrestling changed its rules, created more weight classes for women and easily prevailed over squash and a combined bid by baseball and softball.
Wrestling received 49 votes, compared with 24 for baseball/softball and 22 for squash in voting by delegates of the Olympic committee. The vote, which was to add one of the three sports, guaranteed that freestyle and Greco-Roman wrestling would be contested at least through the 2020 Summer Games in Tokyo and the 2024 Olympics, which have yet to be awarded. 
Last February, in what was seen as a wake-up call, the 15-member executive board of the I.O.C. removed wrestling from the core sports of the Summer Games after the 2016 Rio Olympics. The move drew heavy criticism because wrestling has been an integral Olympic sport.
But Olympic officials complained to wrestling officials that their ancient sport had antiquated leadership and matches that could be dull, with results not easily understood by spectators.
Wrestling's world governing body, known by its initials as FILA, quickly began to reform itself. Its president, Raphael Martinetti of Switzerland, resigned and was replaced by Nenad Lalovic, a burly and gregarious Serb.
''We have made mistakes,'' Lalovic said. ''We admitted it.''
A seven-month push was made to repair the standing of wrestling, which made its first appearance in the ancient Olympic Games in 708 B.C. and has been a staple of the modern Games.
Countries with profound political differences -- the United States, Russia and Iran -- found common ground when their interests converged over wrestling.
''I think everybody should watch wrestling, to see how we can manage that,'' Lalovic said.
Two Olympic weight classes were dropped for men and two were added for women. Beginning with the 2016 Rio Games, there will be six classes for men and women in freestyle wrestling and six for men in Greco-Roman wrestling.
FILA officials said they were amenable to women participating in Greco-Roman wrestling in the future if there was sufficient interest.
The rules were also amended to make matches more dynamic, rewarding wrestlers who are more aggressive and punishing those who remain passive. Matches will consist of two three-minute rounds instead of three two-minute rounds. Takedowns will count for 2 points instead of 1, and matches will be decided on accumulated points.
Wrestlers will now have ''more time to develop the fight,'' Lalovic said.
''In two minutes, that was practically impossible,'' he said.
Wrestlers also will have more control in determining the outcome of matches, said Aleksandr Karelin of Russia, who won three Olympic gold medals in Greco-Roman wrestling. ''Wrestlers have a big chance to decide on the mat, not another reason, not referee, not judges,'' he said.
The continuation of wrestling in the Olympics was ''critically important'' to the health of the sport at the grass-roots level in the United States, said Jim Scherr, a former chief executive of the United States Olympic Committee.
Wrestling remains popular in high school and has added teams at lower college levels, but it has struggled at the Division I level amid budget constraints as a vast majority of athletic departments operate in the red.
''Because of economic pressures,'' Scherr said, a nonrevenue producing sport that loses its Olympic imprimatur was ''a sport that's potentially at risk.''
Softball and baseball exited the Olympics after the 2008 Beijing Games. Baseball, unlike hockey, has not been willing to halt its season for the Olympics and commit the world's best players to participate.
Softball apparently could not convince the I.O.C. of its universal appeal. The United States, Japan and Australia won 11 of the 12 available medals in the four Games in which the sport was contested.
Squash has never appeared in the Olympics.
But there is still a chance that both baseball/softball and squash could be voted into the 2020 Games in Tokyo, where baseball is hugely popular and stadiums are in place.
Squash is basing its appeal on the small number of athletes (64) needed for the Olympics, the fan-friendliness of glass courts that can be built in exotic locations and the ability of countries that are not traditional Olympic powers to win medals.
A new president of the Olympic committee will be elected Tuesday, and there is a movement by some delegates to alter the Olympic sports program to give it broader appeal to spectators and television viewers.
''Every time we try to do something, we get it wrong,'' said Dick Pound, an I.O.C. delegate from Montreal, taking a veiled swipe at the leadership of the departing Olympic committee president, Jacques Rogge of Belgium.
Pound noted that with the return of wrestling, no new sport had been added to the Olympic schedule. He said some events could be trimmed to create room for additional sports.
For starters, Pound suggested the elimination of racewalking from track and field.
''It's hard to organize and everybody runs,'' he said, laughing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (92%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); WRESTLING (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (90%); WOMEN (89%); ATHLETES (89%); SOFTBALL (78%); BASEBALL (78%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (56%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); JAPAN (56%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2013



260 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1177 words

HEADLINE: City Opera Warns of Wide Cancellations if Fund-Raising Lags

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

 BODY:
New York City Opera, which was founded 70 years ago to bring opera to the masses, will be forced to cancel most of its current season and all of its next season if it fails to raise $20 million by year's end, company officials say.
The cash crisis that City Opera is trying to overcome threatens the very survival of a company that has made opera accessible and cultivated important singers over the years, including Beverly Sills, Plácido Domingo and Renée Fleming. And it raises the question of whether New York will again be able to count itself among cultural capitals like Berlin and London that can support more than one major opera company.
''The company's been living on the edge and hand-to-mouth for a number of years, and we've gotten through our own share of financial troubles,'' George Steel, the company's general manager and artistic director, said in a telephone interview last week. ''We've had balanced budgets for the last two years, and we've been doing, I think, incredible work onstage. But we can't forge ahead without a significant infusion of capital.'' 
The company's $20 million fund-raising goal is nearly twice the $11.5 million it reported raising last year. And it is more than the troupe was able to raise in better times, before the recession, and before its squeezed finances forced it to abandon its old home in Lincoln Center, where it used to give more than 100 performances a season. The company has led a nomadic existence since leaving Lincoln Center in 2011, performing fewer than 20 times a year, often to critical praise, at theaters around the city.
The company is still preparing to go ahead next week with the highly anticipated American premiere of Mark-Anthony Turnage's opera ''Anna Nicole,'' a coproduction with the Brooklyn Academy of Music.
But it will cancel the other productions it has planned for this season -- Johann Christian Bach's ''Endimione,'' Bartok's ''Bluebeard's Castle'' and Mozart's ''Marriage of Figaro'' -- if it cannot raise $7 million by Sept. 30, Mr. Steel said.
He added that City Opera will cancel its entire 2014-15 season if it cannot raise an additional $13 million by the end of December.
Mr. Steel said that while the company had been able to scale back expenses, renegotiate its union contracts and balance its budget in recent seasons, it doesn't have the money on hand to pay for coming productions.
''We lack a few critical things, and have for a number of years,'' he said. ''We don't have much return from our endowment, we don't have any operating capital, and we don't have any credit. So what money we have at the beginning of the month is the amount of money we can spend.''
Charles R. Wall, the opera company's chairman, said that the $20 million goal was ''more than we've ever raised, as far as I know,'' but that he was hopeful that with hard work and the support of a few major patrons, it could be met. He said it would have to be.
''You can't run the opera on a hope and a prayer,'' he said in an interview. ''You've got to pay bills. And you've got to raise the money to pay them. That's the simplest way I can put it. And you cannot spend what you do not have.''
City Opera had planned to spend $10.5 million on the current season, but so far has gotten commitments for only a little more than $3 million.
Mr. Steel shared the news Sunday with the orchestra, which opposed the move from Lincoln Center and which has seen its pay cut significantly. The players were once guaranteed a weekly salary for 29 weeks but are now paid by the performance and the rehearsal.
Gail Kruvand, the chairwoman of the orchestra committee, said that the move from Lincoln Center had alienated patrons and audience members alike and noted that the company was presenting fewer performances than at any time in its history. She said that the orchestra committee was calling for the resignation of Mr. Steel and for the board to begin searching for a successor.
Mr. Wall said: ''George has, and always has had, the complete support of the board, as he should have. He's done a heroic job.''
The 21st century has been cruel to the finances of City Opera, which Mayor Fiorello La Guardia called ''the people's opera'' when it was founded in 1943.
The company began running mounting deficits in 2003. After flirting with leaving Lincoln Center for artistic reasons, it decided to stay when its longtime home, the New York State Theater, was given a major renovation and renamed for its benefactor, David H. Koch.
But going dark for the 2008-9 season while the theater was being rebuilt proved costly. The company lost a year's worth of ticket sales just as its deficits were growing unmanageable.
That season, the troupe raided its endowment, withdrawing $24 million to pay off loans and cover expenses. The move, coming just when the endowment was already depleted by investment losses brought on by the financial crisis, had long-term repercussions: While the endowment once provided the company with more than $3 million a year in investment income, it now produces less than $200,000 a year.
Last year, City Opera made more from its Thrift Shop on East 23rd Street in Manhattan than from its endowment. The company promised to repay the endowment in stages but has yet to make any repayments, Mr. Steel said.
At that same time, the troupe experienced a damaging leadership crisis. It had hired Gerard Mortier, the iconoclastic impresario who was then the director of the Paris Opera, as its new general manager and artistic director in 2007. But Mr. Mortier ended up resigning before he even officially assumed the post when he found out that his operating budget would be only a little more than half of what he had been led to expect.
When Mr. Steel took over in 2009, City Opera's finances were reeling. In 2011, he announced that the company could no longer afford to stay in the newly renovated Koch Theater, which included improved acoustics the troupe had long sought.
While the company raised $17 million in the fiscal year ending in June 2011 -- a record -- contributions fell off again after the company left Lincoln Center and drastically scaled back its productions.
''When you have a smaller aggregate audience, you have fewer people attending the company and fewer potential asks,'' Mr. Steel said of the fund-raising difficulties.
Now, in a move that harks back to the company's populist roots and underscores the start-up mentality City Opera has tried to tap as it works to reinvent itself, the company will seek to raise $1 million of the $7 million it needs to raise by the end of the month through an online Kickstarter campaign.
Mr. Steel voiced optimism that the troupe was poised to survive.
''We've been spending a lot of time trying to get the company in good shape, and we have a lean business model, we've managed to right-size the organization, we have two years of balanced budgets, we have a much more streamlined administration, we have much better union contracts, and we're making fantastic art,'' he said. ''But what we cannot do without is a significant infusion of capital.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: George Steel, City Opera's general manager, has faced money woes since arriving. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C4) CHART: Hard Times for City Opera: New York City Opera is trying to overcome a cash crisis threatening its survival. The company is warning that it will have to cancel the remainder of this season and its next season if it fails to raise $20 million by year's end. (Source: City Opera audited financials) (C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUNDRAISING (90%); OPERA (89%); BUDGETS (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); THEATER (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2013



261 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1436 words

HEADLINE: Making History in Pakistan Simply by Serving a Full Term

BYLINE: By DECLAN WALSH; Salman Masood contributed reporting from Islamabad, Pakistan.

 BODY:
Smoking an electronic cigarette and casually stooping to feed his cat, President Asif Ali Zardari cut a relaxed figure in a television interview broadcast on Sunday. Later, he strolled from the presidential palace while flanked by soldiers in gleaming uniforms, in a mark of honor for his last day at work.
For the departing president, whose many critics had anticipated other endings, those seemingly banal images represented a quiet victory.
Over his five years in power, Mr. Zardari fended off threat after threat. Senior judges sought to unseat him through corruption prosecutions. Generals murmured to diplomats about the possibility of a coup. The Taliban vowed to kill him. And large portions of the Pakistani news media and public seemed to revel in ridiculing or condemning him. 
He leaves with the Pakistani economy a shambles, and with the once-mighty political machine he still leads, the Pakistan People's Party, in disarray after a crushing election defeat.
Yet for all that, Mr. Zardari, 58, has also confounded expectations. He bolstered Pakistan's democracy by draining his own office of power. He became the country's first elected president to complete his term of office. He shifted the tone of politics, eschewing bare-knuckles confrontation for a more accommodating approach.
And, perhaps thanks to the instincts that were honed during his 11 years in prison before becoming president, he displayed political wiles that enabled him to outmaneuver the steeliest rivals, and simply survive.
''Love him or hate him, one can never underestimate President Zardari,'' wrote Kamal Siddiqi, editor of the daily newspaper The Express Tribune.
Mr. Zardari's departure from office comes at the midpoint of a broader changing of the guard this year in the top echelons of Pakistan's turbulent power structures. In June, his longtime political rival, Nawaz Sharif, became prime minister after a sweeping election victory. In November, the army chief, Gen. Ashfaq Parvez Kayani, is due to step down; weeks later, the formidable chief justice, Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry, is to be replaced.
''This is an era of great change,'' said Adil Najam, a professor of international relations at Boston University. ''Zardari's achievement is to walk away from high power with a smile on his face -- not going out in a coffin, or in handcuffs, or in disgrace.''
For long, though, he struggled to achieve political legitimacy.
Catapulted into office in 2008 by the assassination of his wife, Benazir Bhutto, Mr. Zardari arrived already burdened by a reputation for graft. Not only did the military dislike him, but he was also viewed with suspicion by many supporters of his own party as the accidental inheritor of a storied political dynasty.
After early efforts to assert his authority in the face of the military abjectly failed, he largely receded from public view. Much of that was due to security concerns, as a fierce Taliban bombing offensive struck major cities, killing thousands. He often remained cloistered in Islamabad, worried about his security, occasionally darting to the airport for state trips abroad, or to his second home in Dubai.
He displayed a leaden sensibility toward public opinion -- for instance, continuing a vacation at his parents' estate in France in August 2010 as huge floods inundated the country and drove hundreds of thousands of people from their homes.
Those mistakes were seized upon by the increasingly influential electronic media, which treated Mr. Zardari with hostility and, for a time, regularly predicted his downfall. He was openly mocked, and his personal life attacked with insinuations. Some Pakistanis still believe that Mr. Zardari engineered his own wife's death as part of a macabre power grab.
Yet Mr. Zardari often turned the other cheek, keeping up a Cheshire cat grin while he pursued a calculated and patient approach as his opponents overstepped themselves.
In 2012, he slogged through a protracted court battle with Justice Chaudhry, who pushed to reopen a corruption case against Mr. Zardari that dated to the 1990s. Mr. Zardari and his lawyers fought back adroitly, eventually sidestepping the charges. But in the process, he had to sacrifice his chosen prime minister, Yousaf Raza Gilani, who was forced to resign by court order in June 2012.
Often as not, brinkmanship and back-room deals were Mr. Zardari's style. Yet along the way, he also introduced key constitutional changes that anchored the country's fragile democratic foundations. He surrendered the main power of his own office -- the ability to dismiss Parliament -- and turned it into a ceremonial position.
That he got so far could be seen as a minor miracle. During a political crisis in 2009, General Kayani discussed the possibility of a military takeover, according to American diplomatic cables later published by WikiLeaks. Around the same time, Mr. Zardari told Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. he worried that General Kayani and the Inter-Services Intelligence directorate were plotting to ''take me out,'' according to another leaked cable.
In private meetings, according to a confidant who met with him regularly, Mr. Zardari indicated that he believed his conversations were being monitored, and would tap two fingers on his shoulder to indicate he was talking about the military.
The confidant spoke on the condition of anonymity out of fear of reprisal.
But the Pakistan military's prestige has also suffered blows in recent years, particularly after the American commando raid that killed Osama bin Laden in May 2011. A charged political scandal blew up months later when Mr. Zardari faced accusations of secretly siding with the United States amid fears of a military coup.
But the drama later fizzled, suggesting new limits to military meddling in politics.
If his constant maneuvering succeeded in yielding Mr. Zardari political and judicial victories, however, it failed to address some of Pakistan's most profound troubles.
The economy has nose-dived and foreign exchange reserves have shrunk in recent years, leading the International Monetary Fund to approve a $6.6 billion emergency loan on Wednesday -- on top of $5 billion that Pakistan already owes the international body.
Further harming the economy, systemic power shortages reached crisis proportions this summer, with even major cities experiencing long hours of electricity rationing. Only 1 percent of Pakistanis pay income tax.
Mr. Zardari habitually chose ministers on the basis of loyalty rather than ability. And although he frequently railed against the menace posed by Islamist militants, his government failed to stem the tide of Taliban violence.
Indeed, his party kowtowed to the religious right, particularly in the poisonous debate over Pakistan's blasphemy laws. And attempts to broker peace in western Baluchistan Province, where a bitter nationalist insurgency has been raging, failed badly.
In recent months, however, as it became clear he would see out the end of his term, some of the public venom toward Mr. Zardari appeared to have dissipated.
''There is a sense that political normalcy is starting to set in,'' said Professor Najam, while cautioning that it was too early to say if civilian supremacy would last. ''We've been here before, in the 1990s,'' he said. ''And then things bounce back.''
On Monday, the new president, Mamnoon Hussain of Mr. Sharif's Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz, is due to be sworn in.
Mr. Zardari, meanwhile, may still have to fend off threats from his old rival, Justice Chaudhry.
Some speculate that the courts could renew their judicial offensives against Mr. Zardari once he loses the shield of presidential immunity. Already his predecessor, Pervez Musharraf, is under house arrest, facing criminal charges in five cases.
Mr. Zardari says his priority is to rebuild the Pakistan People's Party, which suffered a painful drubbing in the May elections. He must unite disgruntled factions and, eventually, settle the matter of succession -- whether the Bhutto mantle will fall to his son, Bilawal, or to his daughter Aseefa, whom some analysts see as emerging in a more prominent role.
Of the failures attributed to Mr. Zardari, perhaps the most striking concerns the event that propelled him to power.
Six years after his wife was killed in a gun and bomb attack, the identity of the forces behind the assassination remains a mystery. Some Bhutto supporters believe the military played a role; the matter is still in court.
But the fact that Mr. Zardari failed to unearth the truth offers another telling indicator of the limits of civilian authority in Pakistan's fluctuating power equation.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Asif Ali Zardari, left, at a farewell ceremony in Islamabad on Sunday. The economy is a shambles, but he is Pakistan's first elected president to complete his term. (PHOTOGRAPH BY T. MUGHAL/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (A4)
 Asif Ali Zardari, center, in 2008 as the results that put him into office were still being tallied. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANJUM NAVEED/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); TALIBAN (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); COUPS (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (75%); BOMBINGS (72%); JUDGES (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); CORRUPTION (70%); JAIL SENTENCING (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%)

PERSON: ASIF ALI ZARDARI (91%); BENAZIR BHUTTO (55%); NAWAZ SHARIF (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); ISLAMABAD, PAKISTAN (56%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) PAKISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2013



262 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1271 words

HEADLINE: A Quest to Save AM Before It's Lost in the Static

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Is anyone out there still listening?
The digital age is killing AM radio, an American institution that brought the nation fireside chats, Casey Kasem's Top 40 and scratchy broadcasts of the World Series. Long surpassed by FM and more recently cast aside by satellite radio and Pandora, AM is now under siege from a new threat: rising interference from smartphones and consumer electronics that reduce many AM stations to little more than static. Its audience has sunk to historical lows.
But at least one man in Washington is tuning in.
Ajit Pai, the lone Republican on the Federal Communications Commission, is on a personal if quixotic quest to save AM. After a little more than a year in the job, he is urging the F.C.C. to undertake an overhaul of AM radio, which he calls ''the audible core of our national culture.'' He sees AM -- largely the realm of local news, sports, conservative talk and religious broadcasters -- as vital in emergencies and in rural areas. 
''AM radio is localism, it is community,'' Mr. Pai, 40, said in an interview.
AM's longer wavelength means it can be heard at far greater distances and so in crises, he said, ''AM radio is always going to be there.'' As an example, he cited Fort Yukon, Alaska, where the AM station KZPA broadcasts inquiries about missing hunters and transmits flood alerts during the annual spring ice breakup.
''When the power goes out, when you can't get a good cell signal, when the Internet goes down, people turn to battery-powered AM radios to get the information they need,'' Mr. Pai said.
He admits to feelings of nostalgia. As the son of Indian immigrants growing up in small-town Parsons, Kan., he listened to his high school basketball team win a 1987 championship, he said. ''I sat in my bedroom with my radio tuned into KLKC 1540,'' he recalled. On boyhood family road trips across the wide Kansas plains, he said, AM radio ''was a constant companion.''
But that was then. In 1978, when Mr. Pai was 5, half of all radio listening was on the AM dial. By 2011 AM listenership had fallen to 15 percent, or an average of 3.1 million people, according to a survey by Veronis Suhler Stevenson, a private investment firm. While the number of FM listeners has declined, too, they still averaged 18 million in 2011. (The figures are averages based on measuring listeners every 15 minutes.)
Although five of the top 10 radio stations in the country, as measured by advertising dollars, are AM -- among them WCBS in New York and KFI in Los Angeles -- the wealth drops rapidly after that. In 1970 AM accounted for 63 percent of broadcast radio stations, but now it accounts for 21 percent, or 4,900 outlets, according to Arbitron. FM accounts for 44 percent, or 10,200 stations. About 35 percent of stations stream content online.
''With the audience goes the advertising revenues,'' said Milford Smith, vice president for radio engineering at Greater Media, which owns 21 stations, three of them AM. ''That makes for a double whammy.''
Nearly all English-language AM stations have given up playing music, and even a third of the 30 Major League Baseball teams now broadcast on FM. AM, however, remains the realm of conservative talk radio, including roughly 80 percent of the 600 radio stations that carry Rush Limbaugh. Talk radio has helped keep AM alive.
''If it had to rely on music,'' said Michael Harrison, editor and publisher of Talkers magazine, ''AM radio would be dead.''
But why try to salvage AM? Critics say its decline is simply natural selection at work, and many now support converting the frequency for use by other wireless technologies. A big sign of AM's weakness is that one hope for many of its stations may be channeling their broadcasts onto FM.
Not so fast, said Mr. Pai, who has been pushing the F.C.C.'s interim chairwoman, Mignon Clyburn, to put the revitalization of AM high on the agency's agenda.
''I'm obviously bullish on next-generation technology,'' Mr. Pai said. ''But I certainly think there continues to be a place for broadcasting and for AM radio.''
Mr. Pai said he was not promoting AM to advance conservative talk radio, but part of his prescription treads a traditional Republican path. He wants to eliminate outdated regulations, for example, like one that requires AM stations to prove that any new equipment decreases interference with other stations, a requirement that is expensive, cumbersome and difficult to meet.
Mr. Pai also wants to examine a relatively new technology known as HD Radio, which has allowed some stations to transmit a digital signal along with their usual analog wave, damping static. (HD Radio is a brand name; it does not stand for high definition, as in HDTV.) But some critics still fault the F.C.C. for allowing too many broadcasters to crowd into a relatively narrow AM band of airwaves.
In the longer term, Mr. Pai said, the F.C.C. could mandate that all AM stations convert to digital transmission to reduce interference. Such a conversion, however, would cost consumers, who would have to replace the hundreds of millions of AM radios that do not capture digital transmissions.
Finally, Mr. Pai wants the F.C.C. to consider what are called FM translators, which send duplicate AM broadcasts over FM airwaves and help to reduce interference. In 2009, the F.C.C. granted permission to AM stations to use such translators.
''Our business has improved rather dramatically'' since the conversion to dual bands, said Bud Walters, owner of Cromwell Group, which operates 23 stations in four states, six of them on the AM band and five of which share translators.
The F.C.C. has said it is behind Mr. Pai, although it is a long way from committing to the overhaul he envisions. In August the commission approved a measure requiring the builders of any new radio tower to compensate an AM station if the tower interferes with the station's broadcast.
Some station owners want more. David Honig, the president of the Minority Media and Telecommunications Council, said that the F.C.C. had before it 37 proposals that would expand opportunities for minority ownership but do not require giving minority-owned radio groups special rights. Two-thirds of minority-owned radio stations broadcast on AM.
The reality, however, is that even if the F.C.C. reduces regulation and provides compensation for AM stations, it cannot repeal the laws of physics.
Nearly every recently manufactured electronic consumer product -- not just proliferating smartphones but televisions, home air-conditioning systems, refrigerators, computers and even energy-saving fluorescent light bulbs -- emits radio signals that can interfere with AM broadcasts.
The economic boom of the 1980s and 1990s also contributed to the problem with an increase in the construction of tall buildings in suburban areas and beyond, blocking AM signals. Another issue is that the F.C.C. requires most stations to turn off or greatly reduce signals at night, a rule aimed at keeping high-powered AM stations from interfering with smaller local ones.
(The rule, which hardly engenders loyalty among listeners, was adopted because of the way radio waves in the AM frequency travel. Once the sun goes down, AM signals bounce off the ionosphere and reflect back down to earth hundreds of miles from where they originated. That is why listeners of WRDN-AM (1430) in Durand, Wis., for example, on some nights discover they are inadvertently tuned in to a broadcast from St. Louis.)
Mr. Pai said that unless the problems with AM radio were fixed, people would keep fleeing. ''There are plenty of other options,'' he said. ''They will switch the dial to something else.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Roosevelt delivering a fireside chat for AM radio. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MPI/GETTY IMAGES, CIRCA 1935) (A1)
 Ajit Pai, the Republican on the F.C.C., called AM radio ''the audible core of our national culture.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHER GREGORY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); CONSERVATISM (75%); SATELLITE RADIO (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (71%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (67%); BASKETBALL (67%); POWER FAILURES (64%); POLLS & SURVEYS (63%); FAMILY TRAVEL (61%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (60%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (55%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (50%)

COMPANY: VERONIS SUHLER STEVENSON LLC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2013



263 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1315 words

HEADLINE: La Dolce Vita Gone Sour (And This Time in Color)

BYLINE: By RACHEL DONADIO

 BODY:
ROME -- There is a striking scene in ''The Great Beauty,'' Paolo Sorrentino's luscious new film, in which Jep Gambardella, a perpetually amused, impeccably tailored blocked novelist, looks down on the hulking body of the Costa Concordia cruise ship, which has been lodged off the Tuscan coast since its captain all but sank it there nearly two years ago.
The camera pans slowly along the horizon as Jep, played by Toni Servillo, surveys the ship, a larger-than-life metaphor for a career -- and a country -- run aground. More than any other film to emerge from Italy in recent years, ''The Great Beauty'' (''La Grande Bellezza'') explores one of the most difficult questions in Italy today: What happened here? 
How did this country -- that has a natural beauty and a culture that are the envy of the world; that produced Federico Fellini and Anna Magnani; that hurtled from poverty to prosperity in a two-decade postwar economic boom; that has been in the avant-garde of art since neorealism, if not Dante -- reach the languorous impasse at which it finds itself now? How did it become this strange hothouse where the debate set to begin in Parliament this week revolves around whether applying the rule of law, a conviction against the former prime minister Silvio Berlusconi for tax fraud, puts the country's stability at risk?
Mr. Sorrentino's film, which has been described as a Technicolor ''La Dolce Vita'' for the Berlusconi era, doesn't confront the question directly. Instead, it follows Jep on a kaleidoscopic Orphic journey on which his fellow travelers include an aging stripper, a struggling playwright, cash-poor aristocrats, a vacuous cardinal and a would-be saint -- set against the photogenic backdrop of Rome.
''The Great Beauty'' appeared in Europe this summer and is scheduled for release by Janus Films in New York and Los Angeles in November. It made its debut at Cannes in May and will play at the Toronto International Film Festival this week.
On a warm late August afternoon, Mr. Sorrentino, who at 43 has already become one of Italy's most important directors, sat in his high-ceiling study in Rome and reflected on what compelled him to make the film. What he wanted to convey, he said, was a general atmosphere.
In Rome today, ''since it's hard to be optimistic, it's hard to be positive, there's a kind of lassitude that found its symbolic culmination in dancing, in conga lines, in trying to seduce the beautiful woman of the moment or the beautiful man of the moment,'' Mr. Sorrentino said, settling into an armchair and puffing on a small cigar. ''It seemed that this had become the principal occupation of the country.''
The Roman rooftop terrace parties in ''The Great Beauty'' show a culture that is blocked, resigned, embalmed in elegant decline, where some seek religion and others cocaine, and intellectuals talk endlessly about what's wrong and yet inertia overwhelms all forward momentum.
''Obviously, it's not only like that,'' he continued. ''There are lots of people who work and do wonderful and commendable things, but there's still a sense that the nerve centers of the country had fallen asleep on their couches at home. And so I tried to turn that into a film -- that everything had become a bit of a salon.''
''The Great Beauty'' is not a political film per se, but while other contemporary Italian directors have looked to the past or produced more prosaic dramas, Mr. Sorrentino is one of the few to engage fully with the culture of excess that has come to characterize the Italy of Mr. Berlusconi, prime minister, most recently, until 2011. (Two notable examples are Nanni Moretti's 2006 ''Il Caimano,'' about a director unable to make a film about an unnamed media mogul, and Matteo Garrone's 2012 ''Reality,'' about obsession with reality TV.) Mr. Sorrentino's fresh, timely response is rare even beyond Italy, as artists have largely not yet addressed the economic crisis and social shifts that have swept across Europe over the past several years.
The film has been the talk of Rome all summer. Beyond debates about its merits, and its portrayal of the complicity of the left-wing elite in the country's decline, responses have often reflected Italy's polarization over Mr. Berlusconi.
Some criticize what they consider the film's exaggerated sense of decline. Riffing acerbically on the film's reception, the critic Mariarosa Mancuso wrote in the pro-Berlusconi newspaper Il Foglio: ''It's a Kierkegaardian film. It's a Célinian film. It's a faithful portrait of the Eternal City. It's a faithful portrait of Italy today.'' She added: ''Federico Fellini in 'La Dolce Vita' leaned on the balustrade to look down. Today, there isn't even a balustrade anymore; it's collapsed, too.''
Mr. Sorrentino welcomes the debate. ''The film makes you face questions that might be irritating,'' he said. ''There's a tendency among Italians to say: 'We're not part of that,' 'I'm not part of that.' Many people went out of their way to say that they weren't a part of it, and they were the ones who were most a part of it.''
Mr. Sorrentino grew up in a middle-class family in Naples. When he was 17, his parents died in an accident, a gas leak. At an early age, he started working with theater actors, including Mr. Servillo, who has become for him what Marcello Mastroianni was for Fellini. Mr. Sorrentino's first feature-length film, ''One Man Up'' (2001), stars Mr. Servillo as a washed-up Neapolitan lounge singer. In ''The Consequences of Love'' (2004), Mr. Servillo plays a Mafia bag man living in a Swiss hotel. Sean Penn was on the jury at Cannes in 2008 that lauded Mr. Sorrentino's ''Il Divo'' and afterward the director cast Mr. Penn in ''This Must Be the Place'' (2011) as a heavy-metal singer who tries to avenge his Holocaust-survivor father.
''The Great Beauty'' did not appear at the Venice Film Festival, a telling sign about its declining importance as a place to sell films but also of Mr. Sorrentino's uneasy relationship with Italy's politicized cultural establishment.
In Europe, culture, politics and aesthetics have always been deeply intertwined. It is a theme that Mr. Sorrentino has explored before more directly in ''Il Divo,'' about the seven-time Italian prime minister Giulio Andreotti. It also starred Mr. Servillo and was set in the sepulchral halls of power in Rome, filled with classical busts, where politicians have been wheeling and dealing uninterruptedly for millenniums.
''Il Divo'' won the jury prize at Cannes, a vindication for Mr. Sorrentino and his producers, who had met significant resistance in finding financing for the film in Italy because of its critical take on Mr. Andreotti. (He died in May.)
In Mr. Andreotti's day, ideology dominated the debate. Today, it's style.
''Berlusconi gave a serious contribution to this climate,'' Mr. Sorrentino said. His conduct, his insistence on ''having fun as a categorical imperative, on the ephemeral,'' left its mark on Italy. ''If it's done by someone in a position of great responsibility, it becomes in my view a kind of license for many people.''
To the perennial question -- How is it possible that Mr. Berlusconi still has a grip on Italy? -- Mr. Sorrentino offers an aesthetic answer through his latest movie: Everyone loves a party.
Mr. Sorrentino has also been criticized for being too baroque, a claim he refutes. ''Considering that cinema is aging, it seems strange to me that it shouldn't ask questions about style,'' he said, as the evening light poured into his study.
''Films that only have content have already been done,'' Mr. Sorrentino said. ''All disciplines need innovation, and innovation comes more readily through form than through substance.''
In the final credits of ''The Great Beauty,'' the camera glides in a boat down the green-brown Tiber. There is no music, only the cawing of birds. Time stops, and everything is beautiful, as only Italy can be.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Italian director Paolo Sorrentino. (C1)
PAOLO SORRENTINO, Italian film director (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GIANNI CIPRIANO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 A scene from Paolo Sorrentino's new film, ''The Great Beauty.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY GIANNI FIORITO) (C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE REVIEWS (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); FILM (78%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (78%); CRUISES (77%); MARINE TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (77%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (73%); DRAMA LITERATURE (73%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (72%); TAX FRAUD (69%); THEATER & DRAMA (67%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (67%); TAX LAW (65%); PRIME MINISTERS (65%); FESTIVALS (60%); THEATER (58%)

PERSON: SILVIO BERLUSCONI (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (76%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (69%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (52%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (76%); ONTARIO, CANADA (69%) ITALY (93%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CANADA (69%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2013



264 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: Valuing Houses but Not Housewives

BYLINE: NANCY FOLBRE


HIGHLIGHT: Public policies regarding both taxes and eligibility for income assistance fail to recognize the value of unpaid household work, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Nancy Folbre is professor emerita of economics at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst. 
Home ownership allows people to invest in an asset they own, enjoying the services of that asset rather than paying rent to somebody else. That's why imputed rent is calculated as a component of personal income in national income accounts - an important exception to the rule that only monetary transactions are included. 
 A stay-at-home spouse who specializes in unpaid work also increases household living standards, by reducing the need to purchase services like child care, housekeeping, gardening and meals away from home. Imputations of the value of this work are included in some experimental national income accounts but are largely ignored in discussions of public policy, with some perverse consequences. 
My fellow Economix blogger Bruce Bartlett clearly explains the logic behind imputing the value of rent:
 Consider two homeowners living in identical houses. Suppose they trade houses, each living in the other's. They now pay rent to each other because the other is now the other's landlord. If they identical rent it would appear that it all cancels out, except that each now has rental income to report on her taxes.
 He goes on to explain why it might make sense to tax such imputed income.
Similar logic applies to nonmarket household work. Consider two adults living in identical homes who are not working for pay, each caring for two children under the age of 6. Each day at 8 a.m. they could switch homes, take care of each another's children, clean and do laundry, and prepare meals. Then at 5 p.m. they could return to their own homes, paying each other the same amount for services rendered.
In the United States today, where a high unemployment rate makes it difficult for many to find the paid employment required to qualify for Temporary Assistance to Needy Families and the earned income tax credit, such arrangements could prove advantageous for those with the rather sophisticated knowledge of tax law necessary to legally carry them out.

Assume that these two single parents paid each another $15,000 a year (about equivalent to the minimum wage for a 40-hour work week). They would be required to pay Social Security taxes as both employer and employee that would cost them each $1,860. On the other hand, this payment could increase their eligibility for retirement benefits. 
In some states, they might be "earning" too much to be eligible for Temporary Assistance for Needy Families. However, if they were eligible, their paid employment would satisfy the paid work requirement for that program, and the benefits would be likely to exceed the cost of the Social Security taxes they paid (though still leaving them far below the poverty level). 
They would definitely be eligible for a federal earned income tax credit of about $5,372 each year per year - still inadequate to support their families but greater than what they could get for taking care of their own children. 
The same double standard is applied to married housewives, who are typically described as "not working," although on average they spend more than 40 hours a week in activities that someone else could be paid to perform. Of course, lots of people do unpaid work, not just stay-at-home spouses. And when married women engage in paid employment, they don't reduce their hours of unpaid work enough to compensate, working longer hours overall.
Still, a comparison of the unpaid work hours provided by married women with children under 18 when they work full-time for pay and when they are not employed shows that the latter - the "housewives" - provide more than 20 hours extra a week of unpaid work. 
So there is a real difference in living standards between a family in which both parents are working, each earning disposable income of $25,000 per year, and one in which one parent earns disposable income of $50,000 a year and the other stays home providing those extra 20 hours of household services. 
Yet the rules governing access to benefits like the earned income tax credit are based on money income, regardless of the number of adults working for pay or the level of unpaid family work. 
It seems unlikely that families engage in detailed calculations, but they probably intuit that marginal tax rates (including loss of public assistance benefits as family income goes up) subsidize unpaid work for those at both ends of the spectrum - those who can't find a full-time job and those who can afford the luxury of a stay-at-home spouse. Both the dependent exemption and Social Security provisions for spouses reduce effective tax rates for families with housewives. 
The value of unpaid family care is also relevant to discussions of federal income tax rates. The field of public finance hasn't caught up with the growing literature on nonmarket household production, generally using the term "labor supply" to refer only to paid labor and assuming that the only alternative to paid labor is leisure. But high tax rates on market income can have the effect of increasing time devoted to family care, encouraging fathers, in particular, to spend more time with their children. 
Indeed, as Alberto Alesina, Andrea Ichino, and Loukas Karabarbounis show in a recent Economic Policy article, a higher tax on men's earnings than on women's earnings could lead to overall efficiency gains, as well as a more balanced gender division of labor. 
I'm not persuaded that we should tax men and women differently. But we should consider the ways in which current tax policies reinforce the traditional gender of labor without providing much support for the most important aspect of unpaid work - family care. I'll turn to that policy issue in my next post. 

        
Pointing at Pornography for Job Losses
        
Looking for Furloughs in the Jobs Data
        
The Old Are Working, but Not the Young
        
The Case Against Tapering in September
        
One Month's Data May Not Sway the Fed

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PUBLIC POLICY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); TAX LAW (89%); FAMILY (89%); FAMILY SERVICES (89%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (88%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); CHILDREN (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); INCOME TAX (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); WORK WEEK (75%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (71%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (67%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (62%); MINIMUM WAGE (62%); SINGLE PARENTS (50%) Labor and Jobs; Economix; Today's Economist

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2013



265 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2013

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 243 words

HEADLINE: Word of the Day | expenditure

BYLINE: THE LEARNING NETWORK


HIGHLIGHT: This word has appeared in 2,770 New York Times articles in the past year. 

 BODY:
expenditure \ik-[#x2c8]spen-di-ch[#x259]r, -d[#x259]-[#x2cc]chu[#x307]r\ noun 
 1. the act of spending money for goods or services
 2. the act of consuming something
 3. money paid out; an amount spent
The word expenditure has appeared in 2,770 New York Times articles in the past year, including on Aug. 15 in the Motherlode blog post "What We Spend to Raise a Child - and What We Don't" by KJ Dell'Antonia:
Higher income parents spend more on nearly every item with a discretionary component. That adds up to Montessori instead of in-home day care; houses in stronger school districts; and more money spent on activities, travel and other miscellany that the lower-income child either doesn't "need" or just doesn't get.
... How much does that extra expenditure matter? It doesn't have to mean a thing. More than one successful, happy adult was raised under tight financial circumstances. But when you look at the forest, rather than at the trees, financial statistics like these do reflect different outcomes for the children whose experiences they shape: true economic mobility is becoming more a pipe dream than the American dream, and children are likely to stay within the income category to which they are born.
The Word of the Day and its definitions have been provided by Vocabulary.com and the Visual Thesaurus.
Learn more about the word "expenditure" and see usage examples across a range of subjects on the Vocabulary dictionary.
Click on the word below to map it and hear it pronounced:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (71%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (69%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (54%) Word of the Day

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2013



266 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(India Ink)

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2013

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 1940 words

HEADLINE: Opportunities Trump Dangers for Indians in Afghanistan

BYLINE: BETWA SHARMA


HIGHLIGHT: Most Indians working in Afghanistan have chosen the war-torn country for employment because of the lure of more money compared to home. 

 BODY:
KABUL, Afghanistan- Banuchandar Rajendran, an Indian from the town of Usilampatti in Tamil Nadu, spent a lonely Independence Day on Aug. 15 at a Sikh temple in Kabul where he had taken refuge after his Afghan visa expired.
Mr. Rajendran, who came to Afghanistan on the promise of a job as a security guard in an American military base for $800 every month, had been swindled out of 150,000 rupees, or $2,300, by his employment agent in India. After paying the money and waiting here for three months, the 28-year-old had found out there was no job and was left with just enough money for his phone and cigarettes.
The Indian Embassy in Kabul said that as of mid-August, 70 "distressed Indians," who were similarly abandoned, were sent back to India. Last year, there were 160.
The Afghan Sikhs, who had given many of the Indians refuge in their temple in Kabul, described them as mostly poor folk, who had taken loans and sold off their land to pay commission to fraudulent employment agents. They came with the hope of earning double the money paid for low-skilled jobs in India. 
But Mr. Rajendran, a college graduate in hotel management who spoke fluent English, didn't fit the description of someone who would be seeking a low-skilled job in a dangerous country.
"Desperation," Mr. Rajendran explained. "I knew about the Taliban and how the situation could be bad if the U.S. Army leaves. But all that matters right now is the high salary."
After being fired from his call center position for fighting with his boss, and losing his 17,000-rupee monthly salary, Mr. Rajendran had failed to land another job in India. His father, a grocer, has savings of 70,000 rupees, out of which they were still supporting the younger Mr. Rajendran. "Now, I would rather die here or do a sweeper's job than go home without anything," he said.
The estimated 3,500 Indians living in Afghanistan cut across economic and social backgrounds to include cooks, security guards, diplomats, government officials, doctors, academics, social workers, managers, businessmen, engineers and entrepreneurs. (This number does not include the Indians working on American bases.)
Different pressures and dreams have compelled them to face the risks of living in this war-torn country over the comfort of their homes in India or of heading to safer employment hubs like Dubai. Most have been driven by money.
For Indian businessmen and entrepreneurs, the opportunities that flourished around a post-war economy, especially as contracts with the American companies were for the taking. Indian activists came to be part of a massive revival of education and women's rights.
For Indians working as cooks, waiters and bellhops in Afghanistan, a higher salary in comparison to India has given them a chance to leap to the next economic level. They hope to buy a plot of land for building their own house and send their children to better schools.
These Indians are striving to improve their lives in the backdrop of a larger tug of war between India and Pakistan for presence and influence in Afghanistan, with consequences for the peace and stability of the region. To establish itself as a "soft power," New Delhi has so far given $2 billion in aid to Afghanistan for various developmental projects including the country's Parliament building.
An Indian consortium of public and private companies has also won the bid to develop the Hajigak iron ore mines in the Bamyan province for more than $10 billion, which will be the largest single foreign investment after a contract with the Afghan government next year.
Now with the United States scheduled to hand security responsibility to the Afghan forces next year and apprehensions mounting over the security situation, it is not only the Indian government that is strategizing about the size of its footprint in the country after 2014.
The Indians working in Afghanistan are evaluating the prospective gains against the risks in continuing to stay on. Many of them and their families back home were rattled by the attempted bombing on Aug. 3 of the Indian consulate in Jalalabad, which killed nine Afghan civilians.
Car bombs targeted the Indian Embassy in Kabul in 2008 and 2009, with the first attack claiming the lives of four Indian officials. Both of these attacks were blamed on the Haqqani network, a Taliban faction closely associated with Pakistan's spy service, the Directorate for Inter-Services Intelligence.
Nine Indians were killed in 2010 and three more this July in attacks by militants. Last week, an Indian author living in Paktika province was shot dead after being abducted by masked men.
Those living here are watching how the situation unfolds before finally deciding to leave. With the India economy suffering a setback and the rupee weakening, these Indians are not packing their bags yet.
At 11 p.m. on a warm August night in Kabul, Shahid Hussain was on duty as a bellhop at the Safi Landmark hotel located in Kabul's city center. Before coming to Afghanistan in 2008, Mr. Hussain, 43, from Allahabad in the state of Uttar Pradesh, earned a monthly 4,500 rupees as a security supervisor in a Gujarat factory of Rupa Frontline, an undergarments manufacturer.
Mr. Hussain, who now earns 25,000 rupees, said that he had to look for jobs outside India to support a family of four children. "With no college degree, I could never get a job that would give me more than 10,000 rupees even if I worked for years," he said.
Salaries in Afghanistan reflect the risks involved. In Dubai, for instance, a similar job would pay 17,000 rupees. In September, as the rupee crashed against the dollar, Mr. Hussain said that his salary went up to 28,000 rupees.
Since his expenses in Afghanistan are minimal, Mr. Hussain is able to transfer almost his entire salary back to his family, now settled in Jamshedpur, Jharkhand. But with spending on rent, household expenses and school fees back home, the bellhop still isn't close to fulfilling his dream of building his own house. "Just buying the plot of land will cost 800,000 rupees, but I am trying for it," he said.
While going about his duties, Mr. Hussain admitted that his family is worried about his safety, but he said that if he could bear the separation for a few years more, they would all be happier in the future.
And Mr. Hussain's family has reason to be worried because the Safi Landmark hotel was hit in 2010 and 2011 in deadly suicide attacks. In 2011, Mr. Hussain recalled hearing a massive blast as a bomb exploded outside the hotel. "It nearly deafened me," he said.
To fight his loneliness, Mr. Hussain spends most of his free time chatting with his family over the Internet, especially with his wife, whom he shyly admitted to "loving too much."
He and his wife separately watch the Indian soap opera "Pavitra Rishta" (pure relationship) and the historical drama "Jodha Akbar" on Zee TV. "Then, we discuss what happened and what's going to happen next. It's fun," he said, chuckling.
Despite the reports of violence, one of the biggest problems Indians are likely to encounter in Afghanistan is that of boredom. Vijai Juyal, 27, who sought to double his 15,000-rupee monthly salary as a cook in Delhi, has not stepped up out even once from his restaurant and the adjoining quarters since arriving in April.
"Of course, I get bored. One gets sick of the television and Internet as well," he said. "But I don't want to step out and take the risk of anything bad happening. I'm here to make money and that's it."
To those living in India, the killing of their countrymen in Afghanistan seems the norm, but the Indians who live in Afghanistan say they have experienced an overwhelming flood of love and warmth from Afghans.
The first question usually posed by Afghans is whether one is from India or Pakistan. Once the Indian identity is established, the tales begin about visits to India, favorite Bollywood films and the latest songs downloaded on their mobile phones.
Cab drivers, who hum the lyrics and tap their fingers on the steering wheel to old songs from movies like "Mughal-e-Azam" playing on Afghan radio stations, never fail to point out where a scene from the 1992 epic "Khuda Gawah" was shot.
"This is the only country in the world where Indians are loved and respected so much," said Linesh T.K., from Bangalore, Karnataka, who described Kabul as "a happening place," where he could walk outside at night without fear, until 2006.
For him, the city also turned out to be a land of opportunity. Mr. Linesh came to Afghanistan to work as a hotel manager and now is co-owner, along with an Afghani, of the Golden Star hotel, where a room costs up to $200. In India, the businessman said, he wouldn't have attempted setting up a high-end hotel because a few influential business groups still monopolized the industry.
Mr. Linesh estimated that in Kabul, he pays 25 percent less for rent as compared to Delhi, and he can pay 25 percent less to Afghan employees.
Despite such advantages, few Indians are doing business in the country. In spite of efforts by the Indian government to get Indian companies to invest in Afghanistan in areas like cement and textiles, including by organizing several visits of business delegations, most have stayed away largely because of security concerns and poor infrastructure.
Many Indians in Afghanistan rule out a doomsday situation after the United States ends its military involvement in the country. They see several positive changes in the country, like a stronger army and a shifting of public attitudes against extremism. Besides, thousands of residual troops are expected to be staying on in Afghanistan.
Sunil Bhardwaj, a general manager of a company based in Dubai that provides information technology to the telecom sector, said that his company had no plans for drawing down in the immediate future because it has a market outside American contracts. "We are still looking for more Indians to come here and work," he said.
But those in the service industry are already feeling the effects of the withdrawal. Mr. Linesh recalled that in August 2012, all of his 80 rooms were fully booked. This year, 20 were empty as the deluge of foreign contractors and international NGO workers who visited the country slowly becomes a trickle.
Still, Mr. Linesh is confident that business will hold steady, if not boom. "Everyone is not going to run out of Afghanistan at once," he said.
For restaurant owners, however, a shrunken American community is going to hit hard. Jay Kumar, a 28-year-old from the state of Jharkhand who is a co-owner of a Bangladeshi restaurant in Kabul, said that when a party of four Americans comes in, they rack up a $300 order. By contrast, a bill for a similar-sized party of Indians would end up being only $40. "The Americans eat more and tip more," said Mr. Kumar, laughing.
And for a few desperate folks, like Mr. Rajendran, it doesn't matter what the Americans do or don't do. Mr. Rajendran is continuing his job search in Afghanistan. An employment agent, he said, had recently contacted him about a possible assignment as a security guard at the American Army base if he could pay $1,000 as commission or a job in catering if he could pay $500.
"I don't know how I will raise the money, but I will try," he said by phone from Kabul on Monday. "Right now, I can face the Taliban but not my father."
 Betwa Sharma is a Delhi-based freelance journalist. 

        
The New New Thing in U.S.-Indian Relations?
        
Should India Provide Direct Military Aid to Afghanistan?
        
The Way Out for the Indian Economy
        
Declining Rupee Brings Gains for IT Giants, Woes for Small Units
        
Poor Infrastructure Hampers India's Export Chances in Downturn

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); SIKHS & SIKHISM (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (84%); ARMIES (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); COMMISSION PAY (76%); MILITARY BASES (76%); CALL CENTERS (76%); DISMISSALS (72%); HOTEL STAFF (71%); TRENDS (67%); WOMEN (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); TERRORISM (59%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (50%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (50%) Afghanistan; Defense and Military Forces; Economic Conditions and Trends; India; Indian Rupee (Currency); Kabul (Afghanistan); Labor and Jobs; Taliban; Terrorism; United States Defense and Military Forces

ORGANIZATION: Taliban

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (97%) TAMIL NADU, INDIA (92%) AFGHANISTAN (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); INDIA (94%); ASIA (79%) Afghanistan; India; Kabul (Afghanistan)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2013



267 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2013

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 631 words

HEADLINE: A Data Weapon to Avoid the Next Financial Crisis

BYLINE: STEVE LOHR


HIGHLIGHT: The financial crisis was, among other things, a data failure. Now the Treasury&#8217;s Office of Financial Research is trying to use data to create an early warning system for risk. 

 BODY:
Many economists see a data revolution that could transform their field, opening a window to seeing and measuring economic behavior in greater detail than ever before. The potential - and limitations - of what can be thought of asBig Data economics was the topic of my column over the weekend.
The idea is that better measurement will inform better management of the economy. It is true, as they say in business, that you can't manage what you can't measure. But just because you can measure something doesn't necessarily mean you can manage it - especially in the messy realm of human affairs. 
What about a more targeted approach? That is, trying to get a better reading on one crucial slice of the economy to guide policy and perhaps behavior. That, in broad strokes, is the animating philosophy behind the Office of Financial Research, a unit of the Treasury Department established by the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010.
The precise recipe of causes - and apportioning responsibility - for the financial crisis is open to debate. But it is clear that leaders in the financial industry and policy makers were largely blindsided. Regulators and bankers lacked the data and analysis to see all the hidden risks in the financial system.
One of the lessons of the crisis, said Richard Berner, director of the Office of Financial Research, is that there were "serious deficiencies" in financial measurement. More stringent reporting requirements is one way to close some of the gaps. "The crisis really did spawn a lot of data collection efforts," said Mr. Berner, a former adviser to the Treasury and former chief economist at Morgan Stanley.
After delays, Mr. Berner was nominated by the Obama administration and confirmed by the Senate this year.
The data analysis by the Office of Financial Research, Mr. Berner said, needs to balance the need for more detailed data collection with the need for data security, protecting the trade secrets of investment banks and other financial institutions.
Yet added collection of data on money market funds, credit-default swaps, financial leverage and counterparty risk exposure, he said, could make it possible for financial institutions themselves, as well as regulators, to have early-warning signals of trouble.
Mr. Berner said his office was looking at a "variety of approaches" to get a faster handle on emerging risks. One that looks intriguing is a proposal in a research paper that combines data analysis, financial economics and computer science.
In the paper, the authors contend that new streams of financial data - aggregated, properly encrypted and then analyzed - could give strong clues to hidden risk bombs in the system, like the institutions that touched off the crisis in the fall of 2008, Lehman Brothers and the American International Group.
Such data, the article argues, could "have played a critical role in providing regulators and investors with advance notice of A.I.G.'s unusually concentrated position in credit-default swaps, as well as the exposure of money market funds to Lehman bonds."
"This is an effort to use technology to simplify some of the challenges created by our technology-driven financial markets," said Andrew W. Lo, one of the article's authors and an economist and finance expert at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology's Sloan School of Management.
The other co-authors of the paper, "Privacy-Preserving Methods for Sharing Financial Risk Exposures," are Emmanuel A. Abbe, a computer scientist now at Princeton University, and Amir E. Khandani, a financial engineer at Morgan Stanley.

        
Daily Report: Acxiom Draws Aside (a Bit) the Veil of Data Gathering
        
Getting a Glimpse of Your Own Marketing Data Online
        
The Rules of In-Store Surveillance
        
Wrangling Over 'Do Not Track'
        
Health Sites Under Scrutiny Over Mining of Data

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (92%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); DATA MINING (78%); DATA SECURITY (78%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (78%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (73%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (73%); BIG DATA (73%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (72%); INVESTMENT BANKING (71%); MUTUAL FUNDS (71%); CREDIT COLLECTIONS (69%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (68%); US DODD FRANK ACT (68%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (66%); TRADE SECRETS LAW (66%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (61%); DATABASE MARKETING (59%) Berner, Richard; Data-Mining and Database Marketing; Office of Financial Research (United States Treasury); Data; Policy

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (90%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (60%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Office of Financial Research (United States Treasury)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (90%); AIG (NYSE) (60%); 8685 (TSE) (60%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (60%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (60%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (53%) Berner, Richard

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2013



268 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 438 words

HEADLINE: Neiman Marcus Is Sold for $6 Billion

BYLINE: DAVID GELLES


HIGHLIGHT: The owners of the Neiman Marcus luxury retail chain agreed on Monday to sell it to a group led by Ares Management and a Canadian pension plan in a deal worth $6 billion. 

 BODY:
The owners of the Neiman Marcus luxury retail chain agreed on Monday to sell it to a group led by Ares Management and a Canadian pension plan in a deal worth $6 billion. 
The owners, a group of private equity investors led by TPG and Warburg Pincus, had been searching for a buyer for Neiman ahead of a planned initial public offering later in the year. If they had not found a buyer willing to pay the desired $6 billion, they were prepared to go ahead with the public offering, people briefed on the deal said.
The deal is the latest transaction in the luxury department store sector. Earlier this year, Hudson Bay, the largest Canadian department store, paid $2.4 billion for Saks, a competitor to Neiman.
Neiman Marcus operates 79 stores across the country, including two Bergdorf Goodman stores in Manhattan, and the Last Call outlet stores. Sales have rebounded in recent years. The company reported $4.3 billion in revenue last year, compared with $3.6 billion in 2009.
"I have great confidence that our customers, associates and vendor partners will share my enthusiasm that our new investors will help us pursue a business dedicated to luxury and fashion, attentive service and innovative marketing," Karen Katz, the chief executive of Neiman, said in a statement.
Ares, one of Neiman's new owners, has experience in the consumer sector, with previous investments in General Nutrition Centers, House of Blues and the mattress companies Serta and Simmons. An asset manager based in Los Angeles, Ares has about $66 billion under management.
"We plan on investing meaningful capital into the business to ensure Neiman's long-term position as the unparalleled leader in luxury retail," David Kaplan, co-head of private equity at Ares, said in a statement.
Ares and the Canada Pension Plan Investment Board will hold equal stakes in the company, with Neiman Marcus management retaining a minority stake. The buyers said they expect the deal to close in the fourth quarter.
For TPG and Warburg Pincus, which paid about $5.1 billion for Neiman in 2005, the sale is a successful exit, especially as spending on luxury goods has faltered in the wake of the recession.
Credit Suisse advised Neiman, and Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton provided the company with legal advice. RBC Capital Markets and Deutsche Bank advised Ares and the Canada Pension Plan, with Proskauer Rose and Latham & Watkins providing legal advise. All three banks are providing financing for the deal. The law firm Toyrs also provided legal advice to the Canada Pension Plan.

        
Neiman Marcus Near Deal to Be Sold for $6 Billion
        
Deals in the Works Involving 2 Luxury Retailers

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LUXURY GOODS (91%); PENSION FUNDS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); DEPARTMENT STORES (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (89%); DIVESTITURES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PRIVATE EQUITY (77%); LEGAL SERVICES (74%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); RETAIL SALES (73%); FOOD SUPPLEMENT STORES (73%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (72%) Ares Management; Canada Pension Plan Investment Board; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Neiman Marcus Group; Shopping and Retail; TPG Capital; Warburg Pincus; Mergers & Acquisitions; Retail/Leisure; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: NEIMAN MARCUS GROUP INC (92%); CLEARY GOTTLIEB STEEN & HAMILTON LLP (83%); LATHAM & WATKINS LLP (83%); WARBURG PINCUS LLC (58%); ARES MANAGEMENT LLC (58%); PROSKAUER ROSE LLP (55%); GNC HOLDINGS INC (54%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (52%); RBC DOMINION SECURITIES INC (51%); RBC WEALTH MANAGEMENT (51%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Neiman Marcus Group; TPG Capital; Warburg Pincus

TICKER: GNC (NYSE) (54%); CSGN (SWX) (52%); CS (NYSE) (52%); DEUT (JSE) (51%); DBK (FRA) (51%); DBK (BIT) (51%); DBETN (JSE) (51%); DBA (ASX) (51%); DB (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (92%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (83%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (83%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (58%); SIC6726 UNIT INVESTMENT TRUSTS, FACE-AMOUNT CERTIFICATE OFFICES, & CLOSED-END MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES (58%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (58%); NAICS445299 ALL OTHER SPECIALTY FOOD STORES (54%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC5499 MISCELLANEOUS FOOD STORES (54%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (52%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (51%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); ARCTIC OCEAN (56%); CALIFORNIA, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2013



269 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 458 words

HEADLINE: Chinese Dairy Firm Plans $1.3 Billion I.P.O.

BYLINE: NEIL GOUGH


HIGHLIGHT: China Huishan Dairy will test investors&#8217; appetite with its plans for a new share sale in Hong Kong, where the market for I.P.O.s has been weak since June, when several deals were shelved or sharply reduced in size. 

 BODY:
HONG KONG - Want milk? 
China Huishan Dairy hopes so. The Chinese milk producer is seeking to defy a lull in Hong Kong's market for new share sales by raising as much as $1.3 billion in an initial public offering, a person with knowledge of the deal said Monday. 
Huishan, which is based in the northeastern city of Shenyang and makes products including fresh milk, infant formula and yogurt, will begin taking orders from institutional investors on Tuesday and is marketing its shares in a price range of 2.28 Hong Kong dollars to 2.67 Hong Kong dollars, or 29 cents to 30 cents, each, the person said, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the information was not public. 
A listing by Huishan would be a clear sign that Hong Kong's stock market is emerging from a summer slump. The year had started off well enough for new offerings: in May, China Galaxy Securities raised about $1.1 billion, while Sinopec Engineering raised $1.8 billion. But by June, a number of I.P.O.'s were shelved or sharply reduced in size after investors became concerned about the effects of a slowing Chinese economy and the Federal Reserve's plans to begin reducing its bond purchases in the United States. 
It remains to be seen whether those concerns have abated enough to accommodate a large new listing like Huishan's proposed deal. If the demand for the offering is sufficient, the company tentatively plans to price its I.P.O. on Sept. 19 and to begin trading on or around Sept. 27, the person familiar with the matter said. 
At the same time, China's dairy industry continues to struggle with food safety scandals. In September 2008, government inspectors found that 22 makers of baby formula had supplied products that were contaminated with the industrial chemical melamine, causing kidney-related illnesses in hundreds of thousands of infants and children. Huishan was not among them.
The nationwide scandal that followed made Chinese consumers skeptical of formula made locally. But recent deal-making activity in the sector suggests that attitudes may be shifting, as high-quality formula producers seek to distinguish themselves. In June, China Mengniu Dairy agreed to pay $1.6 billion for Yashili International, one of the country's biggest makers of infant formula. 
Part of Huishan's quality control efforts involves importing dairy cows, as well as certain grasses for their feed. The company has imported more than 110,000 head of cattle, according to a statement on its Web site, and says it operates China's largest Jersey cow pasture. 
The underwriters for Huishan's I.P.O. are Deutsche Bank, Goldman Sachs, HSBC and UBS. 

        
Thorny Side Effects in Silicon Valley Tactic to Keep Control
        
Blackstone Settles I.P.O. Class Action Suit

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: DAIRY FARMING (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (90%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (90%); INFANT FORMULA (89%); BABY FOODS INDUSTRY (89%); DRY & CONDENSED DAIRY PRODUCT MFG (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); DAIRY PRODUCT MFG (78%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (78%); FOOD SAFETY (78%); MILK (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (76%); CHILDREN (76%); ENGINEERING (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); INSPECTIONS (72%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (72%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (63%); SUITS & CLAIMS (60%); CLASS ACTIONS (60%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (58%); KIDNEY DISEASE (50%); WEB SITES (50%); AGRICULTURE (50%) China Huishan Dairy; Infant Formulas; Initial Public Offerings; Food & Beverage; I.P.O./Offerings

COMPANY: CHINA MENGNIU DAIRY CO LTD (58%); CHINA PETROLEUM & CHEMICAL CORP (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); CHINA GALAXY SECURITIES CO LTD (56%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (50%)

TICKER: 2319 (HKSE) (58%); SNP (NYSE) (58%); SNP (LSE) (58%); 0386 (HKSE) (58%); GS (NYSE) (58%); 6881 (HKSE) (56%); DEUT (JSE) (50%); DBK (FRA) (50%); DBK (BIT) (50%); DBETN (JSE) (50%); DBA (ASX) (50%); DB (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS311511 FLUID MILK MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2026 FLUID MILK (58%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (58%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) NORTHEAST CHINA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LIAONING, CHINA (73%) HONG KONG (98%); CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2013



270 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1164 words

HEADLINE: S&P's Counterattack on the Government

BYLINE: PETER J. HENNING


HIGHLIGHT: In its defense against a Justice Department lawsuit, Standard &#038; Poor&#8217;s argues that it was improperly targeted because it lowered the credit rating on federal debt two years ago. How far it will get with that argument is an open question. 

 BODY:
With the start of the football season, we are sure to hear an analyst trot out the old cliché that the best defense is a good offense. But it certainly applies to the approach McGraw-Hill Companies is taking in defending its Standard & Poor's unit against the fraud lawsuit filed by the Justice Department. In its defense, the company accuses the government of improperly targeting S&P because it lowered the credit rating on federal debt two years ago. 
Putting the government on trial is a tactic used in criminal cases because it can divert a jury's attention from the defendant's conduct and taps into a vein of mistrust in how the authorities exercise their power. Judges substantially limit this approach because it can be an unnecessary distraction. So it is questionable how far S&P can get in shifting the focus.
The Justice Department lawsuit claims that S&P engaged in fraud when it gave high ratings to residential mortgage-backed securities and collateralized debt obligations issued before the financial crisis despite knowing that the housing market was deteriorating. The suit also accuses the company of favoring the interests of investment banks with higher than justified ratings so that it could continue to win business from those banks. 
The case is brought under the government's favorite new weapon, the Financial Institution Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act, which allows for civil penalties for mail and wire fraud violations that affect a financial institution.
S&P sought to dismiss the lawsuit by claiming that its statements about conflicts of interest and the propriety of its ratings constituted what is known as "mere puffery" - in other words, they were just like the unreliable statements of a used car salesman. Judge David O. Carter of Federal District Court in California, who is presiding over the case, rejected that argument, saying that this position "is deeply and unavoidably troubling when you take a moment to consider its implications."
Having lost the preliminary motion to throw out the lawsuit, S&P filed its answer to the government's complaint last week in which it put forth its own version and offered a first look at its potential defenses. Like most such pleadings, it takes the "kitchen sink" approach, staking out a number of potential positions that may not prove to be useful as the case develops.
The company once again claims that its credit ratings should not have been the basis for any decision to buy a residential mortgage-backed security or collateralized debt obligation. It asserts that "credit ratings are not indicators of investment merit, are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold any security, and should not be relied upon as investment or financial advice."
Among the 18 defenses offered in its filing is one that argues the case was filed in retaliation for S&P's downgrade of United States government debt in 2011 from AAA to AA+. The company argues that S&P "was not alone" in failing to "anticipate the full speed, severity, and breadth of the collapse of the housing market and its impact on the economy as whole." This is a claim of discriminatory prosecution because the one company that poked the government in the eye has been targeted for punishment.
Claims that of being treated unfairly by being singled for punishment usually fall on deaf ears because the government has broad discretion in how it enforces the law. But S&P asserts that lowering its rating of United States debt was an exercise of free speech and that the government lawsuit violates the protection afforded by the First Amendment. 
This is a twist on a defense S&P has offered in private lawsuits filed by those who claim to have been misled by its ratings. In some cases, it has successfully defended itself by asserting that the ratings are only opinions protected by the First Amendment and, therefore, it cannot be held liable.
The right to free speech is not a basis to rebut a claim of fraud because the Constitution does not protect false or misleading statements intended to deprive another person of money or property. Instead, S&P is using the First Amendment to argue that the government is trying to punish it for the rating of the federal government's creditworthiness and that the lawsuit is, therefore, improper. 
When the Justice Department filed the case in February 2013, Eric H. Holder Jr., the attorney general, denied that there was any connection between the decision to accuse S&P of violations and the earlier credit downgrade of federal government debt. For conspiracy theorists, the mere denial is enough to show that there is a link between the two.
Unlike a criminal case, in which the discovery rights of defendants are quite limited, this is a civil case. So S&P can try to obtain information from a wide range of government officials to establish its First Amendment retaliation claim.
The roadblock the company will face is a legal doctrine known as the deliberative process privilege, which protects information about how the government reached a policy decision. In a 2001 ruling, the Department of the Interior v. Klamath Water Users Protective Association, the Supreme Court said that "the deliberative process privilege rests on the obvious realization that officials will not communicate candidly among themselves if each remark is a potential item of discovery and front page news."
But the privilege does not throw up a wall around illegal conduct by government officials. So there may be a basis to seek out information about whether there was a link between the ratings downgrade by S&P and the decision to file the lawsuit.
The question is whether the intent of federal officials in targeting S&P, and not the other credit rating agencies, for the civil penalty lawsuit is even relevant to the civil fraud charges. Just like the sports car driver who claims that other cars on the highway were also speeding but the officer only stopped him, the fact that others who might have violated the law have not been charged is not a justifiable basis to defend a lawsuit.
Taking the depositions of senior government officials is uncommon, but certainly not unknown. A federal judge, for example, authorized Maurice R. Greenberg, the former American International Group chief executive, and his investment company, Starr International, to depose Ben Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, as part of a lawsuit over whether the government's bailout of A.I.G. violated the Fifth Amendment as an unconstitutional taking.
S&P's claim of unconstitutional retaliation is sure to lead to a series of motions as the two sides battle over whether - and perhaps how much - discovery the company can pursue to build its retaliation defense. Putting the government on trial is a means to go on the offense in the case and may increase S&P's leverage to seek a settlement on more favorable terms.

        
S.& P. E-Mails on Mortgage Crisis Show Alarm and Gallows Humor
        
U.S. Accuses S. & P. of Fraud in Suit on Loan Bundles

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (93%); LITIGATION (92%); SUITS & CLAIMS (92%); PUBLIC DEBT (91%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (89%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); WIRE FRAUD (78%); JURY TRIALS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); SUBPRIME LENDING (76%); CREDIT CRISIS (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (74%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (72%); HOUSING MARKET (72%); BANK FAILURES (72%); MAIL FRAUD (72%); INVESTMENT BANKING (72%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (69%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (67%) American International Group Inc; Bernanke, Ben S; Collateralized Debt Obligations; Credit Ratings and Credit Rating Agencies; Freedom of Speech and Expression; Greenberg, Maurice R; Holder, Eric H Jr; Justice Department; McGraw Hill Financial Inc.; Mortgage-Backed Securities; National Debt (US); Standard & Poor's Corp; Subprime Mortgage Crisis; Suits and Litigation (Civil); Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 1; White Collar Watch

COMPANY: MCGRAW HILL FINANCIAL INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: American International Group Inc; Justice Department; McGraw Hill Financial Inc.; Standard &amp; Poor&#039;s Corp

TICKER: MHFI (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

PERSON: ERIC HOLDER (71%); BEN BERNANKE (70%) Bernanke, Ben S; Greenberg, Maurice R; Holder, Eric H Jr

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2013



271 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Mark Bittman)

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 557 words

HEADLINE: Late-Summer Links

BYLINE: MARK BITTMAN


HIGHLIGHT: A reading selection to mark the season&#8217;s end. 

 BODY:
A struggle that all of us should get behind: Fast food workers around the country are organizing (including with widespread strikes) to protest untenably low wages. (McDonald's, more than any other restaurant operator, has worked to suppress pay rates, enforce harsh work procedures and prevent unionization.) 
Speaking of critical work in food and labor, Jessie Lopez De La Cruz, a longtime leader in the national farmworker movement, has died at 93. She was one of the first woman members and organizers of the United Farmworkers of America in Fresno, Calif.
The editors of Scientific American think mandatory G.M.O. labeling is a bad idea. Rather than providing consumers with useful information, they suggest, labels would only heighten the misconceptions that genetically modified foods endanger our health. The same would be true for anything else questionable, I suppose; sounds like a dumb position for a sometimes-smart magazine.
Related: Birds, insects and other wildlife are sharing refuges with genetically engineered crops, and are being exposed to poisonous pesticides, according to a new lawsuit.
The most recent volley in the battle over salt is a new study suggesting that an animal's intake of sodium isn't determined by the amount of salt in its food, but rather by networks in their own brains. Needless to say, if this kind of thinking gains favor it could have significant implications for the future of our dietary recommendations and nutrition policy.
You've heard of peak water and peak oil? Now the world may have reached peak chicken. And: The U.S.D.A. has relied on incomplete and old data in support of its plan to extend new poultry inspection procedures to plants across the country.
Not that there was any doubt, but a new study "confirms" that ocean acidification caused by increasing levels of carbon in the atmosphere is a substantial threat to marine life. More unsettling news about our water: Tom Philpott reports that Kansas is running out of irrigation water because of supersized crop yields.
Concerns about food-borne illnesses like salmonella have led spice farmers in India to reconsider the way they pick, dry and thresh their crops. And a paper published last month in Nature identifies a correlation between diversity of gut microflora and human obesity, thanks to antibiotics in animal feed.
Fisherman from Alaska are protesting Walmart's buying policies, which unnecessarily exclude wild Alaskan salmon.
E-cigarette use is skyrocketing among adolescents.
It's easy to rag on the federal school lunch program, but have recent rule changes requiring more fruits, vegetables and whole grains helped school lunches turn a critical corner?
A report from the Union of Concerned Scientists suggests that U.S. agricultural policy often works to the detriment of taxpayers and the economy. Shocking.
An interesting question: Can public health unite the good food movement
Germany just broke its monthly solar power generation record once again.
And in case your vote in the New York Mayoral race is going to come down to sugar-sweetened beverages, here where the candidates stand: Public Advocate Bill de Blasio is the only one who agrees with Michael Bloomberg's effort to restrict the size of sugary drinks.

        
The Week in Food
        
Almost-Summer Links
        
First Hint of Spring Links
        
Links for the Middle of May
        
Daylight Saving Links

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (91%); SCIENCE NEWS (91%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); FARM LABOR (90%); FAST FOOD (90%); NUTRITION (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (90%); POULTRY (89%); AGRICULTURE (89%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (89%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (87%); SCHOOL MEAL PROGRAMS (87%); BACTERIA (87%); FOOD BORNE ILLNESS (86%); FOOD LIABILITY LITIGATION (78%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED FOOD (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); ANIMAL FOODS (78%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED CROPS (75%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (75%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (74%); AGRICULTURAL BIOTECHNOLOGY (74%); OBESITY (73%); WILDLIFE (73%); RESTAURANTS (73%); FISHES (72%); AGRICULTURE REGULATION & POLICY (72%); POISONINGS (72%); SPICE FARMING (70%); POULTRY & EGG INSPECTION (69%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (69%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (69%); LIVESTOCK FEED (68%); SMOKING (68%); ADOLESCENTS (68%); PESTICIDES (67%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (67%); ANTIBIOTICS (64%); IRRIGATION (61%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (50%); SOLAR ENERGY (50%) Agriculture and Farming; Agriculture Department; Deaths (Obituaries); Diet and Nutrition; Food Contamination and Poisoning; Genetic Engineering; Irrigation; Labeling and Labels; Lunch and Breakfast Programs; McDonald's Corporation; Nature (Journal); Poultry; Salmonella (Bacteria); Scientific American; Union of Concerned Scientists; Walmart Stores Inc; McDonald's Corporation|MCD|NYSE; Walmart Stores Inc|WMT|NYSE

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Agriculture Department; McDonald&#039;s Corporation; Nature (Journal); Scientific American; Union of Concerned Scientists; Walmart Stores Inc

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (51%) McDonald's Corporation; MCD; NYSE; McDonald's Corporation; MCD; NYSE; Walmart Stores Inc; WMT; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (51%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRESNO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2013



272 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1136 words

HEADLINE: Why Labor's Share of Income Is Falling

BYLINE: JARED BERNSTEIN


HIGHLIGHT: A loss of workers&#8217; bargaining power at a time of high unemployment explains the decline in labor&#8217;s share of income far more than globalization, technology or the financial sector&#8217;s rise, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Jared Bernstein is a senior fellow at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities in Washington and a former chief economist to Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. 
In a recent post about fast-food workers striking for a higher wage, I noted the juxtaposition of the strikers and the banks, which just reported another quarter of record profits. In fact, as many inequality watchers have noticed, profits as a share of income are at or near record highs while the compensation share is around a 50-year low.
That trend deserves a closer look. The chart below plots the total compensation share of national income, along with just the wage share (that is, excluding what employers pay for workers' pensions, health coverage and social insurance). The wage share has been coming down faster than the overall compensation share, initially because more workers were getting more of their pay in nonwage benefits, though more recently, employers have been shedding health and pension benefits (the share of the population with employer-provided health coverage has declined over the last decade from about 73 percent to 63 percent). 
For completeness, I'll focus on the compensation share. In fact, there has been a lot of useful analysis of this trend, including Robert Samuelson's opinion column on Monday for The Washington Post, wherein he links to a very informative post by the economist Timothy Taylor. So here are some of the basic facts: 
- According to Mr. Samuelson, over the last decade, there's been a shift amounting to $750 billion from labor to capital.
- As Mr. Taylor points out, this is a global phenomenon, occurring in most countries. That's important in diagnosing causes, as labor's share is declining in places with different politics, different trade policies (e.g., it's falling in both trade-surplus and trade-deficit countries), high and low unionization rates, varying levels of capital intensiveness, and so on.
- While the shift from wages to profits is of course associated with higher inequality, it is actually a fairly loose association. Importantly, much of the increase in inequality has occurred within labor's share, as the paychecks of high earners diverge from those of low earners.
- In that regard, a paper by the economist Lawrence Mishel provides two noteworthy facts, the latter of which is a very important part of this puzzle, at least in the United States case. First, in decomposing the gap between wages and productivity growth, a symptom of inequality that's closely related to this share-shift story, he finds that inequality within the labor share - wage inequality - explains half of the growth of the gap over the last few decades.
- But it's his second finding I want to say more about here: in the latter 1990s, the last time the labor market was around full employment, labor's share of national income actually increased, temporarily closing the productivity-wage gap by one-third.
Mr. Taylor and Mr. Samuelson offer up the usual suspects: globalization, technological change, financialization (the growth of the finance sector), and declining workers' bargaining power. But given the Mishel finding about the latter 1990s, I thought the bargaining-clout point was worth a closer look.
So I built a simple statistical model of the compensation share of national income, one that basically correlates a bunch of variables and then lets you see how variable Y changes when you tweak variable X (see the data note below for details).
Before I get to the results, note that in the largely deunionized American job market, full employment is the way workers get bargaining clout. And I measure full employment using the unemployment gap ("ungap" in the next chart), which is simply the unemployment rate minus the Congressional Budget Office's estimate of the jobless rate associated with full employment. So if unemployment is 8 percent and the full employment rate is 5 percent, the ungap is three percentage points.
The chart below1 then examines what happens when you hit the ungap measure with a positive "shock," in effect simulating a slack labor market. As you see, do this and the labor share falls significantly (the standard errors - dotted lines in the figure - show that the decline is statistically significant); if you accumulate the quarterly declines in the chart, you get a loss of 1.7 points in the labor share over two and a half years. If you then calculate the cumulative unemployment gap since the Great Recession, you can fully explain the drop in the United States labor share.
But what about globalization? I plugged that into the model and found that once you control for bargaining power, it doesn't explain much at all. That's not surprising for two reasons. First, globalization itself zaps the bargaining power of those in import-competing sectors (who are then displaced to other sectors, further lowering the clout of workers in those sectors). Second, as Mr. Taylor's post stresses, labor share has been declining in countries with trade surpluses as well, like Germany and China, so a simple trade deficit story doesn't work so well in this case.
Again, this is a simple correlation exercise. When you're dealing with all of these macroeconomic moving parts, establishing causality goes far beyond what I've done here. But I'm shaving with Occam's razor, and given Mr. Mishel's finding about the latter 1990s, along with the common sense embedded in these linkages, I'm confident that more exhaustive analysis would find the same thing.
In other words, I submit that increasing labor's share of national income is neither mysterious nor beyond our scope (it is beyond our current politics, but so is pretty much anything useful). It takes getting rid of the persistent slack in the labor market, which in turn means policy makers must plot a course toward full employment. What that policy agenda entails will be a subject of future columns.
1 Data note: The second chart shows the "impulse response" function for a one-standard deviation positive shock on the labor slack variable - "ungap" - from a VAR (vector autoregression). As noted in the text, the variable is the actual unemployment rate minus the Congressional Budget Office's long-term non-accelerating inflation rate of unemployment. The VAR includes real compensation (entered in log changes) and the AAA corporate bond rate as controls. The "globalization" test noted in the text included the import share of gross domestic product in the VAR and, in a separate test, the sum of import and export shares. Impulse response functions of these variables showed no significant impact on the labor share.

        
Snapshots of Upwardly Mobile Areas
        
Not Really Labor's Day
        
The Audacity of the Fight for Higher Wages
        
In New Wave of Walkouts, Fast-Food Strikers Gain Momentum
        
Wage Stagnation and Market Outcomes

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TRENDS (90%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (79%); STRIKES (77%); PRODUCTIVITY (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (76%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (72%); GLOBALIZATION (68%) Income Inequality; Labor and Jobs; Organized Labor; Productivity; United States Economy; Wages and Salaries; Today's Economist

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (54%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (54%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (54%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (54%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (54%)

PERSON: JARED BERNSTEIN (74%); JOE BIDEN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2013



273 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Well)

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2013

SECTION: HEALTH

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: New Concerns on Robotic Surgeries

BYLINE: RONI CARYN RABIN


HIGHLIGHT: A study says that some cases of serious injuries involving robotically assisted surgeries performed by the da Vinci system were not reported to an F.D.A.-mandated database. 

 BODY:
In early March 2009, Erin Izumi, a woman in her 30s from Tacoma, Wash., underwent robotically assisted surgery to treat endometriosis. The operation at St. Joseph Medical Center dragged on for nearly 11 hours. 
Ten days later, Ms. Izumi was rushed to an emergency room, where doctors discovered that her colon and rectum had been torn during the operation. She was hospitalized for five weeks, undergoing a series of procedures to repair the damage, including a temporary colostomy, according to her attorney Chris Otorowski.
But even though medical device manufacturers and hospitals are required to report every device-related death and serious injury to a database maintained by the Food and Drug Administration within 30 days of learning about an incident, no report about the case was made in 2009. Hospital officials declined to comment, and a spokeswoman for the manufacturer said it became aware of the incident only when Ms. Izumi filed a lawsuit. It disputed the claim and settled the case in May 2012. 
That was not the only lapse in reporting problems with robotic surgical equipment, a new study has found.
The equipment, called the da Vinci system, is made by Intuitive Surgical Inc. of Sunnyvale, Calif. It has been on the market for more than a decade; more than a million procedures have been performed with it. Between January 2000 and August 2012, thousands of mishaps were reported to the F.D.A. In the vast majority of cases, the patient was not harmed, but among the reports were 174 injuries and 71 deaths related to da Vinci surgery, according to a study published last week in The Journal for Healthcare Quality.
Yet by combing news reports and court records, researchers at Johns Hopkins were able to find examples of botched operations that were not reported to the agency. They concluded that adverse events associated with the da Vinci were "vastly underreported."
It is fairly well known that reports made to the F.D.A. represent only "the tip of the iceberg" of surgical complications and adverse drug reactions, said Diana Zuckerman, the president of the National Research Center for Women and Families and an expert on the safety of medical devices, who was not involved in the study. The consequence is that little is known of the real disadvantages of the equipment, and the injuries and deaths it may cause, even as robotic surgery is widely marketed to consumers, Dr. Zuckerman said.
In a statement, Angela Wonson, vice president of corporate communications at Intuitive, said that the new study "gives the misleading impression that Intuitive Surgical has systematically failed in its obligation to timely report known adverse events to the F.D.A." On the contrary, she said, "We take this requirement very seriously and make every effort to account for all reportable events - even those from several years prior."
The new study follows a series of reports critical of robotically assisted surgery. Documents surfacing in the course of legal action against Intuitive have outlined the aggressive tactics used to market the equipment and raised questions about the quality of training provided to surgeons, as well as the pressure on doctors and hospitals to use it - even in cases where it is not the physician's first choice and she has little hands-on experience.
Nevertheless, robotic surgery has grown dramatically, increasing more than 400 percent in the United States between 2007 and 2011. About 1,400 da Vinci systems, which cost $1.5 million to $2.5 million, have been purchased by hospitals, according to Intuitive's investor reports.
The expansion has occurred without proper evaluation and monitoring of the benefits, said Dr. Martin A. Makary, an associate professor of surgery at Johns Hopkins and the senior author of the paper.
"This whole issue is symbolic of a larger problem in American health care, which is the lack of proper evaluation of what we do," Dr. Makary said. "We adopt expensive new technologies, but we don't even know what we're getting for our money - if it's of good value or harmful."
Part of the problem is that the reporting mandate "has no teeth," Dr. Makary added. "In health care, one fifth of the economy, we have this haphazard smattering of reports that relies on voluntary self-reporting with no oversight, no enforcement and no consequences."
F.D.A. officials said in a statement that the agency has issued warning letters in the past when facilities have failed to report, and that the agency can take further regulatory actions like injunctions or imposing civil financial penalties.
A 2010 study found that 56.8 percent of surgeons surveyed anonymously said they had experienced irrecoverable operative malfunctions while using the da Vinci system, Dr. Makary noted.
Women were more likely to be harmed during the robotic procedures, Dr. Makary and his colleagues found. Nearly one-third of deaths that were reported to the F.D.A. database occurred during gynecologic procedures, and 43 percent of the injuries were associated with hysterectomies.
"Any time there is a serious problem with the da Vinci, it should be reported," Dr. Zuckerman said. "It's the F.D.A.'s job to figure out whether this is a problem related to the device or a doctor error."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MEDICAL ROBOTICS (95%); ROBOTICS (91%); RESEARCH REPORTS (91%); HEALTH CARE (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (90%); HOSPITALS (90%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (90%); MEDICAL DEVICES (90%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (89%); WOMEN (78%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (78%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (77%); MEDICAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MFG (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (75%); LITIGATION (75%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (75%); ADVERSE DRUG EVENT REPORTING (75%); LAWYERS (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (71%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (70%); DRUG INTERACTIONS & SIDE EFFECTS (65%); EXECUTIVES (61%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (50%) Featured; The Consumer

COMPANY: INTUITIVE SURGICAL INC (82%); ST JOSEPH MEDICAL CENTER (58%)

TICKER: ISRG (NASDAQ) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (82%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (82%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TACOMA, WA, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (55%) WASHINGTON, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2013



274 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(In Transit)

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2013

SECTION: TRAVEL

LENGTH: 158 words

HEADLINE: Walkabout: Tokyo Snags 2020 Olympics; Berlin Airport Faces Thousands of Problems, Literally

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors. 

 BODY:
 Safe Bet Tokyo, which defeated Istanbul and Madrid as host of the 2020 Summer Olympics, is a safe choice in a time of political and economic uncertainty around the globe. (New York Times) 
 Woes, Multiplied The Berlin-Brandenburg Willy Brandt Airport, whose opening has been repeatedly delayed, continues to face budgetary and technical problems - 66,000 to be exact. (Jaunted)
 Domestic Travel Troubles Though American travel overseas was up in 2012, there were downward trends in domestic U.S. tourism: travelers visited fewer states and stayed for less time. (Skift)
 Praise, But No Profit Virgin America has earned glowing reviews from its consumers, but not its investors. Since it started flying out of San Francisco in August 2007, it has lost $675 million. (New York Times)

        
Four Seasons Hotels Start a Food Truck
        
A Dubai Hotel Will Hit a New High
        
In Mecca, a Hotel Boom
        
Calendar: Coming Events in London; Los Angeles; Berlin
        
Book a Room, Help a Student

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); WRITERS (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); 2012 LONDON SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); DOMESTIC TOURISM (87%); TRENDS (87%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (87%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (70%) Travel and Vacations

COMPANY: FOUR SEASONS HOTELS INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (53%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (50%) BRANDENBURG, GERMANY (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2013



275 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Lede)

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2013

LENGTH: 7580 words

HEADLINE: Tracking the Syrian Crisis and the International Response

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: The Times is following the conflict in Syria as the United States and its allies consider military action and will provide updates, analysis and public reaction from around the world. 

 BODY:
 The Times is following the conflict in Syria as the United States and its allies consider military action and will provide updates, analysis and public reaction from around the world. 
 7:00 P.M. | Ultranationalist Britons Wage Online Battle for Assad 
Having described Western support for the Syrian opposition as a Zionist plot during a visit to Damascus this summer, Nick Griffin, the leader of the xenophobic British National Party, spent part of Monday encouraging his followers to support President Bashar al-Assad in online discussion forums read by American voters.
Get busy on US forums and comment sections. This battle against war can be won. Next 24 hours are crucial. "Tomorrow is always too late"
- Nick Griffin MEP (@nickgriffinmep)9 Sep 13 
Get to work on US public opinion online. Stay on message, hammer home the 5 key points at end of http://t.co/k1BjhOo6Hp
- Nick Griffin MEP (@nickgriffinmep)9 Sep 13
To my Syrian followers, don't worry if your English isn't perfect. Just engage ordinary US citizens online & stress your common humanity.
- Nick Griffin MEP (@nickgriffinmep)9 Sep 13
Mr. Griffin, who represents England in the European Parliament and is a committed foe of what he calls the "creeping Islamification" of Britain, toured Syria in June with a group of far-right, ultranationalist politicians from across Europe. In video dispatches from Damascus posted on his fringe party's YouTube channel - which is otherwise dedicated to reports with titles like "Fighting the Horror of Mass Immigration" and "Muslim Sex Monster Jailed for 10 Years" - Mr. Griffin made it clear that he takes the Syrian president at his word when he claims that opposition to his autocratic rule is entirely a plot by foreign-backed, Islamic extremists. 
To try to head off the American bombing campaign, Mr. Griffin's party called on readers of its Web site "to help spread the message" on American news sites and Internet forums that "Obama's plan would turn the U.S. Air Force into Al Qaeda's air force and the U.S.S. Nimitz into the U.S.S. Bin Laden. On the eve of 9/11, it would be unforgivable to use American tax dollars to bomb Al Qaeda into power in Syria."
Mr. Griffin, who rails against the leaders of Britain's major parties as the lackeys of "Zionist warmongers," had much kinder words for Mr. Assad's close ally Vladimir V. Putin, the president of Russia.
Putin really is a class act. The greatest politician so far this century, and perhaps the only statesman.
- Nick Griffin MEP (@nickgriffinmep)9 Sep 13
- Robert Mackey 
 6:15 P.M. | Obama Open to Russian Proposal as Reid Delays Vote 
WASHINGTON - President Obama called a proposal to have Russia take control of Syria's chemical weapons stockpile to avert a United States military strike on Syria "a potentially positive development" but said he would continue to press for military action to keep up the pressure on the government of President Bashar al-Assad.
Speaking on CNN during one of six television interviews on Monday afternoon, Mr. Obama promised that his administration "will engage with the Russians and the international community to see, can we arrive at something that is enforceable and serious."
But he said that "if we don't maintain and move forward with a credible threat of military pressure, I do not think we will actually get the kind of agreement I would like to see."
Mr. Obama's statements opening the door to the plan came as support for a resolution authorizing force on Capitol Hill seemed to be receding, with even some who had announced support for it now reversing course. Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, said Monday evening that he would not take the procedural steps to force an initial vote on the authorization of force on Wednesday, slowing Senate consideration of the resolution.
 Democrats said they had enough votes to overcome a filibuster, but possibly not enough to pass it. A senior Democratic aide said that the developments over the Russian proposal were a significant factor in the delay, which will allow members to consider the plan and also hear from the president, who is scheduled to meet with them at the Capitol on Tuesday before his speech to the nation.
In another interview with NBC News, Mr. Obama said he would take the Russian proposal "with a grain of salt initially." But he told the network that if Syrian officials accepted the Russian proposal, "then this could potentially be a significant breakthrough."
Reacting to comments by Secretary of State John Kerry that any attack on Syria would be "unbelievably small," Mr. Obama said any attack would not be felt like a "pinprick" in Syria.
"The U.S. does not do pinpricks," he said in the NBC interview. "Our military is the greatest the world has ever known. And when we take even limited strikes, it has an impact on a country like Syria."
Sergey V. Lavrov, the Russian foreign minister, made the proposal earlier in the day on Monday, after Secretary of State John Kerry said that Syria could avoid an attack by putting its chemical weapons in the hands of international monitors. Officials in Syria embraced the idea several hours later.
"It's possible," the president said of the Russian proposal, "if it's real."
Traveling in Britain, Mr. Kerry said that Mr. Assad could avoid strikes by agreeing to give up his chemical weapons.
"He could turn over every single bit of his chemical weapons to the international community in the next week - turn it over, all of it, without delay and allow the full and total accounting," Mr. Kerry said.
Mr. Lavrov later seized on the idea, saying that it might for the basis of a compromise.
"We don't know whether Syria will agree with this, but if the establishment of international control over chemical weapons in the country will prevent attacks, then we will immediately begin work with Damascus," Mr. Lavrov said at the Foreign Ministry. "And we call on the Syrian leadership to not only agree to setting the chemical weapons storage sites under international control, but also to their subsequent destruction."
- Michael D. Shear 
 3:23 P.M. | France Sees No Chemical Attacks in Syria Since Aug. 21 
PARIS - The military strikes under consideration in Washington and Paris would seek, in part, to discourage Syria's president, Bashar al-Assad, from making use of the vast stock of chemical weapons said to be in his possession. 
The very threat of intervention seems to have produced that effect.
Since the chemical attack on Aug. 21, which officials from the United States, Europe and elsewhere have attributed to Mr. Assad's forces, no use of chemical weapons is known to have been detected in Syria, French officials said Monday, despite earlier intelligence assessments that had indicated that such attacks "were going to continue." 
By contrast, conventional attacks have continued, with a "very significant," double-digit number of airstrikes against rebel-held areas over the weekend, a French defense official said, speaking on condition of anonymity in keeping with government protocol. Mr. Assad's forces have used chemical weapons on a smaller scale on various occasions in recent months, according to declassified American and French intelligence assessments.
That Mr. Assad should now avoid the use of chemical agents "seems logical," said Romain Nadal, diplomatic spokesman for President François Hollande, who has steadfastly backed President Obama's call for a military strike to degrade Syria's capability to use chemical weapons. Other officials and regional analysts, however, have quietly worried that Mr. Assad will not be deterred by the international outcry and threat of intervention, but might carry out further chemical attacks in order to assert his sovereignty and power.
Asked if the specter of external military intervention had already had a deterrent effect in Syria, Mr. Nadal said that perhaps it had, but added that this was not a reason to forgo military strikes. "I don't believe one can trust this regime," he said.
French officials have insisted that any intervention will also seek to drive Mr. Assad into negotiations with his opponents and an eventual political solution, though they have remained vague as to what such a solution might entail for Mr. Assad and the various opposition factions fighting in Syria.
"As long as Assad does not feel he is in danger, he will not move," the defense official said. 
With strikes against Syria, France would not be seeking explicitly to tilt the momentum of the conflict in favor of the opposition, he said, but would happily accept that outcome as a "secondary effect."
- Scott Sayare 
 3:51 | Senator Blunt Comes Out Against Strike on Syria 
WASHINGTON - Senator Roy Blunt, Republican of Missouri, said on Monday that he would not support President Obama's plan for a military strike on Syria.
"Assad's chemical attacks on his own people were abhorrent," Mr. Blunt said in a statement, but he went on to say that Mr. Obama's strategy did not line up with "the policy goals our country should have."
"After careful consideration and a number of briefings on this topic, I believe this strategy and the unknown response it may provoke are the wrong thing to do, and I will not support the resolution the president has asked for," Mr. Blunt said.
- Michael D. Shear 
 3:07 P.M. | Clinton Says Russian Proposal Could Restrain Syria 
 [Video: Former Secretary of State Clinton speaking on Syria. Watch on YouTube.]
WASHINGTON - Former Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton said Monday that the Russian foreign minister's proposal to avoid military strikes on Syria could be "an important step" toward preventing Damascus from using chemical weapons.
Mrs. Clinton said she had just come from a meeting with President Obama to discuss the Syrian issue. She praised the proposal by the Russian foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, that Syria cede control of its chemical stockpiles.
But she added that "this cannot be another excuse for delay or obstruction" and that the idea had become serious only because of "a credible military threat by the United States to keep pressure on the Syrians."
Mrs. Clinton's comments were her first extended remarks about Syria since the chemical attacks last month that administration officials say killed more than 1,400 people, including children.
Mrs. Clinton, who left the administration this year, said she supported Mr. Obama's decision to strike Syria in a limited way, saying that the use of chemical weapons by President Bashar al-Assad "demands a strong response by the international community, led by the United States."
Although Mrs. Clinton has kept a low public profile on the Syria crisis, she has remained in close contact with White House officials and has attempted to drum up support in Congress for a military strike. 
As secretary of state, Mrs. Clinton took a tough stance towards Syria - often arguing more aggressively than Mr. Obama did in favor of the United States aiding the Syrian rebels.
Mrs. Clinton reiterated her hawkish stand on Monday. "The Assad regime's inhuman use of weapons of mass destruction against innocent, men, women and children violates a universal norm at the heart of our global order," she said.
Still, an aide to Mrs. Clinton said that she was concerned about undermining Secretary of State John Kerry, who succeeded her in the job. 
- Michael D. Shear and Amy Chozick 
 2:37 P.M. | Feinstein Backs Russian Proposal 
WASHINGTON - Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, embraced a proposal by the Russian foreign minister to avoid a United States military strike by getting Syria to transfer control of its chemical weapons to international monitors.
"I would welcome such a move," Ms. Feinstein, the chairwoman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, said in a statement on Monday afternoon. "I believe that Russia can be most effective in encouraging the Syrian president to stop any use of chemical weapons and place all his chemical munitions, as well as storage facilities, under United Nations control until they can be destroyed."
Ms. Feinstein's statement suggests that momentum may be building behind engaging in further diplomacy to avert a strike. 
Secretary of State John Kerry opened the door to the idea on Monday. Traveling in Britain, Mr. Kerry said President Bashar al-Assad of Syria could avoid military strikes by agreeing to give up his chemical weapons.
"He could turn over every single bit of his chemical weapons to the international community in the next week - turn it over, all of it, without delay, and allow the full and total accounting," Mr. Kerry said.
Sergey V. Lavrov, the Russian foreign minister, later seized on the concept, saying it might form the basis of a compromise.
"We don't know whether Syria will agree with this, but if the establishment of international control over chemical weapons in the country will prevent attacks, then we will immediately begin work with Damascus," Mr. Lavrov said. "And we call on the Syrian leadership to not only agree to setting the chemical weapons storage sites under international control, but also to their subsequent destruction."
Also on Monday, another Senate Democrat came out against attacking Syria, in a setback for the White House that served as a reminder of how many allies may not stand with President Obama on the issue.
Senator Heidi Heitkamp of North Dakota said she could not support the authorization for using military force in Syria as it is currently drafted. The Senate could vote this week on the resolution, but it may ultimately look very different than its current form.
"At its core, I believe the current Senate resolution falls short because it calls for military action in Syria without carefully looking at diplomatic or alternative solutions," Ms. Heitkamp said. "I strongly believe that we need the entire world, not just America, to prevent and deter the use of chemical weapons in Syria, or anywhere else on the globe."
Ms. Heitkamp said she would continue to work with Senator Joe Manchin III, Democrat of West Virginia, in building broader support for a resolution that is far more conditional and would give the Syrian government 45 days to sign an international chemical weapons ban.
- Michael D. Shear and Jeremy W. Peters 
 2:13 P.M. | White House Comes to Kerry's Defense 
WASHINGTON - Jay Carney, the White House press secretary, came to the defense of the president's top diplomat on Monday, saying that Secretary of State John Kerry's characterization of a Syria strike as "unbelievably small" was not a gaffe.
Mr. Carney said that Mr. Kerry meant that a strike would be "unbelievably small" in contrast to the open-ended Iraq and Afghanistan wars begun under President George W. Bush.
"I don't think the phrasing reflects some error. It's a fact that by comparison" that this would be much smaller than those wars," Mr. Carney told reporters on Monday afternoon.
Mr. Kerry's remark earlier in the day drew scorn that it undermined the case President Obama is trying to make to allies and to members of Congress that a strike is vital.
Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona and a supporter of a strike, wrote on Twitter: "Kerry says #Syria strike would be "unbelievably small" - that is unbelievably unhelpful."
- Michael D. Shear 
 2:07 P.M. | Failing to Act Will Hamstring U.S. Policy, Rice Says 
WASHINGTON - President Obama's top national security official said there would be dire consequences for the United States and the world if the nation did not respond to Syria's use of chemical weapons with a "limited" military attack.
Speaking at the New America Foundation, a research group in Washington, Susan E. Rice, Mr. Obama's national security adviser, said failing to act would be open the door to the use of other unconventional weapons and would neuter the United States' foreign policy.
"Failing to respond to this brazen attack could indicate that the United States is not prepared to use the full range of tools necessary to keep our nation secure," Ms. Rice said.
The speech by Ms. Rice was part of the continuing push by the administration to persuade the public and lawmakers to back strikes in Syria despite deep skepticism. Ms. Rice emphasized the brutality of the chemical attacks, opening her remarks by describing the "little children, laying on the ground, their eyes glassy" and twitching.
But she said the moral outrage felt by the world was not the only reason to act. She said inaction would send a message of weakness to Iran and North Korea and terrorists.
"It risks suggesting that the international community cannot muster the will to act when necessary," she said, adding that they are "watching to see whether the United States will stand up for the world we are trying to build."
Ms. Rice tried to answer critics who say that they fear a strike on Syria would draw the United States into a larger conflict. She cited the limited airstrikes ordered by President Ronald Reagan in Libya and missiles fired into Iraq by President Bill Clinton as evidence that she was right.
"We do not assess that limited military strikes will unleash escalatory reactions in the region," she said.
- Michael D. Shear 
 2:00 P.M. | U.S. to Take 'Hard Look' at Russian Proposal 
WASHINGTON - A senior national security official said Monday that the White House was taking "a hard look" at a proposal by the Russian foreign minister to avert a United States military strike on Syria by putting its chemical weapons under the control of the Russian government.
The official, Tony Blinken, a deputy national security adviser, told reporters that American officials will discuss the proposal - made by Sergey V. Lavrov, the foreign minister - with the Russians.
Mr. Blinken said the president would examine the Russian proposal. "We're going to take a hard look at this."
But he noted that the suggestion came under threat of a strike. "So it's even more important that we don't take the pressure off, and the Congress give the president the authority he requested."
He said the United States "would welcome Assad giving up his chemical weapons" since "that's the whole purpose of what we're trying to achieve." But he added that Syria's record "doesn't give you a lot of confidence."
- Michael D. Shear 
 1:14 P.M. | Video of the Kerry Remark Russia Seized Upon 
At a news conference in London on Monday, Secretary of State John Kerry was asked by Margaret Brennan of CBS News if there was anything President Bashar al-Assad of Syria "could do or offer that would stop an attack." As video posted online by the British news provider ITN shows, Mr. Kerry replied: "Sure. He could turn over every single bit of his chemical weapons to the international community in the next week. Turn it over, all of it, without delay, and allow a full and total accounting for that. But he isn't about to do it, and it can't be done, obviously."
As our colleagues Michael R. Gordon and Steven Lee Myers report, although "there is no indication that Mr. Kerry was searching for a political settlement to the Syrian crisis," his Russian and Syrian counterparts quickly seized upon the remark to suggest that putting chemical weapons - which Syria has obliquely threatened to use but has never officially acknowledged having - under international control could offer a way out of the crisis.
After Mr. Kerry's remark was greeted with enthusiasm by Russia's foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, the State Department suggested that it was not a proposal at all, but simply a "rhetorical" device employed by the secretary, as Hannah Allam of McClatchy Newspapers reported from Washington.
Last year, before he defected, Syria's Foreign Ministry spokesman, Jihad Makdissi, told reporters, in English, "Any stock of W.M.D. or unconventional weapons that the Syrian Army possesses will never, never be used against the Syrian people or civilians during this crisis, under any circumstances."
The Russian response to Mr. Kerry's apparently off-hand remark was described by bloggers who pay close attention to Arab and Russian politics as a brilliant blocking move in a game of diplomatic chess.
Syrian opposition activists, however, reacted with despair, suggesting that Syria might be able to use international inspections of its weapons to delay any action for weeks or months.
Assad will hold up negotiations for six months, arguing that inspectors must act within #Syria's sovereignty, i.e. no free acess. 3/
- Shakeeb Al-Jabri (@LeShaque)9 Sep 13
Essentially what was decided today is that you can shoot someone dead and escape punishment by handing over the gun when you're done. #Syria
- Shakeeb Al-Jabri (@LeShaque)9 Sep 13
- Robert Mackey 
 1:07 P.M. | 14 More Countries Sign Statement Condemning Syria 
WASHINGTON - The White House said Monday that 14 additional countries have signed on to a statement condemning Syria for using chemical weapons against its own citizens.
The statement, which was originally released by the United States and 10 other countries at the Group of 20 economic summit meeting in Russia last week, does not explicitly call for military action against Syria.
"We call for a strong international response to this grave violation of the world's rules and conscience that will send a clear message that this kind of atrocity can never be repeated," the statement says. "Those who perpetrated these crimes must be held accountable."
Last week, the statement was signed by Australia, Canada, France, Italy, Japan, Saudi Arabia, South Korea, Spain, Turkey, Britain and the United States. On Monday, the following countries signed on as well: Albania, Croatia, Denmark, Estonia, Germany, Honduras, Hungary, Kosovo, Latvia, Lithuania, Morocco, Qatar, Romania and the United Arab Emirates.
"We welcome additional countries expressing their support for this statement and our continued efforts to hold the Assad regime accountable and enforce the international norm against the use of chemical weapons," the White House said in a statement on its Web site, referring to the government of the Syrian president, Bashar al-Assad.
- Michael D. Shear 
 8:30 A.M. | Kerry Suggests Assad Hand Over Chemical Arsenal 
Secretary of State John Kerry said Monday that if President Bashar al-Assad wanted to avert an attack on Syria, he should hand over all of his chemical weapons within one week. 
There was no indication that Mr. Kerry was searching for a political settlement to the Syrian crisis, as he immediately dismissed the idea that Mr. Assad would comply and expressed doubt about whether it was even feasible as a civil war rages in Syria. 
Asked if there were steps the Syrian president could take to avert an American-led attack, Mr. Kerry said, "Sure, he could turn over every single bit of his chemical weapons to the international community in the next week - turn it over, all of it, without delay and allow the full and total accounting."
"But he isn't about to do it, and it can't be done," Mr. Kerry added.
In a joint news conference with William Hague, Britain's foreign secretary, Mr. Kerry also sought to play down the magnitude of any American military strike directed at the forces of Mr. Assad.
"We will be able to hold Bashar al-Assad accountable without engaging in troops on the ground or any other prolonged kind of effort in a very limited, very targeted, very short-term effort that degrades his capacity to deliver chemical weapons without assuming responsibility for Syria's civil war," Mr. Kerry said. "That is exactly what we are talking about doing - unbelievably small, limited kind of effort."
- Michael R. Gordon 
 10:23 A.M. | Palestinian Official Calls Idea of Strike 'Disastrous' 
RAMALLAH, West Bank - A senior Palestinian official said Monday that an American strike would be "disastrous" for the situation in Syria and also harm the Washington-brokered peace talks between Israel and the Palestinians that began last month.
Nabil A. Shaath, the Palestinian commissioner for international relations, echoed previous Palestinian statements against a potential strike, and cited United States involvement in Iraq, Afghanistan and Somalia as previous "disasters" that yielded few results. His comments, in a briefing for international reporters at the headquarters of the Palestine Liberation Organization, came a day after Secretary of State John Kerry announced that he had won support for foreign intervention from Saudi Arabia and Qatar, and was hopeful that additional Arab countries would join them in the coming days.
"Every time you have the United States thinking that it can resolve a problem with a massive show of force, it just ends up killing people," Mr. Shaath said at the briefing. "Have they solved the problem of Iraq today? Have they solved the problem of Afghanistan? Somalia? Where have they solved problems with massive force?
"What will happen? Just to destroy Syria for its own people."
Beyond the impact in Syria, Mr. Shaath said a strike could threaten the nascent peace talks that Mr. Kerry pressed Israel and the Palestinians into starting this summer, because "the United States will be totally busy." Even the White House's current lobbying effort for Congressional support harms the negotiations, he said.
"Getting senators and House members to vote is far more important than convincing them to do anything about Palestinian-Israeli peace," Mr. Shaath said. "The means to get United States backing will become even less if a war in Syria takes place."
- Jodi Rudoren 
 12:22 P.M. | Syrian Minister Says Syria Welcomes New Plan 
MOSCOW - Syria's foreign minister says his country welcomes Russia's proposal for it to place its chemical weapons under international control and then dismantle them quickly to avert United States strikes.
The statement from the minister, Walid al-Moallem, came a few hours after Secretary of State John Kerry said President Bashar al-Assad could resolve the crisis surrounding the alleged use of chemical weapons by his forces by surrendering control of "every single bit" of his arsenal to the international community by the end of the week. Mr. Kerry did not appear to be searching for a political solution when he made the comment, as he immediately dismissed the idea that Mr. Assad would comply.
But after Mr. Kerry's statement, Russia's foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, said Moscow would urge Syria to quickly put its chemical weapons under international control, then dismantle them.
Mr. Lavrov, who held talks with Mr. Moallem in Moscow earlier in the day, said he expected a quick positive answer from Damascus.
Mr. Moallem, however, would not give any further details in his brief statement and did not take any questions.
- The Associated Press 
 12:20 P.M. | U.N. Secretary General Embraces New Approach 
The United Nations secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, on Monday called for the creation of United Nations-supervised zones in Syria where the country's chemical weapons can be destroyed.
Mr. Ban told reporters he may propose the zones to the United Nations Security Council in a bid to overcome the 15-nation Council's "embarrassing paralysis" over the Syria conflict.
"I am considering urging the Security Council to demand the immediate transfer of Syria's chemical weapons and chemical precursor stocks to places inside Syria where they can be safely stored and destroyed," Mr. Ban said.
His announcement came after the Russian foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, urged Syria to place its chemical weapons under international supervision to head off the threat of a Western military strike.
Mr. Ban welcomed the Russian idea and said Syria should "agree to these proposals." He added that there would be "very swift action" by the international community to make sure the stocks are destroyed.
But Mr. Ban warned, "First and foremost, Syria must agree positively to this."
- Agence France-Presse 
 11:17 a.m. | CBS's Transcript of Assad Interview 
President Bashar al-Assad of Syria has granted only a handful of interviews to Western journalists over the course of the conflict in Syria, now well into its third year.
But with the possibility that the Obama administration will order an American military strike on Syrian targets in response to what it has called the Syrian government's use of chemical weapons on Aug. 21, Mr. Assad agreed to an interview in response to a longstanding request by Charlie Rose of PBS and CBS News. The interview was conducted on Sunday in Damascus at Mr. Assad's presidential palace, CBS said.
Mr. Rose previewed the interview on the CBS program "Face the Nation" on Sunday after his meeting with Mr. Assad, segments were broadcast on Monday by CBS News, and the full interview was to be broadcast on Monday at 9 p.m. Eastern time on PBS's "Charlie Rose Show."
Following is a partial transcript released by CBS on Monday morning, with video clips.
[TRANSCRIPT PART 1: Video]
CHARLIE ROSE: What was the reality on Aug. 21? What happened, in your judgment?
BASHAR AL-ASSAD: We - we're not in the area where the ally - where the - where the alleged chemical attack was happened, as it alleged. We're not sure that anything happened because --
CHARLIE ROSE: Even at this date, you are not sure that chemical weapons, even though you have seen the videotape, even though you've seen the bodies, even though --
BASHAR AL-ASSAD: No, I have --
CHARLIE ROSE: Your own officials have been there.
BASHAR AL-ASSAD: I haven't finished. Our soldiers in another area were attacked chemically. Our soldiers. They went to the hospital - as casualties because of chemical weapons. But in the area where they said the government used chemical weapons, we only had video and we only have pictures and allegations. We're not there. Our forces - our police, our institutions - don't exist. How can you talk about what happened if you don't have evidences? We're not like the American administration. We're not social media administration or government. We are the government that deal with reality --
CHARLIE ROSE: Well --
BASHAR AL-ASSAD: When we have evidence [unintelligible].
CHARLIE ROSE: Well, as you know, [Secretary of State John Kerry] has said there is evidence that they saw rockets that fired from - a region controlled by your forces into a region controlled by the rebels. They have evidence from satellite photographs of that. They have evidence of - an und - of a message that was intercepted about - chemical weapons. And - and that soon thereafter, there were other intercepted messages. So Secretary Kerry has presented what he concludes is conclusive evidence.
BASHAR AL-ASSAD: No. He presented his confidence and he presented his convictions. It's not - it's not about confidence, it's about evidence. The United - sorry, the Russians - have completely opposite evidence that the missiles were thrown from area where the rebels controlled. That reminds me about what Kerry said, about the big lie that Colin Powell said in front of the world on satellites about the W.M.D. in Iran before going to war when he said, "This is our evidence." Actually, he give - false evidence. In this case, Kerry didn't even present any evidence. He talk, "We have evidence." And he didn't present anything, not yet. Nothing so far.
CHARLIE ROSE Well, the United --
BASHAR AL-ASSAD Not a single shred of evidence.
[TRANSCRIPT PART 2: ]
CHARLIE ROSE: There is an intense discussion going on about all the things we're talking about in Washington. Where there's a strike, it will emanate from the United States' decision to do this. What do you want to say in this very important week in America, and in Washington, to the American people, to members of Congress, to the president of the United States.
BASHAR AL-ASSAD: I think the most important part of this now is - let's say the American people. But the polls show that the majority now don't want a war anywhere, not only against Syria. But the Congress is going to vote about this in a few days. And I think the Congress is elected by the people and represent the people and work for their interests.
The first question that they should ask themself, what do wars give America? Things we have [unintelligible] till now, nothing. No political gain, no economic gain, no good reputation. United States is at all-time, credibility is at all-time low. So this war is against the interests of the United States. Why?
First of all, because this is the war that is going to support Al Qaeda and the same people that kill Americans in the 11 of September. The second thing that we all want to tell to - to the - Congress, that they should ask and that what we expect, we expect them to ask this administration about the evidence that they have regarding the chemical story and the allegations that they presented.
I would then tell the president when he have the option 'cause we were disappointed by their behavior recently because we expected this administration different from Bush's administration. They are operating the same doctrine with different accessories. That's it. So we expect if we want to expect something from the - from this administration, it's not to be weak, to be strong to say that we don't have evidence, that we have to obey - the international law, that we have to go back to the Security Council at the United Nations.
CHARLIE ROSE: Question remains, what can you say to the president who believes chemical weapons were used and were used by your government, that this will not happen again, that this --
BASHAR AL-ASSAD: I will tell him very simply, "Present what you have as evidence to the - to the public. Be transparent when you p--"
CHARLIE ROSE: And if he does?
BASHAR AL-ASSAD: If he does?
CHARLIE ROSE: If he presents that evidence?
BASHAR AL-ASSAD: This is where you can discuss the evidence, 'cause he doesn't have. He didn't present it because he doesn't have - Kerry doesn't have. No one in your administration have. If they had it, they would have presented it to you as media for the - from the first day --
CHARLIE ROSE: They have - they have presented it to Congress.
BASHAR AL-ASSAD: Nothing. Nothing was presented --
CHARLIE ROSE: They have shown the Congress what they have and the evidence they have from satellites, intercepted messages, and the like.
BASHAR AL-ASSAD: Nothing presented.
CHARLIE ROSE: And --
BASHAR AL-ASSAD: Nothing has been presented so far.
CHARLIE ROSE: They have presented it to the Congress, sir.
BASHAR AL-ASSAD: You are a reporter. Get the - evidence, and show it to the public in your country.
CHARLIE ROSE: They're presenting it to --
BASHAR AL-ASSAD: We'd - we tell them --
CHARLIE ROSE: They're presenting it to the public's representative. You don't show your evidence and what you're doing and your plans to - the people within your own counsel. They're showing it to the people's representative --
BASHAR AL-ASSAD: So you are --
CHARLIE ROSE: Who have to vote on - on authorization to strike. And if they don't find the evidence sufficient --
BASHAR AL-ASSAD: First of all, we have the president - precedent of - Colin Powell 10 years ago when he showed the evidence, it was false and it was forged. This is first. Second, you want me to believe American evidence and don't believe the indication that we have, we live here.
 [TRANSCRIPT PART 3: Video]
CHARLIE ROSE: Will there be attacks against American bases in Middle East if there is an airstrike?
BASHAR AL-ASSAD: You should expect everything. You should expect everything - not necessarily from the government. It's not only the government are not the only player in this region. You have different parties, you have different factions, you have different ideology. You have everything in this region now. So you have to expect that.
CHARLIE ROSE: Tell me what you mean by expect everything?
BASHAR AL-ASSAD: Expect every action.
CHARLIE ROSE: Including chemical warfare?
BASHAR AL-ASSAD: That depends if the if the rebels or the terrorists in this region or any other group have it, it could happen I don't know. I am not fortune teller to tell you what's going to happen.
CHARLIE ROSE: But we'd like to know and I think the president - the American people like to know, you know, if there's an attack what might be the repercussions and who might be engaged in those repercussions?
BASHAR AL-ASSAD: Before the 11th of September, in my discussions with many officials in the United States - some of them are congressman - I used to say that don't deal with the terrorists in as playing games. It's different story. You are going to pay the price, if you are not wise with dealing with terrorists. So nobody expect - we said there were going to be repercussions of the mistaken way of dealing with it...of treating the terrorism. But nobody expected the 11th of September. So you could not expect. ... It's difficult for anyone to tell you what is going to happen. It's area where everything is on the brink of explosion. You have to expect everything.
[TRANSCRIPT PART 4: Video]
CHARLIE ROSE: Do you expect an airstrike?
BASHAR AL-ASSAD: As long as the United States doesn't obey the international law and trample over the charter of the United Nations, we have to worry that any administration, not only this one, would do anything. But according to the lies that we've been hearing for the last two weeks from high-ranking officials in this administration, we have to expect the worst.
CHARLIE ROSE: Are you prepared?
BASHAR AL-ASSAD: We've been living in different circumstances for the last two years and a half. And we're prepared ourselves for every possibility. But that doesn't mean if you're prepared, some things would be better. It's going to get worse with any foolish strike or stupid war.
CHARLIE ROSE: What do you mean worse?
BASHAR AL-ASSAD: Worse because of the repercussions. Because nobody can tell what the repercussion of the first strike. When you talk about one region, bigger regions. It's not only about Syria, it's interlinked region, it's intermingled, interlocked, whatever you want to- to call. If you strike somewhere, you have to expect the repercussions somewhere else in different forms in s- in a way that you don't expect-
CHARLIE ROSE: Are you suggesting that if in fact there's a strike, there would be repercussions against the United States from your friends in other countries like Iran or Hezbollah or others?
BASHAR AL-ASSAD: Yeah. As I said, it's - it may take different forms, direct and indirect. Direct when people wants to retaliate s- or governments. Indirect when we're going to have instability and the spread of terrorism all over the region that will influence the West directly.
CHARLIE ROSE: Have you had conversations with Russia, with Iran - with Hezbollah about how to retaliate?
BASHAR AL-ASSAD: We don't discuss - this issue - as a government. But we discuss the repercussions, which is more important because sometimes repercussions could be more destroying than the strike itself. Any American strike will not destroy as much as the rebel - the terrorists has destroyed in Syria. So sometimes repercussions could be many doubles the strike itself.
CHARLIE ROSE: But some have suggested that it might tip the balance in the favor of the rebels and lead to the overthrow of your government.
BASHAR AL-ASSAD: Exactly. Any strike will be as direct support to Al Qaeda offshoot that's called Al Nusra, Jabhat al-Nusra, and the Islamic state of Iraq and Syria. You're right about this. It's going to be direct support.
CHARLIE ROSE: This is about chemical warfare. And let's talk about that. Do you approve of the use of chemical warfare?
BASHAR AL-ASSAD: What do you mean?
CHARLIE ROSE: The use of chemicals, deadly chemicals?
BASHAR AL-ASSAD: Do I do I think that we have to use s-
CHARLIE ROSE: No. Do you think that it is an appropriate tool of war to use chemicals?
BASHAR AL-ASSAD: The chemical?
CHARLIE ROSE: Yes.
BASHAR AL-ASSAD: We are against any W.M.D., any weapons of mass destruction whether chemical or nuclear. And that -
CHARLIE ROSE: So you're against the use of chemical warfare?
BASHAR AL-ASSAD: Yeah. It's not only me as a state, as a government. In 2001, we proposed to the United Nations - purported to - empty or to get rid of every W.M.D. in the Middle East and the United States stood against that proposal.
CHARLIE ROSE: But-
BASHAR AL-ASSAD: So this is our conviction and policy.
CHARLIE ROSE: But you're not a signator to the - chemical warfare -
BASHAR AL-ASSAD: Not yet.
CHARLIE ROSE: Agreement.
BASHAR AL-ASSAD: Not yet-
CHARLIE ROSE: Why not?
BASHAR AL-ASSAD: Because Israel has W.M.D. and it has to sign. And Israel occupying our land. So that's why we talked about Middle East, not Syria, not Israel. It should be comprehensive.
CHARLIE ROSE: Do you consider chemical warfare equivalent to nuclear warfare?
BASHAR AL-ASSAD: I don't know. We haven't tried either. [laughs]
CHARLIE ROSE: Yeah, but you know, you're a head of state and you understand the consequences of weapons that don't discriminate -
BASHAR AL-ASSAD: You mean that - technically, they're not -
CHARLIE ROSE: That are beyond -
BASHAR AL-ASSAD: Yeah, technically, they're not the same. But -
CHARLIE ROSE: But.
BASHAR AL-ASSAD: Morally, they're the same.
CHARLIE ROSE: Morally, they're the same.
BASHAR AL-ASSAD: They have the same. But at the end, killing is killing.
[TRANSCRIPT PART 5: Video]
CHARLIE ROSE: When I first interviewed you - there was talk of "Bashar al-Assad, he's the hope. He's the reformer." That's not what they say anymore.
BASHAR AL-ASSAD: Who?
CHARLIE ROSE: People who write about you, people who talk about you, people who analyze Syria and your regime.
BASHAR AL-ASSAD: Exactly. So the hope for American is different from the hope of Syrian. For me, I'm the hope of - I should be the hope of the Syrian, not any other one. Not American, not - no American, neither French, or anyone in the world. I'm president to help Syrian people. So this question should start from the hope of the Syrian people. And if there's any change regarding that hope, we should ask the Syrian people. Not anyone else in the world.
CHARLIE ROSE: But now they say, their words, a "butcher." Comparisons to the worst dictators ever to walk on the face of the earth. Comparing you to them. Using weapons - that go beyond warfare. Everything they could say bad about a dictator, they're now saying about you.
BASHAR AL-ASSAD: First the following have - doctor who cut the leg to prevent the patient from the gangrene, if you have to, we don't call him butcher, we call him doctor. And you - thank you for saving the lives. When you have terrorism, you have a war. When you have a war, you always - you always have innocent lives that could be the victim of any war. 
- Rick Gladstone 
 10:56 A.M. | Lavrov Proposes Syria Cede Chemical Stockpile 
MOSCOW - In Moscow, Russia's foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, said Monday that Russia would join any effort to put Syria's stockpile of chemical weapons under international control and ultimate to destroy them, welcoming a suggestion made by Secretary of State John Kerry in London. 
Mr. Lavrov appeared at a previously unscheduled briefing only hours after Mr. Kerry made his statement in London. Although Mr. Kerry appeared to treat the idea that Syria would give up its stockpile as improbable, and there was no sense that he was searching for a political settlement, Mr. Lavrov seized on his comment as a possible compromise that Russia was prepared to propose to the Syrians.
"We don't know whether Syria will agree with this, but if the establishment of international control over chemical weapons in the country will prevent attacks, then we will immediately begin work with Damascus," he said at the Foreign Ministry. "And we call on the Syrian leadership to not only agree to setting the chemical weapons storage sites under international control, but also to their subsequent destruction."
Mr. Lavrov met Syria's foreign minister, Walid al-Moallem, here in Moscow only moments before Mr. Kerry spoke in London, and during a joint appearance at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, both ministers excoriated the United States for rushing to launch military strikes. The shift in tone between Mr. Lavrov's two appearances was striking. 
Mr. Lavrov said he made the proposal to put Syria's weapons under international control directly to Mr. Moallem, but it was not immediately clear how the Syrian government might respond. Mr. Lavrov went into more detail than Mr. Kerry's suggestion - which his own spokeswoman described as a rhetorical exercise rather than a proposal. He said Russia was proposing that Syria join the international Convention on Chemical Weapons, which bars the manufacture, stockpiling and use of poison gas. Syria is one of seven nations that have not signed the treaty, the others being Angola, Egypt, Israel, Myanmar, North Korea and South Sudan.
"We are counting on a quick, and I hope, positive answer," Mr. Lavrov said Monday evening as Mr. Kerry flew back to Washington to attend briefings on Capitol Hill intended to build support for a military response to Syria's use of the weapon.
Earlier Mr. Lavrov also reiterated the proposal he and Mr. Kerry unveiled in May to hold an international conference in Geneva to search for a political settlement that would end the conflict. Although Russia persuaded Syria's government to agree to participate, the United States failed to secure the participation of the fragmented rebel groups, and the proposal has since withered.
 "We urge our American colleagues to focus their efforts on this, not on the preparation for a military scenario," Mr. Lavrov said.
- Steven Lee Myers 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); AL-QAEDA (86%); TERRORISM (85%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (77%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (70%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (68%); IMMIGRATION (68%); EUROPEAN UNION (65%); RELIGION (63%) Europe; Middle East; News; U.S.; world

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (78%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (55%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (93%) SYRIA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); UNITED KINGDOM (95%); EUROPE (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ENGLAND (73%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2013



276 of 276 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 843 words

HEADLINE: A $250 Million Pledge to a College Evaporates as a Deal Collapses

BYLINE: PETER LATTMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Centre College in Danville, Ky., announced in July that it had received a $250 million donation, the largest outright gift ever made to a liberal arts college, but it left out a small detail. 

 BODY:
When tiny Centre College, in Danville, Ky., announced in July that it had received a $250 million donation, the largest outright gift ever made to a liberal arts college, it left out a small detail.
The donor - the A. Eugene Brockman Charitable Trust - did not yet have the money.
On Monday, the college said that the gift had been withdrawn. 
The gift, it turns out, had been contingent upon a "significant capital market event," Centre said in a statement.
"In retrospect, we might have put a big asterisk on this thing, but no one had any inkling that this would come about," John Roush, the president of Centre College, said in an interview.
The "significant capital market event" was a scuttled $3.4 billion loan deal involving Reynolds & Reynolds, a large privately held company that provides software and services to car dealers. The Brockman trust has ties to the Texas businessman Robert T. Brockman, the chief executive of Reynolds & Reynolds, who until recently served as chairman of Centre's board of trustees and attended the college for two years. A Reynolds & Reynolds spokesman, Thomas Schwartz, confirmed that the company canceled the transaction, which would have financed the donation to Centre.
A driving force behind Mr. Brockman's gift was the red-hot market for corporate loans. In July, Reynolds & Reynolds, seeking to capitalize on record low interest rates and yield-starved investors, initiated the deal to raise $3.4 billion in new loans. The company said it would use the proceeds from the transaction to make a large payout to its owners. Among its biggest shareholders was the Brockman trust.
The credit ratings agency Moody's took a dim view of the deal, downgrading Reynolds & Reynolds' credit rating because it would saddle the company, which is valued at about $5 billion, with too much debt.
Nevertheless, investors clamored for Reynolds & Reynolds's loans and received their allocations about a month ago. But the deal collapsed last week, and investors were told to unwind the trades. Matthew Fuller, a corporate loan analyst at LCD, a division of S & P Capital IQ, said that it was rare to see a loan deal withdrawn weeks after it had begun trading.
"For a deal of this size to launch to strong market conditions, receive significant investor demand and trade openly in the aftermarket for a month, and then be canceled, is highly unusual," Mr. Fuller said.
Mr. Schwartz, the Reynolds & Reynolds spokesman, confirmed that the company had withdrawn the deal but declined to explain why. He added that the company was confident that it could return to the debt markets at any time. A spokeswoman for Deutsche Bank, which underwrote the loans, declined to comment.
The failed loan offering is the company's second unsuccessful deal over the last year. In late 2012, Mr. Brockman explored a sale of Reynolds & Reynolds to a private equity firm, but a buyer never materialized, according to a person briefed on those discussions.
Universities recently have been the beneficiaries of extraordinary largess from philanthropists. Last week, the real estate developer Stephen M. Ross unveiled a $200 million gift to the University of Michigan. Earlier this year, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York announced a $350 million pledge to Johns Hopkins University, and the financier Ronald O. Perelman pledged $100 million to Columbia University.
The Brockman pledge would have been used to create 160 scholarships at Centre - 40 a year beginning in the fall of 2014 - for students planning to study natural sciences, computational sciences or economics. At $250 million, the gift exceeded the school's $240 million endowment. With 1,370 students, about half from Kentucky, Centre is perhaps best known outside the state as the host of two vice-presidential debates, in 2000 and 2012.
A. Eugene Brockman, who died in 1986, was connected to the college only through his son, Robert Brockman, a student at Centre for two years before transferring to the University of Florida, where he obtained a business degree.
After stints at the Ford Motor Company and International Business Machines, Mr. Brockman started Universal Computer Systems, a provider of computer systems to auto dealerships. In 2006, Universal Computer Systems acquired Reynolds & Reynolds for about $2.8 billion and merged the two companies under the Reynolds & Reynolds brand.
Mr. Brockman, who lives in Houston, has been a major supporter of Centre, serving as chairman of its board from 2008 until earlier this year. In 2009, the Brockman Trust gave $19.5 million to the college for campus housing. Mr. Brockman also serves as a trustee at Rice University and Baylor College of Medicine.
"It is a disappointing day," Mr. Roush said of the withdrawn gift. "We had a lot of people who have poured mountains of time into this, and my greatest disappointment is that there are a lot of students out there who won't be able to get a Centre College education. But our future is still exceedingly bright."

        
A New Divestment Focus on Campus: Fossil Fuels
        
2 Investors Give $35 Million to Brown

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); MAJOR GIFTS (90%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (88%); CORPORATE DEBT (88%); CREDIT BUREAUS (88%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (86%); PHILANTHROPY (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); PRIVATE EQUITY (76%); INTERVIEWS (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (74%); DIVESTITURES (73%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (68%); NEW CAR DEALERS (53%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Centre College; Colleges and Universities; Kentucky; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Philanthropy; Financial Services; Private Equity

COMPANY: REYNOLDS & REYNOLDS CO (91%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Centre College

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (50%); DBK (FRA) (50%); DBK (BIT) (50%); DBETN (JSE) (50%); DBA (ASX) (50%); DB (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (91%); NAICS323111 COMMERCIAL PRINTING (EXCEPT SCREEN & BOOKS) (91%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (91%); SIC2761 MANIFOLD BUSINESS FORMS (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (50%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KENTUCKY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Kentucky

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2013

 
