

601 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; GREENTECH; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 547 words

HEADLINE: Diesels Take the Role of Both Tortoise and Hare

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE ULRICH

 BODY:
Jostling for sales against cars equipped with gasoline or hybrid powertrains, the modern diesel finds itself needing to show off a little -- something sexier than, say, a promise to last a quarter-million miles.
That's why automakers are pushing diesel engines to extremes, pressing for more power and greater fuel efficiency. Factory-sponsored racing prototypes are sweeping the world's toughest endurance contests, while limited-production demonstration projects are showing that triple-digit fuel economy is no longer theoretical.
Sometimes, horsepower and fuel efficiency are just two sides of the same coin. Case in point: Audi kicked off a game-changing win streak in 2006 when its purpose-built R10 TDI became the first diesel racecar to take the checkered flag at the 24 Hours of Le Mans. The R10 covered a record-setting 3,223 miles over the 24 hours, averaging 134 m.p.h. 
The R10's output -- 650 horsepower, according to Audi -- set the pace on the track, but its fuel efficiency was also a crucial part of the team's winning strategy. As gasoline competitors stopped to refuel, wasting precious seconds, the R10 kept lapping the track.
A Mazda 6 powered by the Japanese automaker's new Skyactiv-D diesel arrives in showrooms this year. To establish its zoom-zoom credentials, production-based Mazda 6 sedans are competing this year in the Rolex Grand-Am series. At Road Atlanta in April, Mazda scored the first-ever diesel class victory in Grand-Am and followed up with three more consecutive wins.
At the slow-but-steady end of the spectrum, the production-destined Volkswagen XL1 takes 12.5 seconds to reach 60 m.p.h. But it dusts all rivals in the efficiency race: VW bills the XL1 as the world's first ''1-liter car.'' That refers not to engine displacement, but to its ability to travel 100 kilometers (or 62 miles) on one liter of fuel -- the equivalent of 261 miles per gallon.
On that basis, the XL1 could theoretically drive from New York to Los Angeles on 10 gallons of fuel. Such frugality requires a plug-in hybrid system with a tiny 600 cc 3-cylinder diesel engine. It also demands extreme aerodynamic efficiency and lightness. The two-passenger carbon-fiber XL1 weighs just 1,850 pounds.
VW plans to offer very limited numbers of XL1s in Europe beginning this year, but it will not bring the car to America.
Such combinations of technology remain expensive. Volvo's V60 wagon, which the company says will be Europe's first diesel plug-in hybrid, costs nearly £44,000 in Britain, or $67,000 -- even after a government grant. Yet demand has been unexpectedly high; Volvo plans to build 10,000 in 2013.
Audi has also melded the diesel and hybrid technologies in its latest winner.
The R18 E-tron quattro, which won Le Mans last month, combines a downsized diesel V-6 with a regenerative hybrid system that captures kinetic energy and stores it in a flywheel accumulator rather than as electrical energy in batteries. The spinning flywheel then delivers a jolt of power to electric motors at the front wheels -- providing short bursts of acceleration, and all-wheel drive, in the process. ''The fact that our diesel cars get incredible mileage, without sacrificing performance, turns people's heads,'' said an Audi spokesman, Mark Dahncke. ''And racing underlines that fact.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ENDURANCE: Fewer fuel stops helped Audi R18 E-tron quattro racecars dominate the 24 Hours of Le Mans again in 2013. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHANE MAHE/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); HYBRID VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (89%); SEDANS (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (69%) CALIFORNIA, USA (77%); NEW YORK, USA (69%) EUROPE (88%); UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2013



602 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; FIELD NOTES; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1421 words

HEADLINE: The Food Wore Neon

BYLINE: By GLENN COLLINS

 BODY:
At first glance, the fantasy luxe wedding seems to defy time: the bride in ivory satin narrowed at the waist; the groom in Scottish cashmere from Savile Row; a string quartet sedately fingering Schuman and Poulenc.
But check out the caterer: on high alert and poised to offer gluten-free, peanut-neutral, free-range, kosher, organic, multigrain, nonpesticide, vegan, humanely slaughtered, grass-fed, locavore dishes.
It isn't your grandmother's wedding menu any more. It isn't even your big sister's.
''Weddings are more complex than ever,'' said Harriette Rose Katz, whose social-event company has presided over hundreds of wedding feasts in the last 35 years. ''People want gluten-free, seed-free, egg-free, meat-free, fish-free and even cantaloupe-free and mango-free weddings. Every bride and groom has a guest who is allergic to nuts.'' 
At their black-tie wedding in May for 150 at the Wölffer Estate, a vineyard in Sagaponack, N.Y., Missy Rinfret and Richard Minicucci were scrupulous about incorporating the wishes of allergic guests who had noted on the back of their R.S.V.P.'s red flags like ''gluten free,'' ''no soy'' and ''nut allergy.''
''It hadn't crossed our minds that these would be issues,'' the bride said, ''and a lot of other people were diet-conscious -- but we had options for all at a formal sit-down dinner.''
The comedian Jimmy Kimmel and his bride, Molly McNearney, who were married last weekend at a lavish ceremony in Ojai, Calif., had their event catered by Animal, that Los Angeles palace of meat-centric dude-food, which offered some desserts featuring bacon. Nevertheless, the couple supplied vegetarian options for their 300 guests, including salads, fried artichokes and other vegetable choices that kept vegan celebrity guests like Ellen DeGeneres and her spouse, Portia de Rossi, from dialing for takeout.
While some guests feel entitled to a say in the menu, many couples are increasingly demanding restaurant-quality food ''because everyone is a foodie today,'' said Mary Giuliani, the founder and owner of a Manhattan catering business. ''A nice piece of filet, a salad and a baked potato won't dazzle anyone anymore.''
Though no one keeps statistics on this culinary escalation, ''It's not a fad, but a real change in the way people think about food,'' said Andrea Correale, the founder and president of Elegant Affairs, a caterer in Manhattan and Glen Cove, N.Y., that has been involved in hundreds of weddings over the last 18 years. ''This trend is going to grow as people become more health-conscious.''
Rachel Kirschbaum, who was married to Anthony Rey in June, said ''the food was the entertainment of our show.''
Guests at their ''show,'' on a rooftop terrace of their building in the financial district, were offered fresh-shaved truffles, heirloom tomatoes, pastrami from Katz's and Molly's cupcakes.
''There is more pressure now,'' Ms. Kirschbaum said. ''You really want to have very good food.'' She added that she and Mr. Rey, who are investors in the Voli vodka company, ''are major foodies -- we watch the Food Network, and we Instagram our food.''
Celebrity chefs are also embracing the new rules. ''Wedding menus have moved on,'' according to Andrew Carmellini, a chef and an owner of the Lafayette, the Dutch and the Locanda Verde restaurants in Manhattan. In the early 1990s, when he got his culinary start in the catering halls of Cleveland, ''The question was: do you want the chicken or do you want the fish?'' he said. ''Now, you can have both chicken and fish, but they'd better be really delicious.''
If crab cakes, pigs in a blanket, lamb skewers and baby sliders are still popular hors d'oeuvres, caterers often now offer treats like ceviche, vegetable timbales and kale salad-rolls in rice paper, Ms. Giuliani said.
And the primordial plated wedding-banquet service is also being challenged. ''Every bride and groom wants wow and dazzle, and just putting food on the table won't cut it anymore,'' said Ms. Giuliani, who recently served mac-and-cheese plates from a miniature working Ferris wheel and had roving servers passing out tastings of paella and ceviche, ''from walking stations -- strap-on trays like the ones worn by the old cigarette girls.''
Family-style menus featuring passed food is of the moment as well. ''There is something about being at table, and passing things to others using your hands -- there is a social and psychological benefit to that,'' Mr. Carmellini said
Trendy small-plates menus are a convenient option for family-style weddings ''where we'll have six or seven antipasti, a wealth of canapé things, two or three different pastas -- all of it passed by hand,'' Mr. Carmellini said.
An elegant variant is to offer family-style and small-plate feasts at events where servers also deliver a large-plate main course, Ms. Katz said. Guests on diets, she added, prefer small plates to ''feel that they are controlling what they are eating -- it's almost like a seated buffet.''
Nearly every wedding kicks off with drinks and Ms. Correale said that ''wedding guests want cocktails made with fresh juices, and a mixologist is de rigueur.'' As for the finale, she said, desserts are often dispensed from sorbet bars featuring fresh natural juices, or from stands offering organic ice cream infused with basil, lavender or green tea.
Menu choices increasingly hew to culinary correctness. On a recent Sunday wedding that inhabited the entire 150-seat space of Lafayette, the couple ''requested a locavore menu, and chose local Catskill Mountain trout,'' Mr. Carmellini said.
Indeed, Ms. Giuliani said, ''at some weddings now, every food item has a name card to identify the farm or fisherman of origin.''
Or, as Ms. Katz put it, ''Guests now want food fresh from the garden, and they want to know just where that garden is.''
The vegetarian option (once dismissed as ''the veg plate'') ''used to be a silent option,'' Ms. Correale said. ''But now it's a featured item.''
The evolved wedding menu ''is a relatively recent phenomenon, traceable to the rise of foodie culture,'' said Bradford Wilcox, a sociologist who is the director of the National Marriage Project at the University of Virginia. For centuries, wedding banquets were an expression of class status, sending a message to the assembled, ''symbolically locating a couple within a community,'' Dr. Wilcox said. ''The couple's ethnicity was often a driver of the menu, and that is still important for many. But now other concerns are coming to the forefront -- often more agrarian, organic and local.''
Beyond that, ''many couples want to demonstrate their sophistication about food,'' Ms. Giuliani said. ''And their menu can tell their story.''
Some brides and grooms are requesting the presence of celebrity chefs, and kitchen stars like Daniel Boulud, Jean-Georges Vongerichten, David Bouley and Laurent Tourondel have lent their expertise to weddings. Therefore ''it's becoming crucial for caterers to align themselves with well-known chefs,'' Ms. Giuliani said. She has just started Mario by Mary, a collaborative event-catering program with Mario Batali, ''where we execute the meal alongside Mario's chefs.''
Other well-known chefs say they are selective about weddings. Michael White, the chef and an owner at Marea, Ai Fiori, Costata and other restaurants, said he prepared weddings ''only for our very good customers.''
''We take weddings very seriously, and consult with the couple not just to learn their preferences so we can create fantastic food,'' he said, ''but also to see if guests have allergies, and whether they have other needs.''
And Mr. Carmellini said that he would not ''just design a menu, I want to execute the whole process.''
Thanks to this pervasive sophistication-inflation, caterers must build and staff more elaborate kitchens at wedding halls, ''instead of cooking off-site'' in advance, Ms. Correale said.
That and larger, more skilled catering staffs, as well as the higher cost of top-quality ingredients, have made wedding menus 5 to 10 percent more expensive in recent years, ''and 20 percent higher if the wedding is organic,'' she added. The cost of haute wedding food alone, therefore, now begins at $275 per guest, up 15 percent from just a few years ago, she added.
But if a higher degree of difficulty is now a given for wedding caterers, they still can't miss a beat when guests spring surprise dietary regimes during the menu-planning sessions.
''In a worst-case scenario,'' Ms. Katz said, ''we just tell them, 'Bring food. And we'll prepare it beautifully.' ''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY TOM BLOOM) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD ALLERGIES (91%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); CATERING SERVICES (89%); MEAT FREE DIETS (89%); RESTAURANTS (75%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (72%); CELEBRITIES (70%); TRENDS (68%); MEATS (68%); DIETING (64%)

PERSON: ELLEN DEGENERES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (66%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2013



603 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; BEHIND THE WHEEL | 2014 CHEVROLET CRUZE TURBO DIESEL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1186 words

HEADLINE: Fossil-Fuel Mileage Champ

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE ULRICH

 BODY:
Despite several do-gooder attempts, from the EV1 electric car to the Volt plug-in hybrid, General Motors has not always been viewed as a particularly green automaker.
Pumping out Hummers and other greed-is-good models during the S.U.V. glory years had something to do with that. But the post-bankruptcy G.M. is not just getting with the program, it is stamping its name above the fold.
G.M.'s Chevrolet Spark EV is the most efficient electric vehicle sold in America (though only in California and Oregon for the time being) with a federal gasoline-equivalent rating of 119 miles per gallon.
Now the Chevy Cruze, already among the highest-mileage compact sedans running on gasoline, raises its bar: with a rating of 46 m.p.g., the 2014 Cruze Turbo Diesel achieves the best highway mileage of any new nonhybrid car in America. 
The Cruze also becomes the first Chevy diesel since the 1986 Chevette. Weighing the Cruze against that Chevette -- the latter's engine as pitiful as the car itself -- shows how far the technology has come. It also illustrates how G.M. is building world-competitive small cars after decades of bumbling indifference.
G.M. has sold more than two million Cruzes globally since the car's overseas debut in 2009, including more than 125,000 with diesel engines. Popular and right-sized, with some of the lowest warranty costs of any Chevy, the Cruze was G.M.'s ideal choice to reintroduce a diesel to America, said Josh Tavel, the vehicle performance manager for G.M.'s small cars.
G.M. prepped this Ohio-built Cruze with myriad changes to both the gasoline version -- including a Cruze Eco that hits 42 m.p.g. on the highway, albeit with a manual transmission -- and international diesel models. The idea was to banish any trace of old-school diesel noise, smell and sluggishness.
''We all know what the old diesel myths are, so we really looked to dispel them,'' Mr. Tavel said.
The 2-liter engine, developed by G.M.'s European division, Opel, injects fuel as many as five times per engine cycle. Engineers tinkered with 33,000 calibration parameters for the diesel, compared with some 12,000 to 17,000 for G.M.'s typical gasoline engines.
The resulting turbocharged engine is more powerful and slightly more efficient than VW's same-size diesel in the Jetta TDI sedan. The Chevy's 151 horsepower and 264 pound-feet of torque compare with 140 and 236 for the Jetta. On fuel economy, the Chevy takes the highway crown, at a rated 46 m.p.g. versus the Jetta's 42. But the Jetta's city rating of 30 m.p.g. beats the Cruze's by 3 m.p.g.
The Cruze is quicker off the line than the VW, burbling to 60 m.p.h. in a reasonable 8.6 seconds. And like just about every modern diesel, the Cruze's bounteous torque makes the car feel surprisingly muscular in real-world driving. With 15.6 gallons of fuel aboard, the Chevy can cover nearly 720 miles to a tank, enough to drive from Detroit to New York with nearly 100 miles to spare.
Like many diesels in the United States, which has far stricter regulations on smog-forming nitrogen oxides than Europe, the Chevy carries a small onboard tank of urea that's injected into the exhaust stream to neutralize pollution.
VW wins that battle; its 4-cylinder diesels meet 50-state emissions rules with no need for a urea tank. Chevy owners must refill theirs every 10,000 to 15,000 miles.
While the Cruze's engine is already quieter than rackety old-school diesels, the car adopted extra sound padding from its pricier cousin, the Buick Verano. A structural brace on the engine cradle counteracts vibration from the higher idle speed.
The gasoline Cruze is already among the most hushed cars in its class. But in some situations, Chevy says the diesel is measurably quieter than the gas engine.
The engine was also retuned to optimize power and efficiency at the lower engine speeds where Americans tend to drive. All six gears of the automatic transmission (no stick shift is offered) were remapped.
To further bolster mileage, Chevy adopted aerodynamic aids from the gas-powered Cruze Eco, including front grille shutters that automatically adjust to reduce airflow and cut drag at higher speeds.
''We spent a lot of third-shift nights in the wind tunnel, getting air through the radiator as efficiently as possible,'' Mr. Tavel said.
Underbody panels further help to smooth airflow, along with front deflectors that reduce turbulence around the wheel wells and the spinning tires.
For bitter northern climates, the Cruze Diesel sold here gets more advanced glow plugs to ensure, G.M. promises, cold starts at temperatures as low as 40 degrees below zero. And the American version adopts larger brake rotors for the front and the rear.
In case any sensitive nose could detect a residual trace of diesel's telltale odor, Chevy added a charcoal filter to the climate system.
I've beaten the E.P.A. economy estimates with most of the diesels currently on sale, and I did so again with the Cruze. Over a 4.5-hour drive to Monticello, N.Y., and back to Brooklyn, I managed 49 m.p.g. on the highway portion -- about what I've achieved in VW diesels.
That's impressive, though the benefits are less compelling for drivers who often cool their heels in traffic. Hybrids still trump the efficiency of diesels in city and suburban driving -- though they are invariably less fun and satisfying to drive.
As with the gas model, the Cruze isn't sporty, but it is pleasant and relaxing to drive. Consider the Cruze a mac-and-cheese compact: familiar and unpretentious, it is also comforting.
This Cruze is also well equipped, including leather seats and touch-screen navigation. It's also pricey, because Chevy decided to offer only one well-equipped version, which starts at $25,695.
G.M. estimates that the Cruze Diesel costs $3,000 more than a comparably equipped gasoline model. But the company insists that it still costs $695 less than a comparably equipped Jetta when that car is equipped with its optional automatic transmission.
A recent study by the University of Michigan Transportation Research Institute found that compared with gasoline cars, diesel versions saved from $2,000 to $6,000 in total costs over three to five years of ownership. Fuel savings and higher resale values are largely responsible. Research from the Edmunds.com car-buying site shows that a three-year-old Jetta TDI retains 5 percent more of its new-car price -- roughly $1,250 -- than a gas-powered model.
While that may prove true for the diesel Cruze as well, the Chevy won't bring spectacular savings at the pump. With diesel fuel still more expensive than regular unleaded, the E.P.A. figures an annual fuel cost of $1,750 for the Cruze diesel, just $250 less than the thrifty 1.8-liter gasoline version. Still, that leaves the diesel owner spending less than $34 a week in fuel to cover 15,000 miles in the Chevy, and stopping far less often, given the car's vast driving range.
Fans of popular German diesels have been making those calculations and deciding the higher initial investment is worth it. It will be interesting to see how many Chevy buyers are swayed by diesel's math, might and long-range stamina.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ERASING A BAD MEMORY: The Cruze Turbo Diesel is Chevy's first diesel since the 1986 Chevette. (AU1)
 LONG-DISTANCE RUNNER: With its 15.6-gallon fuel tank, the Chevy Cruze Turbo Diesel can cover nearly 720 miles without stopping for a fill-up. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GENERAL MOTORS) (AU2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); SEDANS (89%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); PRODUCT WARRANTIES (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2013



604 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 347 words

HEADLINE: Incentives for Homeowners (and Protection for Renters)

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In ''Owning a Home Isn't Always a Virtue'' (Economic View, July 14), Robert J. Shiller looked to Switzerland's relatively low homeownership rate to make the case that the United States should rethink policies that promote owning a home -- and should strengthen laws related to renting. 
There is a better, closer-to-home example of a place with relatively favorable landlord-tenant rules: New York City. Many of its rental units are covered by rent controls, and many tenants have strong protections against rent gouging and eviction. By contrast, renters in many other cities are at the mercy of landlords who may wish to take advantage of a strengthening market to force them out through a large rent increase or a refusal to renew a lease.
Professor Shiller lauds the flexibility that renting provides families, allowing them to relocate easily for better jobs. But for tenants facing a rent increase or worse in many American communities, good commutes to work can be lost, advantageous child care or schooling options can be disrupted, or a social support network can be upended -- all at a landlord's whim.
I agree with Professor Shiller that we need to review our landlord-tenant law to help families plan their futures.
RAY BRESCIA
Albany, July 15
The writer is an associate professor of law at Albany Law School.
To the Editor:
Professor Shiller asks: ''In today's world, is it wise for the government to subsidize homeownership?'' Two prominent Americans of vastly different political views apparently have an answer for him.
The first said: ''A nation of homeowners, of people who own a real share in their own land, is unconquerable.''
The second said that ''an ownership society'' is being created in our country, ''where more Americans than ever will be able to open up their door where they live and say, 'Welcome to my house, welcome to my piece of property.' ''
Who are these two Americans? The first was Franklin D. Roosevelt, and the second was George W. Bush.
RICHARD S. COLMAN
Orinda, Calif., July 15
Letters for Sunday Business may be sent to sunbiz@nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: DRAWING 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (91%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); FAMILY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); EVICTION (78%); RENT CONTROL (78%); HOMEOWNERSHIP RATES (77%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (77%); LANDLORD & TENANT LAW (76%); LAWYERS (74%); LAW SCHOOLS (73%); WRITERS (73%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (71%); RELOCATIONS (68%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (95%); SWITZERLAND (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2013



605 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; EXTRA BASES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1320 words

HEADLINE: Going From Classroom to All-Star Game

BYLINE: By TYLER KEPNER

 BODY:
When David Wright smacked a one-out single in the seventh inning of the All-Star Game last week, it brought up Domonic Brown, a young power hitter for the Philadelphia Phillies, as the potential tying run. After Brown would be Buster Posey of the San Francisco Giants, the reigning most valuable player of the National League.
Jim Leyland, the American League manager, knew what to do: call on his Toronto Blue Jays middle relievers. The left-handed Brett Cecil struck out Brown, the right-handed Steve Delabar struck out Posey, and two of the least likely All-Stars had helped preserve an eventual 3-0 A.L. victory.
Delabar has nine screws and a plate in his right elbow, and less than three years ago was working as a substitute teacher at a high school in Kentucky. A specialized workout program revived his career, and when Cecil adopted it, it turned him into an All-Star, too. 
''It did strengthen my arm and give me a few extra clicks of velocity,'' said Cecil, a failed starter for Toronto. ''But I think the most important thing is how healthy it makes me feel.''
Delabar, a 29th-round draft pick in 2003, played five seasons in San Diego's farm system without making it past Class A. Then he broke his elbow while pitching for an independent team in Brockton, Mass., in 2009.
''Have you ever had a wine bottle and pulled the cork out, and you feel that pressure, that pop?'' Delabar said. ''That's what it felt like.''
Delabar did not want to admit that he was done with pitching, but the game and his body told him otherwise. So he went home to Kentucky, studied at the University of Louisville and took the teaching job, which allowed him to serve as an assistant baseball coach. If he ever wore a major league uniform, he figured, it would take a long time.
''Twenty-five or 30 years down the road, maybe I'd be a coach in the majors,'' Delabar said. ''My thought process for baseball was that I'm going to coach. That's going to be my next job, and I'm going to have fun with it.''
Delabar had worked as an instructor at the Players' Dugout, a training center in Elizabethtown, Ky., whose owner, Joe Newton, had adopted a program to increase velocity by balancing and strengthening pitchers' shoulders. Delabar wanted to put his high school pitchers on the program, and decided to try it himself so he could understand what he was teaching.
''I remember telling him, Stevie, we don't have any data on nine screws and a plate,'' Newton said. ''But he went from 89 to 93 miles an hour in three weeks. Then four weeks later, he's at 97, 98. I'm going, we've set a bar here I never thought was possible.''
The program was developed by Tom House, a former major league pitcher and coach, and Jamie Evans, who ran a baseball center in Maryland and has since been hired by the Blue Jays. It emphasizes weighted balls and encourages pitchers to make throws without letting go, to strengthen the back of their shoulders. Tennis players also use an overhand motion yet rarely have shoulder problems, House told HBO last year, because they hang onto the racket.
''The program is designed for the individual,'' Delabar said. ''It keys on your specific needs, and it attacks the weakest link that you have in your arm -- attacks it and then rebuilds it. It stabilizes the shoulder, works on external and internal rotations, and in the process, you gain arm strength and arm speed.''
After watching Delabar's success with the program, Newton contacted a friend who scouted for the Seattle Mariners and arranged a tryout. Seattle signed Delabar, who rose from Class A to the majors in 2011, but traded him to Toronto last July for outfielder Eric Thames.
Delabar reached the All-Star break with a 1.71 earned run average and 58 strikeouts in 42 innings. He won the fan vote for the final A.L. roster spot and made his appearance the day before he turned 30.
Newton had planned a birthday party for Delabar back home in Kentucky for the night of the game, but was thrilled to see the guest of honor pitching on television instead. The training program started Delabar's turnaround, but it took a determined pitcher to make the most of it.
''It's unbelievable,'' Newton said. ''It's a storybook.''
International Draft Quandary
Commissioner Bud Selig reiterated his support for an international draft last week. But the reality is that such a draft will not happen anytime soon, and two of baseball's top international stars are split on the idea.
Rob Manfred, baseball's executive vice president for economics and league affairs, said Major League Baseball was committed to an international draft but was happy with the modified system now in place. Teams have predetermined amounts to spend on international players, based on the previous year's standings, but are also allowed to trade for more money.
''Between the bargaining parties, the conclusion that we've come to is we're probably going to let that interim system work for a couple of years,'' Manfred said. He added, ''One thing we've learned over the years on these economic issues is that going through change in phases sometimes makes it a lot easier for everybody who has to work under the system to accept those changes.''
Detroit's Miguel Cabrera (from Venezuela) and Boston's David Ortiz (from the Dominican Republic) offered differing viewpoints on an international draft. Players can now sign at 16, which, Ortiz said, allows for more opportunities and structure.
''I don't agree with the international draft, not at all, because I think it's going to cut down the players that they sign through the years, more than anything else,'' Ortiz said. ''It's going to affect a lot of talent out there.''
Cabrera said that 16 was too young for most players to enter professional baseball, and that too many international players who developed a bit later were passed over under the current system. The youngest players in the draft are chosen after finishing high school, when most are 18.
''When they're 18 or 19, they start to be men,'' Cabrera said. ''Give more opportunity for Latin players to sign when they're 18 or 19. After 18 is when you start to grow up, start lifting weights more. I think it would help if they want to do the draft in Latin America.''
A Walk on the Disciplined Side
Joey Votto reached the end of the first half leading the major leagues in walks, with 71, but was in a tie for 78th in runs batted in, with 42. More than most players, Votto, the Cincinnati Reds' star first baseman, has a keen understanding of his strengths and a modern sensibility on how best to help his team.
Asked last week how he stays so disciplined at the plate, Votto said, dryly, ''They pay me a lot of money to do that.''
There was no arguing that point; Votto, 29, has a 10-year, $225 million contract that does not kick in until next season. But Votto, who can be among baseball's more insightful players, went on to explain his philosophy.
''My goal is to be the best player I can be,'' he said. ''I've done it before, where I've just kind of hacked away, and I didn't play quite as well. I just try to do my best to not give at-bats away, get on base for my teammates, whatever makes me the best player I can be for the team.
''Some years, I've been a bit more aggressive. Now that I'm a little older, I've learned the strike zone a little better and learned that certain pitches should not be put in play, or else you're giving away an at-bat.''
''And, frankly, I'm not that good,'' Votto said. ''Like, I was thinking about this last night; there's a bunch of guys that are just better at swinging the bat than I am. One of my characteristics, one of the things I can do, is I can be a little bit tougher of an at-bat, and I can see the ball a little bit deeper in the strike zone, foul pitches off on occasion and hopefully lead to a walk or a double or a single.
''It's a humbling game, man. If you know yourself, and you know what you can and can't do, it solves a lot of problems.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Steve Delabar, above, was working as a substitute teacher three years ago. Joey Votto, below, says he helps the Reds the most by not swinging freely. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SHANNON STAPLETON/REUTERS
 MIKE MCGINNIS/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); SUBSTITUTE TEACHERS (73%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (73%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (73%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (73%); SPORTS AWARDS (72%); ATHLETES (72%)

ORGANIZATION: PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES (84%); CINCINNATI REDS (59%); SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (58%); TORONTO BLUE JAYS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (90%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (88%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (56%) KENTUCKY, USA (91%); ONTARIO, CANADA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%); CANADA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2013



606 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; THE BOSS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 585 words

HEADLINE: Always a Designer

BYLINE: By ANTHONY M. FADELL. 
As told to Elizabeth Olson.

 BODY:
I WAS born in Detroit, but because my father was in sales we moved a lot. I attended 12 schools in 15 years, and graduated from high school in Grosse Pointe, Mich.
During summers, we would return to Detroit, where my grandfather, a high school teacher and later a school superintendent, would teach my brother and me how to fix things around the house and build projects, like a soapbox racer, in his workshop.
Computers have fascinated me for as long as I can remember. In grade school, I took a summer programming class, using a mainframe computer with punch cards. My grandfather helped me buy an Apple II; he didn't know anything about computers but recognized that, for me, it was an important tool -- just like his hammers and drills. In high school, a friend and I started a small company, Quality Computers. We worked from his parents' basement, reselling Apple II hardware and writing software. 
In 1987, I entered the University of Michigan, in Ann Arbor, to study computer engineering. But my classes didn't satisfy my interest in computers, so I founded an educational software company and another company to design computer processors for the Apple IIgs model.
After I graduated in 1991, I moved to Silicon Valley to pursue my dream job: working with General Magic, whose founders created the first Apple Macintosh. I knocked on their door until they hired me later that year. I spent four years there, developing hardware and software to create personal hand-held communications devices, including Sony's MagicLink. In 1995, I pitched a hand-held product to the C.E.O. of Philips, the Dutch electronics giant. He hired me to build its mobile computing group to develop the Velo and Nino personal digital assistants.
Music has always been one of my passions. Philips wanted to expand in the United States, and the company named me vice president for business development to manage its digital music strategy and investments. Being a corporate guy wasn't enough for me, so I left to start Fuse Systems, a consumer electronics company. But it foundered when the Internet bubble burst in 2001. That same year, Apple Computer hired me as a consultant in designing what would become the iPod digital music player. Computers plus music plus Apple -- it was another dream gig.
Eight weeks later, I approached Steve Jobs with the initial iPod concept and was put in charge of building and leading the development team. One iPod led to another, eventually becoming 18 generations of iPods -- and then three generations of the iPhone.
My wife also worked at Apple. Eventually I wanted to spend more time with our two children, and I also wanted a break. So in 2008, I stepped away as senior vice president of Apple's iPod division and became a strategic adviser to Mr. Jobs. He was an incredible influence on how I think about bringing products to market.
After leaving Apple, we decided to build a ''green'' home in Lake Tahoe, Calif. While researching heating and cooling systems, I realized that the thermostat was ripe for innovation. I founded Nest Labs to build the self-programming Nest Learning Thermostat. When owners are away, sensors adjust the temperature to save energy. The thermostat has been selling in the United States and Canada for 20 months, but because the device is Wi-Fi connected, we know that it is being used in more than 80 countries.
We designed the thermostat for do-it-yourself installation, and we even include a custom screwdriver in each box. I think my grandfather would have liked that.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ANTHONY M. FADELL: Founder and C.E.O. of Nest Labs, a thermostat company in Palo Alto, Calif.
AGE: 44
FAVORITE FORMS OF EXERCISE: Bicycling and running
 LIKES TO: Build birdhouses, toolboxes and Lego projects with his children. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NEST LABS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); ELECTRONICS (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); PORTABLE MEDIA PLAYERS (86%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (86%); MUSIC (86%); EDUCATIONAL SOFTWARE (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT (78%); CHILDREN (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (76%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (75%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (73%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (73%); APPOINTMENTS (72%); ENGINEERING (72%); COMPUTER ENGINEERING (71%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (69%); HANDHELD COMPUTERS (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (69%); EXECUTIVES (67%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (66%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (64%); MAINFRAME COMPUTERS (55%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (94%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (94%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (94%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (94%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (94%)

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (87%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2013



607 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 837 words

HEADLINE: The Texas Abortion Experiment

BYLINE: By ROSS DOUTHAT

 BODY:
WHAT happens to a modern society when abortion is restricted? This question is at the heart of the debate over Texas's new abortion law, which bans abortions after 20 weeks and issues health regulations that could thin the ranks of state abortion clinics, making even first-trimester abortions harder to obtain.
The law's actual impact may be less sweeping than critics argue. But suppose for the sake of argument that they're right and that the legislation will dramatically curtail legal abortion. Then further suppose that it somehow survives the inevitable court challenge. What consequences are likely to ensue? 
One possible answer is that Texas will make a forced march into squalor, misery and patriarchal oppression. Women's lives will be endangered, their health threatened, their economic opportunities substantially foreclosed.
To the extent that this case rests on facts rather than fear, it's based on cross-country comparisons. Around the globe, countries with abortion bans often do have worse outcomes -- more poverty, fewer opportunities for women and, yes, often more abortions as well.
But there's a problem with these comparisons: They don't compare like to like, or control for the host of variables that separate, say, sub-Saharan Africa from the United States and Europe. They tell us that underdeveloped countries are more likely to ban abortion, but they don't tell us whether those bans actually hold back progress and development.
To prove that case, you would need to look at how abortion restrictions play out in a wealthy, liberal and egalitarian society. Here two examples are instructive: Europe in general and Ireland in particular.
In the first case, many European countries already have versions of Texas's late-term abortion ban on the books. France, Germany and Italy all ban abortions after the first trimester, and impose waiting periods as well.
Notably, these nations tend to have lower abortion rates than the United States, and none of them are exactly reactionary dystopias in the style of Margaret Atwood's ''Handmaid's Tale.'' So the European experience suggests that at least some abortion restrictions are compatible with equality and female advancement.
Then there is the specific case of Ireland, which has maintained a near-absolute abortion ban throughout its history. This ban does not mean that no Irish women obtain legal abortions: some go abroad for them, to Britain or Continental Europe. But that actually makes the comparison to Texas more apt -- because even if abortion were somehow banned outright in Texas tomorrow, it would still be available to women with the resources to travel out of state.
So if liberal fears about the Texas legislation's impact are correct, one would expect the Irish ban to have produced obvious, disastrous side effects. At the very least, one would expect Ireland to lag in female mortality, health and economic advancement.
Maternal health is indeed a fraught topic in Ireland. The abortion debate there has mostly revolved around how to interpret the ''life of the mother'' exception, and the high-profile case of Savita Halappanavar, an Indian immigrant who died unnecessarily during a miscarriage, recently prompted the Irish Parliament to widen that exception.
But there is little evidence that the Halappanavar tragedy reflects a larger trend. Ireland's maternal health outcomes have long looked much better than those of its neighbors, and even a recent report that produced a higher estimate for maternal mortality still placed the country well within the European norm.
Meanwhile, international rankings offer few indications that Ireland's abortion laws are holding Irish women back. The country ranks first for gender parity in health care in a recent European Union index. It was in the middle of the pack in The Economist's recent ''glass-ceiling index'' for working women. It came in fifth out of 135 countries in the World Economic Forum's ''Global Gender Gap'' report. (The United States was 22nd.)
Now it's also true that Ireland, like most of Europe, is to the left of Texas on many economic issues. All the abortion restrictions described above coexist with universal health care, which Rick Perry's state conspicuously lacks.
So perhaps, it might be argued, abortion can be safely limited only when the government does more to cover women's costs in other ways -- in which case Texas might still be flirting with disaster.
But note that this is a better argument for liberalism than for abortion.
It suggests, for instance, that liberal donors and activists should be spending more time rallying against Perry's refusal to take federal Medicaid financing than around Wendy Davis's famous filibuster.
It implies that the quest to ''turn Texas blue'' should make economic policy rather than late-term abortion its defining issue.
And it raises the possibility that a pro-life liberalism -- that once-commonplace, now-mythical persuasion -- would actually have a stronger argument to make than the one Texas's critics are making now.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ABORTION (95%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); WOMEN (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (78%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (94%); IRELAND (93%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); FRANCE (79%); AFRICA (79%); GERMANY (55%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2013



608 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1047 words

HEADLINE: Being Legal Doesn't End Poverty

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MEDINA. 
A national correspondent for The New York Times.

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES -- THOSE pressing for change in the country's immigration system like to say that creating a path to citizenship will bring the estimated 11 million undocumented immigrants ''out of the shadows.'' It is taken as a given that legal status will help them climb the economic ladder.
But in this city, and in urban areas across the country, it seems clear that even with full citizenship, many could remain in the shadow economy, earning cash for low-wage jobs. 
Millions of workers in the United States -- those who sew clothes, mow lawns, care for children, construct homes, clean offices and serve food -- function almost entirely in a cash economy. For undocumented immigrants, working for cash tends to be the most reliable way to earn an income while avoiding any attention from the government.
Advocates of the immigration bill have used economic mobility as an argument for legalizing the millions already living here. They enthusiastically embraced a Congressional Budget Office report last month that said the Senate's immigration bill would increase the size of the labor force and lead to greater productivity, which would raise average wages in the long term and have broad economic impact. Last week, business groups continued to pressure House Republicans to consider similar legislation.
But it is hardly a given that citizenship is a route to better jobs.
''Having legal status takes away one threat that people held over their workers, but it doesn't do much more than that,'' in the workplace, said Victor Narro, the project director for the Labor Center at the University of California, Los Angeles.
When the Labor Center studied wage violations in 2009, it found that foreigners in general were more likely than native-born workers to be paid less than the minimum wage and that undocumented immigrants, particularly women, were even worse off. But the study also found that foreign-born workers who were legal residents were almost twice as likely to be paid less than the minimum wage as American-born employees.
''Until you have the government stepping in and creating real enforcement of worker protections, we're going to have the same kinds of problems we have now. Employers are not going to start doing that voluntarily,'' Mr. Narro said.
Countless workers earning a low hourly wage -- regardless of their legal status -- are paid in cash. Some are keen to avoid paying taxes on their modest income, while others feel trapped by a conundrum: work for cash, or don't work at all.
Many of these workers are domestic employees in informal settings, like a day laborer picked up on a street corner or a nanny found through a social network, with homeowners who are reluctant to think of themselves as employers who are legally obliged to file for taxes, or reluctant to take on the cost and paperwork that taxes entail. Others work for businesses with dozens of employees that have come to rely on cash paydays as a way to cut costs.
''We see employers in a number of industries act as if there is a third-class labor market that is paid below the minimum wage and are made to suffer all manner of violations of labor law,'' said Nik Theodore, an associate professor in urban planning and policy at the University of Illinois, Chicago. ''For many employers it is a calculated risk that they are willing to take. They trust that their employees aren't going to report them and that nobody from the government is actually going to come check. When you have workers in desperate need of work, they are going to be willing to do a lot of things.''
Over all, unreported income amounts to roughly $2 trillion annually, but cash wages make up only a portion of that estimate, according to Edgar L. Feige, an emeritus professor of economics at the University of Wisconsin, Madison, who has spent decades examining underground and cash economies, in part by using information on how much cash is in circulation at any given time. There is no way of knowing how many workers are earning their salaries in cash, Professor Feige said.
''Whatever unreported economy that exists, it goes well beyond immigration,'' he said. The cash economy is particularly important in California, which has more undocumented immigrants than any other state and the eighth largest economy in the world. The sheer size of the immigrant work force and economy allows business owners to create a norm of paying off the books that would be unthinkable in another time or place, said Ruth Milkman, a labor expert and professor of sociology at the City University of New York Graduate Center.
''Employers have really gotten into the habit that this is the normal way of doing business,'' Professor Milkman said. ''They don't particularly want to change, and nobody is making them do it. The immigration bill certainly doesn't change much for employers who take the low road.''
Day laborers, those men standing in front of Home Depots and on street corners looking for whatever work comes their way, are perhaps the most widely recognizable stream of cash workers. Often, these men were mechanics, engineers or even architects and doctors in their home countries. The vast majority are undocumented immigrants. But in recent years, with the economy struggling, more of these immigrants have been standing in lots next to citizens, who are equally eager to find work, said Chris Newman, the legal director for the National Day Laborer Organizing Network.
''We see people who rotate in and out, they come find work for the day and go to another job at night,'' Mr. Newman said. ''You lose a foothold in the formal economy and it's a natural place to go.''
Last month, the Labor Department reported that there are 2.7 million temp workers, more than ever before. As more large companies rely on temp agencies to fill their ranks, it is possible that more American workers, legally or not, could be treated like day laborers -- who can be employed one day and out of a job the next. Mr. Newman repeated something that he has said to himself over and over again amid the debate in Washington: ''Immigration laws are malleable, but the law of supply and demand is immutable.'' The way he sees it, as long as there is growing demand for an informal labor market, there will be people to supply that work force.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Day laborers waiting for potential work in the parking lot of the Home Depot in Hempstead, N.Y. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BÉATRICE DE GÉA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (94%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); CITIZENSHIP (90%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (90%); MINIMUM WAGE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (77%); BUDGETS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); LABOR FORCE (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); HOMEOWNERS (74%); LEGISLATION (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (70%); WAGE VIOLATIONS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2013



609 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1281 words

HEADLINE: The Pipe Dream Of Easy War

BYLINE: By H. R. McMASTER. 
An Army major general and the commanding officer at Fort Benning, Ga., who led the Third Armored Cavalry Regiment in Iraq as a colonel in 2005 and 2006.

 BODY:
FORT BENNING, Ga. -- ''A GREAT deal of intelligence can be invested in ignorance when the need for illusion is deep,'' the novelist Saul Bellow once wrote. We should keep that in mind when we consider the lessons from the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan -- lessons of supreme importance as we plan the military of the future.
Our record of learning from previous experience is poor; one reason is that we apply history simplistically, or ignore it altogether, as a result of wishful thinking that makes the future appear easier and fundamentally different from the past.
We engaged in such thinking in the years before the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001; many accepted the conceit that lightning victories could be achieved by small numbers of technologically sophisticated American forces capable of launching precision strikes against enemy targets from safe distances. 
These defense theories, associated with the belief that new technology had ushered in a whole new era of war, were then applied to the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq; in both, they clouded our understanding of the conflicts and delayed the development of effective strategies.
Today, budget pressures and the desire to avoid new conflicts have resurrected arguments that emerging technologies -- or geopolitical shifts -- have ushered in a new era of warfare. Some defense theorists dismiss the difficulties we ran into in Afghanistan and Iraq as aberrations. But they were not aberrations. The best way to guard against a new version of wishful thinking is to understand three age-old truths about war and how our experiences in Afghanistan and Iraq validated their importance.
First, war is political. As the 19th-century Prussian philosopher of war Carl von Clausewitz said, ''war should never be thought of as something autonomous, but always as an instrument of policy.''
In the years leading up to the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, thinking about defense was driven by ideas that regarded successful military operations as ends in themselves, rather than just one instrument of power that must be coordinated with others to achieve, and sustain, political goals. Believers in the theory known as the ''Revolution in Military Affairs'' misinterpreted the American-led coalition's lopsided victory in the 1991 gulf war and predicted that further advances in military technology would deliver dominance over any opponent. Potential adversaries, they suggested, would not dare to threaten vital American interests.
The theory was hubristic. Yet it became orthodoxy and complicated our efforts in Afghanistan and Iraq, where underdeveloped war plans encountered unanticipated political problems. In Afghanistan, proxy forces helped topple the Taliban, but many of those militias and leaders then undermined efforts to rebuild an Afghan nation as they pursued narrow personal or political agendas. In Iraq, from 2003 to 2007, coalition strategy failed to address adequately the political grievances of minority populations, most notably Sunni Arabs and Turkmen.
In both wars, insurgent and terrorist groups capitalized on these grievances, recruiting new members and gaining support from a portion of the population. Over time, ethnic, tribal and sectarian polarization drove new violence, weakened both states, strengthened insurgents and magnified civilian suffering. The lesson: Be skeptical of concepts that divorce war from its political nature, particularly those that promise fast, cheap victory through technology.
Second, war is human. People fight today for the same fundamental reasons the Greek historian Thucydides identified nearly 2,500 years ago: fear, honor and interest. But in the years preceding our last two wars, thinking about defense undervalued the human as well as the political aspects of war. Although combat operations unseated the Taliban and the Saddam Hussein regime, a poor understanding of the recent histories of the Afghan and Iraqi peoples undermined efforts to consolidate early battlefield gains into lasting security.
Over time, American forces learned that an appreciation of the fears, interests and sense of honor among Afghanistan's and Iraq's citizens was critical to breaking cycles of violence and helping to move their communities toward making political accommodations that isolated extremists. Reinforced security efforts, in Iraq after 2007 and Afghanistan after 2010, tried to allay fears of minorities, preserve each group's sense of honor and convince communities that they could best protect and advance their interests through politics rather than through violence.
The hard-learned lesson: Defense concepts must consider social, economic and historical factors that constitute the human dimension of war.
THIRD, war is uncertain, precisely because it is political and human. The dominant assumption of the ''Revolution in Military Affairs'' was that information would be the key to victory. Concepts of ''network-centric warfare,'' ''rapid, decisive operations,'' ''shock and awe'' and ''full-spectrum dominance'' suggested that near-perfect intelligence would enable precise military operations and point a straight line to success. But in Afghanistan and Iraq, planning did not account for adaptations and initiatives by the enemy. American forces, deployed initially in insufficient numbers to keep pace with the evolution of those conflicts, struggled to maintain security. The lesson: The wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, like all wars, were contests of will that unleashed dynamics that made future events impossible to predict.
Fortunately, in Afghanistan and Iraq, American forces adapted. For example, in 2005, in western Nineveh Province, our enemies had pitted sectarian communities against one another in a bloody civil war. In the city of Tal Afar, our cavalry regiment first sought to understand the complex environment while building trust with local Iraqi security forces and a beleaguered population. Alongside United States Special Forces and Iraqi soldiers, our troops sought not only to fight the enemy, but also to build security for civilians and promote conflict resolution among competing groups. As Tal Afar's mayor, Najim Abdullah Abid al-Jibouri, recalled, ''Our city was the main base of operations for Abu Musab al-Zarqawi ...Our people were barricaded in their homes out of fear; death awaited them around every corner.'' But when the Americans came, he added, ''With the skill and precision of surgeons they dealt with the terrorist cancers in the city without causing unnecessary damage.''
What we learned: American forces must cope with the political and human dynamics of war in complex, uncertain environments. Wars like those in Afghanistan and Iraq cannot be waged remotely.
Budget pressures and persistent fascination with technology have led some to declare an end to war as we know it. While emerging technologies are essential for military effectiveness, concepts that rely only on those technologies, including precision strikes, raids or other means of targeting enemies, confuse military activity with progress toward larger wartime goals. We must not equate military capabilities with strategy. Achieving our aims in war will demand forces who can reassure allies and protect populations, as well as identify and defeat elusive enemies.
Future wars will pose different problems and involve different conditions, of course. But war will continue to follow its important age-old truths.
Although the defense budget is under pressure, clear thinking about war costs nothing. What we can afford least is to define the problem of future war as we would like it to be, and by doing so introduce into our defense vulnerabilities based on self-delusion.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: United States troops in Latafiya, Iraq, in 2007, marked the landing spot for a resupply helicopter with green smoke. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL KAMBER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IRAQ WAR (90%); TALIBAN (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (77%); DESERT STORM (77%); WRITERS (77%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (76%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (76%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (76%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (73%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (72%); TERRORISM (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GEORGIA, USA (91%) AFGHANISTAN (94%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2013



610 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; PREOCCUPATIONS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 700 words

HEADLINE: Unpaid Interns: Silent No More

BYLINE: By ROSS PERLIN. 
Ross Perlin is the author of ''Intern Nation: How to Earn Nothing and Learn Little in the Brave New Economy.''

 BODY:
MAKE no mistake, the interns are fighting back.
Last month, a federal judge in New York ruled that unpaid interns on the movie ''Black Swan'' should have received at least the minimum wage. The judge also allowed a class-action suit to go forward against the Fox Entertainment Group, the parent company of the film's production division.
Gutsy and improbable when it was first filed two years ago, the ''Black Swan'' case was a pioneering direct challenge to the internship system. Now more than 15 other lawsuits have followed in its wake, according to an online database maintained by ProPublica, the investigative journalism Web site. 
The companies being sued operate in a wide range of intern-heavy industries. Global brands, famous television and fashion personalities, multinational subsidiaries flush with profits -- these are some of the employers that have refused to pay young workers at least $7.25 an hour. How have they done this for so long?
The federal law is clear: if internships at profit-making companies are to be unpaid, they must foster an educational environment. (The rules are different for nonprofit and governmental agencies.)
Good internships are out there -- ones that pay, ones that train and ones that lead to real jobs at the end. But many others fall far short -- and more people are taking action. ''I think enough people have finally seen what a trap this has become,'' said Eric Glatt, one of the victorious interns in the ''Black Swan'' case.
In addition to filing lawsuits, interns are organizing beyond the courtroom, using some of the same strategies as fast-food workers, freelancers and various groups of part-time, temporary or guest workers.
For example, two students at New York University recently created a petition demanding that the university stop advertising unpaid internships on campus; more than a thousand people signed in a matter of days.
With the Obama administration now pushing to increase the minimum wage, some activists are focusing on what they see as government hypocrisy. Washington is a hub for overworked, unpaid interns, the White House and Congress included. What good is a minimum-wage increase when so many people work and make no wages at all?
''There are lots of people who care about this issue; there's a lot of anger about this issue. We want to build a movement,'' said Mikey Franklin, co-founder of the new Fair Pay Campaign, who plans to hire professional organizers to galvanize interns in hubs like New York and Los Angeles. He hopes for support from organized labor, whose leaders, he said, are waking up to the issue's mobilizing potential.
And Intern Labor Rights, a New York-based group formed out of the Occupy Wall Street movement, is forming a coalition with like-minded groups in Canada, Britain, France, Switzerland, the Netherlands and Austria. In all of those countries, campaigns to make internships fairer are also under way.
What interns are demanding is hardly a mystery: respect for their work. In short, it's time to start envisioning and putting into practice a healthy, effective internship culture. For better or worse, pay is the fundamental currency of respect in every modern economy. Unless it's a bona fide training or volunteer position, an internship should be paid, open to all and transparently advertised -- and should never result in the displacement of other employees.
TRAINING, mentoring, experience and opportunity are particularly vital for interns, which is precisely why many of them are willing to work longer, harder and for lower wages, running errands and doing other menial tasks. Interns know that they're starting at the bottom, but they need employers to meet them halfway.
Those who can't afford to work without pay are eager for the chance to break into the intern-heavy fields that are now all but closed to them. The demand for meaningful career options -- coupled with a willingness to work hard for them -- has never been stronger.
And yet, for too many people, internships have become slightly shameful, with overtones of menial work, immaturity, parental dependence and being stuck.
As long as the current system remains stubbornly in place, expect the intern revolt to continue.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JESSICA ROUX) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (92%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); JUDGES (90%); MINIMUM WAGE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (77%); PARENT COMPANIES (76%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (74%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (73%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); CLASS ACTIONS (72%); FOOD INDUSTRY (71%); PETITIONS (71%); JOURNALISM (69%); FOREIGN LABOR (68%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (68%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (66%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (60%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2013



611 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1461 words

HEADLINE: The 'Shift the Goalpost' Sale

BYLINE: By C. J. HUGHES

 BODY:
It's a deal. Or is it?
After apartment-hunting in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, for months this spring, Dr. Ronald Nath finally lucked out with a two-bedroom duplex at the top of a condominium, listed at $800,000.
A day after a crowded open house, Dr. Nath, a Massachusetts surgeon, offered $803,000 for the unit, which was to be a home for his son David, a television news producer. But because of its location and the outdoor spaces on both floors, the unit attracted more than a dozen offers, which prompted the seller to request higher bids.
For his ''best and final'' offer, which usually signals the end of the haggling process, Dr. Nath promised $912,000, which seemed to do the trick. The seller congratulated Dr. Nath and told him the unit was his; a contract was drawn up.
Not so fast. A few days later, like a kite in a gust of wind, the price soared again, to $995,000. Insulted by what he described as being ''played,'' Dr. Nath refused to raise his offer and ultimately lost the unit to a buyer who plunked down $1.1 million. ''I was absolutely outraged,'' he said. ''When you give your word that a deal is done, you're supposed to fulfill your agreement.'' 
A real estate deal, like any other business transaction, isn't ironclad until signatures wind up on a contract, said Tom Le of the Corcoran Group, the seller's broker, who defended his clients' right to get the highest possible price for their unit, even if it left some raw feelings.
''Of course Dr. Nath is going to be upset, because his heart was set on the apartment,'' Mr. Le said. ''But the truth is, Dr. Nath was given every single opportunity to match the price.'' He added that after watching home values plummet over the last few years, sellers finally have relief. ''They've been scraping by for years just to get to this point.'' Both the seller and the buyer declined to comment, said Mr. Le, who added that even he had been taken aback by the intensity of interest in the home.
Whether caused by economics, or the unseemly equivalent of moving the goalposts to prevent touchdowns, experiences like Dr. Nath's are becoming more common in a market with a huge pool of buyers chasing a limited number of homes.
Not too long ago, an accepted offer marked the home stretch of the deal: the expectation was that the two sides would sign a contract and a deposit check would be cashed a few days later. Now, as sellers go back on their word and repeatedly increase their asking prices, ''best and final'' often seems to mean ''O.K. and almost there,'' according to real estate industry sources.
Buoyed by a new confidence in the market, some sellers seem intent on keeping the bidding alive even after there appears to be a winner, with some demanding sharply higher prices, as in Dr. Nath's case, and others coming back with gradual $15,000 bumps every week or so. Are these sellers merely reacting to a fast-moving market -- or are they, as unlucky buyers might suggest, just being greedy?
''It's surprising how ugly it's getting.'' said Robert Frankel, a real estate lawyer who has handled closings for two decades. Years ago, goalpost-shifting was virtually nonexistent, he said. Recently, he has been seeing one a week, while other lawyers have complained about having to draft multiple contracts for some properties.
''If you don't hear back about a contract in two days,'' Mr. Frankel said, ''there are usually some shenanigans going on.''
Even sellers' brokers, who are in theory supposed to take the same tack as their clients, can be left shaking their heads about how deals play out.
In February, soon after a three-bedroom condo on Ludlow Street on the Lower East Sidewas listed at $1.695 million, offers began rolling in. But the seller, perhaps miffed that the bids failed to match the asking price, did not immediately pounce on any of them.
Eventually, in March, he accepted Barry Schwabsky's $1.55 million offer. But then he proceeded to ignore the agreement and increase the price by $10,000 or $15,000 a week, said Emily Fuller Kingston of Halstead Property, his own broker. ''The price was like a moving target,'' she said. ''The owner kept coming back and saying, 'We really need more money.' It was agony.''
At one point, an increase was justified by a rumor that the SoHo House, the popular meatpacking district private club, would soon be opening a local outpost, said Mr. Schwabsky, an art critic. After going five rounds with the seller, he ended up paying $1.65 million, in a deal that closed this month. Although the presence of another bidder may also have been a factor in the ever-increasing price, Mr. Schwabsky, who has bought real estate before, felt that the seller negotiated in bad faith. ''It somehow felt like the last bit of toothpaste kept getting squeezed out of the tube,'' he said.
Claire Groome, the Warburg Realty broker who represented Mr. Schwabsky, was more blunt. ''It was a little bit greedy,'' said Ms. Groome, who has sold houses for 11 years. ''I'm a big believer that when you give your word, you honor it.'' The seller did not respond to requests for comment.
Ms. Groome's concerns may have reached the ears of her boss, Frederick W. Peters, Warburg's president, who weighed in on the topic in a recent blog post. ''The idea which so many of us grew up with that your word is your bond seems to have been replaced by the notion that greed is good,'' Mr. Peters wrote.
Yet if owners are taking negotiations to new lengths, their apparent reluctance to commit to a deal could almost be understood as a type of seller's remorse. Indeed, with open houses routinely drawing hundreds, and people swooping in with juiced-up offers at the 11th hour, sellers would seem to have a powerful incentive to sit back and wait. Or maybe the sweltering market simply caught them unaware.
''Sellers are constantly shifting the bar higher, and in some cases, rightfully so,'' said a longtime Manhattan broker who, like some others interviewed, asked to remain anonymous, in part because they're involved in transactions of this type. ''There's a lapse between the time when a listing is priced and activity on that listing,'' the broker added, ''and prices are climbing in that period -- that's why this market is setting a new bar.''
Brian Lewis of Halstead, a 14-year industry veteran, is another broker sympathetic to this new sellers' quandary. Moreover, he added, this should be familiar territory for many buyers. ''It's a competitive city,'' he said. ''Where there is a rope line around a property, it brings out the New Yorker in all of us.''
Still, no-apologies hardball tactics may have their limits. ''Up to a point, it's business, but beyond that, it becomes dangerous, because you will lose that buyer.''
In any case, buyers aren't always the good guys. When the market favored them -- as when there was a surfeit of inventory in the middle of the last decade -- they were known to walk away from deals themselves. ''They would just move on to properties that were less expensive,'' said Nandini Nathani, a Halstead broker.
This winter one of her buyers, Sunil Bhavnani, thought he had snagged a one-bedroom condo in Midtown West for $1.255 million. He signed a contract, wrote a check for 10 percent of the total and, confident that the deal was as good as wrapped up, headed to India on a trip. But days before the seller was supposed to sign the contract, Mr. Bhavnani got a call telling him there had been a change of plans. An offer of $1.28 million had been made, the seller said, and Mr. Bhavnani's bid needed to come up.
''You're really in the dark about what's happening on the other side,'' said Mr. Bhavnani, who works for a financial services firm. ''Is that other offer real or fictitious? You just don't know.''
But match it he did, and he closed on the apartment in February. ''I felt my client was overpaying,'' Ms. Nathani said. ''Ethically, the seller should not have done what he did. The finish line was moved.''
Whether commonplace, or justifiable within certain definitions, the practice is troubling, said Anthony J. Gray, the president of the Institute for Global Ethics.
Society is not any greedier than it used to be, said Mr. Gray, a former lawyer, and sellers may have perfectly defensible reasons for doing what they're doing. But, he added, ''We sometimes confuse legal commitment with moral commitment.''
Not to mention the fact that leaving buyers with the impression they might soon have a new home is effectively lying. ''Truth-telling is valuable for every culture,'' Mr. Gray said. ''It helps individual groups and civilizations progress.''
Then again, when told about the feeding frenzy that has erupted in New York real estate in the last few months, Mr. Gray couldn't resist adding, ''it's great to hear the market is on the rebound.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY NANCY DONIGER) (RE8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOME PRICES (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2013



612 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; STRATEGIES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 997 words

HEADLINE: If You're a Bond Investor, Beware of the Seesaw

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
THE Securities and Exchange Commission issues frequent bulletins about what it calls ''investment frauds and scams'' -- a frightening taxonomy of plots and stratagems aimed at separating investors from their money.
The agency's alerts range from warnings of Madoff-style Ponzi schemes to ''pump and dump'' operations intended to temporarily inflate a stock price. They also include cautionary notes about polite offers of assistance from predators posing as government regulators.
Lately, though, the S.E.C. has been giving a warning of a different sort. Bearing the general title ''Interest Rate Risk,'' this latest bulletin is a cry for understanding. It's about bonds, and for most people, the subject is confounding. 
The problem isn't a new scam but a lack of knowledge about how bonds work, which can be dangerous in a time of rising interest rates. In its bulletin, the agency points out that investors need to understand that when rates rise, bond prices generally fall. This inverse relationship is a fact of life in the bond market. Like gravity in the physical world, it's constant, powerful and important.
But outside trading floors, business schools, banks and brokerage firms, bond dynamics are fairly obscure, surveys find. That's troubling in a time like this, said Lori Schock, director of the agency's Office of Investor Education and Advocacy. ''We're not predicting what's going to happen to interest rates or when,'' she said, ''but we do know that rates can't go much lower. And we know that they can go a lot higher.''
If interest rates do go higher, most people don't understand how that will affect bonds. A 2012 financial literacy survey by the Finra Investor Education Foundation asked this question: ''If interest rates rise, what will typically happen to bond prices?'' Prices will fall, but only 28 percent of adult Americans in the survey answered correctly. Finra ran the same survey in 2009 and got the same results.
The Finra survey found that financial literacy levels were generally very low. On its Web site, it offers a five-question quiz, with questions drawn from the survey -- none requiring computations, just an understanding of basic concepts. Only 14 percent get them all right, it says. (The average number of correct answers is between 2 and 3.)
As far as bonds go, Ms. Schock said, one way to visualize the relationship of interest rates and prices is to think of what she calls ''a teeter-totter.'' She's from Indiana. In Queens, where I come from, we call it a seesaw. Whatever you call it in your playground, imagine interest rates sitting on one side of a plank and bond prices clinging to the other. When one side rises, the other falls.
That's just the way seesaws work, and it may be enough explanation. But suppose you want to go a little deeper: Why do interest rates and bond prices move like this?
Here's one way to understand it: When you buy a fixed-rate bond, you are making a loan. In return, you get your money back, plus interest. When market interest rates rise, the bond drops in value. That's because, under current conditions, anyone making the same loan will expect more interest than you've gotten. If you want to trade the old bond for a new one, the old one will have less value. And when something sold in the marketplace has less value, its price usually falls.
There are exceptions to every rule, of course. If the bond's interest rate isn't fixed, and instead readjusts as market rates change, the seesaw analogy doesn't hold. And the prices of different kinds of bonds shift differently. But the seesaw captures the basic idea.
It's important right now because interest rates have risen since the spring, and, therefore, prices have fallen. If you don't understand the relationship between prices and rates (often called yields) you could hurt yourself ''by reaching for yield, buying bonds that you think are going to pay you more interest, only to see rates go up further, so the value of your bonds will fall,'' Ms. Schock said.
Many people are in danger of getting hurt this way. ''We're concerned that many people might mistakenly think that there's safety in investing in bonds,'' she said, ''when there's actually a fairly good chance of running into trouble with interest rate risk now.''
EVEN Treasury bonds are affected by interest rate risk, although the federal government backs these bonds and will pay all the principal and interest if you hold them to maturity. Such high-quality bonds are safe in many ways, especially in comparison with other assets.
Bond prices are generally less volatile than stock prices, and a major bond market decline is likely to be much less severe than a major fall in the stock market. Bonds can provide steady income and -- whether held individually or in a mutual fund -- can play an important role in a diversified portfolio, buffering against stock fluctuations.
But when market rates rise, you'll run into a pricing problem if you need to sell a bond -- or if you hold Treasuries in a mutual fund, where they are priced daily. All things equal, your mutual fund will fall in value as yields rise.
Interest rates on Treasuries -- and a range of other bonds -- have already risen sharply, and a broad consensus of market analysts says they are likely to rise further in the years ahead. Historically, rates are still relatively low, largely in response to the policies of the Federal Reserve. The Fed has been buying $85 billion of bonds a month, but is considering an end to those purchases.
Bond yields gyrated last week in response to congressional testimony by Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed chairman, who said Fed action was ''by no means on a preset course.'' If the economy strengthens, he said, the Fed will ease its bond-buying. That could result in higher interest rates.
If you hold your bonds until maturity -- or keep them as a buffer -- you may tolerate such swings. But it's better if you understand what's going on. Remember the seesaw: When yields rise, prices fall.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MINH UONG/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); EURO (77%); PONZI SCHEMES (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (70%); WEB SITES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2013



613 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 440 words

HEADLINE: Next Steps With Iran

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

 BODY:
The closer the world gets to serious diplomatic engagement with Iran on its nuclear program, the more hard-liners in Washington and abroad will push military action if the effort fails. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel, for one, has tried to goad the Obama administration to show Hassan Rowhani, Iran's newly elected president, that ''the military option which is on the table is truly on the table.'' 
Until the United States and Iran invest in diplomacy, there is no way to know if a deal is possible. But we cannot think of a faster way to sabotage this fleeting moment than to force Mr. Rowhani into a corner. President Obama has said he will not tolerate Iran's acquiring a nuclear weapon and has repeatedly warned of a ''military option.'' Both he and Mr. Rowhani need courage, creative ideas and the skill to manage their domestic politics for the two nations to enter into a meaningful dialogue.
Both sides have made some reassuring comments since Mr. Rowhani, a relatively moderate cleric, beat out more conservative challengers to succeed Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. The major powers are eager for more concrete action. Mr. Rowhani could send signals by choosing a moderate cabinet and nuclear negotiator, and by agreeing to early talks, even a bilateral meeting with the Americans.
Sanctions have helped push Iran to the negotiating table, and the ones in effect should be enforced. But adding new ones, as some in Congress want, would reinforce Iran's view that the Americans' goal is to crush the mullah-led government, and would make negotiations impossible.
The United States should reach out to Mr. Rowhani, and with its other partners -- Britain, France, China, Russia and Germany -- it should put together a broader nuclear proposal. That should include a process for acknowledging Iran's right to pursue nuclear energy for peaceful purposes under safeguards, limiting uranium enrichment and gradually lifting sanctions under tight conditions.
On Monday, Mr. Rowhani painted a bleak picture of the Iranian economy, with rising unemployment and falling currency rates. On Thursday, the World Bank said Iran had not paid any of its loans for six months. But there are also weaknesses in the sanctions regime that could erode this economic pressure. Some companies sanctioned for involvement in Iran's nuclear program are successfully challenging the sanctions in European courts because European governments have refused to disclose evidence linking companies to the nuclear program.
This will be a testing time for Mr. Obama and Mr. Rowhani. Failure to make progress on a deal could be catastrophic for the entire Middle East.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (86%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (73%); CONSERVATISM (67%); RELIGION (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (66%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (61%); CURRENCIES (61%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%)

PERSON: HASSAN ROUHANI (92%); BARACK OBAMA (76%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (72%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); EUROPE (92%); ISRAEL (92%); FRANCE (79%); CHINA (79%); GERMANY (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2013



614 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1143 words

HEADLINE: Welcome to the 'Sharing Economy'

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
IT all started with air mattresses.
Brian Chesky's parents wanted just one thing for him when he graduated from the Rhode Island School of Design -- that he get a job with health insurance. He tried that for a while with a design firm in Los Angeles, but he got fed up and packed up his Honda Civic and drove up to San Francisco to crash with his pal, Joe Gebbia, who agreed to split the rental of his house with Chesky. ''Unfortunately, my share came to $1,150 and I only had $1,000 in the bank, so I had a math problem -- and I was unemployed,'' said Chesky. But they did have an idea. The week Chesky got to town, in October 2007, San Francisco was hosting the Industrial Designers Society of America, and all the hotel rooms on the conference Web site were sold out. So Chesky and Gebbia decided, why not turn their house into a bed and breakfast for attendees? 
The problem was ''we had no beds,'' but Gebbia did have three air mattresses. ''So we inflated them and called ourselves 'Airbed and Breakfast,' '' Chesky, 31, recalled for me in an interview. ''Three people stayed with us, and we charged them $80 a night. We also made breakfast for them and became their local guides.'' In the process, they made enough money to cover the rent. More important, though, it spawned a bigger idea that has since blossomed into a multimillion-dollar company and a whole new way for people to make money. The idea was to create a global network through which anyone anywhere could rent a spare room in their home to earn cash. In homage to its roots, they called the company Airbnb, which has grown so large, so fast that it is now the equivalent of a major global hotel chain -- even though, unlike Hilton, it doesn't own a single bed. And the new trend it set off is the ''sharing economy.''
I first heard Chesky describe his company two years ago and thought it was a quaint idea that would find limited traction with niche travelers. I mean, how many people in Paris really want to rent out their kid's bedroom down the hall to a perfect stranger who comes to them via the Internet? And how many strangers want to be down the hall? Wrong. Turns out there is an innkeeper residing in all of us!
On July 12, Chesky told me, ''Tonight we have 140,000 people around the world staying in Airbnb rooms. Hilton has around 600,000 rooms. We will get up to 200,000 people per night by peak this summer.'' Airbnb has 23,000 rooms and homes listed in New York City alone, and 24,000 in Paris. Worldwide, ''we have listings in 34,000 cities and 192 countries,'' added Chesky. ''We are the largest short-term rental site of its kind in China today, and we have no office there.''
Chesky then fires up his iPad and shows me on Airbnb.com the rooms and homes being offered for rent: ''We have over 600 castles,'' he begins. ''We have dozens of yurts, caves, tepees with TVs in them, water towers, motor homes, private islands, glass houses, lighthouses, igloos with Wi-Fi; we have a home that Jim Morrison used to live in; we have treehouses -- hundreds of treehouses -- which are the most profitable listings on our Web site per square footage. The treehouse in Lincoln, Vt., is more valuable than the main house. We have treehouses in Vermont that have had six-month waiting lists. People plan their vacation now around treehouse availability!''
In 2011, Prince Hans-Adam II offered his entire principality of Liechtenstein for rent on Airbnb ($70,000 a night), ''complete with customized street signs and temporary currency,'' The Guardian reported. You can rent any number of Frank Lloyd Wright homes -- and even a one-square-meter house in Berlin that goes for $13 a night.
While it sounds like Chesky is just a global rental agent with more scale, there is something much bigger going on here. Airbnb's real innovation is not online rentals. It's ''trust.'' It created a framework of trust that has made tens of thousands of people comfortable renting rooms in their homes to strangers.
To rent a yurt in Mongolia, you go to the Airbnb Web site, sign up for it and pay Airbnb by credit card. It takes 6 percent to 12 percent of the fee from the guest and 3 percent from the host. The fee is paid to the renter after the first night. Through Airbnb, guests and hosts can verify each other's driver's license or passport, e-mail address and phone number, and connect Facebook profiles. No one is anonymous. They work out their own exchange of keys.
Afterward, guests and hosts rate each other online, so there is a huge incentive to deliver a good experience because a series of bad reputational reviews and you're done. Airbnb also automatically provides $1 million in insurance against damage or theft to nearly all of its hosts (some countries have restrictions) and only rarely gets claims. This framework of trust has unlocked huge value from unused bedrooms. ''In the last 12 months in Paris, we've generated $240 million in economic activity,'' Chesky said.
Airbnb has also spawned its own ecosystem -- ordinary people who will now come clean your home, coordinate key exchanges, cook dinner for you and your guests, photograph rooms for rent, and through the ride-sharing business Lyft, turn their cars into taxis to drive you around. ''It used to be that corporations and brands had all the trust,'' added Chesky, but now a total stranger, ''can be trusted like a company and provide the services of a company. And once you unlock that idea, it is so much bigger than homes. ... There is a whole generation of people that don't want everything mass produced. They want things that are unique and personal.''
There's more. In a world where, as I've argued, average is over -- the skills required for any good job keep rising -- a lot of people who might not be able to acquire those skills can still earn a good living now by building their own branded reputations, whether it is to rent their kids' rooms, their cars or their power tools. ''There are 80 million power drills in America that are used an average of 13 minutes,'' says Chesky. ''Does everyone really need their own drill?''
More than 50 percent of Airbnb hosts depend on it to pay their rent or mortgage today, Chesky added: ''Ordinary people can now be micro-entrepreneurs.'' Jamie Wong, co-founder of Vayable.com, a platform through which locals anywhere can become custom tour guides of their area, told me: ''I moved out of my apartment in central San Francisco, rented a cheaper annex in a friend's home, and 'airbnb-ed' my apartment for $200 a night and earned about $20,000 in a year. It enabled me to bootstrap my start-up. Airbnb was our first round of funding!'' And just think how much better all this is for the environment -- for people to be renting their spare bedrooms rather than building another Holiday Inn and another and another. ... The sharing economy -- watch this space. This is powerful.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (88%); OFFICE DESIGN (78%); INTERNET & WWW (73%); HOTEL CHAINS (73%); BED & BREAKFAST INNS (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); TRENDS (71%); INTERVIEWS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: INDUSTRIAL DESIGNERS SOCIETY OF AMERICA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (52%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2013



615 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2013
National

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 25A

LENGTH: 995 words

HEADLINE: For El Paso's New Mayor, a Daunting List of Challenges

BYLINE: By JULIÁN AGUILAR. 
jaguilar@texastribune.org

 BODY:
EL PASO -- When Oscar Leeser, an immigrant from across the border in Chihuahua, Mexico, was a boy here, he played football to help him assimilate into American culture.
Four decades later, Mr. Leeser, 55, is the new mayor of his adopted city, and he faces a challenge similar to the one he faced when he wore a helmet and cleats: moving forward to the goal line while navigating tricky obstacles.
And Mr. Leeser, who runs a car dealership, is doing so by stressing partnerships with local business groups and former adversaries on the campaign trail. 
But the challenges are daunting. El Paso, the state's sixth-largest city, lags behind Texas' average in household income and high school graduation rates. Twenty-five percent of its residents live below the poverty line, compared with 17 percent statewide.
El Paso has been divided over an effort to lure a Triple-A baseball team to a new stadium being built at the site of the former City Hall building, which the city demolished. The MountainStar Sports Group, a private company, is building the $64 million stadium, and it is being partially financed by the taxpayers.
Supporters of the plan said the project would modernize El Paso and revitalize its economy. But others criticized the City Council for not putting the matter before voters.
Mr. Leeser says that El Paso needs to stop dwelling on past conflict and move forward on the stadium and new initiatives to improve the city.
''I told people from the start that I didn't like the process -- I would have never destroyed City Hall,'' he said. ''But now we're not looking backwards any longer because you cannot succeed in life by looking backwards. As the figurehead of the city, we need to make sure'' the stadium is successful.
During his campaign, Mr. Leeser, who was elected last month, was accused of lacking a platform, and he was short on specifics during a recent interview in his office. But he pointed out that he had been in office less than a month, and said that he was still learning the intricacies of El Paso politics.
''One of our main focuses moving forward is economic development,'' he said. ''We've been in office 20 days. The biggest thing we need to do is work with the city and make sure we have a good game plan moving forward, and we're going to have a master plan.''
According to United States census data from 2007 to 2011, El Paso fell behind the state's averages in the percentage of people with a high school education or higher, and in household income.
Asked how to eradicate such gaps and the poverty level, Mr. Leeser simply said that change would come with greater economic development and an emphasis on manufacturing.
Part of his outreach on that front is the newly created Borderplex Binational Economic Alliance, a merger between two economic coalitions -- the El Paso Regional Economic Development Corporation and Paso del Norte Group -- that was created in late 2012.
The alliance seeks to pool the economic potential of Ciudad Juárez, Mexico; southern New Mexico; and El Paso to develop projects and improve the quality of life for the region's nearly 3 million people.
''I talked to the Borderplex when I was running for office and I said, 'Tell me the biggest thing people are competing for,' '' said Mr. Leeser, who identifies himself as a Democrat. The response, he said, was manufacturing, and he added that the alliance would create both high-tech and low-skilled jobs.
A key figure in that merger is Rolando Pablos, the Borderplex alliance's chief executive. He is a former member of the state's Public Utility Commission and a member of the board of the Hispanic Republicans of Texas political action committee. But he said that partisan politics would not help El Paso realize its full potential and that city leaders realized that.
''El Paso, Texas, is on the cusp of an economic renaissance,'' Mr. Pablos said. ''As we get all of the negativity behind us, I only see a bright future. This is all about economic development.''
Mr. Leeser is also looking to establish a strong bond with United States Representative Beto O'Rourke, a Democrat who supported Mr. Leeser's opponent and was a key member of El Paso's progressive city leadership until his election to Congress last year.
Mr. O'Rourke said the new mayor could count on his support. He acknowledged that during his time on the City Council, he and his colleagues were so dedicated to getting things moving that they may have neglected to clearly voice their goals.
''Many of us had grown up in an El Paso that seemed comfortable with mediocrity,'' he said. ''And I think, partly, our campaigns and our time in office was to become, as a community, much more ambitious.''
''We moved a lot of things and didn't always do the best job of communicating why we were doing something or how this played in,'' he said.
Mr. Leeser also takes the reins in the Sun City after it garnered national attention for the former leadership's stance on socially sensitive issues.
The City Council was mired in controversy in 2011 after overturning a city ordinance that rejected benefits for the partners of unmarried city employees, including those in same-sex couples.
Mr. Leeser said he would not be the death knell for progressive growth in El Paso. But he did say he believed social issues should be left up to the individual.
''It's not for me in life to tell people how to live their life behind the closed doors,'' he said. ''It's for me to treat people equally and respect everybody.''
Anna L. Perez, an El Paso transplant who spoke during public comments at last week's City Council meeting, said she saw a new direction for the city, but only if elected officials were courageous enough to speak out.
''The hopes that I have is for transparency, that they ask for specific details,'' Dr. Perez said. ''The past council simply gave their own power away. This is what the voters wanted was change, and this is what the new council appears to have -- the citizens at large, at heart.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An El Paso resident waved a petition last week at Mayor Oscar Leeser, who was elected in June. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRUCE BERMAN FOR THE TEXAS TRIBUNE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); POOR POPULATION (88%); IMMIGRATION (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); POVERTY RATES (74%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (74%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (74%); BASEBALL (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (70%); GRADUATION RATES (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (68%); INTERVIEWS (61%); NEW CAR DEALERS (56%); CENSUS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EL PASO, TX, USA (94%) TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2013



616 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 905 words

HEADLINE: Wealth Taxes: A Future Battleground

BYLINE: By TYLER COWEN. 
Tyler Cowen is a professor of economics at George Mason University.

 BODY:
IF you'd like to know where American political debates are headed, the data suggest a simple answer. The next major struggle -- in economic terms at least -- will be over whether taxes on personal wealth should rise -- and by how much.
The mathematical reality is that wealth is becoming more important, relative to income. In a new paper, ''Capital Is Back: Wealth-Income Ratios in Rich Countries 1700-2010,'' Professors Thomas Piketty and Gabriel Zucman of the Paris School of Economics have performed the heroic task of measuring wealth for eight leading economies: the United States, Canada, Britain, France, Italy, Germany, Japan and Australia. 
Their estimates reveal some striking trends. For instance, wealth accumulation in these eight countries has risen relative to yearly production. Wealth-to-income ratios in these nations climbed from a range of 200 to 300 percent in 1970 to a range of 400 to 600 percent in 2010. Behind the changing ratios is some bad news, namely that slow productivity growth and slow population growth have depressed income growth, but also some good news -- that relative peace and capital gains have preserved wealth.
Focusing on the wealth of economies lets us reframe our recent debates about government debt in useful ways. A look at the ratio of debt to gross national product, for example, can be scary, but the ratio of debt to wealth is far less forbidding. If, say, a nation's debt-to-G.D.P. ratio is 100 percent -- often considered a dangerous level -- and national wealth is 10 times yearly national income, the debt-to-wealth ratio is thus 10 percent, which is comparable to owing $100,000 on a $1 million home. Not so scary.
Using the wealth numbers provided by Professors Piketty and Zucman, we can understand how Japan, despite a debt-to-G.D.P. ratio of more than 200 percent, can maintain low interest rates; Japan has a wealth-to-income ratio of about 600 percent. In essence, creditors think the Japanese political system will be able to drum up enough support for the requisite taxes, pulled out of national wealth if necessary, when the time comes.
But don't relax too quickly, because fiscal problems remain very real for many countries. While virtually every government could pay off its debts by taxing wealth, such taxes are often politically unacceptable. In other words, fiscal problems are best regarded as problems of dysfunctional governance. In the recent elections in Italy, the incumbent government lost voter support partly because it addressed the nation's revenue problems by levying a wealth tax on real estate; the policy remains contentious and may yet be repealed or limited.
And here is a related issue: If there is enough national wealth to pay off debts, it may be harder to arrange bailouts from outside.
In the European Union, countries like Germany may regard the union's more troubled nations as shirking their fiscal duties, and that makes cooperation harder to achieve. Italy, for instance, is in a fiscal crisis, but it also has an especially high wealth-to-income ratio, at 650 percent, indicating that it could pay off its debt if more of that wealth were taxed. Germany, by contrast, has a much lower wealth-to-income ratio: 400 percent. And though the professors caution that the German data, in particular, may be incomplete, the figures do lend support or at least plausibility to the recent argument that Germany shouldn't be viewed as the rich uncle of Europe.
Some forms of wealth taxation take hidden forms, such as financial repression. This occurs when a nation's citizens are required to hold deposits in banks under unfavorable terms -- meaning at low interest rates. The banks, in turn, may be required to buy government debt to help finance a budget deficit. For better or worse, this is likely part of a longer-run resolution of fiscal problems in the periphery of the euro zone.
In the United States, wealth taxes are currently limited to a few levies, such as property taxes and inheritance taxes. Capital gains taxes that aren't indexed to inflation also serve as an implicit wealth tax, because they dig into the body of a person's capital. Most likely those rates will rise. Like the bank robber Willie Sutton, revenue-hungry governments go ''where the money is.''
The coming battles over wealth taxation may prove especially bitter and polarizing. Most wealth has already been subjected to income and other taxes, perhaps multiple times. It doesn't seem fair to the holders of that wealth to suddenly pay additional taxes on assets that they thought were in the clear, and such taxes would signal that previous policy has failed.
Higher wealth in a nation means that there is more to take, and growing inequality means there are more problems that its government might seek to remedy. At the same time, however, this new economic configuration will mean greater political influence for the holders of that wealth, and that will make higher wealth taxes harder to achieve.
Historically, economists -- including me -- have generally favored taxes on consumption, on the grounds that they would do the least damage to long-term savings, investment and economic growth. Yet in some eyes, rising wealth will become a tempting target for short-term political gain. And note that while most Republicans currently oppose consumption taxes, they may dislike the relevant alternative, namely wealth taxes, even more.
Get ready to choose a side.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY EVAN HUGHES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC DEBT (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); TRENDS (77%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (77%); POPULATION GROWTH (77%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); POLITICS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); PRODUCTIVITY (68%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (57%) JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); FRANCE (73%); GERMANY (71%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2013



617 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 825 words

HEADLINE: Washington Push for Higher Minimum Wage for Workers Has Walmart Balking

BYLINE: By TRIP GABRIEL

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- An attempt by the City Council to force profitable chain stores to pay much higher wages than the city's minimum has infuriated Walmart, which is threatening to pull out of up to six planned stores.
Mayor Vincent C. Gray, who worked hard to lure Walmart, finds himself caught in the middle, and many residents sound less than grateful to lawmakers. 
''Those big people in government, they don't understand my situation,'' said Fred Reaves, 45, who is unemployed and said he would gladly take a job at the current city minimum, $8.25.
''Eight-something, it'll motivate you to start going to work,'' Mr. Reaves said as he stood around the Skyland Town Center, a patch of barren asphalt and shuttered stores where Walmart planned to build. ''You can start paying some bills. It will help you to come off public assistance.''
On July 10, the City Council passed a ''living wage'' measure that would require Walmart to pay at least $12.50 an hour, saying it was fighting to protect struggling residents in what has become a high-cost city.
Supporters of the measure say that Walmart, whose revenues in 2012 were $469 billion, can well afford to pay workers more.
''Their net income was $17 billion,'' said Vincent Orange, a city councilman who voted for the ordinance. ''You don't want to share a little bit with the citizens? Come on.''
A decade ago, the city gave tax breaks to lure retailers, Mr. Orange said, but now it is booming and can negotiate from strength.
The day before the City Council passed the measure, a Walmart official warned in an op-ed article in The Washington Post that if required to pay $12.50 an hour, the company would cancel three planned stores and consider withdrawing from three projects already under construction.
The next move is up to Mayor Gray, who is weighing a veto.
Officially the mayor has taken no position, but he is widely seen as opposed to the measure. The Council has delayed formally sending it to his desk for action. The measure, called the Large Retailer Accountability Act, would require stores of at least 75,000 square feet that are owned by companies with $1 billion or more in annual revenue to pay the higher minimum wage. Because existing stores and those with unions are exempt, it is seen as squarely aimed at Walmart.
As Walmart, the world's largest retailer, has sought inroads in major cities, it has faced resistance from local merchants, who fear being undercut, and from officials who say minimum-wage jobs mire workers in poverty.
Democrats on the House of Representatives work force committee produced a report this spring contending that the government subsidizes Walmart because employees earn so little that they qualify for Medicaid, food stamps and housing assistance.
Pedro Ribeiro, a spokesman for Mayor Gray, argued the opposite: minimum-wage jobs help the chronically unemployed take a first step into the work force.
''Yes, Walmart jobs are not great,'' Mr. Ribeiro said. ''But for some people, it will be their first employment and they're not qualified to do anything else. We need that entry-level benchmark in the District.''
Washington is experiencing an economic revival, with population growth on a par with Sun Belt cities. But the benefits are not spread evenly. East of the Anacostia River in Ward 7, where two of the Walmart stores, including the Skyland site, are planned, unemployment is 13.9 percent. In nearby Ward 8, it is 20 percent.
Victor L. Hoskins, the deputy mayor for development, said Walmart's threat to cancel projects if the measure took effect was no bluff. He calculated that 4,000 retail and construction jobs were at stake from three of the projects.
''The question is not $8.25 versus $12.50,'' Mr. Hoskins said. ''The question is $8.25 versus zero. It's called no jobs.''
Opposite the Skyland site, on Good Hope Road, Carl Williams, 49, a barber at the Like That salon, whose dozen barbers were bustling on Thursday afternoon, had mixed feelings. He thought $12.50 was a fair starting wage. But he said he would not hesitate to encourage his two daughters to take a job at Walmart for $8.25.
''One who is 21 needs a job real bad,'' he said. ''She had a baby real young and didn't finish high school.''
At a nearby Shoe City, the assistant manager acknowledged that Walmart might undercut her prices. But the giant retailer would also increase foot traffic in the neighborhood, which could benefit Shoe City, the manager, Shasherri Hindman, said.
Ms. Hindman, 25, said she started at minimum wage five years ago and worked her way up. ''What's wrong with $8.25?'' she said. ''I'm totally on Walmart's side.''
Willie Ford, 39, a carpenter, scoffed at the notion that Walmart could not afford to pay $12.50. ''Come on, they're going to make beaucoup money from this area,'' he said. At the same time, he acknowledged that many people in the neighborhood would gladly take a job at $8.25. ''Like a newborn baby, you've got to crawl before you walk,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); MINIMUM WAGE (90%); CITIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); MAYORS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); LEGISLATION (88%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); VETO (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); LIVING WAGE (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); COMPANY EARNINGS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (60%)

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (94%); WASHINGTON POST CO (53%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (94%); WPO (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (94%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (94%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (53%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (53%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2013



618 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1296 words

HEADLINE: Newark Revival Wears Orange Along the River

BYLINE: By MICHAEL KIMMELMAN

 BODY:
NEWARK -- Perhaps few places in America represent the urban trauma of the 1960s more than this city. Deindustrialization, corruption, suburban flight and calamitous planning gutted its core, tore up neighborhoods and helped fuel rebellion in the streets. The whole toxic environment was encapsulated in the desecration of the Passaic River, which borders Newark. It became a dumping ground for dioxin from the defunct Diamond Shamrock Chemicals Company, which manufactured Agent Orange.
But a quiet upheaval is turning that river, polluted as it may be, into a front line of reclamation. It's a common approach these days, from Seoul to Madrid to San Francisco: upgrading cities by revamping ravaged waterfronts. Urban renewal strategies from decades past, which did so much to destroy places like Newark, are being turned on their heads. The idea here is to make the Passaic a point of pride. You can see the sign of change in a new stretch of fluorescent orange boardwalk along the riverfront, an eye catcher for passengers on trains rumbling over the bridge into Newark Penn Station. 
Phase 1 of Riverfront Park, as it is called, was completed last summer: a $15 million complex of playing fields on formerly derelict land, a couple of miles north of a giant sewage treatment plant, in the Ironbound district. This traditionally Portuguese working-class neighborhood avoided urban renewal 50 years ago and has thrived, partly as a consequence.
The Ironbound also sidestepped the redevelopment movement of the 1980s, which produced alien, corporate sites like Battery Park City. Residents and vigorous neighborhood groups like the Ironbound Community Corporation welcomed the new fields, which, since opening, have become a citywide attraction.
Phase 2 is set to open on Aug. 3, just upriver from the fields: the 800-foot-long, $9.3 million orange boardwalk, designed by the veteran landscape architect Lee Weintraub, in collaboration with the city's planning office.
In this cash-starved city, nearly half the money has come from the state, the rest from federal and county sources, along with private contributions solicited by the mayor, Cory A. Booker, and the nonprofit Trust for Public Land.
The ultimate goal, said Damon Rich, Newark's planning director, is to create more than three miles of greenway, a riverfront ribbon with bike and walking paths stretching all the way through downtown to residential neighborhoods in the north.
Accomplishing that will require decades of political perseverance. ''It doesn't get more challenging than a waterfront park on a brownfield next to a Superfund site,'' as Adrian Benepe, the director of City Park Development at the Trust for Public Land, and a former commissioner for New York City parks, put it. This is an especially tall order in a poor city notorious for unreliable governance. A timely coalition of environmental groups, Essex County leaders and Mr. Booker came together to complete the first phases. The mayor is now running for United States Senate. Whether early successes with the park will propel the project onward, whoever ends up in charge, is an obvious question.
Another is whether big change can happen here without gentrification driving out the very people the plan tries to help. The city administration says it wants to avoid exactly that. Many residents, accustomed to broken promises and fearful of investments that only produce quarantined office parks, are already wary.
''When the city center was destroyed by urban renewal, it became a place to avoid, a place to pass through,'' said Mindy Fullilove, a professor at Columbia University and a New Jersey native who writes on urban affairs. ''Now the riverfront can become an urban edge shared by everyone -- a point from which to build the city back. The problem of urban renewal has been that when we've had an idea, it usually isn't a good one, and when we have a good one, we don't put money into it. The hope this time is that things will be different.''
These are changing times. Cities, which banked so much on fancy buildings, are increasingly finding new life and a fresh identity in public spaces that connect neighborhoods and communities. Planning gurus for years preached that waterfronts were no more than working ports and dumping grounds for industrial waste and the poor. Canals were paved with concrete and riverbanks lined with highways, factories, housing projects and railroads. According to this gospel, cars and freeways were good for failing cities, and urban density was bad.
The notion that industry might someday dry up, that economic development and public health would depend on clean, leisure-oriented waterfronts seemed almost inconceivable not even half a century ago. But environmental concerns and digital revolutions have reversed thinking. The proof is on the streets. Downtowns are coming back where residents and cities are stressing public transit over cars, density over sprawl, diversity over suburban flight.
In Newark's case, repairing the damage will not be easy. Mr. Rich, the planning director, led the way on foot the other morning from the train station to the new boardwalk. The trip required crisscrossing streets with meager accommodation for pedestrians, clambering up the exit ramp of an old bridge and hugging the gutter of a four-lane boulevard that lacks traffic lights allowing people to cross into the park. Along the way, he pointed out a riverside brownfield, the former Market Street Gas Works, now a cleanup project for PSE&G, the utility company. Next door, a grim mirrored-glass office building, headquarters for New Jersey Transit and Horizon Blue Cross Blue Shield, squatted atop a multistory garage.
It's hard to envision how Riverfront Park will get around those obstacles.
And then there is the river. A state court ruled two years ago that Occidental Chemical Corporation, the successor to Diamond Shamrock, was principally liable for the costs (from $1 billion to $4 billion) of cleaning up the Passaic, but the company has contested the ruling. The next phase of Riverfront Park, to be completed in the spring, envisions the boardwalk stretching toward Penn Station. Restoring parts of the riverfront in the ethnic and racial mix of northern neighborhoods, for equity's sake, will present a whole fresh set of hurdles.
Still, what has been built so far goes a long way. If a single downtown building like the Blue Cross Blue Shield headquarters separates the city from its river, a modest stretch of boardwalk knits them back together. At a ball field across the boulevard from the new park, Marcelino Arce, a youth baseball coach, described how some children in the Ironbound neighborhood had no idea the river was even there. Now, they must dodge traffic on the boulevard; but once across, he told me, it's ''a whole new world.''
That world includes a few zigzagging walking paths, with signs, by MTWTF, a graphic design firm, recounting the history of the river and its industries. There is an osprey rookery built into a copse of trees at an overlook onto the river. The city still needs to install those traffic lights and the park needs more seating.
As for the boardwalk, made of recycled plastic, its bright orange can summon up what Christo and Jeanne-Claude called ''saffron'' to describe the color of their ''Gates'' in Central Park. But police cones may leap to mind. Or Agent Orange. For his part, Mr. Weintraub said the orange was picked after eliminating various gang-related colors. Whatever. It is not ideal.
Newark deserves an elegant waterfront. That said, the orange boardwalk also acts like a giant highlighter, drawing attention to the park -- as the project hopes to draw people from all over the city back to the Passaic, one patch of recuperated riverfront at a time.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A boardwalk to open in August is part of Riverfront Park, an effort to turn the polluted Passaic River into a symbol of reclamation.
Riverfront Park, a $15 million complex of playing fields on formerly derelict land, opened last summer as part of a larger plan.
The city hopes the Passaic River, once a chemical dumping ground for the area's industry, can now become a point of pride.
The Jackson Street Bridge, where homeless people often gather, is a sign of the difficulties the city faces in rebuilding.
 The project's goal, said Damon Rich, Newark's planning director, above on the Passaic, is to create three miles of green space. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (89%); LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE SERVICES (78%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (78%); SUBURBS (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); VANDALISM (77%); WATER POLLUTION (77%); BROWNFIELD SITES (77%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (77%); SUPERFUND (72%); CHEMICALS (71%); CHEMICALS MFG (71%); COUNTIES (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2013



619 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 547 words

HEADLINE: G-20 Ministers Aim for More Job Growth

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER

 BODY:
MOSCOW -- The top financial officials of the world's largest economies issued a joint statement on Saturday endorsing continued government spending to prime the global economy for a full recovery. 
''Growth and creating jobs remains our priority,'' the statement from the finance ministers and central bank governors of the Group of 20 countries said.
It added that the governments in the organization, which collectively represent about 90 percent of the world's economic activity, ''are fully committed to taking decisive actions to return to a robust, job-rich growth path.''
Previous communiqués issued after such meetings had also indicated policy support among some member governments to focus on balancing budgets, not just spending to get out of recession. In this light, Saturday's statement suggested the weight of policy consensus in large governments was shifting toward continued stimulus.
While not openly critical of austerity measures like the across-the-board automatic federal budget cuts in the United States, the statement suggested most governments see recovery as too weak to risk reducing spending on unemployment benefits, job training, education and other public sector outlays.
Not even Germany objected to the new wording, said a senior Treasury Department official who attended the two days of meetings in Moscow.
''The debate between growth and austerity seems to have come to an end,'' the official said.
The benefits of the American pro-growth fiscal policies tapered only after the automatic cuts known as sequestration kicked in earlier this year. The efforts of the G-20 to coordinate economic policy are intended to help the world recover from the recession that began in 2007.
The officials also discussed strategies for ending central bank monetary stimulus, like the bond-buying program known as quantitative easing in the United States, without causing turmoil on financial markets.
Anton Siluanov, the finance minister of Russia, which is hosting the meeting, spoke in a final news conference about the tremor that American monetary policy is sending through emerging markets like Russia.
A suggestion last month by Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, that the United States economy may recover sufficiently this year to wind down the bond-buying program caused a sell-off in emerging market bonds.
With United States Treasury rates rising in response to Mr. Bernanke's comment, investors no longer saw the benefit of taking the extra risk of putting money in government bonds issued by wobbly emerging markets like Russia.
''We had an experience where just a comment that quantitative easing could end wound up seriously affecting developing economies,'' Mr. Siluanov told journalists.
The joint statement sets the stage for a G-20 summit meeting in St. Petersburg in September. It suggested that leaders including President Obama would similarly play down concerns about deficits in light of continued weakness in the global economy during an uneven recovery: demand remains weak in China and Europe while growth in the United States is anemic.
The officials discussed efforts to stimulate demand in China. Beijing has removed a floor on interest rates banks can charge, which could lower rates and encourage business activity and spending.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Finance officials on Saturday endorsed continued government spending to prime the global economy for a full recovery. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MAXIM SHIPENKOV/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); RECESSION (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); BONDS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); MONETARY POLICY (72%); EXTERNAL DEBT (71%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); BOND ISSUES (67%)

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF TWENTY (G20) (90%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (57%); BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (74%) UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2013



620 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1780 words

HEADLINE: Fighting His Body To Get Back To the Majors

BYLINE: By JASON BUCKLAND

 BODY:
It was late February, sunny and warm in San Diego, when Mark Prior picked up his phone to make a call. Prior, the former can't-miss fireballer who had been expected to help end the most unquenchable of sports droughts, was again unemployed.
It had been seven years since he last appeared in a major league game, and longer since he was supposed to lift the curse that has kept the Chicago Cubs out of the World Series. The Cubs had decided he was no longer worth their time, that he was not ever going to be the answer.
Although it is difficult to recall now, Prior once set the bar for big-name rookies, receiving what was then the largest contract for a baseball draft pick. He was an All-Star and a Cy Young contender by 2003, the year he became a Sports Illustrated cover boy and a designated franchise savior.
He was, in most every way, Stephen Strasburg before Stephen Strasburg. 
But as quickly as Prior rose, he fell.
He was on the mound for one of baseball's most notorious playoff losses. He was a 22-year-old with history in his grasp, with five outs to go to put the Cubs in the World Series for the first time in nearly 60 years. But it did not happen.
Quickly enough, he became injury prone and was considered soft. By age 25, he was a cautionary tale. By 26, he was gone from the major leagues.
As he descended, he became the subject of considerable hand-wringing. Someone had to be blamed for his demise, for the waste of all that talent, and someone was. But on that late February day, that did not keep Prior from reaching out to the scapegoat. He called Dusty Baker.
Their paths first crossed in 2003 in Chicago, where Baker was the Cubs' new manager and Prior was a second-year starter. Baker was a baseball lifer, an outfielder for four teams during a 19-year major league career. The previous fall, in his 10th season as a big-league manager, he guided Barry Bonds and the San Francisco Giants to the World Series, where they lost to the Anaheim Angels in seven games.
Prior was a University of Southern California standout, selected by the Cubs with the second pick of the 2001 amateur draft after the Minnesota Twins took Joe Mauer. The Cubs gave Prior a $10.5 million deal, a figure that was not exceeded until 2009, when the Washington Nationals gave $15 million to Strasburg.
Prior whizzed through the minor leagues, striking out 13.9 batters per nine innings and reaching the majors in 2002. The Cubs were terrible that year, needing three managers to get through the season, and Prior went 6-6 in 19 starts.
But 2003 was different. Behind Baker and a young rotation led by Prior and Kerry Wood, the Cubs won the National League Central title on the final weekend of the season, a modest 88-win team with two tough young pitchers.
Prior was particularly splendid. He was second to Wood in the N.L. in strikeouts (245), third in earned run average (2.43) and tied for second in wins (18). He also blew away the pitching field in wins above replacement, a measure of a player's value to his team compared with a league average fill-in, posting a 7.5, according to Fangraphs.com.
But he was also working a lot of innings, and throwing a lot of pitches, to help get the Cubs into the postseason. He logged 2111/3 innings, almost 45 more than he had a year earlier. In September, as the Cubs battled to make it to the postseason, he averaged 126 pitches a start.
Prior and Wood helped the Cubs get past the Atlanta Braves in the first round of the playoffs, which went a full five games. But then came Oct. 14, 2003, Game 6 of the N.L. Championship Series, with the Cubs needing only a victory at Wrigley Field to move past the Florida Marlins and into the World Series.
Prior worked seven scoreless innings that night and took a 3-0 lead into the top of the eighth when, with one out, everything unraveled. A double-play grounder was booted by shortstop Alex Gonzalez and, far more famously, a foul ball was not caught when a Cubs fan named Steve Bartman got in the way of Chicago left fielder Moises Alou.
The Cubs lost that game and then Game 7, too. Prior never led them back to the postseason. Instead, he began to compile a catalog of injuries, some of them flukes, others stemming from breakdowns of his Achilles' tendon, his elbow, his shoulder.
On Aug. 10, 2006, Prior was pulled from a start against the Milwaukee Brewers after three innings. He had allowed five earned runs and walked four batters.
It was the last time he appeared in a major league game. Prior missed the 2007 season after Dr. James Andrews placed seven screws in his right shoulder. Prior had torn his labrum, rotator cuff and anterior capsule. The Cubs granted Prior free agency toward the end of 2007, and the San Diego Padres, his hometown team, signed him, knowing he would not be ready to help them until the middle of 2008.
Prior never reached the Padres' roster, although after his one-year deal was up, San Diego tried again, re-signing him in January 2009. But Prior could never return, not even to compete in the minor leagues. In all, he tore his anterior capsule three times from 2006 to 2009, a crippling diagnosis for most pitchers.
''Usually, guys don't come back from that,'' said Jackson Crowther, his strength and conditioning coach.
As it became clear that Prior would never be what he once was, Baker began to realize he was a scapegoat, the manager who squeezed too much from Prior in his quest to get the Cubs into the World Series. Baker, critics said, had been simply too slow to pull Prior out of games.
''It really upset me to constantly hear about how I hurt him,'' Baker, now the manager of the Cincinnati Reds, said in a recent interview. ''As long as you manage, you're going to have some guys that are going to get hurt. You hate for that to happen, big time, because I really take care of my players.''
Baker's management of pitchers seems to have changed significantly over the past decade. In 2003, with the Cubs, four of Baker's top five starters threw more than 200 innings each. Baker also left his starter in for 120 pitches or more 29 times. (Prior pitched nine such games that season.) In 2012, four of Baker's top five starters again threw 200-plus innings each. But a Reds starter threw 120 pitches or more in a game only twice that year.
In 2012, however, Baker had one of baseball's best bullpens. In 2003, the Cubs ranked near the middle of the pack in bullpen E.R.A. In one of Prior's starts, against the Brewers, Baker pulled him with the Cubs ahead, 3-2, and Prior's pitch count at 126. Chicago went on to lose, 5-3. Afterward, Baker said that he could not win, that he would have been ''chastised if you take him out and chastised if he goes too long.''
A decade later, that heavy workload in 2003 does not seem to have left Prior bitter, to have affected his positive feelings toward Baker. In February, when Prior reached out to him, it was a friendly call. Over the years, they have stayed in touch.
But that February phone call was more than a pleasantry. Prior wanted a job.
After failing to make the Padres, Prior returned to live game action in 2010 with the independent league Orange County Flyers. Prior struck out half the batters he faced in 11 innings. Could he rekindle the flame?
The big leagues began to call, and Prior bounced around the minor league systems of the Texas Rangers, the Yankees and the Boston Red Sox. But he never threw more than 25 innings in a season with a team and never found a path back to the majors. With Scranton/Wilkes-Barre, the Yankees' Class AAA affiliate, Prior's 2011 season ended early after a groin injury.
He had moved from his 20s into his 30s, built a family of five with his wife, Heather, and, after two operations to repair tears to his right anterior capsule, retaught himself how to pitch. Through all of it, Prior, 32, has tried not to court sympathy. He said he was never truly depressed about the course his career had taken.
''To be honest, I don't really talk about my injuries, period,'' he said this spring. ''I really don't, because my life's so full of other things.
''I'm not going to say I never thought about hanging it up,'' he added, referring to his long rehabilitation. ''But ultimately if I would've hung it up during those years, I would have regretted it.''
Durability has been Prior's problem since his days in the majors. He has not been able to compete for even half a season since he left the Cubs in 2006. Last year, with the Class AAA Pawtucket Red Sox, Prior pitched 25 innings as a reliever, striking out 38. Many, including Prior, thought he was close to a big-league call-up. But to make room for a prospect acquired in a trade, Pawtucket cut Prior in August. He was without a job, again, and without suitors, until the day he called Baker.
Baker took Prior's plea for another shot to the Reds' general manager, Walt Jocketty. Prior passed a physical and was signed to a minor league contract. Baker knew Prior's arrival in Reds camp would prompt discussion of 2003 -- the good and the bad. But the reunion was sweet, a player coming full circle, his old manager trying to help.
''I just know how much he wants it, and I know how much he needs it,'' Baker said. ''I just wanted to help him, give him the opportunity to help himself, and also I saw the opportunity for him to help us.''
In the end, with the opening Baker provided, Prior appeared in seven games for the Louisville Bats, the Reds' Class AAA affiliate. He pitched nine and two-thirds innings, striking out nine and walking four. His E.R.A. was 4.66.
Then another anterior capsule tear shut him down once more. He has no immediate plans for surgery, just rest, but Louisville parted ways with him June 28.
After Prior's latest setback, Baker told him he had not been that far from a return to the majors when his shoulder gave out. Several Reds relievers had been injured, creating openings on the roster. If Prior had been healthy, Baker could have recalled him.
''I had visions of him pitching a winning game for us in the World Series,'' Baker said.
Prior said that he still loved competing and that he would not make a decision on his baseball future until September, when he would try to throw again. For now, he must wait.
Back in March, at spring training in Arizona, Prior pitched in a tuneup game against the Cleveland Indians' Class AAA team. On the mound, at 6 feet 5 inches, though about 15 pounds leaner than when he last pitched in the majors, Prior stared in at a hitter. He turned, raised his leg and fired. The setting, on a patch of desert near the Phoenix-Goodyear airport, was not Wrigley Field, or even the Reds' Great American Ball Park.
The big leagues were far away. Four months later, they still are.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mark Prior, top, during an April practice with the Louisville Bats, the Reds' Class AAA farm team. Prior, 32, got the opportunity with the help of his former Cubs manager, Dusty Baker, above left, with Prior in 2006. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID R. LUTMAN/LOUISVILLE COURIER-JOURNAL
 KATHY WILLENS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); ATHLETES (77%); SPORTS (77%); AMATEUR SPORTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO CUBS (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (59%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (88%); KENTUCKY, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2013



621 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE HOUSE EDGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3712 words

HEADLINE: A Shuffle of Aluminum, But to Banks, Pure Gold

BYLINE: By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI; Gretchen Morgenson contributed reporting from New York. Alain Delaquérière contributed research from New York.

 BODY:
MOUNT CLEMENS, Mich. -- Hundreds of millions of times a day, thirsty Americans open a can of soda, beer or juice. And every time they do it, they pay a fraction of a penny more because of a shrewd maneuver by Goldman Sachs and other financial players that ultimately costs consumers billions of dollars.
The story of how this works begins in 27 industrial warehouses in the Detroit area where a Goldman subsidiary stores customers' aluminum. Each day, a fleet of trucks shuffles 1,500-pound bars of the metal among the warehouses. Two or three times a day, sometimes more, the drivers make the same circuits. They load in one warehouse. They unload in another. And then they do it again.
This industrial dance has been choreographed by Goldman to exploit pricing regulations set up by an overseas commodities exchange, an investigation by The New York Times has found. The back-and-forth lengthens the storage time. And that adds many millions a year to the coffers of Goldman, which owns the warehouses and charges rent to store the metal. It also increases prices paid by manufacturers and consumers across the country. 
Tyler Clay, a forklift driver who worked at the Goldman warehouses until early this year, called the process ''a merry-go-round of metal.''
Only a tenth of a cent or so of an aluminum can's purchase price can be traced back to the strategy. But multiply that amount by the 90 billion aluminum cans consumed in the United States each year -- and add the tons of aluminum used in things like cars, electronics and house siding -- and the efforts by Goldman and other financial players has cost American consumers more than $5 billion over the last three years, say former industry executives, analysts and consultants.
The inflated aluminum pricing is just one way that Wall Street is flexing its financial muscle and capitalizing on loosened federal regulations to sway a variety of commodities markets, according to financial records, regulatory documents and interviews with people involved in the activities.
The maneuvering in markets for oil, wheat, cotton, coffee and more have brought billions in profits to investment banks like Goldman, JPMorgan Chase and Morgan Stanley, while forcing consumers to pay more every time they fill up a gas tank, flick on a light switch, open a beer or buy a cellphone. In the last year, federal authorities have accused three banks, including JPMorgan, of rigging electricity prices, and last week JPMorgan was trying to reach a settlement that could cost it $500 million.
Using special exemptions granted by the Federal Reserve Bank and relaxed regulations approved by Congress, the banks have bought huge swaths of infrastructure used to store commodities and deliver them to consumers -- from pipelines and refineries in Oklahoma, Louisiana and Texas; to fleets of more than 100 double-hulled oil tankers at sea around the globe; to companies that control operations at major ports like Oakland, Calif., and Seattle.
In the case of aluminum, Goldman bought Metro International Trade Services, one of the country's biggest storers of the metal. More than a quarter of the supply of aluminum available on the market is kept in the company's Detroit-area warehouses.
Before Goldman bought Metro International three years ago, warehouse customers used to wait an average of six weeks for their purchases to be located, retrieved by forklift and delivered to factories. But now that Goldman owns the company, the wait has grown more than 20-fold -- to more than 16 months, according to industry records.
Longer waits might be written off as an aggravation, but they also make aluminum more expensive nearly everywhere in the country because of the arcane formula used to determine the cost of the metal on the spot market. The delays are so acute that Coca-Cola and many other manufacturers avoid buying aluminum stored here. Nonetheless, they still pay the higher price.
Goldman Sachs says it complies with all industry standards, which are set by the London Metal Exchange, and there is no suggestion that these activities violate any laws or regulations. Metro International, which declined to comment for this article, in the past has attributed the delays to logistical problems, including a shortage of trucks and forklift drivers, and the administrative complications of tracking so much metal. But interviews with several current and former Metro employees, as well as someone with direct knowledge of the company's business plan, suggest the longer waiting times are part of the company's strategy and help Goldman increase its profits from the warehouses.
Metro International holds nearly 1.5 million tons of aluminum in its Detroit facilities, but industry rules require that all that metal cannot simply sit in a warehouse forever. At least 3,000 tons of that metal must be moved out each day. But nearly all of the metal that Metro moves is not delivered to customers, according to the interviews. Instead, it is shuttled from one warehouse to another.
Because Metro International charges rent each day for the stored metal, the long queues caused by shifting aluminum among its facilities means larger profits for Goldman. And because storage cost is a major component of the ''premium'' added to the price of all aluminum sold on the spot market, the delays mean higher prices for nearly everyone, even though most of the metal never passes through one of Goldman's warehouses.
Aluminum industry analysts say that the lengthy delays at Metro International since Goldman took over are a major reason the premium on all aluminum sold in the spot market has doubled since 2010. The result is an additional cost of about $2 for the 35 pounds of aluminum used to manufacture 1,000 beverage cans, investment analysts say, and about $12 for the 200 pounds of aluminum in the average American-made car.
''It's a totally artificial cost,'' said one of them, Jorge Vazquez, managing director at Harbor Aluminum Intelligence, a commodities consulting firm. ''It's a drag on the economy. Everyone pays for it.''
Metro officials have said they are simply reacting to market forces, and on the company Web site describe their role as ''bringing together metal producers, traders and end users,'' and helping the exchange ''create and maintain stability.''
But the London Metal Exchange, which oversees 719 warehouses around the globe, has not always been an impartial arbiter -- it receives 1 percent of the rent collected by its warehouses worldwide. Until last year, it was owned by members, including Goldman, Barclays and Citigroup. Many of its regulations were drawn up by the exchange's warehouse committee, which is made up of executives of various banks, trading companies and storage companies -- including the president of Goldman's Metro International -- as well as representatives of powerful trading firms in Europe. The exchange was sold last year to a group of Hong Kong investors and this month it proposed regulations that would take effect in April 2014 intended to reduce the bottlenecks at Metro.
All of this could come to an end if the Federal Reserve Board declines to extend the exemptions that allowed Goldman and Morgan Stanley to make major investments in nonfinancial businesses -- although there are indications in Washington that the Fed will let the arrangement stand. Wall Street banks, meanwhile, have focused their attention on another commodity. After a sustained lobbying effort, the Securities and Exchange Commission late last year approved a plan that will allow JPMorgan Chase, Goldman and BlackRock to buy up to 80 percent of the copper available on the market.
In filings with the S.E.C., Goldman has said it plans by early next year to store copper in the same Detroit-area warehouses where it now stockpiles aluminum. On Saturday, however, Michael DuVally, a Goldman spokesman, said the company had decided not to participate in the copper venture, though it had not disclosed that publicly. He declined to elaborate.
Banks as Traders
For much of the last century, Congress tried to keep a wall between banking and commerce. Banks were forbidden from owning nonfinancial businesses (and vice versa) to minimize the risks they take and, ultimately, to protect depositors. Congress strengthened those regulations in the 1950s, but by the 1980s, a wave of deregulation began to build and banks have in some cases been transformed into merchants, according to Saule T. Omarova, a law professor at the University of North Carolina and expert in regulation of financial institutions. Goldman and other firms won regulatory approval to buy companies that traded in oil and other commodities. Other restrictions were weakened or eliminated during the 1990s, when some banks were allowed to expand into storing and transporting commodities.
Over the past decade, a handful of bank holding companies have sought and received approval from the Federal Reserve to buy physical commodity trading assets.
According to public documents in an application filed by JPMorgan Chase, the Fed said such arrangements would be approved only if they posed no risk to the banking system and could ''reasonably be expected to produce benefits to the public, such as greater convenience, increased competition, or gains in efficiency, that outweigh possible adverse effects, such as undue concentration of resources, decreased or unfair competition, conflicts of interests, or unsound banking practices.''
By controlling warehouses, pipelines and ports, banks gain valuable market intelligence, investment analysts say. That, in turn, can give them an edge when trading commodities. In the stock market, such an arrangement might be seen as a conflict of interest -- or even insider trading. But in the commodities market, it is perfectly legal.
''Information is worth money in the trading world and in commodities, the only way you get it is by being in the physical market,'' said Jason Schenker, president and chief economist at Prestige Economics in Austin, Tex. ''So financial institutions that engage in commodities trading have a huge advantage because their ownership of physical assets gives them insight in physical flows of commodities.''
Some investors and analysts say that the banks have helped consumers by spurring investment and making markets more efficient. But even banks have, at times, acknowledged that Wall Street's activities in the commodities market during the last decade have contributed to some price increases.
In 2011, for instance, an internal Goldman memo suggested that speculation by investors accounted for about a third of the price of a barrel of oil. A commissioner at the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the federal regulator, subsequently used that estimate to calculate that speculation added about $10 per fill-up for the average American driver. Other experts have put the total, combined cost at $200 billion a year.
High Premiums
The entrance to one of Metro International's main aluminum warehouses here in suburban Detroit is unmarked except for one toppling sign that displays two words: Mount Clemens, the town's name.
Most days, there are just a handful of cars in the parking lot during the day shift, and by 5 p.m., both the parking lot and guard station often appear empty, neighbors say. Yet inside the two cavernous blue warehouses are rows and rows of huge metal bars, weighing more than half a ton each, stacked 15 feet high.
After Goldman bought the company in 2010, Metro International began to attract a stockpile. It actually began paying a hefty incentive to traders who stored their aluminum in the warehouses. As the hoard of aluminum grew -- from 50,000 tons in 2008 to 850,000 in 2010 to nearly 1.5 million currently -- so did the wait times to retrieve metal and the premium added to the base price. By the summer of 2011, the price spikes prompted Coca-Cola to complain to the industry overseer, the London Metal Exchange, that Metro's delays were to blame.
Martin Abbott, the head of the exchange, said at the time that he did not believe that the warehouse delays were causing the problem. But the group tried to quiet the furor by imposing new regulations that doubled the amount of metal that the warehouses are required to ship each day -- from 1,500 tons to 3,000 tons. But few metal traders or manufacturers believed that the move would settle the issue.
''The move is too little and too late to have a material effect in the near-term on an already very tight physical market, particularly in the U.S.,'' Morgan Stanley analysts said in a note to investors that summer.
Still, the wait times at Metro have grown, causing the premium to rise further. Current and former employees at Metro say those delays are by design.
Industry analysts and company insiders say that the vast majority of the aluminum being moved around Metro's warehouses is owned not by manufacturers or wholesalers, but by banks, hedge funds and traders. They buy caches of aluminum in financing deals. Once those deals end and their metal makes it through the queue, the owners can choose to renew them, a process known as rewarranting.
To encourage aluminum speculators to renew their leases, Metro offers some clients incentives of up to $230 a ton, and usually moves their metal from one warehouse to another, according to industry analysts and current and former company employees.
To metal owners, the incentives mean cash upfront and the chance to make more profit if the premiums increase. To Metro, it keeps the delays long, allowing the company to continue charging a daily rent of 48 cents a ton. Goldman bought the company for $550 million in 2010 and at current rates could collect about a quarter-billion dollars a year in rent.
Metro officials declined to discuss specifics about its lease renewals or incentive policies.
But metal analysts, like Mr. Vazquez at Harbor Aluminum Intelligence, estimate that 90 percent or more of the metal moved at Metro each day goes to another warehouse to play the same game. That figure was confirmed by current and former employees familiar with Metro's books, who spoke on condition of anonymity because of company policy.
Goldman Sachs declined to discuss details of its operations. Mr. DuVally, the Goldman spokesman, pointed out that the London Metal Exchange prohibits warehouse companies from owning metal, so all of the aluminum being loaded and unloaded by Metro was being stored and shipped for other owners.
''In fact,'' he said, ''L.M.E. warehouses are actually prohibited from trading all L.M.E. products.''
As the delays have grown, many manufacturers have turned elsewhere to buy their aluminum, often buying it directly from mining or refining companies and bypassing the warehouses completely. Even then, though, the warehouse delays add to manufacturers' costs, because they increase the premium that is added to the price of all aluminum sold on the open market.
The Warehouse Dance
On the warehouse floor, the arrangement makes for a peculiar workday, employees say.
Despite the persistent backlogs, many Metro warehouses operate only one shift and usually sit idle 12 or more hours a day. In a town like Detroit, where factories routinely operate round the clock when necessary, warehouse workers say that low-key pace is uncommon.
When they do work, forklift drivers say, there is much more urgency moving aluminum into, and among, the warehouses than shipping it out. Mr. Clay, the forklift driver, who worked at the Mount Clemens warehouse until February, said that while aluminum was delivered in huge loads by rail car, it left in a relative trickle by truck.
''They'd keep loading up the warehouses and every now and then, when one was totally full they'd shut it down and send the drivers over here to try and fill another one up,'' said Mr. Clay, 23.
Because much of the aluminum is simply moved from one Metro facility to another, warehouse workers said they routinely saw the same truck drivers making three or more round trips each day. Anthony Stuart, a forklift team leader at the Mount Clemens warehouse until 2012, said he and his nephew -- who worked at a Metro warehouse about six miles away in Chesterfield Township -- occasionally asked drivers to pass messages back and forth between them.
''Sometimes I'd talk to my nephew on the weekend, and we'd joke about it,'' Mr. Stuart said. ''I'd ask him 'Did you get all that metal we sent you?' And he'd tell; me 'Yep. Did you get all that stuff we sent you?' ''
Mr. Stuart said he also scoffed at Metro's contention that a major cause for the monthslong delays is the difficulty in locating each customer's store of metal and moving the other huge bars of aluminum to get at it. When he arrived at work each day, Mr. Stuart's job was to locate and retrieve specific batches of aluminum from the vast stores in the warehouse and set them out to be loaded onto trucks.
''It's all in rows,'' he said. ''You can find and get anything in a day if you want. And if you're in a hurry, a couple of hours at the very most.''
When the London Metal Exchange was sold to a Hong Kong company for $2.2 billion last year, its chief executive promised to take ''a bazooka'' to the problem of long wait times.
But the new owner of the exchange has balked at adopting a remedy raised by a consultant hired to study the problem in 2010: limit the rent warehouses can collect during the backlogs. The exchange receives 1 percent of the rent collected by the warehouses, so such a step would cost it millions in revenue.
Other aluminum users have pressed the exchange to prohibit warehouses from providing incentives to those that are simply stockpiling the metal, but the exchange has not done so.
Last month, however, after complaints by a consortium of beer brewers, the exchange proposed new rules that would require warehouses to ship more metal than they take in. But some financial firms have raised objections to those new regulations, which they contend may hurt traders and aluminum producers. The exchange board will vote on the proposal in October and, if approved, it would not take effect until April 2014.
Nick Madden, chief procurement officer for one of the nation's largest aluminum purchasers, Novelis, said the situation illustrated the perils of allowing industries to regulate themselves. Mr. Madden said that the exchange had for years tolerated delays and high premiums, so its new proposals, while encouraging, were still a long way from solving the problem. ''We're relieved that the L.M.E. is finally taking an action that ultimately will help the market and normalize,'' he said. ''However, we're going to take another year of inflated premiums and supply chain risk.''
In the meantime, the Federal Reserve, which regulates Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley and other banks, is reviewing the exemptions that have let banks make major investments in commodities. Some of those exemptions are set to expire, but the Fed appears to have no plans to require the banks to sell their storage facilities and other commodity infrastructure assets, according to people briefed on the issue.
A Fed spokeswoman, Barbara Hagenbaugh, provided the following statement: ''The Federal Reserve regularly monitors the commodity activities of supervised firms and is reviewing the 2003 determination that certain commodity activities are complementary to financial activities and thus permissible for bank holding companies.''
Senator Sherrod Brown, who is sponsoring Congressional hearings on Tuesday on Wall Street's ownership of warehouses, pipelines and other commodity-related assets, says he hopes the Fed reins in the banks.
''Banks should be banks, not oil companies,'' said Mr. Brown, Democrat of Ohio. ''They should make loans, not manipulate the markets to drive up prices for manufacturers and expose our entire financial system to undue risk.''
Next Up: Copper
As Goldman has benefited from its wildly lucrative foray into the aluminum market, JPMorgan has been moving ahead with plans to establish its own profit center involving an even more crucial metal: copper, an industrial commodity that is so widely used in homes, electronics, cars and other products that many economists track it as a barometer for the global economy.
In 2010, JPMorgan quietly embarked on a huge buying spree in the copper market. Within weeks -- by the time it had been identified as the mystery buyer -- the bank had amassed $1.5 billion in copper, more than half of the available amount held in all of the warehouses on the exchange. Copper prices spiked in response.
At the same time, JPMorgan, which also controls metal warehouses, began seeking approval of a plan that would ultimately allow it, Goldman Sachs and BlackRock, a large money management firm, to buy 80 percent of the copper available on the market on behalf of investors and hold it in warehouses. The firms have told regulators that these stockpiles, which would be used to back new copper exchange-traded funds, would not affect copper prices. But manufacturers and copper wholesalers warned that the arrangement would squeeze the market and send prices soaring. They asked the S.E.C. to reject the proposal.
After an intensive lobbying campaign by the banks, Mary L. Schapiro, the S.E.C.'s chairwoman, approved the new copper funds last December, during her final days in office. S.E.C. officials said they believed the funds would track the price of copper, not propel it, and concurred with the firms' contention -- disputed by some economists -- that reducing the amount of copper on the market would not drive up prices.
Others now fear that Wall Street banks will repeat or revise the tactics that have run up prices in the aluminum market. Such an outcome, they caution, would ripple through the economy. Consumers would end up paying more for goods as varied as home plumbing equipment, autos, cellphones and flat-screen televisions.
Robert Bernstein, a lawyer at Eaton & Van Winkle, who represents companies that use copper, said that his clients were fearful of ''an investor-financed squeeze'' of the copper market. ''We think the S.E.C. missed the evidence,'' he said.
The House Edge: Articles in this series will examine the challenges posed by Wall Street's influence over markets and the prices consumers pay.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Aluminum ingots waiting to be shipped from a processor. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID WALTER BANKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1)
Profit from Commodities: Wall Street banks are involved in many aspects of the commodities market. Goldman Sachs now owns many aluminum warehouses near Detroit, like the ones pictured above. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
THE WAREHOUSES: Aluminum, above, at one of Metro International's many sites, top. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY METRO INTERNATIONAL
FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A16)
THE BUYERS: A furnace at a Novelis aluminum plant in Greensboro, Ga. The company is one of the largest buyers of aluminum in the country.
THE CRITICS: Nick Madden, a Novelis executive. He said the London Metal Exchange had for years tolerated delays and high premiums, so its proposal, while encouraging, was still a long way from a solution. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID WALTER BANKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A17) CHARTS: PHYSICAL ASSETS: Storage
Power plants
Transport
Stockpiles
Funds
Swaps
Volatility
 Information (Sources: Company public filings) (A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: METALS MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (89%); COTTON MARKETS (88%); WHEAT MARKETS (88%); ENERGY MARKETS (88%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); GENERAL WAREHOUSING (76%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (73%); FIBER MARKETS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); INVESTMENT BANKING (72%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (70%); CHOREOGRAPHY (69%); PRICE INCREASES (68%); APPROVALS (66%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (65%); MARINE TANKERS (65%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (65%); CENTRAL BANKS (60%); BULK SHIPPING (56%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (50%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (85%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); JPM (NYSE) (85%); JPM (LSE) (85%); 8634 (TSE) (85%); MS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2013



622 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; WHEELS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 866 words

HEADLINE: Wheelies Roundup: A Mini Is Discontinued, But Datsun Returns

BYLINE: By BENJAMIN PRESTON

 BODY:
In which we bring you motoring news from around the Web:
The Datsun name, phased out in North America in the 1980s, is on its way back, albeit in India this time. Nissan says it will be bringing the Datsun Go, a 5-seat, 4-door hatchback, to India early next year. The new car -- which is to be manufactured at the Renault plant in Chennai, India -- will sell for less than $7,000 and is part of Nissan's plan to garner 10 percent of the market in India by 2016. A Renault-Nissan executive told The Economic Times that although the company doesn't plan on building anything that will compete directly with the tiny Tata Nano, it will probably offer a $4,000 car in the near future. (The Economic Times) 
David Strickland, head of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, said that the agency would take a tough stance on vehicle recalls, requiring vehicle manufacturers to not only comply with federal safety standards when vehicles are built but also to conform to evolving safety standards. Mr. Strickland -- whose agency was involved in a brief dispute with Chrysler when the automaker declined to issue a recall ordered by N.H.T.S.A. -- told Automotive News that ''reasonable risk'' was a moving target, and one that automakers will have to strive to meet in the coming years. According to Automotive News, recalls have risen to 664 in 2012, from from 207 in 1992, a spike that may be attributable to a rapidly changing automotive industry. (Automotive News)
Red Bull sponsors more than its screaming V-8 powered Formula One racecars; the company also puts on races for gravity-powered cars. Red Bull was the host of two events on Sunday, a Soap Box Derby in London, and another in Germany. Most of the cars were made of wood, and although they had steering and brakes, there were no motors of any kind allowed. But gravity played its part well, giving the cars plenty of speed before hitting a giant ramp toward the end of each course. The Red Bull Formula One driver Sebastian Vettel competed in the German event dressed like Super Mario, but he did not win. (The Huffington Post)
Since spring, Nissan Leaf sales have increased, leaving the automaker with more demand than it has supply for the E.V. At the beginning of 2013, production shifted to the United States from Japan, bringing the car's price down $6,400 over the previous year's model. That, combined with electric car subsidies, seems to have increased its popularity beyond what Nissan projected. According to a report by Autoblog, monthly sales for the Nissan Leaf have been above 2,000 units since March. (Autoblog Green)
If the stock 2014 Corvette Stingray isn't enough car for you, Hennessey Performance might have you covered. The performance company announced Monday the unveiling of its modified version of the C7, the Hennessey HPE700 Corvette. Scheduled to hit the market in October, the HPE700 will feature a 700-horsepower supercharged V-8 mated to either a 7-speed manual or a 6-speed automatic transmission, along with a host of body and suspension upgrades designed to increase the car's traction and cooling capabilities. (Hennessey Performance)
When he was fired as head of Mercedes-Benz USA in October 2011, Ernst Lieb didn't waste time filing an appeal in a German court. According to a report by Automotive News, the courts have spoken, and Mr. Lieb's wrongful dismissal appeal was struck down. Mercedes-Benz's parent company, Daimler, had fired Mr. Lieb amid accusations that he had used more than $100,000 of the company's funds to make improvements to his Mahwah, N.J., home. At the time of his firing, Mr. Lieb had put in 36 years with the company, and had been serving as chief of Mercedes-Benz USA since 2006. (Automotive News)
According to a report from The Detroit Free Press, Tesla is worth more than Fiat and PSA Peugeot Citroën combined. According to The Free Press, Tesla's market capitalization is $15 billion, compared with Fiat's at $7.1 billion and the Peugeot combine at $2.7 billion. Critics hold that current numbers aren't definitive for the Tesla's long-term prospects. Tesla shares rose to $129.90 on Friday; the company is being added to the Nasdaq 100 index. (The Detroit Free Press)
MINI CLUBVAN: Not long after last year's debut, Mini has discontinued its Clubvan, which is essentially a Mini Cooper Clubman with sheet metal in place of rear windows, according to Green Car Reports. Introduced last year as a concept that would become available in the North American market, Mini pulled out after selling 50 of the miniature sedan-deliveries. The automaker cited low demand and a 25 percent tariff on foreign commercial vehicles as reasons for its decision.; FORD REBOOT: Facing multiple lawsuits over the fuel-efficiency claims of its hybrids, the Ford Motor Company will update software on 77,000 Ford Fusion, C-Max and Lincoln MKZ hybrids to increase fuel economy, The Detroit News reports. Midwestern customers, whose vehicles face colder temperatures and higher speed limits than average, have posed a problem for Ford, which told hybrid owners that they would update the software by the end of July.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); FORMULA ONE RACING (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE RECALLS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (72%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (71%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (68%); PRODUCT RECALLS (67%)

COMPANY: REGIE NATIONALE DES USINES RENAULT SA (84%); NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (73%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION (56%)

TICKER: RNO (PAR) (84%); RNO (BIT) (84%); 7201 (TSE) (73%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (84%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (53%) TAMIL NADU, INDIA (90%) INDIA (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); GERMANY (86%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (76%); CENTRAL EUROPE (53%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2013



623 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1538 words

HEADLINE: Boom Times for Born-Again Diesels: Efficiency, Imported From Europe

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE ULRICH

 BODY:
The makers of plug-in hybrids and E.V.'s have reaped billions of dollars in federal loans and energy grants. Buyers of the electrically enabled vehicles have also been given bountiful perks, from tax credits and the privilege of high-occupancy vehicle lanes to home charging units underwritten by taxpayers.
Yet vehicles that were once the antithesis of eco-friendly are making far deeper inroads with mainstream consumers: fuel-sipping, ultralong-range diesel cars.
Attracted by newly quiet and clean-running engines that deliver some 15 to 30 percent better mileage than their gasoline counterparts, Americans flocked to diesels in 2012. Sales of diesel passenger cars and S.U.V.'s jumped by nearly 26 percent from 2011. That's despite the stubbornly high price of diesel fuel that, at $3.87 a gallon on average, is 23 cents more than regular gas (but a penny less than premium grade). 
Given that reality, some automakers are wondering out loud why new-school diesel cars -- which in some cases burn even less fuel and produce lower levels of global-warming gases than hybrids -- are getting no love or largess from Washington.
''This planet will not be rescued by superexpensive technology for the few, but when the majority of mobility is clean,'' said Rainer Michel, vice president for product planning at Volkswagen of America. ''Diesel is far less expensive than plug-ins and E.V.'s, with better range and performance. This technology is available today.''
That assessment might be expected from VW or another automaker based in Europe, where roughly half of all new cars are frugal diesels. One in five new VWs sold in the United States today is diesel-powered, making the company by far the nation's leader.
But with automakers on a steep climb to the federal fuel economy target of 54.5 m.p.g. for 2025, even domestic automakers can no longer afford to ignore a technology with so much potential.
For instance, the new Chevrolet Cruze Diesel, carrying a 46-m.p.g. federal highway rating, is officially the highest-mileage nonhybrid sold in America. The Mazda 6 Skyactiv-D sedan goes on sale this year. A Cadillac ATS diesel is in the works.
The Jeep Grand Cherokee EcoDiesel, powered by a turbo V-6 with Fiat connections, is arriving in dealers. Jeep executives may expand that engine's availability, perhaps to the all-new 2014 Cherokee or a 2015 Wrangler. Ford's Transit commercial van will also get diesel power.
Despite remarkable advances in mainstream gasoline engines, the combustion cycle developed by Rudolf Diesel at the end of the 19th century continues to be more fuel-efficient. For one, diesel engines squeeze the air in their cylinders to such pressures that the injected fuel ignites with no need for an electric spark. And gallon-for-gallon, diesel fuel contains some 12 percent more energy than gasoline. The upshot: diesels consume about 15 to 30 percent less fuel over all.
Owners of heavy-duty pickups have long relied on these durable, hard-working engines, which have the reputation for running 300,000 miles and more. This fall, the 2014 Ram -- among the mileage leaders on the gasoline side -- will become the only light-duty pickup to offer a diesel, a 3-liter V-6 shared with Jeep. That innovation, in a pickup class that accounts for more than a million sales each year, is sure to be closely watched by Ford and Chevy.
About 6.7 million diesel vehicles were on American roads in 2012, according to R. L. Polk registration data, but barely 800,000 of those were passenger cars and S.U.V.'s; heavy-duty pickups and vans account for most of the remainder. That compares with 2.3 million registered hybrid models.
The number of available diesel car and S.U.V. models is expected to double by the end of 2014, to 34 from 17, according to the Diesel Technology Forum.
An industry analysis firm, LMC Automotive, projects that diesel market share will double by 2018, from 3.7 percent to 7.5 percent. That would rival the 8.7 percent for all hybrids and plug-ins combined. And battery-only E.V.'s? They're expected to capture just 0.6 percent of sales.
The Germans are going all out. New Bluetec versions of the GLK-Class crossover and C-Class sedan will give Mercedes-Benz eight diesel models in its 2014 American lineup, including the E250 Bluetec, a 4-cylinder version of the E-Class sedan.
BMW will drop a 4-cylinder turbodiesel capable of 45 m.p.g. highway in its 2014 328d sedan and xDrive Sports Wagon in August, joining the X5 xDrive 35d S.U.V. and 535d midsize sedan in showrooms. Porsche, too, offers a diesel, in the Cayenne S.U.V.
VW foresees increasing diesel sales to at least 30 percent of its total American sales. Within three years, Audi hopes to roughly triple its American diesel penetration, to nearly one in five sales. Like Audi, VW has publicly committed to offering a TDI diesel option for all of its mainstream models. The A8 TDI luxury sedan has joined the Q7 TDI S.U.V. in showrooms. This summer brings TDI versions of the Q5 crossover, A6 sedan and A7 premium hatchback. A new A3 TDI comes early next year.
The fuel economy edge of diesel vehicles is most notable at higher speeds, making them a wise choice for Americans who commute long distances on highways. Hybrids, in contrast, shine in urban and suburban driving, where battery power and regenerative braking help them beat diesel mileage by a wide margin. But in terms of driving enjoyment, it's no contest: diesels, with their powerful surge of low-end torque, make typical hybrids feel slow and spiritless in comparison.
In widely publicized cases, the real-world mileage numbers of some hybrids have been a disappointment. Owners of the Ford C-Max and Fusion Hybrid have filed class-action lawsuits over window-sticker ratings that proved overblown. That has focused attention on the E.P.A.'s testing regime, which seems to credit hybrids for illusory mileage while understating diesel efficiency.
''You'll never find a diesel driver complaining that they're not getting the posted mileage,'' said Allen Schaeffer, executive director of the Diesel Technology Forum. ''They all brag that they're doing better.''
Such pleasant surprises have been borne out in my own testing. Several VW car models can achieve 50 highway m.p.g., whipping their 40- to 43-m.p.g. federal ratings. The Chevy Cruze Diesel showed 49 highway m.p.g., beating its 46 m.p.g. estimate. The Mercedes GLK 250 Bluetec, rated at 33 m.p.g. highway, returned 37.
Notably, diesels do their thing without the hassle or inconvenience of hybridlike driving tricks, including obsessively avoiding the gas pedal.
''You don't have to drive gingerly,'' said Doug Skorupski, manager of technical strategy for VW of America. ''You can drive normally and still get big numbers.''
The limo-size Audi A8 TDI sedan, in my testing, delivered 39 m.p.g. even at a 70-m.p.h. cruise, 3 m.p.g. above its estimate.
Diesels, analysts add, also pay back owners with higher resale values than comparable gas models, and with driving ranges that read like misprints.
The Audi A8 TDI can cover more than 800 highway miles, enough to drive from Chicago to New York without stopping for fuel. (Don't try that in an E.V.). Chevy's Cruze can top 700 miles. A clever VW television ad shows two friends learning to speak Spanish fluently in the 13 hours and nearly 800 miles it takes to drain the Passat TDI's tank.
One long-held assumption -- that Americans have bad memories of dirty, smoky, unreliable diesels of the '70s and '80s -- isn't supported by current research, automakers say. Most consumers are decades removed from diesel's Dark Ages.
''Younger buyers, especially, don't have those notions of what diesel was like,'' said Wayne Killen, general manager of product strategy for Audi of America.
The real barriers include unpredictable diesel prices, concerns over convenient access to filling stations and unfamiliarity with the technology. Diesel, Mr. Killen said, is still below the radar for many mainstream shoppers, even those seeking better mileage.
Yet many objections are being washed away. About 52 percent of America's gas stations now have at least one diesel pump. The technology, said Mike Omotoso, an LMC Automotive analyst, adds roughly $1,500 to $3,000 to the price of a gasoline car, but the gap is shrinking.
The clattering noise and visible pollution of primitive diesels is history. Many models carry multigallon tanks of urea, a liquid that produces ammonia to scrub smog-forming nitrogen oxides from the exhaust. Clean diesels have adopted filters to trap microscopic particles that can be carcinogenic.
Though gasoline direct-injection engines have improved markedly, engineers say they may actually face tougher hurdles to meet future pollution standards. While diesel cylinder pressures are declining, direct injection engines are going the other way to enhance efficiency -- akin to how diesels traditionally work, which could create a new round of emissions challenges.
Fuel strategies aside, executives of German brands welcome competition from America and Japan, saying the diesel tide will lift all these high-mileage boats.
''Welcome to the party, guys,'' said Mr. Michel of VW. ''Having a diesel in a Chevrolet will only promote the technology in this country.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: TRANSATLANTIC: Europe's lead in the diesel sales boom is built on fuel-sipping models including, from top, the 2014 Audi A6 TDI, 2014 Jeep Grand Cherokee (with a Fiat-G.M. V-6), BMW 328d and 2013 Mercedes-Benz GLK250 Bluetec. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AUDI OF AMERICA
CHRYSLER GROUP
BMW OF NORTH AMERICA
MERCEDES-BENZ USA) (AU1)
CIVILIZED: Top, turbocharging adds power to the fuel thriftiness of BMW's diesels. Above, Ranier Michel, vice president for product planning at VW. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BMW OF NORTH AMERICA
 VOLKSWAGEN OF AMERICA) (AU5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (77%); DIESEL FUEL (76%); DIESEL FUEL PRICES (75%); SEDANS (74%); COMBUSTION TECHNOLOGIES (73%); TAX LAW (72%); GLOBAL WARMING (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); EUROPE (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2013



624 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 591 words

HEADLINE: Refinancing, Despite a Rate Rise

BYLINE: By LISA PREVOST

 BODY:
With mortgage rates hitting their highest level in two years, the rush to refinance has slowed to more of a stroll.
As of the end of June, refinancing activity represented 64 percent of all mortgage applications, the lowest volume since May 2011, according to the Mortgage Bankers Association.
The rise in rates by ''better than a point'' since early May has effectively killed off a lot of the refinancing business, in what amounts to a ''purely an interest-rate-driven decision,'' said Keith T. Gumbinger, the vice president of HSH.com, a financial publisher. But getting into a new mortgage still makes sense for some categories of homeowners. 
The most obvious candidates are borrowers whose rates are 5.5 percent or higher. The rate for a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage has lately hovered around 4.5 percent; the 15-year fixed rate is around 3.5 percent.
Borrowers who couldn't refinance when rates were lower because their homes were barely worth what they owe may be better positioned now, Mr. Gumbinger said. ''Maybe you didn't have a deep enough equity position before,'' he said, ''but with home prices rising -- in some places, up 10 percent over last year -- market forces may be more favorable for you, even with the rise in rates.''
He noted that although the federal Home Affordable Refinance Program, or HARP, was set up to help underwater borrowers refinance, not everyone qualifies. So some borrowers could still be ''sitting on a loan in the sixes or sevens.''
Borrowers with a variable-rate mortgage that is about to go up might consider refinancing if they plan to stay in the house for a long time, said Gary Schatsky, a financial adviser and lawyer in New York. Also, those with ''a good chunk'' of their equity in a home equity line of credit, and no likelihood of paying it off in the short term, could possibly benefit from consolidating, depending on the closing costs, he added.
If refinancing just doesn't make sense, there are other ways to reduce the amount of interest paid. One strategy is to pay more toward the principal every month than required, lowering the balance upon which interest is figured.
HSH.com offers two online calculators to help borrowers figure out how much they can save. The prepayment calculator asks how much you can afford to send in each month, and then calculates how much interest you would save over the life of the loan. The lower-rate calculator asks what interest rate you would prefer to your current rate, and then calculates how much you would need to prepay each month to save an equivalent amount of interest.
Borrowers considering a prepayment strategy should remember, however, that they will lose some liquidity. They might also think about whether the money might be better applied elsewhere (i.e., life insurance and cash reserves).
''You have to not need the money for a prolonged time in the future,'' Mr. Schatsky said. ''And if you can afford the larger payments, you might want to look at a 15-year mortgage because shorter-term rates are still extraordinarily low.''
Some lenders also offer biweekly payment programs. By having half of your mortgage payment deducted every two weeks, instead of making one monthly payment, you will effectively make an extra month's payment every year.
''If you start doing this at the beginning of the loan,'' Mr. Gumbinger said, ''you can trim your loan down to 23 years.'' But many lenders charge fees for automated biweekly billing; a disciplined borrower could achieve the same goal by simply cutting one extra check each year, he pointed out.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: INDEX FOR ADJUSTABLE RATE MORTGAGES: 1-year Treasury rate (Source: HSH.com) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); MORTGAGE LOANS (91%); MORTGAGE RATES (90%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); HOME PRICES (74%); HOME EQUITY CREDIT LINES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (53%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2013



625 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1220 words

HEADLINE: Exit, Voice

BYLINE: By JUSTIN FOX. 
Justin Fox is the editorial director of Harvard Business Review and the author of ''The Myth of the Rational Market.''

 BODY:
WORLDLY PHILOSOPHERThe Odyssey of Albert O. Hirschman
By Jeremy AdelmanIllustrated. 740 pp. Princeton University Press. $39.95.
The life that the economist Albert O. Hirschman lived in the 1980s and early '90s was the stuff of an intellectual's most self-aggrandizing daydreams. There were honorary degrees (at least a dozen), prestigious prizes (wouldn't you want a Thomas Jefferson Medal from the American Philosophical Society?) and conference after conference held in his honor. It's customary for a distinguished professor to get a ''Festschrift'' of writings by students and disciples; Hirschman got four. 
This Hirschmania paid no mind to national borders. When Hirschman lectured in the Grand Ampitheatre of the Sorbonne, before a packed house of Parisian intellectuals, it was in barely accented French, the second of his six or so languages. As the Berlin Wall fell, he resurrected his rusty German and became an intellectual celebrity in his native land after barely visiting for 50 years. In South America, where he had doggedly supported moderate economic reformers through decades of dictatorship, he was personally invited to the presidential inaugurations of Patricio Aylwin, who took over after the ouster of Augusto Pinochet in Chile, and Fernando Henrique Cardoso, a longtime friend and intellectual collaborator in Brazil. Back in the United States, if Hirschman had something on his mind he would compose an elegant essay (Montaigne was a lifelong inspiration) and fire it off to Robert Silvers at The New York Review of Books, who would of course run it.
You've got to admit, it all sounds pretty great. But who, you may be asking, was this Albert O. Hirschman?
Until about a year ago -- when a journalist friend urged Hirschman's book ''Exit, Voice, and Loyalty'' on me, and a business-school professor did the same with ''The Passions and the Interests'' -- I don't recall ever hearing of the man. This probably reflects more on my poor college course choices than on Hirschman: his work still shows up on a lot of class reading lists. But for someone whose star shone so brightly two decades ago, and who was still alive until a few months ago (he died in December), Hirschman has receded quickly from view. Compared with more easily classifiable economists of his generation like Milton Friedman and Paul Samuelson, his name just doesn't come up that often.
Then again, neither of those guys has yet been the subject of a doorstop of a biography like ''Worldly Philosopher,'' the hugely engaging 740-page epic that Jeremy Adelman has just delivered. The battle for posterity is far from over, and Hirschman has a formidable ally in Adelman, a Princeton historian who knows how to construct a narrative.
The drama and variety of Hirschman's first 40 years do give a biographer an awful lot to work with. Adelman's protagonist was born Otto Albert Hirschmann in Berlin in 1915 to parents of Jewish descent who named him after the Iron Chancellor, Otto von Bismarck, and had him baptized as a Lutheran. Otto, in his first year at the University of Berlin when Hitler came to power, was active in the anti-Nazi Socialist youth movement. Five days before his 18th birthday in April 1933, afraid he was about to be arrested, he fled to Paris.
Over the next two decades, Otto, in chronological order, (1) got a business degree in Paris; (2) studied at the London School of Economics; (3) fought for the Republicans in the Spanish Civil War; (4) earned a doctorate in economics at the University of Trieste while acting as a courier for the Italian anti-Fascist resistance; (5) served in the French Army during its futile defense against German invasion; (6) biked and walked to the unoccupied Vichy southern France where, under the alias Albert Hermant (and the nickname Beamish, for his ingratiating manner), he helped spirit Hannah Arendt, Marc Chagall and thousands of other refugees from Marseille to the United States; (7) made his own way to New Jersey, where he changed his name to Albert O. Hirschman; (8) continued west to the University of California, Berkeley, where he wrote his first book and met his wife-to-be, a beautiful French-Russian refugee who had been a favorite student of Simone de Beauvoir in Paris; (9) volunteered for the American Army, ending up as a translator for the Office of Strategic Services, the precursor to the C.I.A., and serving as interpreter for a German general in the first Allied war-crimes trial; (10) worked for the Federal Reserve in Washington as a top adviser on the Marshall Plan to rebuild Europe; and, (11) driven from employment in cold war Washington by suspicions about his colorful past, moved with his family to Bogotá in 1952 to advise the Colombian government on behalf of the World Bank.
The Colombia years made Hirschman an expert in the new field of development economics, and the increasingly in-demand nature of this specialty enabled a late-blooming academic career back in the States. Hirschman went to Yale as a visiting professor in 1956, then moved on to jobs at Columbia, Harvard and finally (in 1974) the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, N.J., where he and the anthropologist Clifford Geertz carved out a space for the social sciences in that famed haven for physicists and mathematicians.
In the inevitably less dramatic second half of the book, Adelman, who has already made the case that Hirschman is interesting, tries to convince readers that his subject is important. The effort is valiant, and it certainly worked on me, although I fear the world at large may be harder to win over.
Hirschman left no simple, predictive models for understanding society. His big development theory was that big development theories tend to be wrong. His view of the relationship between free markets and collective action was that a good society needs both, in varying degrees depending on the circumstances. He was suspicious of bold ideas, even his own, titling one of his books ''A Propensity to Self-Subversion.''
These traits make Hirschman enormously appealing. The question nags, though, whether they will stand in the way of lasting impact. Hirschman's most-cited book is ''Exit, Voice, and Loyalty,'' which examines the choice we face as citizens and consumers between giving up on a product or an organization that's failing us (exit) and agitating for improvement (voice). Exit is economics, voice is politics -- and Hirschman makes quite clear that there are important phenomena in this world that economics alone just can't explain. He doesn't tell us, though, what the optimal mix of exit and voice is. In fact, he was dubious that such an optimum exists.
Economics evolved during Hirschman's lifetime into a discipline that's all about optimization, preferably expressed in a mathematical model. His influence on his own field thus seems scant. And while he had lots of fans among historians, anthropologists, sociologists and political scientists, it's hard to detect anything like a ''Hirschman school'' out there.
If only there were. Hirschman believed in the potential for societal improvement, steering a course between leftist visions of a perfect world and conservative concerns that reforms always backfire. An intellectual and political environment where that was the dominant attitude would definitely be an improvement.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Hirschman in 1974. (PHOTOGRAPH FROM UNITED PRESS INTERNATIONAL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); CELEBRITIES (76%); WRITERS (75%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); HISTORY (70%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (76%) UNITED STATES (92%); BRAZIL (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); CHILE (79%); GERMANY (76%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2013



626 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1280 words

HEADLINE: Fiorello!

BYLINE: By EDWARD L. GLAESER. 
Edward Glaeser, the Fred and Eleanor Glimp professor of economics at Harvard, writes frequently on cities and economic growth.

 BODY:
CITY OF AMBITIONFDR, La Guardia, and the Making of Modern New York
By Mason B. WilliamsIllustrated. 494 pp. W. W. Norton & Company. $29.95.
Fiorello La Guardia is regularly ranked not only as the greatest mayor of New York City, but as the greatest mayor of any city in all of American history. His pugnacious charisma, managerial competence and expansive vision still set a near-impossible standard for any candidate for municipal office.
But, as Mason B. Williams's fascinating new book ''City of Ambition: FDR, La Guardia, and the Making of Modern New York'' reminds us, La Guardia's success rested to a large degree on Franklin Roosevelt's decision to ''channel the resources of the federal government through the agencies of America's cities and counties.''
The questions raised by the New Deal's role in the development of New York remain relevant. President Obama champions infrastructure spending, but does that spending create local value? Should Washington support cities, like Detroit, that cannot support themselves? Does the power created by an expansive public sector lead to unacceptable abuse? 
Williams's story of La Guardia and Roosevelt shows that effective federal infrastructure spending depends upon partnerships with able local leaders, and that New York's greatest mayor was great at partnering with a friendly president. Williams, a historian specializing in urban politics, quotes Roosevelt saying that La Guardia ''comes to Washington and tells me a sad story. The tears run down my cheeks and the tears run down his cheeks and the next thing I know, he has wangled another $50 million out of me.'' La Guardia achieved so much because he had so much unfettered power, but after leaving office, he quickly attacked the use of that power by his erstwhile lieutenant, the ''oberburgermeister'' Robert Moses.
La Guardia and Roosevelt -- Republican and Democrat, gritty urbanite and country squire, immigrant's son and scion of old Dutch New York -- may seem an odd pair, but Williams shows us their similarities. Both were born in 1882; both were New York lawyers; both were hostile to Tammany Hall. Roosevelt's upstate constituency wanted an antimachine Democrat in the city, while La Guardia had to join the Republican Party because it ''seemed the only avenue I could choose at the time in order to carry out my boyhood dreams of going to work against corrupt government.'' Supporting the Republican La Guardia eventually enabled Roosevelt to weaken his Democratic Tammany foes.
Each man had a bumpy path to power. La Guardia was elected to Congress in 1916, but left to become a major in the aviation section of the Signal Corps. He returned briefly to lead New York City's Board of Aldermen. Roosevelt had been a New York state senator, assistant secretary of the Navy and a highly unsuccessful vice-presidential candidate in 1920.
La Guardia spent the 1920s in Congress, but ''he held no committee chairmanship, sponsored no major legislation and occupied a strategic voting position only briefly.'' For Roosevelt, the '20s were largely a ''season in the wilderness'': he battled polio as a private citizen and presided over the unfortunate American Construction Council, an effort to get the construction industry to regulate itself voluntarily. But he roared back to become governor of New York in 1929, and went on to expand Al Smith's progressive agenda in the wake of the Great Depression.
La Guardia was ignominiously defeated in his 1929 mayoral bid by ''one of the most beloved figures in the city's history,'' Tammany's high-stepping Jimmy Walker, and he lost his Congressional seat in the same 1932 Democratic landslide that put Roosevelt in the White House. Yet by 1933, Walker and Tammany were discredited, and La Guardia was elected mayor (though with only 40 percent of the vote), defeating both the Tammany candidate and a rival Democrat who seemed to have Roosevelt's support.
With his peppery personality, his battles against vice and corruption and his radio performances reading the funny pages, the Little Flower made himself unforgettable, an apt hero for the 1959 musical ''Fiorello!'' His early public antipathy to Hitler expanded New York's special tradition of pursuing an independent foreign policy from City Hall, to the frequent consternation of the State Department. Mayors Lindsay, Koch and Giuliani would follow in those footsteps.
But La Guardia's greatest feat was his ability to be a fiscal reformer as well as a big-government progressive who expanded social services and built enormous projects like the Lincoln and Queens-Midtown Tunnels. His numbers added up only because the federal government was partially footing the bill.
The New Deal provided the best chance for New York to move past a fiscal crisis in which the city's ''creditors had essentially seized control of its spending policy.'' Shortly after his election, La Guardia flew down to Washington to meet with Roosevelt's spending czars Harry Hopkins and Harold Ickes. On a second trip some weeks later, La Guardia met directly with Roosevelt, and secured ''a P.W.A. grant to complete the outer-borough segments of the Eighth Avenue Independent subway line,'' thought to be a dead project.
Williams documents the full extent of Roosevelt's financial support for the city. The Public Works Administration spent $58 per capita in New York City (about $1,000 in current dollars), which was triple the per capita figure in Philadelphia or Detroit. In 1937, spending by the Works Progress Administration made up 31.4 percent of the municipal budget, or 54 percent if you exclude core city functions of education, police, sanitation and corrections. That spending meant that ''during the heyday of the New Deal, more than one in 11 New York City workers had worked for the city -- either directly, or on a W.P.A. project.''
The anti-urbanite Roosevelt had once told La Guardia, ''You have two million more people than you ought to have in your city,'' and dreamed ''of balancing the population by resettling urban workers in the countryside.'' But La Guardia helped Roosevelt see that big cities needed big government, and Roosevelt's New Deal soon had solidified its urban component, with city dwellers a major portion of his Democratic coalition. President Obama, who entered office with much deeper urban roots than Roosevelt, has been far warier of embracing the direct aid to cities that was a big part of the New Deal.
World War II was the climax of Roosevelt's remarkable career, but for La Guardia, it was more of a letdown. Federal aid for urban projects diminished, and the city itself was plagued by ''German U-boats, which had settled in the lower New York Bay and were sinking American vessels by sighting them against the illuminated skyline.'' The small-scale entrepreneurs who provided peacetime innovation and competition in New York's great garment industry were unappealing partners for the bureaucratic War Department.
Williams tells the story of La Guardia and Roosevelt with insight and elegance, but his book doesn't address the deeper controversies around that partnership. Did La Guardia's New Deal spending saddle New York with obligations too expensive to maintain in the long run? Did a car-heavy construction strategy eventually enable an exodus from the city? La Guardia built much that still has value, but did the precedent of federal funding make foolish projects more likely?
Still, Williams's aim is to write history, not policy analysis, and he succeeds impressively at that. America's cities are the country's true economic heartland, and much of our most important past is urban. ''City of Ambition'' helps us to understand that past.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Did you hear the one about the Triborough Bridge? La Guardia with President Roosevelt, circa 1944. (PHOTOGRAPH FROM KEYSTONE FEATURES/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); MAYORS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (72%); HISTORY (72%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (72%); INFRASTRUCTURE (69%); NAVIES (50%)

COMPANY: W W NORTON & CO INC (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC5192 BOOKS, PERIODICALS, & NEWSPAPERS (91%); SIC2732 BOOK PRINTING (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2013



627 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3334 words

HEADLINE: Hauling New Treasure On the Silk Road

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

 BODY:
AZAMAT KULYENOV, a 26-year-old train driver, slid the black-knobbed throttle forward, and the 1,800-ton express freight train, nearly a half-mile long, began rolling west across the vast, deserted grasslands of eastern Kazakhstan, leaving the Chinese border behind.
Dispatchers in the Kazakh border town of Dostyk gave this train priority over all other traffic, including passenger trains. Specially trained guards rode on board. Later in the trip, as the train traveled across desolate Eurasian steppes, guards toting AK-47 military assault rifles boarded the locomotive to keep watch for bandits who might try to drive alongside and rob the train. Sometimes, the guards would even sit on top of the steel shipping containers.
The train roughly follows the fabled Silk Road, the ancient route linking China and Europe that was used to transport spices, gems and, of course, silks before falling into disuse six centuries ago. Now the overland route is being resurrected for a new precious cargo: several million laptop computers and accessories made each year in China and bound for customers in European cities like London, Paris, Berlin and Rome. 
Hewlett-Packard, the Silicon Valley electronics company, has pioneered the revival of a route famous in the West since the Roman Empire. For the last two years, the company has shipped laptops and accessories to stores in Europe with increasing frequency aboard express trains that cross Central Asia at a clip of 50 miles an hour. Initially an experiment run in summer months, H.P. is now dispatching trains on the nearly 7,000-mile route at least once a week, and up to three times a week when demand warrants. H.P. plans to ship by rail throughout the coming winter, having taken elaborate measures to protect the cargo from temperatures that can drop to 40 degrees below zero.
Though the route still accounts for just a small fraction of manufacturers' overall shipments from China to Europe, other companies are starting to follow H.P.'s example. Chinese authorities announced on Wednesday the first of six long freight trains this year from Zhengzhou, a manufacturing center in central China, to Hamburg, Germany, following much the same route across western China, Kazakhstan, Russia, Belarus and Poland as the H.P. trains. The authorities said they planned 50 trains on the route next year, hauling $1 billion worth of goods; the first train this month is carrying $1.5 million worth of tires, shoes and clothes, while the trains are to bring back German electronics, construction machinery, vehicles, auto parts and medical equipment.
DHL announced on June 20 that it had begun weekly express freight train service from Chengdu in western China across Kazakhstan and ultimately to Poland. Some of H.P.'s rivals in the electronics industry are in various stages of starting to use the route for exports from China, freight executives said.
The Silk Road was never a single route, but a web of paths taken by caravans of camels and horses that began around 120 B.C., when Xi'an in west-central China -- best known for its terra cotta warriors -- was China's capital. The caravans started across the deserts of western China, traveled through the mountain ranges along China's western borders with what are now Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan and then journeyed across the sparsely populated steppes of Central Asia to the Caspian Sea and beyond.
These routes flourished through the Dark Ages and the early medieval period in Europe. But as maritime navigation expanded in the 1300s and 1400s, and as China's political center shifted east to Beijing, China's economic activity also moved toward the coast.
Today, the economic geography is changing again. Labor costs in China's eastern cities have surged in the last decade, so manufacturers are trying to reduce costs by moving production west to the nation's interior. Trucking products from the new inland factories to coastal ports is costly and slow. High oil prices have made airfreight exorbitantly expensive and prompted the world's container shipping lines to reduce sharply the speed of their vessels.
Slow steaming cuts oil consumption, but the resulting delays have infuriated shippers of high-value electronics goods like H.P's. Such delays drive up their costs and make it harder to respond quickly to changes in consumer demand in distant markets.
Trucking goods from inland factories to the ports of Shenzhen or Shanghai on the coast and then sending the goods by ship around India and through the Suez Canal takes five weeks. The Silk Road train cuts the shipping time from western China to retail distribution centers in western Europe to three weeks. The sea route is still about 25 percent cheaper than sending goods by train, but the cost of the added time by sea is considerable.
By switching from ocean freight to rail freight, ''the inventory costs and lead times will see a lot of improvement,'' said Jonney Shih, the chairman of Asustek, the world's third-largest player in the global market for tablet computers, after Apple and Samsung. His company, too, has begun to experiment with the Silk Road.
Scrambling for Rail Traffic
Best known in the West as the Nationalist capital of China during World War II, Chongqing is now a smoggy metropolis, its city center perched on a bluff wrapped in a bend of the Yangtze River. The urban population of Chongqing is approaching 13 million, while an additional 15 million live in nearby rural areas that also lie within Chongqing's administrative borders.
Deng Xiaoping began opening China to foreign investment in the late 1970s, and for the next quarter-century Chongqing was a place that people fled, seeking better-paying jobs on the coast. But in the last few years, it has emerged as an industrial hub of western China, attracting multinationals like the chemical giant BASF and the Ford Motor Company. H.P. took the first steps to move production west from Shanghai four years ago. Now its contractors employ 80,000 workers in Chongqing, making 20 million laptops and 15 million printers a year.
Foxconn, the big Taiwanese electronics contract manufacturer, has twice as many workers in nearby Chengdu, mainly making Apple iPads, and has been shifting production there from Shenzhen.
Tony Prophet, a senior vice president at H.P., said the company began thinking about a rail route west almost as soon as it started production in Chongqing. The company, Mr. Prophet said, was pursuing a strategy of moving products, not people: instead of encouraging a migration from inland provinces to coastal factories, H.P. would manufacture in the inland provinces and then ship the products from there.
To attract the company, the city built an extra runway at its airport long enough to accommodate Boeing 747 cargo jets. Airfreight to Europe takes only one week, including customs processing.
But persistently high oil prices made the cost of airfreight daunting -- as much as seven times the cost of rail freight. H.P. was also concerned about the carbon emissions involved in airfreight, which are 30 times those of the rail or sea routes.
Trucking computers to the coast and then putting them on ships meant tying up huge sums of money in the inventory hauled across the South China Sea and the Indian Ocean. That delay would make it hard to shift sales strategies quickly in Europe if competitors came up with breakthrough products. So H.P. began looking at going west by land, across Kazakhstan.
President Nursultan A. Nazarbayev of Kazakhstan has been encouraging this idea. Last December, he called for his country to upgrade its rail network as a way to reclaim its historical role as the crossroads of Asia. ''We are reviving a New Silk Road,'' he said, ''by setting up a Western Europe-Western China transportation corridor.''
Kazakhstan, which already has 8,700 miles of rail, is rapidly building new rail routes to its borders with China in the east and Turkmenistan to the south. One goal is to connect China through Turkmenistan to Iran, assuming that the political situation in Iran improves, said Kanat K. Alpysbayev, the vice president for logistics at Kazakh National Railways. The Kazakh rail authority is also negotiating to help fix and manage the rail network in Afghanistan, where Chinese companies are building a vast copper mine.
The effort to move more cargo from China to Europe by rail received considerable help from a development so obscure that few outside the transport sector initially noticed it. Kazakhstan, Russia and Belarus created a customs union that took full effect in January 2012, eliminating lengthy inspections at their borders with one another. The measure saved days of transit time and greatly reduced pilferage.
The Kazakhstan rail initiative has spurred regional competition. On June 21, President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia announced a $43 billion infrastructure plan focused heavily on improving rail links to China, notably through improvements to the trans-Siberian railroad. The competition is ultimately a positive for manufacturers that make goods in China, like H.P.
The journey of H.P. computers and accessories begins in Chongqing with workers like Zheng Xiaoxue. A cheerful 18-year-old, she was raised by her grandparents on the outskirts of Chongqing; her parents had migrated to work at a plastics factory near Hong Kong in Shenzhen, where wages and benefits now reach $500 a month.
But her parents have now returned home, complaining that the food in Shenzhen was bland and unappetizing compared with the fiery Sichuan cuisine they preferred. So instead of migrating, Ms. Zheng chose a job paying $190 a month, as well as free room and board, at a Taiwanese-run factory making notebook computers for H.P.
''At work, we speak Mandarin, but after work, we mostly speak Sichuanese -- almost all of us are from Sichuan,'' Ms. Zheng said, while downing a free plate of pork and cabbage for dinner in the factory cafeteria.
For the train that Mr. Kulyenov would drive, workers loaded finished laptops into 43 of H.P.'s specially designed dark blue containers, each 40 feet long, 8 feet wide and 9 feet 6 inches high, and loaded computer monitors into seven more identical containers. The 50 containers were sealed shut with a series of locks and loaded onto a train at the Chongqing rail yard, which left the station on June 14.
It would take five days for the train, carrying nothing but H.P. equipment, to cross 2,000 miles of western China to reach the eastern border of Kazakhstan.
An Unexpected Delay
The train was punctual in reaching the Dzungarian Gate, a low, wide valley through the snow-capped mountain ranges that separates China and Kazakhstan. Chinese customs officers there opened documents that had been sealed since the shipment left Chongqing. For 49 of the 50 containers, the documents matched the cargo in every detail.
But for one of the laptop computer containers, the numbers didn't match. The documents showed that the total weight of one container was 10,135 kilograms. But the scale showed that the container weighed 10,153 kilograms -- a difference of just two digits, transposed accidentally.
Hours passed on the Kazakh side as H.P. and its shipping agents hustled to amend the paperwork, which was not easy because the error was discovered at the end of a workday. After thundering across China, through Xi'an, across a corner of the Gobi Desert and skirting the vast arid wastes of the Taklamakan Desert, where temperatures can hit 120 degrees, the train simply sat. For 26 hours.
Such extreme delays are unusual -- H.P. managers say the longest previous delay was 10 hours, at the Belarus-Poland border. Sea shipments have sometimes been delayed up to three days because of bad weather and other problems.
H.P. has made strenuous efforts to keep the products moving, sending representatives to remote Central Asian border crossings to explain its plans, said Ronald Kleijwegt, the company's director of logistics for Europe, the Mideast and Africa.
H.P. helped China overhaul its software for processing customs documents. China's previous system allowed clerks to choose only an adjacent country in Asia as the final destination for rail shipments, Mr. Kleijwegt said, because no one had envisioned that exports in sealed rail cars might be sent nearly 7,000 miles to destinations in Europe.
The company also negotiated special customs clearance, permitting its containers to stay locked and uninspected at border crossings along the route, although the containers are X-rayed for contraband. That was mostly to shorten the time needed for the trip, but also for security. Two years ago, H.P. sent 200 computers in a single, unsealed container as a test shipment on a general-purpose freight train. The shipment went through comprehensive customs checks at border crossings. By the time the train reached Germany, many of the computers had disappeared.
'Much Respect on the Track'
Once the problem of the transposed numbers was cleared up, the train crossed into Kazakhstan. An overhead crane and two cranes that looked like cottages on wheels lifted the H.P. containers off the Chinese train, and loaded them onto flat cars with wider wheel gauges in the rail yard in Dostyk on the Kazakh side of the border. Kazakhstan, Russia and Belarus, all traversed on the trip, have wide rails inherited from the Soviet rail system. China and Europe have narrower rails, so cargo transfers take several hours.
Mr. Kulyenov, a freight train driver fourth class who dreams of being promoted someday to reach the rank of passenger train driver first class, considered himself lucky to be driving the train. Sitting in the cab of a new diesel locomotive, he waited in the Dostyk rail yard for a messenger in a bright yellow safety jacket to bring him a computer printout of his cargo. When the printout arrived, he carefully made notations in the locomotive's purple velvet-bound log book, a concession to tradition, then typed many of the same weight details into a dashboard computer that helps precisely calibrate the engine for pulling each load.
When the signal lights ahead turned from red to green, Mr. Kulyenov moved the huge train smoothly out of the yard. ''It's a new engine; it'll have no problem,'' he said.
The locomotive was built at a new factory in Astana, Kazakhstan's capital, by a Russian-Kazakh joint venture that licensed the design from General Electric. The locomotive's body, generator, radiator and wheels are made in Kazakhstan, but G.E. exports the diesel engine from Erie, Pa. -- although G.E. and the joint venture are making plans to start building a diesel engine factory in Astana as well next year.
As the train moved forward, the lattice of train tracks in the rail yard narrowed to three, then two and then one that headed off across the flat grasslands of the steppe. Mr. Kulyenov and the assistant driver next to him, Alexander Nemtzev, 31, glanced around for the small flock of two-humped Bactrian camels that live near the rail line. They were nowhere in sight.
A few Kazakh houses lay long and low against the wind, with whitewashed walls, tile roofs and mastiffs prowling out front. Herders on horseback, wearing pointy woolen knit caps, tended flocks of sheep, cattle and horses.
Mr. Kulyenov marveled at how quickly freight trains headed in the opposite direction moved onto sidings to make way for his high-priority shipment.
''This is the first time I've driven the H.P. train,'' said Mr. Kulyenov, who has been a train driver for eight years, ''and the first time I've seen so much respect on the track.''
China's smog was far behind, swept away by the crystalline air of the high, barren steppes. Dawns and sunsets played on the horizon in nearly hourlong shows of pink, mauve and purple. Kazakhstan looks a bit like North Dakota; both grow a lot of wheat. But Kazakhstan is slightly larger than the United States east of the Mississippi River, with fewer people than Florida.
The train was not built for comfort. There were no bunks for sleeping, or even bathrooms. Just as the Pony Express of the American West relied on a series of riders to carry the mail, the H.P. train relies on a new driver, assistant driver and guards to board the locomotive at stops every three or four hours. Even the locomotives are replaced with fresh ones every third or fourth stop. At each stop, railway guards dressed in black or military fatigues hustle up and down the train, checking the cars for signs of tampering. Over the course of each three-week journey, more than 100 drivers and guards board the train.
To Mr. Kulyenov and Mr. Nemtzev, the Silk Road is an abstraction, a little-remembered historical detail studied in school. Mr. Nemtzev, who grew up in easternmost Kazakhstan, remembered how he would play with little plastic trains as a boy and yearned to drive real trains someday. ''I've never wanted to do anything else,'' he said as the headlights traversed a vast emptiness. We traveled for nearly an hour at one point without illuminating a single house, car or person anywhere near the tracks.
An hour after sunset, Mr. Kulyenov and Mr. Nemtzev were replaced by the next pair of drivers. Vladimir Kolozorkin, 52, took over as the main driver. With a gray crew cut and an uncanny ability to distinguish complex patterns of railway signal lights at enormous distances, he greeted visitors with a gruff warning that rules strictly prohibited distracting the driver in any way.
But he mellowed as the hours passed, saying that he remembered from his early boyhood in eastern Kazakhstan how camel caravans, a fixture on the Silk Road for two millenniums, had still traveled to mountain villages.
''They were used to go places you couldn't reach in a car,'' he recalled. ''In the old days, people used them for caravans, but now they're just kept for the wool, the meat and the milk.''
China to Holland, in 21 Days
When the train reached the Belarus-Poland border, the containers had to be moved again to flat cars with a narrower wheel gauge. While 41 flat cars headed on across Europe right away, 9 more had to wait for a separate locomotive because the train would otherwise exceed European regulations for a freight train's maximum length. The first train reached Duisburg, Germany, on July 3, or 19 days after the containers left Chongqing. Trucks then took the containers overnight to their final destination, H.P.'s European distribution center, in Oostrum, the Netherlands.
All 50 containers, including the nine that left Poland later, ended up arriving in Oostrum in 21 days, or three weeks. Ask ocean shipping executives about the possible challenge from the new Central Asian rail route and they say that it will not take away enough business to affect their bottom lines.
Kazakhstan forecasts that rail freight will grow to 7.5 million 40-foot containers by 2020, from just 2,500 transported from western China to Europe last year. That would be a huge increase that could sorely tax Kazakhstan's rail network; Mr. Alpysbayev said plans were under way to build extra tracks to help handle the traffic. But even at 7.5 million containers, rail freight transiting Kazakhstan would still be only a tenth of ocean freight between Europe and Asia.
Mr. Prophet, the H.P. vice president, said that despite the occasional delays -- like the 26 hours at the Kazakh border -- the company still planned to shift more shipments from sea freight, and especially from airfreight, to rail. The journey to Europe can take as little as 18 or 19 days by rail, but to allow for delays, H.P. doesn't plan for the train to arrive in fewer than 22 days, he noted.
Zhengzhou's and DHL's move to offer regularly scheduled rail service across Kazakhstan, not to mention the lengthening list of industries trying the route, suggests that despite the occasional customs delay, many companies now share H.P.'s view that the Silk Road has re-emerged as a viable transport route.
''They were all highly interested,'' Mr. Kleijwegt of H.P. said, ''but wanted to see someone else prove it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Centuries ago, the cargo on the Silk Road across Asia included spices and gems. Today, it's likely to be computers and other electronics, moved by rail along an often-desolate 7,000-mile route. (BU1)
Azamat Kulyenov, 26, a driver of the H.P. train, says other trains often move aside for its high-priority payload. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMES HILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Hewlett-Packard has been a pioneer in using trains to transport computers and accessories made in inland China -- a choice that saves valuable shipping time to Europe. In Chongqing, H.P. contractors employ about 80,000 workers, including these at Quanta, where a sign noted both the daily goal for laptops off the assembly line and the number that have actually been produced. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GILLES SABRIE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU4)
Scenes from the modern Silk Road: A dispatcher, left, directed rail traffic from the train station in Dostyk, Kazakhstan, just over the Chinese border. At center, the Hewlett-Packard train stopped in Dostyk to transfer its laptop-filled containers to cars built for the wider tracks of the former Soviet republics. At right, rail cars passed another Soviet-era remnant: a tank, aimed at China.
 In Astana, Kazakhstan, security guards boarded the H.P. train. On the lookout for robberies, guards sometimes sit atop the train's container cargo. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMES HILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU5) MAP: 7,000 Miles, and Still a Shortcut: Hewlett-Packard's overland corridor for moving electronics from China to Europe follows the ancient path of the Silk Road. (BU4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAINS (95%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (91%); RAIL FREIGHT (89%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (87%); ELECTRONICS (87%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (75%); FIREARMS (70%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (68%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (63%)

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (55%)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAMBURG, GERMANY (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); CHONGQING, CHINA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (55%); LONDON, ENGLAND (55%) CENTRAL CHINA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); SICHUAN, CHINA (58%) CHINA (95%); KAZAKHSTAN (94%); EUROPE (94%); ASIA (92%); GERMANY (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); BELARUS (79%); FRANCE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2013



628 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE HOUSE EDGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3712 words

HEADLINE: A Shuffle of Aluminum, But to Banks, Pure Gold

BYLINE: By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI; Gretchen Morgenson contributed reporting from New York. Alain Delaquérière contributed research from New York.

 BODY:
MOUNT CLEMENS, Mich. -- Hundreds of millions of times a day, thirsty Americans open a can of soda, beer or juice. And every time they do it, they pay a fraction of a penny more because of a shrewd maneuver by Goldman Sachs and other financial players that ultimately costs consumers billions of dollars.
The story of how this works begins in 27 industrial warehouses in the Detroit area where a Goldman subsidiary stores customers' aluminum. Each day, a fleet of trucks shuffles 1,500-pound bars of the metal among the warehouses. Two or three times a day, sometimes more, the drivers make the same circuits. They load in one warehouse. They unload in another. And then they do it again.
This industrial dance has been choreographed by Goldman to exploit pricing regulations set up by an overseas commodities exchange, an investigation by The New York Times has found. The back-and-forth lengthens the storage time. And that adds many millions a year to the coffers of Goldman, which owns the warehouses and charges rent to store the metal. It also increases prices paid by manufacturers and consumers across the country. 
Tyler Clay, a forklift driver who worked at the Goldman warehouses until early this year, called the process ''a merry-go-round of metal.''
Only a tenth of a cent or so of an aluminum can's purchase price can be traced back to the strategy. But multiply that amount by the 90 billion aluminum cans consumed in the United States each year -- and add the tons of aluminum used in things like cars, electronics and house siding -- and the efforts by Goldman and other financial players has cost American consumers more than $5 billion over the last three years, say former industry executives, analysts and consultants.
The inflated aluminum pricing is just one way that Wall Street is flexing its financial muscle and capitalizing on loosened federal regulations to sway a variety of commodities markets, according to financial records, regulatory documents and interviews with people involved in the activities.
The maneuvering in markets for oil, wheat, cotton, coffee and more have brought billions in profits to investment banks like Goldman, JPMorgan Chase and Morgan Stanley, while forcing consumers to pay more every time they fill up a gas tank, flick on a light switch, open a beer or buy a cellphone. In the last year, federal authorities have accused three banks, including JPMorgan, of rigging electricity prices, and last week JPMorgan was trying to reach a settlement that could cost it $500 million.
Using special exemptions granted by the Federal Reserve Bank and relaxed regulations approved by Congress, the banks have bought huge swaths of infrastructure used to store commodities and deliver them to consumers -- from pipelines and refineries in Oklahoma, Louisiana and Texas; to fleets of more than 100 double-hulled oil tankers at sea around the globe; to companies that control operations at major ports like Oakland, Calif., and Seattle.
In the case of aluminum, Goldman bought Metro International Trade Services, one of the country's biggest storers of the metal. More than a quarter of the supply of aluminum available on the market is kept in the company's Detroit-area warehouses.
Before Goldman bought Metro International three years ago, warehouse customers used to wait an average of six weeks for their purchases to be located, retrieved by forklift and delivered to factories. But now that Goldman owns the company, the wait has grown more than tenfold -- to more than 16 months, according to industry records.
Longer waits might be written off as an aggravation, but they also make aluminum more expensive nearly everywhere in the country because of the arcane formula used to determine the cost of the metal on the spot market. The delays are so acute that Coca-Cola and many other manufacturers avoid buying aluminum stored here. Nonetheless, they still pay the higher price.
Goldman Sachs says it complies with all industry standards, which are set by the London Metal Exchange, and there is no suggestion that these activities violate any laws or regulations. Metro International, which declined to comment for this article, in the past has attributed the delays to logistical problems, including a shortage of trucks and forklift drivers, and the administrative complications of tracking so much metal. But interviews with several current and former Metro employees, as well as someone with direct knowledge of the company's business plan, suggest the longer waiting times are part of the company's strategy and help Goldman increase its profits from the warehouses.
Metro International holds nearly 1.5 million tons of aluminum in its Detroit facilities, but industry rules require that all that metal cannot simply sit in a warehouse forever. At least 3,000 tons of that metal must be moved out each day. But nearly all of the metal that Metro moves is not delivered to customers, according to the interviews. Instead, it is shuttled from one warehouse to another.
Because Metro International charges rent each day for the stored metal, the long queues caused by shifting aluminum among its facilities means larger profits for Goldman. And because storage cost is a major component of the ''premium'' added to the price of all aluminum sold on the spot market, the delays mean higher prices for nearly everyone, even though most of the metal never passes through one of Goldman's warehouses.
Aluminum industry analysts say that the lengthy delays at Metro International since Goldman took over are a major reason the premium on all aluminum sold in the spot market has doubled since 2010. The result is an additional cost of about $2 for the 35 pounds of aluminum used to manufacture 1,000 beverage cans, investment analysts say, and about $12 for the 200 pounds of aluminum in the average American-made car.
''It's a totally artificial cost,'' said one of them, Jorge Vazquez, managing director at Harbor Aluminum Intelligence, a commodities consulting firm. ''It's a drag on the economy. Everyone pays for it.''
Metro officials have said they are simply reacting to market forces, and on the company Web site describe their role as ''bringing together metal producers, traders and end users,'' and helping the exchange ''create and maintain stability.''
But the London Metal Exchange, which oversees 719 warehouses around the globe, has not always been an impartial arbiter -- it receives 1 percent of the rent collected by its warehouses worldwide. Until last year, it was owned by members, including Goldman, Barclays and Citigroup. Many of its regulations were drawn up by the exchange's warehouse committee, which is made up of executives of various banks, trading companies and storage companies -- including the president of Goldman's Metro International -- as well as representatives of powerful trading firms in Europe. The exchange was sold last year to a group of Hong Kong investors and this month it proposed regulations that would take effect in April 2014 intended to reduce the bottlenecks at Metro.
All of this could come to an end if the Federal Reserve Board declines to extend the exemptions that allowed Goldman and Morgan Stanley to make major investments in nonfinancial businesses -- although there are indications in Washington that the Fed will let the arrangement stand. Wall Street banks, meanwhile, have focused their attention on another commodity. After a sustained lobbying effort, the Securities and Exchange Commission late last year approved a plan that will allow JPMorgan Chase, Goldman and BlackRock to buy up to 80 percent of the copper available on the market.
In filings with the S.E.C., Goldman has said it plans by early next year to store copper in the same Detroit-area warehouses where it now stockpiles aluminum. On Saturday, however, Michael DuVally, a Goldman spokesman, said the company had decided not to participate in the copper venture, though it had not disclosed that publicly. He declined to elaborate.
Banks as Traders
For much of the last century, Congress tried to keep a wall between banking and commerce. Banks were forbidden from owning nonfinancial businesses (and vice versa) to minimize the risks they take and, ultimately, to protect depositors. Congress strengthened those regulations in the 1950s, but by the 1980s, a wave of deregulation began to build and banks have in some cases been transformed into merchants, according to Saule T. Omarova, a law professor at the University of North Carolina and expert in regulation of financial institutions. Goldman and other firms won regulatory approval to buy companies that traded in oil and other commodities. Other restrictions were weakened or eliminated during the 1990s, when some banks were allowed to expand into storing and transporting commodities.
Over the past decade, a handful of bank holding companies have sought and received approval from the Federal Reserve to buy physical commodity trading assets.
According to public documents in an application filed by JPMorgan Chase, the Fed said such arrangements would be approved only if they posed no risk to the banking system and could ''reasonably be expected to produce benefits to the public, such as greater convenience, increased competition, or gains in efficiency, that outweigh possible adverse effects, such as undue concentration of resources, decreased or unfair competition, conflicts of interests, or unsound banking practices.''
By controlling warehouses, pipelines and ports, banks gain valuable market intelligence, investment analysts say. That, in turn, can give them an edge when trading commodities. In the stock market, such an arrangement might be seen as a conflict of interest -- or even insider trading. But in the commodities market, it is perfectly legal.
''Information is worth money in the trading world and in commodities, the only way you get it is by being in the physical market,'' said Jason Schenker, president and chief economist at Prestige Economics in Austin, Tex. ''So financial institutions that engage in commodities trading have a huge advantage because their ownership of physical assets gives them insight in physical flows of commodities.''
Some investors and analysts say that the banks have helped consumers by spurring investment and making markets more efficient. But even banks have, at times, acknowledged that Wall Street's activities in the commodities market during the last decade have contributed to some price increases.
In 2011, for instance, an internal Goldman memo suggested that speculation by investors accounted for about a third of the price of a barrel of oil. A commissioner at the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the federal regulator, subsequently used that estimate to calculate that speculation added about $10 per fill-up for the average American driver. Other experts have put the total, combined cost at $200 billion a year.
High Premiums
The entrance to one of Metro International's main aluminum warehouses here in suburban Detroit is unmarked except for one toppling sign that displays two words: Mount Clemens, the town's name.
Most days, there are just a handful of cars in the parking lot during the day shift, and by 5 p.m., both the parking lot and guard station often appear empty, neighbors say. Yet inside the two cavernous blue warehouses are rows and rows of huge metal bars, weighing more than half a ton each, stacked 15 feet high.
After Goldman bought the company in 2010, Metro International began to attract a stockpile. It actually began paying a hefty incentive to traders who stored their aluminum in the warehouses. As the hoard of aluminum grew -- from 50,000 tons in 2008 to 850,000 in 2010 to nearly 1.5 million currently -- so did the wait times to retrieve metal and the premium added to the base price. By the summer of 2011, the price spikes prompted Coca-Cola to complain to the industry overseer, the London Metal Exchange, that Metro's delays were to blame.
Martin Abbott, the head of the exchange, said at the time that he did not believe that the warehouse delays were causing the problem. But the group tried to quiet the furor by imposing new regulations that doubled the amount of metal that the warehouses are required to ship each day -- from 1,500 tons to 3,000 tons. But few metal traders or manufacturers believed that the move would settle the issue.
''The move is too little and too late to have a material effect in the near-term on an already very tight physical market, particularly in the U.S.,'' Morgan Stanley analysts said in a note to investors that summer.
Still, the wait times at Metro have grown, causing the premium to rise further. Current and former employees at Metro say those delays are by design.
Industry analysts and company insiders say that the vast majority of the aluminum being moved around Metro's warehouses is owned not by manufacturers or wholesalers, but by banks, hedge funds and traders. They buy caches of aluminum in financing deals. Once those deals end and their metal makes it through the queue, the owners can choose to renew them, a process known as rewarranting.
To encourage aluminum speculators to renew their leases, Metro offers some clients incentives of up to $230 a ton, and usually moves their metal from one warehouse to another, according to industry analysts and current and former company employees.
To metal owners, the incentives mean cash upfront and the chance to make more profit if the premiums increase. To Metro, it keeps the delays long, allowing the company to continue charging a daily rent of 48 cents a ton. Goldman bought the company for $550 million in 2010 and at current rates could collect about a quarter-billion dollars a year in rent.
Metro officials declined to discuss specifics about its lease renewals or incentive policies.
But metal analysts, like Mr. Vazquez at Harbor Aluminum Intelligence, estimate that 90 percent or more of the metal moved at Metro each day goes to another warehouse to play the same game. That figure was confirmed by current and former employees familiar with Metro's books, who spoke on condition of anonymity because of company policy.
Goldman Sachs declined to discuss details of its operations. Mr. DuVally, the Goldman spokesman, pointed out that the London Metal Exchange prohibits warehouse companies from owning metal, so all of the aluminum being loaded and unloaded by Metro was being stored and shipped for other owners.
''In fact,'' he said, ''L.M.E. warehouses are actually prohibited from trading all L.M.E. products.''
As the delays have grown, many manufacturers have turned elsewhere to buy their aluminum, often buying it directly from mining or refining companies and bypassing the warehouses completely. Even then, though, the warehouse delays add to manufacturers' costs, because they increase the premium that is added to the price of all aluminum sold on the open market.
The Warehouse Dance
On the warehouse floor, the arrangement makes for a peculiar workday, employees say.
Despite the persistent backlogs, many Metro warehouses operate only one shift and usually sit idle 12 or more hours a day. In a town like Detroit, where factories routinely operate round the clock when necessary, warehouse workers say that low-key pace is uncommon.
When they do work, forklift drivers say, there is much more urgency moving aluminum into, and among, the warehouses than shipping it out. Mr. Clay, the forklift driver, who worked at the Mount Clemens warehouse until February, said that while aluminum was delivered in huge loads by rail car, it left in a relative trickle by truck.
''They'd keep loading up the warehouses and every now and then, when one was totally full they'd shut it down and send the drivers over here to try and fill another one up,'' said Mr. Clay, 23.
Because much of the aluminum is simply moved from one Metro facility to another, warehouse workers said they routinely saw the same truck drivers making three or more round trips each day. Anthony Stuart, a forklift team leader at the Mount Clemens warehouse until 2012, said he and his nephew -- who worked at a Metro warehouse about six miles away in Chesterfield Township -- occasionally asked drivers to pass messages back and forth between them.
''Sometimes I'd talk to my nephew on the weekend, and we'd joke about it,'' Mr. Stuart said. ''I'd ask him 'Did you get all that metal we sent you?' And he'd tell; me 'Yep. Did you get all that stuff we sent you?' ''
Mr. Stuart said he also scoffed at Metro's contention that a major cause for the monthslong delays is the difficulty in locating each customer's store of metal and moving the other huge bars of aluminum to get at it. When he arrived at work each day, Mr. Stuart's job was to locate and retrieve specific batches of aluminum from the vast stores in the warehouse and set them out to be loaded onto trucks.
''It's all in rows,'' he said. ''You can find and get anything in a day if you want. And if you're in a hurry, a couple of hours at the very most.''
When the London Metal Exchange was sold to a Hong Kong company for $2.2 billion last year, its chief executive promised to take ''a bazooka'' to the problem of long wait times.
But the new owner of the exchange has balked at adopting a remedy raised by a consultant hired to study the problem in 2010: limit the rent warehouses can collect during the backlogs. The exchange receives 1 percent of the rent collected by the warehouses, so such a step would cost it millions in revenue.
Other aluminum users have pressed the exchange to prohibit warehouses from providing incentives to those that are simply stockpiling the metal, but the exchange has not done so.
Last month, however, after complaints by a consortium of beer brewers, the exchange proposed new rules that would require warehouses to ship more metal than they take in. But some financial firms have raised objections to those new regulations, which they contend may hurt traders and aluminum producers. The exchange board will vote on the proposal in October and, if approved, it would not take effect until April 2014.
Nick Madden, chief procurement officer for one of the nation's largest aluminum purchasers, Novelis, said the situation illustrated the perils of allowing industries to regulate themselves. Mr. Madden said that the exchange had for years tolerated delays and high premiums, so its new proposals, while encouraging, were still a long way from solving the problem. ''We're relieved that the L.M.E. is finally taking an action that ultimately will help the market and normalize,'' he said. ''However, we're going to take another year of inflated premiums and supply chain risk.''
In the meantime, the Federal Reserve, which regulates Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley and other banks, is reviewing the exemptions that have let banks make major investments in commodities. Some of those exemptions are set to expire, but the Fed appears to have no plans to require the banks to sell their storage facilities and other commodity infrastructure assets, according to people briefed on the issue.
A Fed spokeswoman, Barbara Hagenbaugh, provided the following statement: ''The Federal Reserve regularly monitors the commodity activities of supervised firms and is reviewing the 2003 determination that certain commodity activities are complementary to financial activities and thus permissible for bank holding companies.''
Senator Sherrod Brown, who is sponsoring Congressional hearings on Tuesday on Wall Street's ownership of warehouses, pipelines and other commodity-related assets, says he hopes the Fed reins in the banks.
''Banks should be banks, not oil companies,'' said Mr. Brown, Democrat of Ohio. ''They should make loans, not manipulate the markets to drive up prices for manufacturers and expose our entire financial system to undue risk.''
Next Up: Copper
As Goldman has benefited from its wildly lucrative foray into the aluminum market, JPMorgan has been moving ahead with plans to establish its own profit center involving an even more crucial metal: copper, an industrial commodity that is so widely used in homes, electronics, cars and other products that many economists track it as a barometer for the global economy.
In 2010, JPMorgan quietly embarked on a huge buying spree in the copper market. Within weeks -- by the time it had been identified as the mystery buyer -- the bank had amassed $1.5 billion in copper, more than half of the available amount held in all of the warehouses on the exchange. Copper prices spiked in response.
At the same time, JPMorgan, which also controls metal warehouses, began seeking approval of a plan that would ultimately allow it, Goldman Sachs and BlackRock, a large money management firm, to buy 80 percent of the copper available on the market on behalf of investors and hold it in warehouses. The firms have told regulators that these stockpiles, which would be used to back new copper exchange-traded funds, would not affect copper prices. But manufacturers and copper wholesalers warned that the arrangement would squeeze the market and send prices soaring. They asked the S.E.C. to reject the proposal.
After an intensive lobbying campaign by the banks, Mary L. Schapiro, the S.E.C.'s chairwoman, approved the new copper funds last December, during her final days in office. S.E.C. officials said they believed the funds would track the price of copper, not propel it, and concurred with the firms' contention -- disputed by some economists -- that reducing the amount of copper on the market would not drive up prices.
Others now fear that Wall Street banks will repeat or revise the tactics that have run up prices in the aluminum market. Such an outcome, they caution, would ripple through the economy. Consumers would end up paying more for goods as varied as home plumbing equipment, autos, cellphones and flat-screen televisions.
Robert Bernstein, a lawyer at Eaton & Van Winkle, who represents companies that use copper, said that his clients were fearful of ''an investor-financed squeeze'' of the copper market. ''We think the S.E.C. missed the evidence,'' he said.
The House Edge: Articles in this series will examine the challenges posed by Wall Street's influence over markets and the prices consumers pay.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Aluminum ingots waiting to be shipped from a processor. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID WALTER BANKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1)
Profit from Commodities: Wall Street banks are involved in many aspects of the commodities market. Goldman Sachs now owns many aluminum warehouses near Detroit, like the ones pictured above. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
THE WAREHOUSES: Aluminum, above, at one of Metro International's many sites, top. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY METRO INTERNATIONAL
FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A16)
THE BUYERS: A furnace at a Novelis aluminum plant in Greensboro, Ga. The company is one of the largest buyers of aluminum in the country.
THE CRITICS: Nick Madden, a Novelis executive. He said the London Metal Exchange had for years tolerated delays and high premiums, so its proposal, while encouraging, was still a long way from a solution. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID WALTER BANKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A17) CHARTS: PHYSICAL ASSETS: Storage
Power plants
Transport
Stockpiles
Funds
Swaps
Volatility
 Information (Sources: Company public filings) (A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMODITIES TRADING (89%); METALS MARKETS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (89%); COTTON MARKETS (88%); WHEAT MARKETS (88%); ENERGY MARKETS (88%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); GENERAL WAREHOUSING (76%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (73%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); FIBER MARKETS (73%); INVESTMENT BANKING (72%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (70%); CHOREOGRAPHY (69%); PRICE INCREASES (68%); APPROVALS (66%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (65%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (65%); MARINE TANKERS (65%); CENTRAL BANKS (60%); BULK SHIPPING (56%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (85%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); JPM (NYSE) (85%); JPM (LSE) (85%); 8634 (TSE) (85%); MS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013



629 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 179 words

HEADLINE: Marie Le, Benjamin Eloy

 BODY:
Marie Xuan Le and Benjamin Buendia Eloy were married Saturday at Memorial Church at Stanford University. The Rev. Nathan Castle, a Roman Catholic priest, performed the ceremony. 
Until last month, Ms. Le-Eloy, 31, was a school psychologist in the Redwood City School District in Redwood City, Calif. In August, she is to become a school psychologist in the Cupertino Union School District in Cupertino, Calif. She is also a doctoral candidate in education at the University of California, Berkeley. She graduated magna cum laude from Northwestern and received a master's in psychology in education from Columbia. The bride is the daughter of Lien Phan of Federal Way, Wash., and the late Quang Le.
Mr. Eloy, 33, is a social science teacher for the Fremont Union High School District's Middle College program. He teaches government and economics to high school students from the district at De Anza Community College in Cupertino. He graduated from Stanford, from which he also received a master's in education. The groom is a son of Susana Eloy and Alfredo Eloy of Carlsbad, Calif.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); RELIGION (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); PSYCHOLOGY (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (88%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (88%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (88%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (88%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (88%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (87%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (73%)

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (91%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2013



630 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 296 words

HEADLINE: The Great Pension Scare

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: ONE TRILLION DOLLARS! 

 BODY:
OK, this is quite amazing: Dean Baker catches the WaPo editorial page claiming that we have $3.8 trillion in unfunded state and local pension liabilities. Say it in your best Dr. Evil voice: THREE POINT EIGHT TRILLION DOLLARS. Except the study the WaPo cites very carefully says that it's $3.8 trillion in total liabilities, not unfunded; unfunded liabilities are only $1 trillion. 
I'll be curious to see how the paper's correction policy works here.
But how big is that $1 trillion anyway? It still sounds like a big number, doesn't it? Dean tries to compare it with projected GDP, which is one way to scale it. Here's another. 
You see, the Boston College study doesn't just estimate assets and liabilities; it also estimates the Annual Required Contribution, defined as
normal cost - the present value of the benefits accrued in a given year - plus a payment to amortize the unfunded liability
And it compares the ARC with actual contributions.
According to the survey, the ARC is currently about 15 percent of payroll; in reality, state and local governments are making only about 80 percent of the required contributions, so there's a shortfall of 3 percent of payroll. Total state and local payroll, in turn, is about $70 billion a year. So, nationwide, governments are underfunding their pensions by around 3 percent of $70 billion, or a bit more than $2 billion a year.
A $2 billion shortfall in a $16 trillion economy. We're doomed!
OK, there are some questions about the accounting, mainly coming down to whether pension funds are assuming too high a rate of return on their investments. But even if the shortfall is several times as big as the initial estimate, which seems unlikely, this is just not a major national issue.
So, why is it being hyped? Do I even need to ask?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (55%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (55%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2013



631 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 314 words

HEADLINE: A Tale of Two Rust-Belt Cities

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Why has Pittsburgh done so much better? 

 BODY:
Here's a question: is the crisis in Detroit simply a function of the industrial decline of the U.S. heartland, or is it about internal developments within the metro area that have produced a uniquely bad outcome? I think a useful comparison can be made with Pittsburgh, another city that once had an iconic monoculture economy - based on steel, not autos - that also took a terrible hit, but seems to be in a much better position now. 
This divergence is fairly recent, at least at the aggregate metro level. The 80s were terrible for both cities; we have comparable employment data (again, this is for the metropolitan areas, not the city proper) since 1990:
As late as 2005 or 2006 - that is, until the eve of the Great Recession - you could argue that there wasn't a whole lot of difference in aggregate performance between greater Pittsburgh and greater Detroit. Obviously, however, Detroit's central city has collapsed while Pittsburgh has had at least something of a revival. The difference is really clear in the Brookings job sprawl data (pdf), where less than a quarter of Detroit jobs are within 10 miles of the traditional central business district, versus more than half in Pittsburgh.
At this point, as the chart above makes clear, Pittsburgh is showing a lot of resilience; it seems to have managed to diversify its economy, and in fact is more than matching national employment performance. Detroit, despite the auto rescue, isn't - and, of course, its center did not hold.
It's hard to avoid the sense that greater Pittsburgh, by taking better care of its core, also improved its ability to adapt to changing circumstances. In that sense, Detroit's disaster isn't just about industrial decline; it's about urban decline, which isn't the same thing. If you like, sprawl killed Detroit, by depriving it of the kind of environment that could incubate new sources of prosperity.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CITIES (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (73%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2013



632 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 967 words

HEADLINE: A Cook-Off Among Chefs to Join Delta's Kitchen

BYLINE: By JANE L. LEVERE

 BODY:
DELTA AIR LINES and Food & Wine have joined forces to create a cooking contest to identify the next chef on Delta's culinary team.
The contest, which will be called the Cabin Pressure Cook-Off, will be announced on Monday and will feature four chefs cited in Food & Wine's annual best new chefs program. They will compete in three challenges that will be filmed in New York in late July and early August, and distributed this fall by Delta and Food & Wine on their Web sites and social media channels.
Henry Harteveldt, an analyst for Hudson Crossing, a travel consulting company, said it was not a coincidence that Delta and Food & Wine were collaborating, since Food & Wine is published by American Express Publishing, a subsidiary of the credit card company. 
American Express and Delta have offered credit cards with both brands since 1996, and now offer four cards together, making American Express one of Delta's ''key strategic business partners,'' Mr. Harteveldt said. American Express is the only credit card company Delta collaborates with on marketing activities in the United States. It also works with American Express overseas, and with Visa and MasterCard.
The new contest will feature Hugh Acheson, chef of Empire State South in Atlanta and 5 & 10 and the National in Athens, Ga.; Linton Hopkins, of Restaurant Eugene and Holeman & Finch Public House in Atlanta; Kelly English, of Restaurant Iris and the Second Line in Memphis and Kelly English Steakhouse in St. Louis; and George Mendes, of Aldea in New York. Mr. Acheson was named one of Food & Wine's ''best new chefs'' in 2002, Mr. Mendes in 2011, and Mr. Hopkins and Mr. English in 2009.
The challenges will be filmed as three episodes, while a fourth episode will feature the winning chef visiting Delta's test kitchen in Atlanta. The winning chef will join Delta's culinary team: Michelle Bernstein of Michy's in Miami; Michael Chiarello of Bottega in Napa Valley and Coqueta in San Francisco; and Andrea Robinson, a master sommelier. The three help Delta create food and wine offerings for long-haul business-class passengers on select routes, like transcontinental flights and service to Latin America and Japan. Joanne Smith, Delta's senior vice president for in-flight service, said the winning chef could design menus for business-class passengers on trans-Atlantic flights.
The cook-off is not the first collaboration between Food & Wine and Delta. In addition to buying advertising space in Food & Wine for the last decade, Delta has sponsored the magazine's Food & Wine Classic annual food festival in Aspen, Colo., several times since 2007. Delta also has sponsored Food & Wine's best new chefs program -- celebrating its 25th anniversary this year -- and held events for its top customers catered by some of these chefs.
Delta also is running a four-page spread in the July issue of Food & Wine, which covers the 2013 best new chefs. One page promotes Delta's ''economy comfort'' service, while others congratulate the latest best new chefs and discuss the airline's culinary team. Delta also advertises in American Express Publishing's Travel & Leisure and Departures magazines, while its Delta Private Jets subsidiary advertises in Departures.
Starting in October, videos of the chefs' cook-off will be shown on the Web sites of Food & Wine and Delta's in-flight magazine and as part of the in-flight entertainment on Delta. The videos also will be promoted through social media channels of Food & Wine and Delta, and in issues of Sky, the airline's in-flight magazine, and of Food & Wine.
Christina Grdovic, Food & Wine senior vice president and publisher, said magazine and airline officials jointly concluded that a cooking contest to identify the latest member of Delta's culinary team ''makes sense for Delta because its tagline is, 'Keep climbing.' ''
Ms. Grdovic added, ''They're committed to having a really good culinary program in the air.''
She said the promotion also would provide ''really, really good exposure'' for the magazine. Delta, one of five airlines that advertise in Food & Wine, is buying a total of 11 pages of advertising in six issues of Food & Wine in 2013, and space on the magazine's Web site, Ms. Grdovic said.
Ms. Smith said the contest was part of an effort by Delta to improve its in-flight dining experience for business-class passengers, who she said ''spend a lot of money flying Delta around the world and expect a fine-dining experience,'' a top priority, with a good night's sleep.
Neither she nor Ms. Grdovic would discuss expenditures by Delta for the cook-off promotion. According to Kantar Media, Delta's recent annual advertising spending ranged from a low of $33 million in 2009 to a high of $65.2 million in 2008. Kantar also estimated that Delta spent $11.2 million on magazine advertising in 2009 and $15.7 million in 2008.
Rick Smilow, president and chief executive of the Institute of Culinary Education in New York, predicted that the videos could help Delta put ''some pizazz and energy behind the underdeveloped concept of its culinary team.''
Louise Kramer, communications director of the Specialty Food Association, called the promotion a ''nice way for Food & Wine to get brand recognition for their 25-year-old best new chefs program.'' Because Food & Wine is owned by American Express, ''it's a way to get their brand out there, too,'' Ms. Kramer said.
She also said there was a ''thirst'' among the public for cooking contests and competitions, and that it was smart for Delta and Food & Wine to ''play off this popularity.''
Mr. Harteveldt warned that, ''Ultimately what matters is whether Delta provides the levels of budget necessary to deliver good-quality, premium cabin meals. If all they do is hire a chef and limit the chef from the budget standpoint, nobody wins.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Contestants in the Cabin Pressure Cook-Off will be, from left, Hugh Acheson, of Empire State South in Atlanta
Kelly English, of Restaurant Iris in Memphis
George Mendes, of Aldea in New York
and Linton Hopkins, of Restaurant Eugene in Atlanta. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRENT HERRIG
JUSTIN FOX BURKS
GALDONES PHOTOGRAPHY
 HEATHER ANNE THOMAS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT CARDS (90%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); AIRLINES (89%); SPONSORSHIP (89%); COMPANY STRATEGY (77%); FESTIVALS (76%); PUBLISHING (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (74%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (72%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (71%); SOCIAL MEDIA (70%); ANNIVERSARIES (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (92%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (92%); VISA INC (83%); AMERICAN EXPRESS PUBLISHING CORP (56%)

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (92%); DAL (NYSE) (92%); V (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (83%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%); NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); ATHENS, GA, USA (79%) GEORGIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (79%); LATIN AMERICA (56%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2013



633 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 325 words

HEADLINE: Economic Reports for the Week Ahead

 BODY:
ECONOMIC DATA Reports will include sales of previously owned homes for June (Monday); sales of new homes for June (Wednesday); and durable goods orders for June and weekly initial jobless claims (Thursday). 
CORPORATE EARNINGS Companies scheduled to report results include McDonald's, Netflix, Texas Instruments and Royal Philips (Monday); Apple and AT&T (Tuesday); Facebook, Ford, Boeing, Daimler, GlaxoSmithKline, PepsiCo, Caterpillar, Visa, Eli Lilly, EMC, LG Electronics and Canon (Wednesday); Credit Suisse, General Motors, Amazon, Nissan, Roche, 3M, Starbucks, Bristol-Myers Squibb, LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton, Unilever and Singapore Airlines (Thursday); and Samsung and Kia (Friday).
IN THE UNITED STATES On Tuesday, Senate subcommittee will hold a hearing on whether financial firms like Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley should continue to be allowed to store metal, operate mines and ship oil (Tuesday).
On Wednesday, Dell shareholders are scheduled to vote on the $24.4 billion buyout offer by the company's founder, Michael S. Dell, after the initial vote was postponed last week.
On Thursday, the independent Chemical Safety Board is expected to criticize the Occupational Safety and Health Administration for failing to make refineries and chemical plants safer.
On Friday, Senators face a deadline to make recommendations to the Senate Finance Committee concerning which tax breaks should remain in an overhauled tax code.
OVERSEAS On Monday, Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, who is seeking a third term in general elections in September, will hold election rallies around the country.
On Tuesday, HSBC is to release its preliminary purchasing managers' index for Chinese manufacturing.
On Thursday, Britain will release second-quarter G.D.P. figures, and South Korea will report on second-quarter economic growth. Volkswagen is also scheduled to open an Audi plant in China.
On Friday, Japan will report on core consumer prices for June.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CALENDARS (91%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); DURABLE GOODS (90%); NEW HOME SALES (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); EXISTING HOME SALES (79%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (79%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (79%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); ELECTIONS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (73%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (73%); AIRLINES (72%); CHEMICAL PLANT SECURITY (71%); OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY AGENCIES (71%); TAX INCENTIVES (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); PETROCHEMICAL MFG (66%); CHEMICALS SAFETY REGULATION (66%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (66%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (66%); TAX REFORM (65%); TAX LAW (65%)

COMPANY: LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (69%); PEPSICO INC (57%); GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (57%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); NETFLIX INC (57%); FACEBOOK INC (57%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (57%); KONINKLIJKE PHILIPS NV (ROYAL PHILIPS) (57%); BOEING CO (57%); ELI LILLY & CO (57%); BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (56%); LG ELECTRONICS INC (56%); SINGAPORE AIRLINES LTD (56%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); UNILEVER PLC/NV (56%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (56%); MORGAN STANLEY (55%)

ORGANIZATION: OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY & HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (53%)

TICKER: MC (PAR) (69%); LVMH (BIT) (69%); PEP (NYSE) (57%); GSK (NYSE) (57%); GSK (LSE) (57%); BIOC (EGX) (57%); GS (NYSE) (57%); NFLX (NASDAQ) (57%); FB (NASDAQ) (57%); TXN (NASDAQ) (57%); PHIA (BIT) (57%); PHIA (AMS) (57%); PHG (NYSE) (57%); BOE (LSE) (57%); BAB (BRU) (57%); BA (NYSE) (57%); LLY (SWX) (57%); LLY (NYSE) (57%); BMY (NYSE) (56%); LGLD (LSE) (56%); 066570 (KSE) (56%); C6L (SGX) (56%); GM (NYSE) (56%); UNIA (AMS) (56%); UNA (BIT) (56%); UNA (AMS) (56%); UN (NYSE) (56%); ULVR (LSE) (56%); UL (NYSE) (56%); CSGN (SWX) (56%); CS (NYSE) (56%); MS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (69%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (69%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (57%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (57%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (57%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (57%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (57%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (57%); NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334516 ANALYTICAL LABORATORY INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (57%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (56%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311411 FROZEN FRUIT, JUICE & VEGETABLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311225 FATS & OILS REFINING & BLENDING (56%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%)

PERSON: MICHAEL DELL (52%); ANGELA MERKEL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (79%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); GERMANY (71%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2013



634 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1103 words

HEADLINE: Should University Systems Be Graded, Too?

BYLINE: By D. D. GUTTENPLAN

 BODY:
LONDON -- Depending on whom you ask, a proposed new international testing system will either be the next big thing in higher education or a pointless, expensive rankings exercise that will be used to criticize faculty at hard-pressed colleges and universities.
At a meeting in its headquarters in Paris last month, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development released a study on whether it would be possible to test what students around the world actually learn in colleges and universities. In November, the organization will decide whether to press ahead with the new system, Assessment of Higher Education Learning Outcomes, or Ahelo.
For Andreas Schleicher, the O.E.C.D.'s chief education adviser, the new system is the obvious follow-up to the Program for International Student Assessment, or PISA, an influential exam that tests 15-year-olds around the world in mathematics, science and reading every three years.
The most recent results, from the 2009 test, pleased Shanghai, South Korea and Finland, which were at the top of the tables, and caused hand-wringing in countries like the United States, which ranked considerably further down. 
In part, Dr. Schleicher sees Ahelo as a response to the rising influence of university rankings, which are widely reported in the media and which tend to emphasize research over teaching. ''We need some language to talk about teaching quality and learning outcomes that isn't tied to research,'' he said. ''If we don't have a way of measuring teaching then we are going to have to rely on reputation -- which only tells you about the past.''
Patti M. Peterson, an official at the American Council on Education, which represents college and university presidents, said ''trying to take very different systems of higher education and measure across them'' is a doomed effort. Dr. Peterson, who oversees the education council's international work, questioned whether Ahelo's aim -- ''to support improvement in learning outcomes'' -- would be achieved. She worried that the test could become ''a Trojan horse for rankings.''
''If it's really about improvement, why not let the institutions be anonymous?'' Dr. Peterson said.
Her doubts were echoed by John Aubrey Douglass, a professor at the University of California, Berkeley, who is a prominent critic of the Collegiate Learning Assessment, a U.S. test that served as a model for Ahelo.
''If the purpose is for institutions to use the data from this test for self-improvement, you're not going to get there,'' he said by telephone from Berkeley. ''But once it's in the market these things are hard to unseat.''
He compared Ahelo to the SAT college entrance exam in the United States. ''The SAT has long been shown to correlate poorly with academic success,'' he said. ''But it's impossible to get rid of because so many colleges use it and there is no incentive to develop a better replacement.''
''Ahelo has, surprisingly, become highly controversial in recent months,'' said Philip Altbach, director of the Center for International Higher Education at Boston College. ''Many continue to wonder whether it is possible to obtain reliable data from countries with quite different approaches to the curriculum, different arrangements for access to higher education, and other variables.''
According to Dr. Schleicher, initially, ''we had great doubts that it would be possible to develop a test that works across languages and cultures.'' But he added, ''Now we believe it is possible.''
There has also been considerable criticism of Ahelo's cost. So far, the O.E.C.D. has spent about $13 million on the project, even though there is no confirmation it will go ahead.
''Why is it necessary to do a very, very, very expensive multilingual, multinational test?'' Dr. Peterson of the American Council on Education said.
Dr. Schleicher said Ahelo ''is not going to be a cheap test.''
''If you want to measure creativity or collaboration, that's very hard to do in a multiple-choice test,'' he said. ''But we're pretty confident that if countries are willing to spend the money we can give them something.''
He used the standardized test for 15-year-olds as an example.
''If countries in the O.E.C.D. area would improve the performance of their education systems by just 25 PISA points -- which is what Poland achieved over the last six years -- the long-term economic gain accruing to students over their lifetime would be about $115 trillion,'' he said.
The Ahelo proposal covers three areas: economics, engineering and generic skills. The first two parts were chosen for being more amenable to cross-cultural comparison than other fields, while the generic portion is meant to test the kind of skills thought to be attractive to employers.
One sample generic skills exercise asks students to imagine they work for the mayor's office in a town where a three-eyed catfish has been caught in a lake, causing panic among residents and calls for a nearby factory to be closed. Pulling together media reports, environmental data and the testimony of scientists and other interested parties, the students have to prepare a briefing assessing the likelihood that the mutation was caused by chemical contamination, parasites or inbreeding.
Michael J. Feuer, dean of the graduate school of education at George Washington University, remains skeptical about the relevance of such tasks.
''There's a fantasy about educational testing -- that we can come up with a dipstick and know exactly what the oil level is,'' he said by telephone from Washington. ''In relying on test scores to make judgments about institutions, you end up undermining the morale of people who are being judged with only part of their story included.''
Many of Ahelo's critics are worried that a test intended to allow universities to compare themselves with similar institutions in other countries would be seized upon by lawmakers and politicians.
''There's a fear factor about how ministers use data and piggyback on the latest educational trends,'' Dr. Douglass of the University of California said. ''One result is a movement toward uniformity in how things are taught. We want to be informed, but we don't all want to be the same.''
Dr. Schleicher shares that concern. ''A tool you design for improvement gets corrupted when you use it for accountability,'' he said.
Still, he seemed unfazed by the controversy. ''I've been through the same thing with PISA,'' he said. ''In the beginning everybody said, 'Not me!' Now they are all part of it.''
''Ahelo is going to reveal the truth about quality in higher education,'' he said. ''Not everybody is going to like the results.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (92%); RANKINGS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (78%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (76%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (73%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2013



635 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1441 words

HEADLINE: Premier's Party Wins Big In Japan

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER; Makiko Inoue contributed reporting from Sayama, Japan, and Hisako Ueno from Tokyo.

 BODY:
TOKYO -- Japanese voters handed a landslide victory to the governing Liberal Democrats in parliamentary elections on Sunday, strengthening the grip of a party that promises accelerated changes to Japan's economy and a shift away from its postwar pacifism.
By securing control of both houses of Parliament for up to three years, the win offers Prime Minister Shinzo Abe -- an outspoken nationalist who promises to revitalize Japan's deflationary economy and strengthen its military -- the chance to be the most transformative leader in a decade. Although a lackluster turnout indicated that Mr. Abe might not have as much of a mandate as his supporters hoped, the margin of victory was large enough to suggest he has an opportunity to also bring stability to the country's leadership after years of short-lived and ineffective prime ministers.
The win comes at a time when many Japanese seem more open than ever to change, after years of failed efforts to end their nation's economic slump, and as an intensifying territorial challenge by China has nudged this long pacifist nation toward accepting a more robust military. 
Unlike some of Japan's previous colorless leaders, Mr. Abe, 58, seems eager to become an agent of change. He campaigned on this being Japan's last chance to regain its economic stature as the country has been eclipsed by China, with Sunday's victory apparently largely because of the early successes of his bold economic plan, called Abenomics. But his party's calls to stand up to the Chinese by rewriting Japan's antiwar Constitution to allow a full-fledged military rather than self-defense forces have raised fears he will go too far and further isolate Japan in the region.
A week before the election, he became the first prime minister to visit a tropical island near the group of uninhabited islets at the heart of the dispute with China. He had earlier raised eyebrows by riding in a tank and climbing into a fighter jet in front of cameras. ''Abe has a pragmatic side and a strongly nationalistic side,'' said Hiroshi Shiratori, a professor of political science at Hosei University in Tokyo. ''This election could free him up to do more of the latter, which is what he really wants.''
It remains unclear how far the Japanese people will let him go. While Sunday's results gave his governing coalition a comfortable majority in the upper house, the voters failed to deliver the two-thirds majority that the conservative Liberal Democrats and other similarly minded parties had hoped for to easily revise the Constitution, something that has not happened since it was crafted by American occupiers after World War II. And the sparse turnout -- at 52 percent the third-lowest showing in postwar history -- suggests less popular support than the results implied.
By early morning on Monday, officials said the Liberal Democrats had won 65 of the 121 seats being contested. When combined with the 11 seats secured by its junior partner, a small Buddhist party, the Liberal Democrat-led coalition had taken enough seats to gain a majority in the 242-seat chamber.
The largest opposition group, the Democratic Party, suffered a humbling setback, the party's worst since its creation in 1998. The Democrats secured just 17 seats from voters who still blame it for failing to deliver on promised reforms after a landmark election four years ago that ousted the Liberal Democrats in what had seemed to herald the advent of a vibrant two-party democracy. Before the vote on Sunday, one weekly tabloid criticized the impending return of the Liberal Democrats' effective monopoly as ''a return to the ways of our ancestors.''
So long as the Liberal Democratic Party's coalition holds together, it will not face new elections for three years. That could free Mr. Abe to follow his early economic stimulus initiatives with the type of structural reforms that will challenge powerful vested interests. While Mr. Abe has been somewhat vague about these plans, he has already pushed the country to join trade negotiations that could loosen small farmers' grip on agriculture. The party has also called for nurturing Japan's weak entrepreneurial culture and making it easier to hire and fire workers.
Speaking to reporters after the victory, Mr. Abe thanked voters for ending the so-called twisted Parliament, in which opposing parties had each controlled one house of Parliament since 2007, adding to Japan's political paralysis. But he admitted that he faced a serious challenge in convincing other lawmakers and also voters about changes to the Constitution. (By law, revisions passed by Parliament must then be approved in a public referendum.)
''There is still a need to widen and deepen the debate on the Constitution,'' Mr. Abe said. ''Voters have given us this new period of political stability, so we have time to deepen the debate.''
He said he would also pursue an intermediate step to make the Constitution easier to revise by requiring a simple majority in Parliament instead of the current two-thirds. But making this change would also require changing the Constitution, and gathering enough votes to do so.
Still, analysts said Sunday's win, coming just seven months after Mr. Abe's party regained control of the lower house, had made reform of the Constitution feel like a real possibility for the first time since it was adopted in 1947. In interviews outside polling places, voters said that anxiety about China made them willing to at least try some of Mr. Abe's ideas. ''I agree with Abe,'' said Noriaki Hibi, a 51-year-old telecommunications worker in the Tokyo suburb of Sayama. ''Given the current situation with China, I think we need military preparedness.''
That support could fall once discussion turns to the specifics of constitutional reform, analysts say, with polls showing a majority of voters still resist change to the pacifist Constitution, even as the possibility has become a more widely accepted topic of conversation. ''This is not unconditional support for Mr. Abe's whole agenda,'' said Jun Iio, a political scientist at the National Graduate Institute for Policy Studies in Tokyo. ''Public support could evaporate if the economy starts to sour.''
Perhaps as a result, Mr. Abe spent much of the campaign promoting his economic accomplishments, which have included a rally in Japan's stock market and, with the drop in the value of the yen, a reprieve for the staggering electronics sector and other exporters. Analysts say the main lesson of Mr. Abe's disastrous term as prime minister six years ago -- when he was the first in a series of short-lived leaders -- was that he cannot push too hard a nationalistic agenda while ignoring the economy.
At that time, voters soured on him as he failed to address pocketbook issues and focused his attention on right-wing issues like revising school curriculum to end the teaching of what he and his core nationalist supporters characterized as a masochistic view of history that paid too much attention to Japan's wartime atrocities. He resigned in disgrace after just one year. This time, Mr. Abe has maintained an uncharacteristically moderate tone since becoming prime minister in December and has emphasized his economic program.
On Saturday in front of a busy Tokyo train station, Mr. Abe evoked Japan's economic heyday in the 1970s and 1980s. ''It's up to us whether we want to show that ambition again or not,'' said Mr. Abe, who punched the air as he stood atop a truck before a cheering crowd. ''I say, let's go for it one more time!''
In one of his few mentions of constitutional reform during the campaign, Mr. Abe sought to allay concerns about his intentions by suggesting that he wanted to retain the provision that renounces war as ''a means of settling international disputes.'' He also said having a more normal military was necessary if Japan wanted to play a larger role in international affairs, and to act as a full-fledged ally of the United States, its postwar protector.
Some analysts said the reaction of other nations, and particularly the United States, might be the biggest constraint on whether Mr. Abe seeks to revise the Constitution. While American officials have said that they would welcome Japan's carrying more of its own weight in defense, they also worry that a clumsily handled move away from pacifism could antagonize a region where memories of Japan's wartime aggression remain raw.
''Abe wants to restore Japan's place in the world,'' said Yun Duk-min, an expert on international relations at the Korea National Diplomatic Academy in Seoul. ''But how can he do that if he ignores the feelings of other countries in the region?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Prime Minister Shinzo Abe celebrating after his party won full control of Parliament. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHIZUO KAMBAYASHI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A1)
 Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, left, leaving his party's campaign headquarters in Tokyo on Sunday after an election victory. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ISSEI KATO/REUTERS) (A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LIBERALISM (78%); POLITICS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); DEFLATION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CONSERVATISM (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); WORLD WAR II (71%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%)

PERSON: SHINZO ABE (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (93%) JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2013



636 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1468 words

HEADLINE: New York Is Not Detroit. But ...

BYLINE: By BILL KELLER

 BODY:
In a half-century of public life, Richard Ravitch has been lieutenant governor of New York, head of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, a mayoral candidate, an adviser to many politicians and an instructor of many journalists in the wonkier aspects of governance. As a kind of fiscal first responder, he is one of those guys called in when an agency (or a bank, or, in one case, Major League Baseball) faces crisis. But lately he is best known as a prophet of gloom. When Ravitch, who is 80, is invited to lecture or debate or op-edify, his hosts expect tales of fiscal imprudence heading toward a grim comeuppance; they are not disappointed. And he has a tendency to be right. 
With New York City about to elect a new mayor for the first time in 12 years, I thought it would be instructive to check the time on Ravitch's doomsday clock. And, sure enough, it is ticking toward a reckoning. Our great city is not on the verge of collapse -- we are not Detroit -- but it is in danger of slipping into decline. The issue is the same one that helped send Detroit toward bankruptcy last week and has put other American cities on the disabled list: the immense pile of promises made over the decades to the city's employees -- the teachers and cops and firefighters and bus drivers and sanitation workers and maintenance crews who labor to keep the city, physically and socially, in working order.
It is actually a trifecta of problems. First, all of the city's contracts with its employees expired years ago, the unions having calculated that they might fare better with a new, eager-to-please mayor than the lame-duck Bloomberg. You might think pay and benefits would be frozen in place when contracts lapse. You would be wrong. At this point in the conversation, Ravitch puts on his so-sorry-to-bore-you face and explains the Triborough Amendment. Under this 1982 legislative concession to public unions, the terms of the lapsed contract stay in place indefinitely -- including the annual pay increases workers get as they accumulate seniority and move up the ladder. So public workers have little incentive to negotiate in tight times with parsimonious mayors. Most New York unions are holding out for 2 percent pay raises, retroactive, from the next mayor -- a couple of billion dollars not provided for in the budget.
A bigger issue is health benefits. New York workers' health insurance is paid by the city, which, according to the actuaries, has not salted away nearly enough money to cover the likely claims. The gap, known as an unfunded liability, is approaching an astounding $90 billion -- $20 billion more than next year's entire city budget.
And then there is the matter of pensions. While the private sector is rapidly converting to 401(k) plans, where the amount you get depends on how much the employer and employee have squirreled away over the years, New York City workers enjoy old-fashioned defined-benefit pensions, which guarantee a predetermined monthly sum for life. The government is supposed to set aside enough every year to cover its obligations. Calculating the amount the city needs to contribute toward future pensions is a matter of educated guesswork -- and our city, like many others, has mostly, deliberately guessed low. After all, paying the prudent amount into the pension funds would mean either raising taxes (which alienates business and voters) or cutting spending (which costs union jobs). So everyone pretends that the pension funds' brilliant investing strategy will pay bumper returns forever. (See this excellent account by Mary Williams Walsh and Danny Hakim.)
As a result, in the financial plan the next mayor inherits, the so-called uncontrollables (mostly pensions and health benefits governed by commitments made in the past) are, for the first time, greater than the controllables (the vast array of services and investments that we pay for in the annual budget).
Or, to pick another measure of our predicament, the total liabilities of the city now exceed its total assets by $125 billion, a condition referred to as balance-sheet insolvency.
''It's something you mostly hear associated with struggling Rust Belt cities,'' said E. J. McMahon, the veteran New York fiscal expert at the conservative Manhattan Institute. ''It doesn't mean you're bankrupt, or that anything is happening soon. But it's a warning sign.''
Ravitch, a Democrat who has worked on both sides of the business-labor divide, is not one of those scolds who demonize public employees. He believes that the moral obligation to pay workers their contractual due is as strong as the obligation to repay the bankers whose debt keeps the city afloat. He will tell you unions have behaved ''very irresponsibly'' at times, but he will also tell you that the idea of a taxed-to-death city that cannot afford to keep its promises is an exaggeration. ''To sit in the Hamptons and listen to all the spoiled [bleeping] rich people complain about their taxes makes me want to throw up,'' he told me. (This conversation took place over a table at a Hamptons restaurant thick with those spoiled rich people, lunching to the accompaniment of a strolling accordionist.)
These days most jurisdictions, given a choice between hitting up taxpayers and taking things back from workers, look for ways to throw workers under the bus. This can take the form of abruptly stopping payments of benefits to retirees (Stockton, Calif.), offloading retired workers onto the Obamacare insurance exchanges (Detroit and Chicago, among others, are contemplating that) or demanding concessions from current workers in the form of cost-sharing or reduced benefits (Wisconsin, after a long, rancorous battle).
In New York and many other places, the preferred option has been to kick the problem down the road. You do not have to be an actuary to marvel at the amount of flimflam politicians at all levels on all sides have employed to avoid facing the problem. My personal favorite: Are we having a hard time coming up with money for our annual payment into the New York State teachers' pension fund? No problem. Thanks to a gimmick invented in Albany, we just borrow the money -- from the pension fund!
Ravitch is aware of his reputation as a doomsayer but insists he is an optimist at heart. ''I believe that our political system is going to fumble its way through,'' he said. It has sometimes done so with his help, notably during the city's near-bankruptcy of the 1970s. And, to be sure, there is an element of political ritual to the cycle of impending crisis and last-minute rescue. Governors and mayors, including Michael Bloomberg, like to go out with a balanced budget, so they raid every rainy-day fund and borrow to the hilt (and in Bloomberg's case cut the police force by 5,000) to be models of fiscal diligence. Their successors come in, discover the cupboards are bare, and spend their electoral good will cobbling together a solution.
But while New York is in better shape than many other troubled states and localities, the situation is still insidious. Barring a sudden, unlikely return to economic boom times, the cost of retired workers will compete with the cost of everything else -- including all the new promises made on the campaign trail.
And a number of factors compound the problem for the next mayor. The city cannot expect a lifeline, let alone adult guidance, from Albany, where Gov. Andrew Cuomo is already fending off appeals from other cash-strapped localities. Washington is not going to make things better and may very well make things worse. The Fed's easy-money stimulus, a boon to New York, will not go on forever. And if Congress somehow overcomes its paralysis to do a serious budget deal, it is likely to shift new burdens to cities and states.
Ravitch told me he attended a dinner not long ago where the other guests included Paul Ryan, the author of the savagely austere Republican budget, and Erskine Bowles, the Democratic co-chairman of a bipartisan commission that produced a more centrist fiscal blueprint. Both plans, Ravitch noted, called for increasing the retirement age for Medicare from 65 to 67. So he asked the two budget authors, had they considered the fact that countless state and local government contracts ensure public employees health care until they are old enough for Medicare? ''So while you are saving the federal government a lot of money, you are transferring the obligation to a much weaker set of tax bases,'' Ravitch pointed out.
To which the response was, in effect: Not our problem.
You may believe that there is room for more taxing to close the gap. You may believe that it's time for public employees to pay a larger share. You may believe, as Ravitch does, in some of each. The one thing you can't say, if you're the next mayor of New York, is: Not my problem.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); CITIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (86%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); CITY LIFE (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); BASEBALL (71%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (70%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (70%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (69%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (68%); CIVIL SERVICES (64%); HEALTH INSURANCE (60%)

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2013



637 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: Detroit, the New Greece

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
When Detroit declared bankruptcy, or at least tried to -- the legal situation has gotten complicated -- I know that I wasn't the only economist to have a sinking feeling about the likely impact on our policy discourse. Was it going to be Greece all over again?
Clearly, some people would like to see that happen. So let's get this conversation headed in the right direction, before it's too late. 
O.K., what am I talking about? As you may recall, a few years ago Greece plunged into fiscal crisis. This was a bad thing but should have had limited effects on the rest of the world; the Greek economy is, after all, quite small (actually, about one and a half times as big as the economy of metropolitan Detroit). Unfortunately, many politicians and policy makers used the Greek crisis to hijack the debate, changing the subject from job creation to fiscal rectitude.
Now, the truth was that Greece was a very special case, holding few if any lessons for wider economic policy -- and even in Greece, budget deficits were only one piece of the problem. Nonetheless, for a while policy discourse across the Western world was completely ''Hellenized'' -- everyone was Greece, or was about to turn into Greece. And this intellectual wrong turn did huge damage to prospects for economic recovery.
So now the deficit scolds have a new case to misinterpret. Never mind the repeated failure of the predicted U.S. fiscal crisis to materialize, the sharp fall in predicted U.S. debt levels and the way much of the research the scolds used to justify their scolding has been discredited; let's obsess about municipal budgets and public pension obligations!
Or, actually, let's not.
Are Detroit's woes the leading edge of a national public pensions crisis? No. State and local pensions are indeed underfunded, with experts at Boston College putting the total shortfall at $1 trillion. But many governments are taking steps to address the shortfall. These steps aren't yet sufficient; the Boston College estimates suggest that overall pension contributions this year will be about $25 billion less than they should be. But in a $16 trillion economy, that's just not a big deal -- and even if you make more pessimistic assumptions, as some but not all accountants say you should, it still isn't a big deal.
So was Detroit just uniquely irresponsible? Again, no. Detroit does seem to have had especially bad governance, but for the most part the city was just an innocent victim of market forces.
What? Market forces have victims? Of course they do. After all, free-market enthusiasts love to quote Joseph Schumpeter about the inevitability of ''creative destruction'' -- but they and their audiences invariably picture themselves as being the creative destroyers, not the creatively destroyed. Well, guess what: Someone always ends up being the modern equivalent of a buggy-whip producer, and it might be you.
Sometimes the losers from economic change are individuals whose skills have become redundant; sometimes they're companies, serving a market niche that no longer exists; and sometimes they're whole cities that lose their place in the economic ecosystem. Decline happens.
True, in Detroit's case matters seem to have been made worse by political and social dysfunction. One consequence of this dysfunction has been a severe case of ''job sprawl'' within the metropolitan area, with jobs fleeing the urban core even when employment in greater Detroit was still rising, and even as other cities were seeing something of a city-center revival. Fewer than a quarter of the jobs on offer in the Detroit metropolitan area lie within 10 miles of the traditional central business district; in greater Pittsburgh, another former industrial giant whose glory days have passed, the corresponding figure is more than 50 percent. And the relative vitality of Pittsburgh's core may explain why the former steel capital is showing signs of a renaissance, while Detroit just keeps sinking.
So by all means let's have a serious discussion about how cities can best manage the transition when their traditional sources of competitive advantage go away. And let's also have a serious discussion about our obligations, as a nation, to those of our fellow citizens who have the bad luck of finding themselves living and working in the wrong place at the wrong time -- because, as I said, decline happens, and some regional economies will end up shrinking, perhaps drastically, no matter what we do.
The important thing is not to let the discussion get hijacked, Greek-style. There are influential people out there who would like you to believe that Detroit's demise is fundamentally a tale of fiscal irresponsibility and/or greedy public employees. It isn't. For the most part, it's just one of those things that happens now and then in an ever-changing economy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GREEK DEBT CRISIS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); EURO CRISIS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (71%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (70%); JOB CREATION (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2013



638 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1743 words

HEADLINE: Geography Seen as Barrier To Climbing Class Ladder

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT

 BODY:
ATLANTA -- Stacey Calvin spends almost as much time commuting to her job -- on a bus, two trains and another bus -- as she does working part-time at a day care center. She knows exactly where to board the train and which stairwells to use at the stations so that she has the best chance of getting to work on time in the morning and making it home to greet her three children after school.
''It's a science you just have to perfect over time,'' said Ms. Calvin, 37.
Her nearly four-hour round-trip stems largely from the economic geography of Atlanta, which is one of America's most affluent metropolitan areas yet also one of the most physically divided by income. The low-income neighborhoods here often stretch for miles, with rows of houses and low-slung apartments, interrupted by the occasional strip mall, and lacking much in the way of good-paying jobs. 
This geography appears to play a major role in making Atlanta one of the metropolitan areas where it is most difficult for lower-income households to rise into the middle class and beyond, according to a new study that other researchers are calling the most detailed portrait yet of income mobility in the United States.
The study -- based on millions of anonymous earnings records and being released this week by a team of top academic economists -- is the first with enough data to compare upward mobility across metropolitan areas. These comparisons provide some of the most powerful evidence so far about the factors that seem to drive people's chances of rising beyond the station of their birth, including education, family structure and the economic layout of metropolitan areas.
Climbing the income ladder occurs less often in the Southeast and industrial Midwest, the data shows, with the odds notably low in Atlanta, Charlotte, Memphis, Raleigh, Indianapolis, Cincinnati and Columbus. By contrast, some of the highest rates occur in the Northeast, Great Plains and West, including in New York, Boston, Salt Lake City, Pittsburgh, Seattle and large swaths of California and Minnesota.
''Where you grow up matters,'' said Nathaniel Hendren, a Harvard economist and one of the study's authors. ''There is tremendous variation across the U.S. in the extent to which kids can rise out of poverty.''
That variation does not stem simply from the fact that some areas have higher average incomes: upward mobility rates, Mr. Hendren added, often differ sharply in areas where average income is similar, like Atlanta and Seattle.
The gaps can be stark. On average, fairly poor children in Seattle -- those who grew up in the 25th percentile of the national income distribution -- do as well financially when they grow up as middle-class children -- those who grew up at the 50th percentile -- from Atlanta.
Geography mattered much less for well-off children than for middle-class and poor children, according to the results. In an economic echo of Tolstoy's line about happy families being alike, the chances that affluent children grow up to be affluent are broadly similar across metropolitan areas.
The team of researchers initially analyzed an enormous database of earnings records to study tax policy, hypothesizing that different local and state tax breaks might affect intergenerational mobility.
What they found surprised them, said Raj Chetty, one of the authors and the most recent winner of the John Bates Clark Medal, which the American Economic Association awards to the country's best academic economist under the age of 40. The researchers concluded that larger tax credits for the poor and higher taxes on the affluent seemed to improve income mobility only slightly. The economists also found only modest or no correlation between mobility and the number of local colleges and their tuition rates or between mobility and the amount of extreme wealth in a region.
But the researchers identified four broad factors that appeared to affect income mobility, including the size and dispersion of the local middle class. All else being equal, upward mobility tended to be higher in metropolitan areas where poor families were more dispersed among mixed-income neighborhoods.
Income mobility was also higher in areas with more two-parent households, better elementary schools and high schools, and more civic engagement, including membership in religious and community groups.
Regions with larger black populations had lower upward-mobility rates. But the researchers' analysis suggested that this was not primarily because of their race. Both white and black residents of Atlanta have low upward mobility, for instance.
The authors emphasize that their data allowed them to identify only correlation, not causation. Other economists said that future studies will be important for sorting through the patterns in this new data.
Still, earlier studies have already found that education and family structure have a large effect on the chances that children escape poverty. Other researchers, including the political scientist Robert D. Putnam, author of ''Bowling Alone,'' have previously argued that social connections play an important role in a community's success. Income mobility has become one of the hottest topics in economics, as both liberals and conservatives have grown worried about diminished opportunities following more than a decade of disappointing economic growth. After years of focusing more on inequality at a moment in time, economists have more recently turned their attention to people's paths over their lifetimes.
Polls show that Americans are worried about whether living standards will rise for most people in coming decades, as they have for nearly all of the nation's history. In interviews in Atlanta and its suburbs, residents reflected many of the national concerns and many of the patterns in the study.
Jose Lopez, a 40-year-old who runs a local painting crew, said he wished he had enough time, amid work and parenthood, to go back to school.
Lampra Jones, a recent graduate of a chiropractic program who has struggled to find work, called herself ''a loner'' and said she wished she knew more people to help with her job search. ''If you don't know the right people,'' said Ms. Jones, 28, ''you're not going to get anywhere.''
Michael Novajovsky, a father of three in Gwinnett County with a temporary job as a network engineer, said in an interview that the struggle to build a better life often felt similar to ''a lottery.'' His job pays $27 an hour but comes with no health insurance for him, his wife and his three children.
His wife, Sherrie, recently left a job at a diner that required an hour's commute by bus. She would like to find a new job with health insurance, but the family has only one car. ''I'd work just to have insurance,'' Ms. Novajovsky said.
In previous studies of mobility, economists have found that a smaller percentage of people escape childhood poverty in the United States than in several other rich countries, including Canada, Australia, France, Germany and Japan. The latest study is consistent with those findings.
Whatever the reasons, affluent children often remain so: one of every three 30-year-olds who grew up in the top 1 percent of the income distribution was already making at least $100,000 in family income, according to the new study. Among adults who grew up in the bottom half of the income distribution, only one out of 25 had family income of at least $100,000 by age 30.
Yet the parts of this country with the highest mobility rates -- like Pittsburgh, Seattle and Salt Lake City -- have rates roughly as high as those in Denmark and Norway, two countries at the top of the international mobility rankings. In areas like Atlanta and Memphis, by comparison, upward mobility appears to be substantially lower than in any other rich country, Mr. Chetty said.
Especially intriguing is the fact that children who moved at a young age from a low-mobility area to a high-mobility area did almost as well as those who spent their entire childhoods in a higher-mobility area. But children who moved as teenagers did less well.
That pattern makes economists more confident that the characteristics of different regions -- as opposed to something inherent and unchangeable in the local residents -- are helping cause the varying mobility rates.
Lawrence Katz, a labor economist who did not work on the project, said he was struck by the fact that areas with high levels of income mobility were also those that established high school earliest and have long had strong school systems. Mr. Katz, a Harvard economist and former Clinton administration official, called the work ''certainly the most comprehensive analysis of intergenerational mobility in the contemporary U.S.''
The project's other researchers were Patrick Kline, a professor at the University of California, Berkeley, and Emmanuel Saez, a Berkeley economist who won the Clark Medal in 2009.
The comparison of metropolitan areas allows researchers to consider local factors that previous mobility studies could not -- including a region's geography. And in Atlanta, the most common lament seems to be precisely that concentrated poverty, extensive traffic and a weak public-transit system make it difficult to get to the job opportunities. ''When poor communities are segregated,'' said Cindia Cameron, an organizer for 9 to 5, a women's rights group, ''everything about life is harder.''
Ms. Calvin, the day care worker who commutes more than three hours, recently tried to rent an apartment closer to her job, in a better school district and a neighborhood closer to grocery stores. But the landlords required more income than her roughly $1,200 in monthly take-home pay, she said.
She now plans to stay for another couple of years in her three-bedroom home, in a set of tan garden apartments in DeKalb County, east of Atlanta. By then, she expects to have married her boyfriend -- they are recently engaged -- and may be able to afford to move.
''I'm a little disappointed I had to renew my lease,'' she said. But she is happy that she has a routine that allows her to play an active role in her children's school, including with the PTA, and to be home when they arrive home.
''It's enough to get by,'' Ms. Calvin said.Interactive graphics by Mike Bostock, Shan Carter, Amanda Cox, Matthew Ericson, Josh Keller, Alicia Parlapiano, Kevin Quealy and Josh Williams, based on data from Raj Chetty and Nathaniel Hendren, Harvard, and Patrick Kline and Emmanuel Saez, U.C. Berkeley.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Stacey Calvin plays Scrabble with her three children, from left, Jevon, Jayden and Jaela, in their home in an Atlanta suburb. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID WALTER BANKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12) MAP: The Chances of Rising From the Bottom to the Top: A new study of millions of anonymous earnings records shows how much people earn, depending on their parents' income. About 8 percent of children whose parents were among the bottom fifth of households -- those earning less than $25,000 in today's dollars -- were in the top fifth at age 30. That share varied widely, depending on where a child was raised.
GRAPHIC: The Best and Worst Major Areas for Poor, Middle-Class and Rich Children: The chance of ending up in the top quintile for a child raised in the ... (Source: Raj Chetty and Nathaniel Hendren, Harvard, and Patrick Kline and Emmanuel Saez, U.C. Berkeley, ''The Economic Impacts of Tax Expenditures: Evidence from Spatial Variation Across the U.S.'') (GRAPHIC BY SHAN CARTER
AMANDA COX
 ALICIA PARLAPIANO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GEOGRAPHY (90%); CHILDREN (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (88%); CITIES (88%); TRAINS (78%); FAMILY (78%); CHILD POVERTY (76%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (74%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); RESEARCH REPORTS (72%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (95%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%); MEMPHIS, TN, USA (79%) GEORGIA, USA (95%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2013



639 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 622 words

HEADLINE: Five Candidates Spend the Night In City Housing

BYLINE: By JAVIER C. HERNÁNDEZ

 BODY:
What do you do when a candidate for mayor of New York City is sleeping on your couch?
Katherine Wilson, a nurse's aide who is unemployed, tiptoed around Bill de Blasio, the New York City public advocate, as he lay in her living room in a Harlem housing project on Sunday morning, his 6-foot-5 frame slightly exceeding the length of the couch. She walked into the kitchen, thinking she might quietly whip up a plate of eggs and bacon for him. But the slam of a bathroom door, she said, seemed to startle him awake.
''It was a dream,'' Ms. Wilson said. ''I've never had anyone like that in my house before.'' 
The mayoral race took on the air of a reality show this weekend as five Democratic candidates, who came with sleeping bags and travel-size tubes of toothpaste, spent a night with residents of Lincoln Houses, a 3,100-resident complex constructed in 1948.
It was a stark change of scenery for the candidates, some of whom reside in million-dollar homes.
On Saturday night, they slept on floors or sofas, braved rooms without air-conditioning, and endured showers with weak water pressure. They stayed up past midnight watching television shows like ''CSI: Miami'' and bonded with residents about the Yankees and the heat wave.
The candidates emerged at a news conference at dawn, bleary-eyed and cradling cups of coffee. Most of them wore their best casual wear, with Anthony D. Weiner, the former congressman, in red shorts, and John C. Liu, the city comptroller, in a white T-shirt. Mr. de Blasio wore a suit, ready for an appearance at church. Looking out on a crowd of cameras, the candidates said they had gained a better understanding of the plight of low-income families.
Mr. de Blasio said he was taken aback by the poor condition of Ms. Wilson's apartment, where a set of mold-covered cabinets lies on the floor of the kitchen, two years after a flood, despite her repeated requests for repairs. ''If this were a condo building just blocks away from here,'' he said, ''it would have been fixed in days.''
Christine C. Quinn, the City Council speaker, said she was startled by the condition of the bathrooms. ''If you were in a horror movie, you would be just a couple of minutes away from the black mold overtaking the bathroom,'' she said in an interview.
Mr. Liu, known for his grueling campaign schedules, packed in a late-night tour of the neighborhood after saying good night to his host family around midnight. He wandered around the premises for a few hours, posting pictures on Twitter and talking about the lack of jobs to residents who were playing cards.
''The major complaints were about the fact that they needed jobs,'' Mr. Liu said. ''They wanted to work.''
While the sleepover made for good publicity, it did not necessarily bring votes. Barbara Gamble, a retired nursing home worker who hosted William C. Thompson Jr., a former city comptroller, said she was still undecided on a candidate. Still, she said, she felt Mr. Thompson connected with her when they watched the news and talked about their shared love of Popeyes, the fast-food chain.
After the visit, Mr. Thompson said he would work to expedite repairs for residents of public housing. ''These are our neighbors,'' he said. ''They should not be ignored. They should not be treated as second-class citizens.''
Each candidate was allowed to bring one person along for the sleepover, which was coordinated by the National Action Network, the advocacy group led by the Rev. Al Sharpton. Mr. de Blasio brought his 18-year-old daughter, Chiara. Mr. Liu brought an aide from the comptroller's office. Ms. Quinn was accompanied by a spokeswoman for her campaign. Mr. Thompson brought the leader of a union that represents housing workers. Mr. Weiner showed up alone.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: John C. Liu, above, with Kayla Gerald, great-granddaughter of his host, Lorine Brown, Saturday in the Lincoln Houses
William C. Thompson Jr., flanked by Gregory Floyd, a Teamsters official, and their host, Barbara Gamble
and Christine C. Quinn with Patricia Herman, president of the resident association.
Anthony D. Weiner, left, with his sleeping bag in his host Diane Beebe's apartment
 and Bill de Blasio with his daughter, Chiara, left, and Katherine Wilson, in whose apartment they stayed. The sleepovers were organized by the National Action Network, the advocacy group that the Rev. Al Sharpton leads. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL NAGLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); FAMILY (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (72%); INTERVIEWS (70%); REALITY TELEVISION (68%); MOLDS & FUNGI (66%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (65%); WEATHER (64%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (60%); HORROR FILMS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (54%)

PERSON: AL SHARPTON (59%); ANTHONY D WEINER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2013



640 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 725 words

HEADLINE: Obama Plans To Unveil His Agenda For Economy

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- With major battles looming in the fall over the federal budget and the debt ceiling, President Obama is trying to regain the initiative, embarking on a campaign-style tour of the Midwest this week to lay out his agenda for reinvigorating the nation's economy, administration officials said Sunday.
Mr. Obama's offensive will begin on Wednesday in Galesburg, Ill., with what his aides are saying will be a major address on economic policy at Knox College. Officials declined to provide details of the president's message, but said he would set his terms for what they expect will be another bruising battle with a Republican-controlled House over the nation's fiscal policies. 
White House officials liken Wednesday's speech to one he gave in 2011 in Osawatomie, Kan., where he articulated the theme of economic inequality in American society that became a leitmotif of his re-election campaign, and to one at Georgetown University soon after taking office in 2009, when he talked about how the American economy would recover from the Great Recession.
September will be the fifth anniversary of the financial crisis that underscored that recession, and White House officials said Mr. Obama wanted to take stock of the economy's recovery and chart a path forward.
The nature of the economic debate has shifted in recent months, with the budget deficit shrinking rapidly while the economy, though firmly in recovery, struggles to build up a head of steam. But the president clearly expects to encounter the same resistance that has stymied him since Republicans seized control of the House in the 2010 election.
''In a couple of months, we will face some more critical budget deadlines that require Congressional action, not showdowns that serve only to harm families and businesses -- and the president wants to talk about the issues that should be at the core of that debate,'' Dan Pfeiffer, the president's senior adviser, said in a mass e-mail on Sunday.
Wednesday's speech, Mr. Obama's aides said, will be drawn in broad strokes, reaffirming themes like the need for a prosperous middle class.
In a series of smaller speeches after that, they said, Mr. Obama will offer policy proposals -- both new and familiar -- on health care, housing, the affordability of higher education and how to create more manufacturing jobs. He will also make the case for the economic benefits of overhauling the immigration code -- legislation that passed the Senate but is now languishing in the House.
Mr. Obama's trip comes after a rare political victory last week, when the Senate, following a protracted stalemate, confirmed his nominees to lead the Environmental Protection Agency, the Labor Department and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.
It also brings the president back to familiar ground, after his highly unusual and deeply personal remarks on Friday about the verdict in the Trayvon Martin killing. In contrast to those comments, which Mr. Obama made without any warning in the White House briefing room, his staff is meticulously orchestrating this economic tour.
The choice of Knox College -- a small, private liberal arts college in rural Illinois -- is laden with symbolism: he spoke there as a senator in 2005, in what was his first major address on economic issues.
This month, the International Monetary Fund trimmed its forecast for economic growth in the United States to 1.7 percent in 2013 and 2.7 percent in 2014. It reduced both by 0.2 percentage point from its World Economic Outlook forecast in April.
The I.M.F. said the reductions were in part a response to the automatic spending cuts that resulted from the failure of the White House and Congress to agree on a fiscal deal, which it said had offset healthy private demand. Mr. Obama will refer to those cuts, officials said, but not dwell on them.
''The president thinks Washington has largely taken its eye off the ball,'' Mr. Pfeiffer said in his e-mail. ''Instead of talking about how to help the middle class, too many in Congress are trying to score political points, re-fight old battles and trump up phony scandals.''
With Congress blocking most of Mr. Obama's major initiatives, he has focused on measures that do not require new legislation. But he will need to forge agreements with Congress to avert another shutdown of the government or a default on the nation's debt.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); RECESSION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); DEBT CEILING (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (75%); ANNIVERSARIES (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (73%); JOB CREATION (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (63%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (60%); IMMIGRATION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2013



641 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1066 words

HEADLINE: Liberalizing Interest Rates Remains a Challenge for China

BYLINE: By NEIL GOUGH

 BODY:
HONG KONG -- As a rookie at the central bank in Beijing during the early days of China's economic transformation, Joe Zhang considered it a foregone conclusion that the government would soon loosen its grip on interest rates.
It was the mid-1980s, and Chinese policy makers had been keeping a close watch on the United States, which was phasing out the mandatory caps on bank deposit rates that had been in place since the Depression. 
In China, Mr. Zhang said, ''the discussion in the government was quite serious. It was about liberalizing all interest rates within four to five years.''
''The Path to Interest Rate Liberalization,'' the thesis he wrote in 1986 at the People's Bank of China graduate school, ''did not stand out in any way, because that was an accepted topic," said Mr. Zhang, who is now an independent corporate adviser based in Hong Kong.
Nearly three decades later, China still struggles with the issue of interest rates. The new prime minister, Li Keqiang, has made liberalizing rates a priority.
On Friday, the central bank scrapped the floor on lending rates, freeing banks to issue loans as cheaply as they wished, a modest development that pointed to the challenges ahead. The full liberalization of rates, if it does take place, would be a partial but significant shift in the growth model that has come to define China's rise in the last decade.
Analysts said eliminating the floor on lending rates (mortgage loans remain regulated) was a sign that Beijing was moving forward with promised overhauls. But the practical effect on lending would be minimal, given that almost 90 percent of loans in China are made at or above the benchmark rate.
Policy makers stopped short of removing the ceiling on deposit rates, which analysts say would have much broader repercussions for the profitability of the country's giant banking industry and for the continued access of politically influential state-owned enterprises to low-cost financing.
''Removing lending rate restrictions is an important symbolic move, which signals the government's intention to move forward with interest rate liberalization," Wang Tao, an economist at UBS in Hong Kong, wrote in a research note. ''The next and more important step is, of course, the ceiling on deposit rates. The central bank considers the removal of the deposit ceiling as the most critical yet most risky move in interest rate liberalization.''
Because China's capital account is still largely closed and the cross-border movement of money remains tightly regulated, China's savers have limited options for managing their personal finances. As a result, household deposits tucked away in banks have doubled during the last five years, and stood at 42.9 trillion renminbi, or about $7 trillion, as of May.
That trove -- equal to 83 percent of gross domestic product last year -- has been a low-cost source of financing for state-run banks, which they have tapped to issue loans, mainly to state-owned companies. At the current one-year benchmark rates set by Beijing, banks pay ordinary depositors a maximum of 3 percent annual interest on their savings, and -- before the announcement Friday -- were required to charge borrowers a minimum rate of 6 percent interest on loans. (Banks are allowed to offer a small premium on deposits, and before the floor was scrapped had also been permitted to give a discount on loan rates.)
Analysts said the tensions over interest rate overhauls highlighted a crucial aspect of China's growth: The increased use of low-cost and abundant credit has bolstered state companies and fueled an unprecedented surge of investment, all made possible only by effectively holding ordinary Chinese savers hostage to low or even negative returns.
Measures to shift that balance in favor of ordinary savers -- like doing away with the control of interest rates -- are consistent with Mr. Li's stated goal of getting China to switch from reliance on investment to a more consumer-driven growth model. But accomplishing this would require Mr. Li to take on powerful vested interests at the state-owned companies that dominate huge swaths of China's economy.
Liberalizing interest rates is not just a matter of making the financial system more efficient, it represents ''a path toward greater social justice," Nicholas Lardy, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington who has been studying the Chinese economy since the 1970s, wrote in a March essay published in the China Economic Quarterly.
To emphasize his point, Mr. Lardy highlights how real average interest rates, or household deposit rates as adjusted for consumer price inflation, were negative for the decade that the President Hu Jintao and former Prime Minister Wen Jiabao were in power. In other words, Chinese savers effectively paid the banks to store their money, and the value of their wealth was eroded.
That situation needs to be reversed if China is to rely more on consumer demand for its growth, and the new leadership under President Xi Jinping and Mr. Li, who took office in March, appears to recognize the need to push through changes despite the opposition they are likely to encounter, Mr. Lardy said.
''Even the vested interests understand that the legitimacy of the party and its continued rule depend on delivering reasonably rapid economic growth. Ultimately they are likely to cede some of the outsized benefits they have gained from the current growth model, rather than block reform and risk losing all.''
Mr. Zhang, the junior central banker, left the People's Bank of China in 1989 after a three-year stint to study economics overseas.
After a long career as an investment banker in Hong Kong, he ended up working from 2011 to 2012 as a ''shadow banker'' in the southern city Guangzhou, making small loans to mom-and-pop borrowers. The loans were later repackaged as interest-bearing securities, or so-called wealth management products, and sold to investors who were in search of better interest rates than they were getting on their bank deposits.
Mr. Zhang remains hopeful that China will free up interest rates. And current policy makers have a deep understanding of the issue. Back in the '80s, one of the people who sat in a cubicle near Mr. Zhang's, in separate department that handled interest rates, was Shang Fulin. Today, Mr. Shang is the chairman of the China Banking Regulatory Commission.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BANKING IN CHINA (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (69%); PERSONAL FINANCE (69%)

COMPANY: PEOPLE'S BANK OF CHINA (91%)

PERSON: LI KEQIANG (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (89%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%) CHINA (99%); HONG KONG (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2013



642 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1249 words

HEADLINE: Change Agent In Education Collects Critics

BYLINE: By JAVIER C. HERNÁNDEZ

 BODY:
BRIDGEPORT, Conn. -- Paul G. Vallas, a leader in the effort to shake up American education, has wrestled with unions in Chicago, taken on hurricane-ravaged schools in New Orleans and confronted a crumbling educational system in Haiti.
Now he faces what may be his most vexing challenge yet: Fending off a small but spirited crowd of advocates working to unseat him as superintendent of one of Connecticut's lowest-performing and highest-poverty school districts.
Bridgeport, a relatively small urban school district with just 21,000 students, is at the center of one of the most contentious educational disputes in the country as Mr. Vallas seeks to salvage his hard-charging agenda amid complaints that he is unqualified for the job.
Parents are upset over his plans to increase the use of student testing. Union officials have denounced his insistence that administrators frequently visit classrooms to evaluate teachers, as well as his history of enthusiastic support for charter schools. And community activists argue that he consistently shuts out dissenting voices. 
''We thought we had a good guy,'' said Tammy Boyle, a parent leader and mother of two children. ''But at each and every turn, he has ignored the wishes and the voices of the people of Bridgeport.''
But Mr. Vallas has his admirers. Leon Woods, 51, an unemployed carpenter, credited a program for struggling students started by Mr. Vallas with helping put his son on track to graduation. ''I've seen the difference,'' Mr. Woods said. ''I've seen the change.''
Mr. Vallas, who has moved to impose a standardized curriculum and to reorganize central offices in Bridgeport, said he was dismayed by the vitriol. On blogs, which he calls ''electronic graffiti,'' his critics have called him a racist and compared him to the Chilean dictator Augusto Pinochet. The school district's student population is 49 percent Hispanic and 39 percent black.
''There are some gigantic egos in this town,'' Mr. Vallas said in an interview. ''No good deed goes unpunished.''
Mr. Vallas, who makes $234,000 a year, arrived in Bridgeport less than two years ago with a mandate to rattle the status quo in one of Connecticut's poorest cities. He was appointed by a state-controlled panel, but a court ruling early in his tenure left him reporting to a locally elected school board, with several of its members calling for his ouster.
Now Mr. Vallas, a veteran of big-city education battles, faces the once-unimaginable prospect that he will be driven out of town by summer's end. A retired judge filed a lawsuit arguing that his lack of an education degree makes him unfit for the office, despite his years of experience running other school districts. Last month, a superior court judge agreed, and now Mr. Vallas has appealed the case to the Connecticut Supreme Court.
The battle in Bridgeport highlights the divisiveness of change in American education. Critics of the existing system are pushing centralized control, weaker teacher tenure protections and expanded charter schools, and some have made installing superintendents with backgrounds outside of education a priority, causing rifts in many districts.
Arne Duncan, the federal education secretary, said the opposition to Mr. Vallas was ''beyond ludicrous.'' He said too many school districts were afraid of innovation, clinging to ''archaic ideas.''
''This, to me, is just another painfully obvious, crystal-clear example of people caught in an old paradigm,'' Mr. Duncan said in an interview. ''This is the tip of the iceberg.''
Mr. Vallas was hired in late 2011 to much fanfare: a nationally known advocate of change in education, with stints in Philadelphia, Chicago and New Orleans on his résumé, coming to the aid of a modest school district mired in budget cuts.
But almost immediately, his support began to erode. The state of Connecticut had been overseeing the Bridgeport district, responding to a dire fiscal situation, but two months into Mr. Vallas's tenure, the Connecticut Supreme Court ordered the return of an elected school board.
Parents and community advocates who had long opposed the state's intervention rejoiced. And the Working Families Party, a liberal coalition based in New York City with outposts in Connecticut, made removing Mr. Vallas its mission.
A memo circulated recently by the Working Families Party criticized Mr. Vallas's hiring of outside consultants, suggesting he was working to privatize the system. ''He abuses local school districts to create profits for his business allies, and implements extreme policies that exacerbate racial and economic inequality in the schools,'' the memo stated. Mr. Vallas's opponents said they worried he would move, as he had in other cities, to demand concessions from teachers in contract negotiations, and to expand charter schools, which the opponents believe would drain money from other public schools.
Mr. Vallas had a vulnerability: despite his decades of experience in schools and a master's degree in political science, he lacked a degree in education, as required by Connecticut law. The state allowed for an exemption, but Mr. Vallas was required to complete a condensed version of the traditional 13-month certification program over the course of several months. ''I didn't view it cynically and I didn't complain,'' Mr. Vallas said.
But in public, he seemed skeptical of the requirement, at one point arguing, ''That is like saying Michael Jordan can't coach basketball because he doesn't have teacher certification.'' His detractors were outraged by the remark, saying it illustrated his arrogant approach to leadership.
Mr. Vallas completed the course, which involved speaking with a professor a few times and writing six papers. But Carmen L. Lopez, a retired judge and education activist, filed a challenge in April contending that Mr. Vallas's course work was a sham.
''Bridgeport was viewed as so second-class that it could have an unqualified school superintendent,'' Ms. Lopez said in an interview. ''They don't do this in the suburbs.''
The legal case has reignited tensions in Bridgeport. Three Working Families Party members have joined a Democrat on the school board in calling for the city to stop paying Mr. Vallas's legal fees; a five-member majority, led by the board's chairman, Kenneth H. Moales Jr., has resisted those demands. ''I don't participate in coups,'' said Mr. Moales, a defender of Mr. Vallas.
Last week, parents gathered before a school board meeting to hang posters denouncing Mr. Vallas; as the meeting got under way, board members shouted at and interrupted one another.
''Are you finished with your circus?'' Mr. Moales asked a critic of the superintendent, shortly before abruptly adjourning the session.
Mr. Vallas, 60, is a onetime politician who came within two percentage points of defeating Rod R. Blagojevich in a primary for the Illinois governor's office in 2002. He said he did not know what he would do after Bridgeport, though he ruled out a return to politics. He runs an educational consulting business on the side. His clients have included schools in Illinois and Indiana.
But Mr. Vallas said he was determined to serve as superintendent in Bridgeport for at least one more year, so that he could help the district find a leader who would maintain the changes he has set in motion.
''If I left tomorrow, it's going to be hard to break those things,'' he said, seeming hopeful. But he added, ''I never underestimate the capacity of a hostile board to destroy a good thing.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''No good deed goes unpunished,'' said Paul G. Vallas, superintendent for Bridgeport, Conn. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA BRIGHT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%); SCHOOL BOARDS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); CHILDREN (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); CURRICULA (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (76%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (76%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (75%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); APPOINTMENTS (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (66%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (66%); LITIGATION (63%); SUITS & CLAIMS (61%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (92%) CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); HAITI (92%); CHILE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2013



643 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1476 words

HEADLINE: Cries of Betrayal As Detroit Plans To Cut Pensions

BYLINE: By STEVEN YACCINO and MICHAEL COOPER; Steven Yaccino reported from Detroit, and Michael Cooper from New York. Erica Goode and Monica Davey contributed reporting from Detroit, and Mary Williams Walsh from New York.

 BODY:
DETROIT -- Gloria Killebrew, 73, worked for the City of Detroit for 22 years and now spends her days caring for her husband, J. D., who has had three heart attacks and multiple kidney operations, the last of which left him needing dialysis three times a week at the Henry Ford Medical Center in Dearborn, Mich.
Now there is a new worry: Detroit wants to cut the pensions it pays retirees like Ms. Killebrew, who now receives about $1,900 a month.
''It's been life on a roller coaster,'' Ms. Killebrew said, explaining that even if she could find a new job at her age, there would be no one to take care of her husband. ''You don't sleep well. You think about whether you're going to be able to make it. Right now, you don't really know.'' 
Detroit's pension shortfall accounts for about $3.5 billion of the $18 billion in debts that led the city to file for bankruptcy last week. How it handles this problem -- of not enough money set aside to pay the pensions it has promised its workers -- is being closely watched by other cities with fiscal troubles.
Kevyn D. Orr, the city's emergency manager, has called for ''significant cuts'' to the pensions of current retirees. His plan is being fought vigorously by unions that point out that pensions are protected by Michigan's Constitution, which calls them a contractual obligation that ''shall not be diminished or impaired.''
Gov. Rick Snyder of Michigan, a Republican who appointed Mr. Orr, signed off on the bankruptcy strategy for the once-mighty city, which has seen its tax base and services erode sharply in recent years. But the governor said he worried about Detroit's 21,000 municipal retirees.
''You've got to have great empathy for them,'' Mr. Snyder said in an interview. ''These are hard-working people that are in retirement now -- they're on fixed incomes, most of them -- and you look at this and say, 'This is a very difficult situation.' ''
On Sunday, Mr. Snyder fended off the notion that the city needed a federal bailout. ''It's not about just putting more money in a situation,'' the governor said on ''Face the Nation'' on CBS. ''It's about better services to citizens again. It's about accountable government.''
Many retirees see the plan to cut their pensions as a betrayal, saying that they kept their end of a deal but that the city is now reneging. Retired city workers, police officers and 911 operators said in interviews that the promise of reliable retirement income had helped draw them to work for the City of Detroit in the first place, even if they sometimes had to accept smaller salaries or work nights or weekends.
''Does Detroit have a problem?'' asked William Shine, 76, a retired police sergeant. ''Absolutely. Did I create it? I don't think so. They made me some promises, and I made them some promises. I kept my promises. They're not going to keep theirs.''
Vera Proctor, 63, who retired in 2010 after 39 years as a 911 operator and supervisor, said she worried that at her age and with her poor health, it would be difficult to find a new job to make up for any reductions to her pension payments.
''Where's the nearest street corner where I can sell bottles of water?'' Ms. Proctor asked wryly. ''That's what it's going to come down to. We're not going to have anything.''
Officials overseeing Detroit's finances have called for reducing -- not eliminating -- pension payments to retirees, but have not said how big those reductions might be. They emphasized that they were trying to spread the pain of bankruptcy evenly.
When the small city of Central Falls, R.I., declared bankruptcy in 2011, a state law gave bondholders preferential treatment -- effectively protecting investors even as the city's retirees saw their pension benefits slashed by up to 55 percent in some cases.
Detroit, by contrast, wants to spread the losses to investors as well as pensioners, and hopes to find cheaper ways to cover retirees through the subsidized health exchanges being created by President Obama's health care law.
Bill Nowling, a spokesman for Mr. Orr, said the emergency manager's restructuring plan would treat bondholders the same as retirees in bankruptcy.
''How can we tell pensioners or city workers that we're going to have to adjust their payments on their pensions because of decisions that they didn't make but that affect them, but that we're going to pay more to people who made risky investments?'' he said.
In recent years, public sector pensions have often emerged as a political point of contention, earning scorn from taxpayers who work in the private sector, where defined-benefit pensions providing a guaranteed stream of income in retirement have grown increasingly rare.
But the average pension benefit in Detroit is not especially high. The average annual payment is about $19,000, said Bruce Babiarz, a spokesman for the pension funds. And it is about $30,000 for retired police officers and firefighters, who do not get Social Security benefits, he said. Some retired workers get larger pensions, though: about 82 retirees who either worked many years or had high-salaried jobs are paid pensions of more than $90,000 a year, he said.
Among them is Isaiah McKinnon, who was the city's police chief in the 1990s and whose pension is just over $92,000 a year. Dr. McKinnon said he and other officers earned their retirement money by serving in a dangerous profession. Dr. McKinnon was shot at eight times while on the job and was stabbed twice, and he has scars from the attacks on his neck and abdomen, he said.
Dr. McKinnon, who holds a doctoral degree in education administration, is an associate professor at the University of Detroit Mercy. He expressed concern about retired rank-and-file officers whose pensions were based on salaries far lower than his.
''We're in this predicament, and everyone has to suffer to an extent,'' Dr. McKinnon said. ''But the predicament and the percentage -- that has to be talked about.''
Many retirees expressed a feeling of powerlessness, a sense that they stand to lose the benefits they worked a lifetime for because of things beyond their control. Motor City has lost more than a million residents over the last six decades. When it shrank its work force, it left fewer current workers to contribute to pension funds that still had to pay benefits that were earned by large numbers of older retirees who had served Detroit when it was a bigger city.
Detroit, like many other cities and states, anticipates that its pension funds will earn about 8 percent in interest each year -- a target that proved overly optimistic during the recent downturn, when it fell far short.
Laws allowing workers to collect pensions even when they retired at young ages proved expensive, as did adjusting benefits for inflation. And some of the accounting measures the funds used made them look healthier than they actually were. Mr. Orr recently announced that the funds, which had reported a shortfall of around $644 million, were in fact underfinanced by more like $3.5 billion, a figure that some dispute.
But other problems are unique to Detroit. Several pension officials were accused this spring of taking bribes and kickbacks to influence investment decisions, and Mr. Orr recently called for an inquiry into possible fraud, waste or abuse in the pension system.
For some retirees, pension reductions would compound the other difficulties of living in Detroit.
Michael Wells, 65, retired in 2011 after working at the Detroit Public Library for 34 years. He said he still owed close to $100,000 on his house in Detroit, which was appraised recently at $25,000. ''I'm totally underwater here,'' said Mr. Wells, who is one of the plaintiffs in a union-backed lawsuit to stop the city from filing for bankruptcy and from reducing pension payments.
He said he viewed the pension as part of the overall pay he was promised. ''It's deferred income,'' he said. ''Had I not had a pension, perhaps I would have gotten several dollars an hour more and that would be O.K. I would have taken that money and invested it in some kind of mutual fund or stock.''
Paula Kaczmarek, 64, said that she had planned to retire from the Detroit Public Library in 2014, but that she decided to retire early because she was having health problems and she feared younger co-workers could be laid off if there were more rounds of staff cuts. (The city, which had 12,302 workers three years ago, now has only 9,560.)
''It's not anxiety, it's fear,'' Ms. Kaczmarek said of the proposed cuts.
And many simply cannot believe that Detroit, which was once the nation's fourth-largest city, could go bankrupt.
Dr. McKinnon recalled that when he was a young man in the police academy, he once asked a sergeant what would happen if the city went bankrupt. '' 'The city won't,' '' he said the sergeant had replied. '' 'And besides, there's billions of dollars in the retirement fund.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gloria Killebrew, 73, a retiree who cares for her husband, J. D., in Dearborn, Mich., on Friday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN McGEE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Isaiah McKinnon, a retired police chief, expressed concern about officers whose pensions were based on lower salaries. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL F. McELROY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Vera Proctor, a retired 911 operator, said she worried that it would be difficult to find a new job to offset a reduced pension. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERVIEWS (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (87%); CIVIL SERVICES (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); DIALYSIS (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (69%); BAILOUTS (67%); APPOINTMENTS (67%)

PERSON: RICK SNYDER (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2013



644 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 661 words

HEADLINE: A Steeper Climb for Single Parents

BYLINE: DAVID LEONHARDT


HIGHLIGHT: Family structure was one of the four factors with a clear relationship to upward mobility in a new study comparing mobility across metropolitan areas. 

 BODY:
 For single parents, every step on the climb up the income ladder can come with additional complications. Taking a job with a long commute can be impossible, because it leaves no back-up plan when a child gets sick. Working late can be similarly difficult. 
 Lampra Jones, one of the Atlanta residents I interviewed for Monday's article on upward mobility, is a recently divorced mother of a baby boy, and she mentioned one more hurdle: the fact that many prospective employers think single motherhood presents even more challenges than it does. She thinks her search for a job as a chiropractor has been hindered by the worries of the people interviewing her. 
 "The biggest perception is, 'If he gets sick, who's going to take care of him?'" said Ms. Jones, who no longer mentions her son in job interviews.
 On top of all these concrete difficulties are the psychological ones. Married parents trying to build a better life for themselves and their children can talk to each other every night about the difficulties. Single parents, notes Jamie Lackey, a program director at Catholic Charities Atlanta, which works with low- and middle-income families, are "doing it in isolation."
 It is hardly surprising that family structure was one of the four factors with a clear relationship to upward mobility in a large new study comparing mobility across metropolitan areas. In areas with a higher divorce rate and higher share of single-parent families, the odds of climbing into the middle class or beyond were lower. 
 For more details on earlier research about family structure, I recommend my colleague Jason DeParle's in-depth article on the subject from last year. He wrote:
Estimates vary widely, but scholars have said that changes in marriage patterns - as opposed to changes in individual earnings - may account for as much as 40 percent of the growth in certain measures of inequality. Long a nation of economic extremes, the United States is also becoming a society of family haves and family have-nots, with marriage and its rewards evermore confined to the fortunate classes.
"It is the privileged Americans who are marrying, and marrying helps them stay privileged," said Andrew Cherlin, a sociologist at Johns Hopkins University.
About 41 percent of births in the United States occur outside marriage, up sharply from 17 percent three decades ago. But equally sharp are the educational divides, according to an analysis by Child Trends, a Washington research group. Less than 10 percent of the births to college-educated women occur outside marriage, while for women with high school degrees or less the figure is nearly 60 percent.
Long concentrated among minorities, motherhood outside marriage now varies by class about as much as it does by race. It is growing fastest in the lower reaches of the white middle class - among women like Ms. Schairer who have some postsecondary schooling but no four-year degree.
While many children of single mothers flourish (two of the last three presidents had mothers who were single during part of their childhood), a large body of research shows that they are more likely than similar children with married parents to experience childhood poverty, act up in class, become teenage parents and drop out of school.
 One thought-provoking finding from the new study on mobility: In metropolitan areas with large numbers of single-parent families, even children with two parents face longer odds of climbing the economic ladder. 
 That pattern suggests that a factor that the researchers were not able to measure is affecting both family structure and economic mobility - or that family-structure patterns have effects on an entire community. The researchers did not offer a hypothesis and instead encouraged future research to examine the question.

        
Snapshots of Upwardly Mobile Areas
        
The Fed and Inequality
        
A Budget Focus on Inequality
        
Polls vs. Markets
        
Income Inequality and Educational Opportunity

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SINGLE PARENTS (93%); INTERVIEWS (90%); PARENTS (90%); FAMILY (90%); MARRIAGE (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); WOMEN (89%); TRENDS (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (76%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (74%); PARENTING (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (72%); CHIROPRACTIC (72%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (71%); SOCIOLOGY (70%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (52%); RELIGION (52%); CHARITIES (52%) Income Inequality; Parenting; Poverty; United States; United States Economy; Economics; Economix

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%) United States

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2013



645 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1179 words

HEADLINE: Snapshots of Upwardly Mobile Areas

BYLINE: ANDREW SIDDONS


HIGHLIGHT: Scranton still stands out as one of the American cities where poor people have among the best odds of climbing into the middle class, according to a large new study. 

 BODY:
Scranton, Pa., may not be anybody's idea of a boom town. A year ago, with the industrial city in northeastern Pennsylvania on the verge of bankruptcy, the mayor cut city workers' pay to the minimum wage.
But Scranton still stands out as one of the American cities where poor people have among the best odds of climbing into the middle class, according to a large new study. A poor person from Scranton is almost twice as likely to rise into a higher income bracket than a poor person from Toledo, Ohio, or South Bend, Ind. By the measurements of the professors who did the research - four economists, at Harvard and the University of California, Berkeley - rates of upward mobility in Scranton are similar to those in Seattle, Boston and New York.
"I was one of those kids who quite honestly probably should have never went to college because I never had the money," said Peter Danchack, who grew up in Scranton. His father repaired laundromat equipment, and before Mr. Danchack and his three sisters were born his mother worked in a dress factory. 
At the University of Scranton, Mr. Danchack worked 35 hours a week while studying accounting full time and paid his way through college. One of his jobs was at a PNC bank branch. He's now a regional president for PNC and lives in one of Scranton's wealthier suburbs. 
The authors of the new study found four factors that areas with more upward mobility tend to have in common: a large and geographically dispersed middle class; better than average schools; a high share of two-parent households; and populations engaged with religious and community organizations. 
"Our neighborhood was very strong and supportive - everybody knew what everybody else was doing, but in a nice way," said Ann L. Pipinski, a Scranton native who is now the president at Johnson College of Technology in Scranton. Dr. Pipinski and her sister were the first in their family to go to college, after having been raised by their mother and grandfather and mainly supported by welfare and their late father's veteran's benefits.
Another factor that sets upwardly mobile cities apart is that lower-class people live among the middle and upper classes: according to the study, there is a correlation between upward social mobility and income diversity.
James Mirabelli said that this economic integration was inspiring. He was born and raised in Factoryville, Pa., a borough of about 1,100 people 15 miles north of Scranton. His father was a truck driver and his mother worked at home. His family lived in a trailer park until Mr. Mirabelli was in fifth grade. 
"You see what everyone else has and you say, 'I want that, too,'" he said. "I got a little hungry by seeing what other people had or did."
Mr. Mirabelli, who is 30, studied accounting at nearby Keystone College, and is now the financial administrator of the Abington Heights School District, which serves some of Scranton's more affluent suburbs. 
The study, based on millions of anonymous records, tracked people over the course of their lives to compare their family income as children with their family income as adults. About 26 percent of children who grew up in the 1980s and 1990s in Seattle families from the poorest fifth of the national income distribution have ended up in the top two-fifths today, for instance.
On the other end of the spectrum, the equivalent figure was 9 percent for Memphis natives, 13 percent for Atlanta natives and 15 percent for Indianapolis natives.
The figure was 27 percent for Scranton and 25 percent for Harrisburg, Pa., the state's capital. 
Harrisburg, like Scranton, has seen its share of financial difficulty, filing for bankruptcy in 2011. It also has an above-average rate of upward mobility.
Juanita Edrington-Grant, 59, spent most of the 1980s in and out of prison for dealing drugs. During her last stint in the state penitentiary, Ms. Edrington-Grant was able to take classes with professors from Pennsylvania State University, who taught courses toward earning certification as a paralegal. She left prison in 1992 and nine months later earned her associate's degree from Penn State. 
"It's not easy trying to get help for ex-offenders," she said. "It's not easy working with them or getting help for them, because most people won't give them a chance." 
She went to work for the Pennsylvania Department of Labor and Industry as a clerk and earned regular promotions. She retired this year from the Pennsylvania Department of State, where she worked as a paralegal, earning $50,000 a year.
Now, Ms. Edrington-Grant runs the Christian Recovery Aftercare Ministry, which provides services to ex-offenders and prisoners when they are about to be released and re-enter society.
Others who have overcome economic hardship also emphasize the assistance they received along the way.
Kristelle Coney, a 40-year-old single mother of three, worked at Washington Mutual for six years; she had never been to college. When her employer went bankrupt and was absorbed by JPMorgan Chase in 2009, she was laid off. She used her severance to pay for her first year of college at Lake Washington Institute of Technology in Kirkland, Wash., studying for a pair of associate's degrees, one for premedicine and one to be a medical assistant.
"Once that year was up, I was able to use opportunity grants and Pell grants and student loans and focus on school," she recalled, adding that food stamps also helped her juggle kids and school without working full time.
Ms. Coney, who graduated this year, works as a medical assistant at an obstetrics and gynecology practice in Bellevue, Wash., not far from her home in Redmond, where she pays higher rent to send her children to better schools.
Houston is one of the few Southern cities where upward social mobility is as high as cities in the Northeast and West, exceeding the rates of cities like Charlotte and Las Vegas. Roughly 22 percent of Houston children who grew up in the poorest fifth of the national income distribution have ended up in the top two-fifths today, according to the study.
In Houston, programs like Capital IDEA assist underemployed individuals who have obstacles in the way of furthering their education. In addition to helping pay tuition, Capital IDEA fast-tracks students through the remedial courses that can otherwise divert them from finishing their degree. 
Adeline Garza, 25, was raised by her grandmother after her parents died. She dropped out of Texas A&M when she could no longer afford it. After struggling to find work, she took advantage of assistance from Capital IDEA, where she was encouraged by others in the same situation. 
"We would always have weekly meetings to discuss our hardships, trouble with class, and help each other out. It's a really great social support group," she said. She's about to start as a radiology technologist at St. Luke's Episcopal Hospital in Houston, with a starting salary of $45,000.

        
A Steeper Climb for Single Parents
        
Hidden Costs of the Minimum Wage
        
The 300 Billionth Burger
        
College Premium: Better Pay, Better Prospects
        
Housing Prices and Income Inequality

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (92%); MINIMUM WAGE (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); WORKING MOTHERS (89%); HOME BASED EMPLOYMENT (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (77%); CIVIL SERVICES (77%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (77%); PARENTS (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (69%); TRAILER PARKS (63%); WOMEN'S APPAREL MFG (52%); BANK BRANCHES (51%); VETERANS (50%); RELIGION (50%) Income; Income Inequality; Labor and Jobs; Minimum Wage; Pennsylvania; Poverty; United States; United States Economy; Wages and Salaries; Economix

COMPANY: PNC BANK NA (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SCRANTON, PA, USA (96%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SOUTH BEND, IN, USA (79%); TOLEDO, OH, USA (57%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (96%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) Pennsylvania; United States

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2013



646 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Lens)

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2013

SECTION: MULTIMEDIA

LENGTH: 1042 words

HEADLINE: Searching for Hope and Humanity in L.A.

BYLINE: DAVID GONZALEZ


HIGHLIGHT: Joseph Rodriguez is a photographer who has had a close-up view of gangs and the police who try to tame them in Los Angeles. 

 BODY:
In late 1994, Joseph Rodriguez was in the back of a Los Angeles police car, a cramped space that jarred loose equally uncomfortable memories. As a young man in Brooklyn he had been arrested for robbing houses up and down his block to support his heroin habit.
But this time he was walking - and running - alongside the police in Los Angeles as they patrolled streets where gangs and drugs had left entire neighborhoods in grief and chaos. He was there to photograph a story for the New York Times Sunday Magazine about how the L.A.P.D. was trying to deal with the violence on the streets while attempting to clean up a reputation that had been sullied by the Rodney King beating.
"Papito, it was weird," Mr. Rodriguez said in his usual hip and hyper way. "I didn't have the best love for the police. I'm very guarded. But I knew this story was bigger than me. It felt strange to be working the other side with the police, when I had been handcuffed myself. When I sat in the back of the police car it was a disorienting feeling." 
Yet in another way it was one that he was able to channel into empathy, as he plumbed what the police and local residents were facing. It was a time of out-of-control violence that was being met with a police strategy of coming down hard. It allowed Mr. Rodriguez to find ways to relate to the civilians he was photographing: reminding him of hard-luck lives he had witnessed back in Brooklyn or El Barrio.
"I don't think the L.A.P.D. story was just one that I illustrated," he said. "There was a psychological experience that came up from the past. When you photographed domestic violence, you see your other, your aunt, yourself. You go to places where there are a lot of drugs. I know what drugs are about. My experiences got me closer to this story."
His time with the L.A.P.D. had come not long after he had spent two years living in Los Angeles photographing gang members for what would be published as "East Side Stories." That had involved serious immersion on the other side, which began almost as a challenge by Little Igor, a 12-year-old gang member he had befriended. Mr. Rodriguez was working with Black Star at the time, and was about to cut short his gang project in L.A. to go on assignment to Bosnia.
"This kid is 12 years old and he says to me, 'Why go to Bosnia? There's a Bosnia right here,' " Mr. Rodriguez recalled with a short laugh. "So, I stayed in L.A."
He had started the gang project riding along with anti-gang units that went into housing projects to round up veteranos - old timers - whose affiliations spanned decades. He established connections with some of the gangs, and would often give them pictures to maintain their trust. But that tactic proved dangerous.
"One night the cops raided this house where I had been photographing a lot," he said. "They took some of my photos along with a gun they found in the house. They told these kids I was working with them, and I had a contract put on my life. At that point I wrote in my journal I was going to give this up."
Instead, he wound up going to another neighborhood and, with the help of a social worker, hooked up with another gang. They tested him by putting a gun in his face, then accepted him when they discovered he had been photographing their sworn enemies from another clique.
From then on, he said, he stayed away from working with the police.
Returning in late 1994 to document the police was understandably difficult. But it was also a way for him to delve deeper, even if what the police were saying - about the importance of working with the community - didn't always jibe with what played out before him.
What has always been important to him, he said, was going beyond the immediate image to get at the "quiet violence" that runs rampant in some communities.
"I'm looking at physical violence, but I'm also looking at the violence of letting families fall apart," he said. "The violence of unemployment. The issues that keep things crazy. It was always important for me to keep that violence in perspective. You can say I was there as a photographer and photographed the violence in front of me. But it was much deeper. I was looking at that personally, as the father of two young girls. I'm looking at these families that had no recourse, no papers and no way to express this nightmare they are going through."
Whether he liked it or not, he said, the families he photographed wanted him to tell their stories. He has stayed in touch with them, and in the past year has returned to Los Angeles several times to bring their sagas up to date. He found Little Igor, as well as his mother and uncles. He found some guys who were still in the life or in prison.
"You could see some guys were still connected, still had the guns," he said. "But that wasn't what I was looking for. I was looking for some kind of hope. As somebody who redeemed himself, I have always been interested in that journey."
Little Igor is not so little anymore: he is a heavyset father of four approaching 40. Others are in the same situation, trying to live a life beyond the chaos of the past. Some of them were motivated by fear - tough laws made the consequences of gang life much rougher to handle. Others walked away from the violence after losing friends or children.
"These guys have families," Mr. Rodriguez said. "That's what changed them. You should hear them! We are at this picnic and one was talking about his daughter in high school. Another talked about what his son was doing. I saw changes in them."
Mr. Rodriguez hopes to take his recent work - for which he also did videotaped interviews - and produce a multimedia project that builds on his decades among the gangs of Los Angeles. He wants to show something beyond the usual images of desperate people who are often seen as victims with no subtlety - or dignity.
"It's the same story," he said. "It's the same as in the Bronx. We're still doing the same story. For me, I just want to talk about family, how we are and how we're navigating our way through these communities."
 Follow @dgbxny and @nytimesphoto on Twitter. Lens is also on Facebook. 

        
The Gang Legacy of Central America's Wars
        
Life on Both Sides of the Border
        
Black Star Shines Anew
        
In the Spirit and on the Street
        
Well, That Could Be a Problem

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLICE FORCES (92%); GANGS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); ARRESTS (78%); DOMESTIC OFFENSES (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (75%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (72%); HEROIN (72%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (69%) Crime; David Gonzalez; East Side Stories; Gang violence; Gang wars; Gangs; Joseph Rodriguez; L.A. Gangs; L.A.P.D.; Los Angeles; Rodney King; King, Rodney Glen; Drug Abuse and Traffic; Photography; Police; Black Star; Police Department (NYC); Brooklyn (NYC); Los Angeles (Calif); Showcase

ORGANIZATION: Black Star; Police Department (NYC)

PERSON: King, Rodney Glen

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) Brooklyn (NYC); Los Angeles (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2013



647 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 851 words

HEADLINE: The 300 Billionth Burger

BYLINE: NANCY FOLBRE


HIGHLIGHT: An inadequate minimum wage and the weak bargaining power of fast-food workers enable McDonald&#8217;s to pay less than a living wage, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Nancy Folbre is an economics professor at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst. 
In his autobiography, "Grinding It Out: The Making of McDonald's," Ray Kroc described the company he built as "my personal monument to capitalism."
The monument is a towering one. Only ballpark estimates are available, because McDonald's stopped posting estimates of its cumulative burger sales when they reached 99 billion in 1994. But the company is on track to hit the 300 billion mark in the near future, if it hasn't already. 
With total revenue that exceeds the gross domestic product of Ecuador, McDonald's is virtually a culinary country of its own. Not surprisingly, it has become a recurrent focus of political contention.
This year's protests against the low pay of its employees reflect larger concerns about the decline of good jobs in the United States, and the company's recently published personal budgeting advice reflects remarkably widespread disregard for people trying to get by on poverty-level wages. 
A company that can sell 300 billion burgers clearly knows how to respond to consumer concerns. As Eric Schlosser explains in "Fast Food Nation," McDonald's moved relatively quickly to improve standards of humane treatment for the (nonhuman) animals in its supply chain. In the wake of bad publicity from Morgan Spurlock's film "Supersize Me," the company made significant efforts to improve the nutritional value of its menu. Last year, the company took the lead in a commitment to post calorie counts for every item.
Of course, the company's nutritional impact is influenced by policies over which it has little direct control. In the United States, Big Macs cost less than a salad largely because our agricultural policies subsidize the price of meat far more generously than the prices of fresh vegetables and fruits.
The low wages the company pays its workers also reflect the economic environment. In this country they average less than $8 an hour, reflecting a federal minimum wage that has been stuck at $7.25 an hour for four years. If the minimum wage were adjusted to correct for inflation, its 1968 peak would amount to about $9.42 today.
More than 88 percent of those who would benefit from a higher minimum are over the age of 20.
Global comparisons demonstrate that macroeconomic conditions and government regulation - not individual skill or effort - determine the level of company wages relative to prices. In 2005, the now-defunct Asian Labour News estimated that it took American workers at McDonald's about 30 minutes to earn enough to buy a Big Mac. In China, it took workers behind the counter about 3 hours 58 minutes; in India, 8 hours 34 minutes.
The relative bargaining power of low-wage workers has a far greater impact on burger prices than differences in efficiency. Underlying differences in labor markets - as well as factors influencing international exchange rates - help explain why Big Macs are relatively expensive in dollar terms in high-wage countries such as Norway and Switzerland and relatively cheap in low-wage ones like India and China.
Americans whose top priority is minimizing burger costs should perhaps shop overseas. Low-price fast food offers some quick visible benefits. But consumers who are also workers need to consider its long-run implications for their own wages and living standards. Happy Meals don't necessarily lead to happy families.
Wage trends in fast food are not simply a result of impersonal market forces. Corporate policy matters. According to Bloomberg News, the disparity between the pay of McDonald's fast-food workers and its chief executive officer has doubled in the last 10 years, while the company lobbied against minimum wage increases and discouraged unionization.
The budgeting advice that the company management recently offered employees - effectively lampooned in a video posted by the group Low Pay Is Not Okay - reveals a management that is out of touch with the experience of its workers. It includes estimates for rent and utilities, but it does not mention food, clothing, gas, or child care. It presumes that they will hold a second job and find health insurance costing only $20 a month.
The sample budget assumes hourly gross pay of about $15 an hour (assuming a 40-hour workweek), far more than most McDonald's employees will ever earn. In other words, the company's own calculations suggest that it fails to offer a living wage.
It is hard to imagine Ray Kroc, a self-made businessman who started out selling milkshake machines, ever patronizing his employees in such a careless way.
According to a recent Gallup Poll, more than two-thirds of Americans support an increase in the minimum wage, and some restaurant owners are also on board.
McDonald's could put a living wage on its menu. You could ask for it the next time you hit the takeout window.
Or you could just drive past the golden arches in search of a better monument to your ideals.

        
Snapshots of Upwardly Mobile Areas
        
Hidden Costs of the Minimum Wage
        
The Return on College, Around the World
        
Health Spending: Watching for a Rebound
        
The Premium From a College Degree

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (92%); FAST FOOD (90%); MINIMUM WAGE (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); LIVING WAGE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (88%); FOOD PRICES (87%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (73%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (70%); NUTRITION (69%); AGRICULTURE REGULATION & POLICY (63%); AGRICULTURE (63%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (52%) Living Wage; McDonald's Corporation; Minimum Wage; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); United States Economy; Wages and Salaries; McDonald's Corporation|MCD|NYSE; Today's Economist

COMPANY: MCDONALD'S CORP (92%)

ORGANIZATION: McDonald&#039;s Corporation

TICKER: MCD (NYSE) (92%) McDonald's Corporation; MCD; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (92%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2013



648 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1852 words

HEADLINE: Morning Agenda: Cohen of SAC in the Spotlight

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Regulators argue that Steven A. Cohen knew about and took part in suspicious trading activity at SAC. | A maneuver by financial players adds a fraction of a penny to the price of aluminum cans. | The governing Liberal Democrats in Japan secured a landslide victory in parliamentary elections. | A revelation in Detroit illustrates a broader debate over pension math. 

 BODY:
CASE PUTS SPOTLIGHT ON COHEN OF SAC | Defenders of the billionaire hedge fund manager Steven A. Cohen have argued that the unusual structure of his firm, SAC Capital Advisors, shielded him from any illegal trading by his employees. But in a legal filing on Friday, federal regulators argued that Mr. Cohen was not only aware of suspicious trading activity at SAC but participated in it, DealBook's Peter Lattman writes. "Faced with red flags of potentially unlawful conduct by employees under his supervision, Cohen allowed his traders to execute the recommended trades and stood by," the Securities and Exchange Commission said.
The information in the S.E.C. filing could provide ammunition for federal prosecutors and the F.B.I., Mr. Lattman writes. "Among the actions being contemplated by the Justice Department is bringing a broad conspiracy charge against the fund itself, accusing it of multiple acts of insider trading over a period of years." The case also "adds detail on Mr. Cohen's role in his firm's buildup of large stakes in two drug makers, the subject of a separate criminal case, including the first mention of input from a former SAC employee who is now a hedge fund manager."
An SAC spokesman said Mr. Cohen at all times acted appropriately and would fight the charges. 
The filing on Friday represents the first government action brought directly against Mr. Cohen after an inquiry that has persisted for nearly a decade. It includes new and detailed evidence, quoting e-mails and instant message conversations between Mr. Cohen and employees at his firm.
A LUCRATIVE SHUFFLE OF ALUMINUM | A maneuver by Goldman Sachs and other financial players adds a fraction of a penny more to the price of a can of soda, beer or juice, ultimately costing consumers billions of dollars when multiplied by the 90 billion aluminum cans consumed in the United States each year, David Kocieniewski writes in The New York Times. The story begins in 27 industrial warehouses in the Detroit area, where a Goldman subsidiary has choreographed an industrial dance to exploit pricing regulations set up by an overseas commodities exchange, Mr. Kocieniewski reports. A fleet of trucks shifts 1,500-pound bars of aluminum among the warehouses, lengthening the storage time and adding many millions a year to the coffers of Goldman, which owns the warehouses and charges rent to store the metal.
"The inflated aluminum pricing is just one way that Wall Street is flexing its financial muscle and capitalizing on loosened federal regulations to sway a variety of commodities markets, according to financial records, regulatory documents and interviews with people involved in the activities," Mr. Kocieniewski writes. "The maneuvering in markets for oil, wheat, cotton, coffee and more have brought billions in profits to investment banks like Goldman, JPMorgan Chase and Morgan Stanley, while forcing consumers to pay more every time they fill up a gas tank, flick on a light switch, open a beer or buy a cellphone."
IN JAPAN, ELECTION VICTORY SIGNALS CHANGE | The governing Liberal Democrats in Japan secured a landslide victory in parliamentary elections on Sunday, offering Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, a nationalist who promises to revitalize Japan's deflationary economy, "the chance to be the most transformative leader in a decade," Martin Fackler writes in The New York Times. "The win comes at a time when many Japanese seem more open than ever to change, after years of failed efforts to end their nation's economic slump."
ON THE AGENDA | 
Hasbro and McDonald's report earnings Monday morning. Netflix reports earnings after the market closes. Data on sales of existing homes in June comes out at 10 a.m. Barney Frank, the former congressman from Massachusetts, is on CNBC at 4 p.m.
DETROIT GAP REVEALS DISPUTE ON PENSION MATH | The bad news came seemingly out of nowhere. In mid-June, a firm hired by Detroit's emergency manager found a $3.5 billion hole in the city's pension system. "But Detroit's pension revelation is nothing new to many people who run pension plans for a living, the math-and-statistics whizzes known as actuaries," Mary Williams Walsh writes in DealBook. "For several years, little noticed in the rest of the world, their staid profession has been fighting over how to calculate the value, in today's dollars, of pensions that will be paid in the future."
TWILIGHT OF BIG LAW | White-shoe law firms are facing a crisis that would have been unthinkable a generation ago, Noam Scheiber writes in The New Republic. "Part of the reason the law-firm ecosystem has changed so dramatically in a single generation is greed: The most profitable partners steadily discarded their underachieving colleagues, because they didn't want to share the spoils. And part of the reason is the brutal recession that began in 2007, prompting corporations to slash every conceivable expense, law firms included. But the biggest problem is that there are simply many, many more high-priced lawyers today than there is high-priced legal work."
 | Contact: @williamalden | E-mail
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions »
Ways to Muscle Out Competing Deal Offers | AT&T's $1.19 billion acquisition agreement with Leap Wireless includes provisions intended to protect against competing bids, Steven M. Davidoff writes in the Deal Professor column. But are such protections likely to become commonplace? DealBook »
Hutchison Whampoa May Sell Grocery Chain | Hutchison Whampoa, which is controlled by the billionaire Li Ka-shing, confirmed that it was considering selling its ParknShop supermarket chain in Hong Kong, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Allbritton TV Stations Expected to Sell for Up to $1 Billion | Bids for the eight television stations are due on Monday, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Buyout Firm Said to Explore Sale of Six3 Systems | The buyout firm GTCR "hopes to fetch as much as $1 billion" for Six3 Systems, which provides intelligence services to government agencies, Reuters reports, citing four unidentified people familiar with the matter. REUTERS
INVESTMENT BANKING »
UBS Quarterly Profit Rises | UBS reported net income of about 690 million Swiss francs ($734 million) in the second quarter, compared with 524 million francs a year earlier. The bank also said it was close to a settlement over sales of mortgage-backed bonds. BLOOMBERG NEWS
How to Make Banks Safer | "On both sides of the Atlantic, much more needs to be done on a fundamental issue - the structure of banking entities," Michael Barr, a former assistant secretary of the Treasury for financial institutions, and John Vickers, the former chairman of Britain's Independent Commission on Banking, write in an essay in The Financial Times. FINANCIAL TIMES
2 JPMorgan Directors Resign | Two directors at JPMorgan Chase who had received lackluster support from shareholders resigned on Friday, the latest change in the aftermath of a multibillion-dollar trading loss last year. DEALBOOK
An Important Reminder on How Bonds Work | A recent bulletin from the Securities and Exchange Commission, titled "Interest Rate Risk," was a cry for understanding, Jeff Sommer writes in The New York Times. NEW YORK TIMES
How Interval Training Can Make You Incredibly Efficient at Work | Just as runners find that short, intense workouts are a good way to train, bursts of single-minded tasks can help us be far more efficient with work, Tony Schwartz writes in the Life@Work column. DealBook »
PRIVATE EQUITY »
CVC Raises Fund for European Buyouts | CVC Capital Partners has raised 10.5 billion euros ($13.8 billion) for "the largest fund for European buyouts since the start of the financial crisis," according to The Financial Times. FINANCIAL TIMES
HEDGE FUNDS »
S.E.C. Rejects Its Own Deal With Hedge Fund Manager | The decision to overrule its own enforcement division's proposed settlement with the high-flying money manager Philip A. Falcone signals a broader crackdown by the agency. DealBook »
NetApp Adds Directors Amid Push for Changes | The addition of two directors to the board of NetApp at the urging of the activist hedge fund Elliott Management hints at a possible push for a sale. DealBook »
I.P.O./OFFERINGS »
Facebook's Bid to Expand in Developing World | For more than two years, Facebook has quietly been working on a project to get the social network onto the billions of cheap "feature phones" that are still the norm in developing countries, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
VENTURE CAPITAL »
Aereo as Bargaining Chip in a Television Battle | "Analysts have theorized that distributors could exploit Aereo, or a service like it, to avoid paying increasingly steep retransmission fees," Brian Stelter writes in The New York Times. Aereo, a start-up backed by Barry Diller and other venture capitalists, picks up television signals and streams them to Internet-connected devices. NEW YORK TIMES
Upstarts Challenging the Taxi Industry | "Companies like Uber are continually confronting the obstacle of entrenched government bureaucracy, resistant unions of taxi drivers and dispatchers, and overlapping and sometimes conflicting systems of state and city regulation," Nick Bilton writes on the Bits blog of The New York Times. NEW YORK TIMES
LEGAL/REGULATORY »
Files Suggest Chinese Graft Case May Expand | Apart from the British pharmaceutical giant GlaxoSmithKline, "at least six other global pharmaceutical companies, including Merck, Novartis, Roche and Sanofi, used the same travel agency to make arrangements for events and conferences," David Barboza reports in The New York Times. NEW YORK TIMES
Glaxo Says Executives in China May Have Acted Unlawfully | "Certain senior executives of GSK China, who know our systems well, appear to have acted outside of our processes and controls which breaches Chinese law," the head of emerging markets for GlaxoSmithKline, Abbas Hussain, said in a statement, according to Reuters. REUTERS
Under New Chief, a Feistier S.E.C. Emerges | A flurry of moves appeared to signal that the Securities and Exchange Commission was striking a harder line with Wall Street under its new chairwoman, Mary Jo White. DealBook »
S.E.C. Accuses Miami of Misleading Bond Investors | The Securities and Exchange Commission filed charges on Friday afternoon, accusing Miami of giving misleading information about its finances to investors in 2009 to make its municipal bonds more attractive. DealBook »
An Effort to Pierce a Wall Street Fog | Thanks to investigators in Europe, we may learn more about what went on behind the scenes in the trillion-dollar market for credit-default swaps, Gretchen Morgenson writes in The New York Times. NEW YORK TIMES
Former Brokers Appear in Court in Libor Case | Two former brokers at RP Martin Holdings made their first court appearance in London on Friday in connection to charges tied to the manipulation of global benchmark interest rates. DealBook »
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); HEDGE FUNDS (90%); METALS MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); COTTON MARKETS (89%); ALUMINUM MARKETS (89%); WHEAT MARKETS (89%); ENERGY MARKETS (89%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (86%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); MISCONDUCT (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); INSIDER TRADING (77%); FIBER MARKETS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); CONSPIRACY (77%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (75%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (75%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (68%); GENERAL WAREHOUSING (61%) Morning Agenda

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (82%); SAC CAPITAL ADVISORS LP (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (53%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); JPM (NYSE) (82%); JPM (LSE) (82%); 8634 (TSE) (82%); MS (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (82%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (82%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (82%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%)

PERSON: STEVEN A COHEN (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2013



649 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 1428 words

HEADLINE: This Week In Small Business: Mibblio, Kaggle and Shodogg

BYLINE: GENE MARKS


HIGHLIGHT: A $92 quadrillion glitch. Manufacturing is sexy again. The case for paying your people more. And are you prepared to fail? 

 BODY:
What's affecting me, my clients and other small-business owners this week.

Must-Reads 
Ryan Tate says you can hear the screams of crushed start-ups echo across Silicon Valley. Here are five reasons undergraduate entrepreneurship courses aren't producing entrepreneurs. Anil Dash offers 10 rules of the Internet.
 The Economy: Manufacturing Is Sexy
Retail and food service (pdf) sales for June increased slightly, and consumer prices rose 1.8 percent over last year. Tim Mullaney reports on why the economy is not yet a pretty picture, Michael Lombardi explains why a recession is inevitable within 12 months, and Fabius Maximus is confused. But American manufacturers are seeing domestic growth, industrial output rose by the most in four months, and a Penn State University professor proclaims proclaims that manufacturing is sexy again. Conditions in the New York region improved modestly, and the Philadelphia area showed solid expansion. Builder confidence increased to its highest in seven years. Ben S. Bernanke tells the world the Federal Reserve is still easing. Shawn Tully explains why the interest rate party is over. Small businesses created 45 percent of the new jobs generated in June. 
 Finance: $92 Quadrillion 
AmeriMerchant announces a new $60 million credit line to finance small businesses, HSBC starts a $1 billion loan program for small exporters, and a Paypal glitch debits $92 quadrillion from a guy's account. Tracy Kellaher lists four ways banks alienate small-business customers. Here are the 13 biggest Kickstarter projects ever - and where they stand now. Amrik Randhawa suggests three accounting habits to practice weekly, and a new cash-flow tool promises to help businesses improve their forecasting.
 Start-Up: Mibblio, Kaggle and Shodogg
Here's why so many start-ups have silly names, like Mibblio, Kaggle and Shodogg. A start-up wants to help freelancers earn more. Here are 16 essential skills for freelancers. Google and Blackbox, a global start-up accelerator, team up to help selected start-ups. A study reveals how to spot future entrepreneurs (hint: it's not about the grades), and one entrepreneur makes millions doing the chores we all dread. Nathan Beckord explains how he hacked the start-up conference circuit. 
 People: Unlimited Vacation 
Justin Fox makes the case for paying people more. Bryan Goldberg explains why seeing employees get rich is awesome. The chief technology officer and co-founder of HubSpot says employees should get unlimited vacation, and this company is advertising for a happiness engineer. A business owner offers employees the use of a financial adviser. The difference between how employees are are treated at a company can boil down to which ones have children. Victor Cheng suggests five ways to keep employees from checking out on the job. Christine Comaford shares her thoughts on using psychology to engage employees. A restaurant owner fires all of his employees by text message.
 Management: Crazy, Successful People 
Here are some tips for making it in the art world. Carolyn Gregoire shares the one thing that many "crazy successful people" do every morning. A Sage survey finds small-business owners continue to work longer hours and take less vacation. Srikanth An says doing foolish things with enthusiasm is one of 10 traits of a successful entrepreneur, and Valerie Balester lists seven habits of highly effective communicators. Lin DeBeaulieu shares a few fitness tips for business travelers, and Paul Mah shows how to transform your hotel room into a productive workspace. Prasad Kaipa explains to tell if you're suffering from "Superman syndrome." Jason Piatt suggests eight steps to improve operational processes.
 Marketing: Selling in Asia 
Jeff Bullas points out seven marketing trends you should not ignore. Sean D'Souza says there are three core elements of good storytelling (and says your business needs them). Sonia Simone says there are five things you can do this week to fix your marketing. Craig Briggs has 12 answers to help Western marketers sell in Asia. Some retailers are tracking their shoppers' cell phones, and research finds that mobile accounts for 85 percent of gas and convenience store searches.
 Social Media: Twitter Power 
Stephanie Miles shares seven strategies for maximizing the success of your social media. This infographic reveals the marketing power of Twitter. Dave Matthews hitchhikes to his own show. Bridget Ayers wants you to implement these simple security settings for your social media activities. Becky McCray explains what to do if you hate your Web site. Andy Hayes shares three Web trends that customers (and business owners) will love.
 Around The Country: Boot Camp for Women
Detroit files the largest municipal bankruptcy in American history. Moody's downgrades Chicago's debt. Miami is experiencing a rise in start-up activity, and Phoenix small businesses are seeing a growing economy. Angered by the Zimmerman verdict, some are calling for a boycott of Florida businesses. An entrepreneur finds a niche in the San Francisco rental market. The Community College of Philadelphia is offering free small-business training. An online event will feature a panel of women entrepreneurs who have received financing from United States Special Operations Command. American Express Open will hold a boot camp for women entrepreneurs in September.
 Around The World: Hitting the (Great) Wall 
The world's largest building opens for business in China even as the country's economic growth slows (and Paul Krugman suggests it's about to hit the wall). Central bankers in India and Brazil tighten liquidity. The infamous Russian oligarch Sergey Veremeenko shows how the .00001 percent lives in Moscow. British retailers are coming up with creative ways to capitalize on the royal baby buzz. The Middle East tops the West in female founders of tech companies.
 Red Tape: Planning for Bunny Disasters 
Microsoft is backing a small-business lobby to ease immigration laws. The Feds want a disaster plan to protect magic-hat bunnies. Here's how Hurricane Sandy affected local taxes. Richard Posner says the sequester has been a failure. The Internal Revenue Service cancels one of its furlough days. A report finds that two of every three small-business executives say they're not ready for the Affordable Care Act. Still, the new law is bringing good news about insurance premiums. Hamilton Nolan reports that part-time is the new full-time, but Matthew Yglesias says "Obamacare" is not to blame. Privacy fears over the legislation are looming as agencies begin to link up. More doctors are bailing out on their practices.
 Technology: Five Million Smartwatches 
A research firm says $2.1 trillion will go into information technology spending in 2013. Paid apps are on the decline. Five million smartwatches are expected to ship in 2014. Ramon Ray has 10 tips for staying safe and virus free. New Mac malware is confusing users. Here are the eight best apps for team collaboration. Samsung continues to dominate Android. Microsoft's introduction of the Surface was "a disaster," but Tony Bradley says the device can help small businesses reduce tech costs. Sameer Doshi, who is blind, shows how he uses a computer. Researchers have developed a phone that can be recharged with urine.
 Tweet Of The Week 
[#x200f]@SalesLeaderTodd - Is there a silver bullet for sales? Nope. If you have forgotten the basics get reacquainted and sell more.
 The Week's Best Quotes 
 Seth Godin believes more people are marketing badly: "The cure? Notice what is working in the real world and try to figure out why. Apply it to your work. Repeat. Learn to see, to discern the difference between good and bad, between useful and merely comfortable."
 Adrienne Asselmeier says failure really is an option: "Instead of proclaiming that you're not afraid to fail, it's important to contemplate challenges you may face, how you will handle them, and what you will do if ultimately you do fail. If you're prepared for failure as an option, then you won't end up in the gutter because you will be vigilant and flexible while still working toward your business goals."
 This Week's Question: Are you prepared to fail?

Gene Marks owns the Marks Group, a Bala Cynwyd, Pa., consulting firm that helps clients with customer relationship management. You can follow him on Twitter. 

        
This Week In Small Business: The Employer Mandate
        
This Week in Small Business: Firing the Founder
        
This Week in Small Business: Analytics and Hashtags
        
This Week in Small Business: Cronuts!
        
This Week in Small Business: Gordon Ramsay Calling!

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (93%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (89%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (78%); EMPLOYEE TURNOVER & RETENTION (78%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); RECESSION (76%); RESTAURANTS (76%); SPOT MARKET (76%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (71%); JOB CREATION (66%); INTEREST RATES (52%); TEXT MESSAGING (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Entrepreneurship; Small Business; Social Media; Start-ups; United States Economy; Dashboard

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (58%); PAYPAL INC (54%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (54%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (54%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (54%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (76%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2013



650 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1845 words

HEADLINE: Cohen of SAC in the Spotlight

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Regulators argue that Steven A. Cohen knew about and took part in suspicious trading activity at SAC. | A maneuver by financial players adds a fraction of a penny to the price of aluminum cans. | The governing Liberal Democrats in Japan secured a landslide victory in parliamentary elections. | A revelation in Detroit illustrates a broader debate over pension math. 

 BODY:
Defenders of the billionaire hedge fund manager Steven A. Cohen have argued that the unusual structure of his firm, SAC Capital Advisors, shielded him from any illegal trading by his employees. But in a legal filing on Friday, federal regulators argued that Mr. Cohen was not only aware of suspicious trading activity at SAC but participated in it, DealBook's Peter Lattman writes. "Faced with red flags of potentially unlawful conduct by employees under his supervision, Cohen allowed his traders to execute the recommended trades and stood by," the Securities and Exchange Commission said.
The information in the S.E.C. filing could provide ammunition for federal prosecutors and the F.B.I., Mr. Lattman writes. "Among the actions being contemplated by the Justice Department is bringing a broad conspiracy charge against the fund itself, accusing it of multiple acts of insider trading over a period of years." The case also "adds detail on Mr. Cohen's role in his firm's buildup of large stakes in two drug makers, the subject of a separate criminal case, including the first mention of input from a former SAC employee who is now a hedge fund manager."
An SAC spokesman said Mr. Cohen at all times acted appropriately and would fight the charges. 
The filing on Friday represents the first government action brought directly against Mr. Cohen after an inquiry that has persisted for nearly a decade. It includes new and detailed evidence, quoting e-mails and instant message conversations between Mr. Cohen and employees at his firm.
A LUCRATIVE SHUFFLE OF ALUMINUM | A maneuver by Goldman Sachs and other financial players adds a fraction of a penny more to the price of a can of soda, beer or juice, ultimately costing consumers billions of dollars when multiplied by the 90 billion aluminum cans consumed in the United States each year, David Kocieniewski writes in The New York Times. The story begins in 27 industrial warehouses in the Detroit area, where a Goldman subsidiary has choreographed an industrial dance to exploit pricing regulations set up by an overseas commodities exchange, Mr. Kocieniewski reports. A fleet of trucks shifts 1,500-pound bars of aluminum among the warehouses, lengthening the storage time and adding many millions a year to the coffers of Goldman, which owns the warehouses and charges rent to store the metal.
"The inflated aluminum pricing is just one way that Wall Street is flexing its financial muscle and capitalizing on loosened federal regulations to sway a variety of commodities markets, according to financial records, regulatory documents and interviews with people involved in the activities," Mr. Kocieniewski writes. "The maneuvering in markets for oil, wheat, cotton, coffee and more have brought billions in profits to investment banks like Goldman, JPMorgan Chase and Morgan Stanley, while forcing consumers to pay more every time they fill up a gas tank, flick on a light switch, open a beer or buy a cellphone."
IN JAPAN, ELECTION VICTORY SIGNALS CHANGE | The governing Liberal Democrats in Japan secured a landslide victory in parliamentary elections on Sunday, offering Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, a nationalist who promises to revitalize Japan's deflationary economy, "the chance to be the most transformative leader in a decade," Martin Fackler writes in The New York Times. "The win comes at a time when many Japanese seem more open than ever to change, after years of failed efforts to end their nation's economic slump."
ON THE AGENDA | 
Hasbro and McDonald's report earnings Monday morning. Netflix reports earnings after the market closes. Data on sales of existing homes in June comes out at 10 a.m. Barney Frank, the former congressman from Massachusetts, is on CNBC at 4 p.m.
DETROIT GAP REVEALS DISPUTE ON PENSION MATH | The bad news came seemingly out of nowhere. In mid-June, a firm hired by Detroit's emergency manager found a $3.5 billion hole in the city's pension system. "But Detroit's pension revelation is nothing new to many people who run pension plans for a living, the math-and-statistics whizzes known as actuaries," Mary Williams Walsh writes in DealBook. "For several years, little noticed in the rest of the world, their staid profession has been fighting over how to calculate the value, in today's dollars, of pensions that will be paid in the future."
TWILIGHT OF BIG LAW | White-shoe law firms are facing a crisis that would have been unthinkable a generation ago, Noam Scheiber writes in The New Republic. "Part of the reason the law-firm ecosystem has changed so dramatically in a single generation is greed: The most profitable partners steadily discarded their underachieving colleagues, because they didn't want to share the spoils. And part of the reason is the brutal recession that began in 2007, prompting corporations to slash every conceivable expense, law firms included. But the biggest problem is that there are simply many, many more high-priced lawyers today than there is high-priced legal work."
 | Contact: @williamalden | E-mail
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions »
Ways to Muscle Out Competing Deal Offers | AT&T's $1.19 billion acquisition agreement with Leap Wireless includes provisions intended to protect against competing bids, Steven M. Davidoff writes in the Deal Professor column. But are such protections likely to become commonplace? DealBook »
Hutchison Whampoa May Sell Grocery Chain | Hutchison Whampoa, which is controlled by the billionaire Li Ka-shing, confirmed that it was considering selling its ParknShop supermarket chain in Hong Kong, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Allbritton TV Stations Expected to Sell for Up to $1 Billion | Bids for the eight television stations are due on Monday, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Buyout Firm Said to Explore Sale of Six3 Systems | The buyout firm GTCR "hopes to fetch as much as $1 billion" for Six3 Systems, which provides intelligence services to government agencies, Reuters reports, citing four unidentified people familiar with the matter. REUTERS
INVESTMENT BANKING »
UBS Quarterly Profit Rises | UBS reported net income of about 690 million Swiss francs ($734 million) in the second quarter, compared with 524 million francs a year earlier. The bank also said it was close to a settlement over sales of mortgage-backed bonds. BLOOMBERG NEWS
How to Make Banks Safer | "On both sides of the Atlantic, much more needs to be done on a fundamental issue - the structure of banking entities," Michael Barr, a former assistant secretary of the Treasury for financial institutions, and John Vickers, the former chairman of Britain's Independent Commission on Banking, write in an essay in The Financial Times. FINANCIAL TIMES
2 JPMorgan Directors Resign | Two directors at JPMorgan Chase who had received lackluster support from shareholders resigned on Friday, the latest change in the aftermath of a multibillion-dollar trading loss last year. DEALBOOK
An Important Reminder on How Bonds Work | A recent bulletin from the Securities and Exchange Commission, titled "Interest Rate Risk," was a cry for understanding, Jeff Sommer writes in The New York Times. NEW YORK TIMES
How Interval Training Can Make You Incredibly Efficient at Work | Just as runners find that short, intense workouts are a good way to train, bursts of single-minded tasks can help us be far more efficient with work, Tony Schwartz writes in the Life@Work column. DealBook »
PRIVATE EQUITY »
CVC Raises Fund for European Buyouts | CVC Capital Partners has raised 10.5 billion euros ($13.8 billion) for "the largest fund for European buyouts since the start of the financial crisis," according to The Financial Times. FINANCIAL TIMES
HEDGE FUNDS »
S.E.C. Rejects Its Own Deal With Hedge Fund Manager | The decision to overrule its own enforcement division's proposed settlement with the high-flying money manager Philip A. Falcone signals a broader crackdown by the agency. DealBook »
NetApp Adds Directors Amid Push for Changes | The addition of two directors to the board of NetApp at the urging of the activist hedge fund Elliott Management hints at a possible push for a sale. DealBook »
I.P.O./OFFERINGS »
Facebook's Bid to Expand in Developing World | For more than two years, Facebook has quietly been working on a project to get the social network onto the billions of cheap "feature phones" that are still the norm in developing countries, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
VENTURE CAPITAL »
Aereo as Bargaining Chip in a Television Battle | "Analysts have theorized that distributors could exploit Aereo, or a service like it, to avoid paying increasingly steep retransmission fees," Brian Stelter writes in The New York Times. Aereo, a start-up backed by Barry Diller and other venture capitalists, picks up television signals and streams them to Internet-connected devices. NEW YORK TIMES
Upstarts Challenging the Taxi Industry | "Companies like Uber are continually confronting the obstacle of entrenched government bureaucracy, resistant unions of taxi drivers and dispatchers, and overlapping and sometimes conflicting systems of state and city regulation," Nick Bilton writes on the Bits blog of The New York Times. NEW YORK TIMES
LEGAL/REGULATORY »
Files Suggest Chinese Graft Case May Expand | Apart from the British pharmaceutical giant GlaxoSmithKline, "at least six other global pharmaceutical companies, including Merck, Novartis, Roche and Sanofi, used the same travel agency to make arrangements for events and conferences," David Barboza reports in The New York Times. NEW YORK TIMES
Glaxo Says Executives in China May Have Acted Unlawfully | "Certain senior executives of GSK China, who know our systems well, appear to have acted outside of our processes and controls which breaches Chinese law," the head of emerging markets for GlaxoSmithKline, Abbas Hussain, said in a statement, according to Reuters. REUTERS
Under New Chief, a Feistier S.E.C. Emerges | A flurry of moves appeared to signal that the Securities and Exchange Commission was striking a harder line with Wall Street under its new chairwoman, Mary Jo White. DealBook »
S.E.C. Accuses Miami of Misleading Bond Investors | The Securities and Exchange Commission filed charges on Friday afternoon, accusing Miami of giving misleading information about its finances to investors in 2009 to make its municipal bonds more attractive. DealBook »
An Effort to Pierce a Wall Street Fog | Thanks to investigators in Europe, we may learn more about what went on behind the scenes in the trillion-dollar market for credit-default swaps, Gretchen Morgenson writes in The New York Times. NEW YORK TIMES
Former Brokers Appear in Court in Libor Case | Two former brokers at RP Martin Holdings made their first court appearance in London on Friday in connection to charges tied to the manipulation of global benchmark interest rates. DealBook »
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); HEDGE FUNDS (90%); METALS MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); COTTON MARKETS (89%); ALUMINUM MARKETS (89%); WHEAT MARKETS (89%); ENERGY MARKETS (89%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (86%); MISCONDUCT (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); INSIDER TRADING (77%); FIBER MARKETS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (75%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (75%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); GENERAL WAREHOUSING (61%) Morning Agenda

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (82%); SAC CAPITAL ADVISORS LP (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (53%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); JPM (NYSE) (82%); JPM (LSE) (82%); 8634 (TSE) (82%); MS (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (82%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (82%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (82%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%)

PERSON: STEVEN A COHEN (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2013



651 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Lede)

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2013

LENGTH: 449 words

HEADLINE: Wait for Royal Baby Lets a Nation Revel in Nostalgia

BYLINE: KATRIN BENNHOLD


HIGHLIGHT: It is hard not to be struck by the frantic enthusiasm the monarchy still seems to inspire in 21st-century Britain. 

 BODY:
LONDON - It is hard not to be struck by the frantic enthusiasm the monarchy still seems to inspire in 21st-century Britain.
Awaiting the birth of a child who will be third in line to the throne, commuters fill in know-your-royal-baby quizzes and shops sell "Born to Reign" onesies. The Museum of London has an exhibition called "A Royal Arrival," displaying the embroidered infant skull cap once worn by Charles I and a nursing robe used by Queen Victoria. 
This is a country where citizens are also known as "subjects," where lawyers wear period-drama wigs in court, and where, by law, all swans, whales and sturgeons are the property of Her Majesty, Queen Elizabeth II.
But more than three-quarters of her majesty's subjects are quite happy to keep in place the system of inherited privilege and power that in turn keeps her in Buckingham Palace, a proportion that has remained pretty stable over the decades.
According to the polling company Ipsos Mori, support for abolishing the monarchy stood at 18 percent in 1969, 18 percent in 1993, 19 percent in 2002 and 18 percent in 2011. This, the pollsters say, is probably the most stable trend they have ever measured.
At a time of economic hardship and falling confidence in other institutions, from Parliament to the financial sector to the media, this popularity is remarkable. "The royals are unbelievably resilient, and you have to give them credit for it," said Maya Jasanoff, a history professor at Harvard and an expert on the British Empire.
Despite all the quirky anachronisms, the House of Windsor seems to have modernized its image just enough to maintain the population's loyalty, Ms. Jasanoff said. The turbulent 1990s, during which Prince Charles and Princess Diana divorced, Diana was killed in a car crash with her lover, and the queen's popularity briefly slumped as the palace struggled to manage this news flow, might ultimately have helped to turn the royal family into something more human, more modern and "more normal," Ms. Jasanoff said.
At the same time, the monarchy provides a sense of continuity to a nation troubled by austerity and bouts of nostalgia for a more glamorous past, she said. The queen, who was crowned in 1953, is the most visible living link Britons have to World War II, a part of history that remains a defining moment for modern British identity.
"In America we've made the Constitution our source of stability," Ms. Jasanoff said. "The monarchy is a source of stability."

        
How the Royal Birth Will Be Announced
        
Whether a Boy or a Girl, Third in Line to the Throne
        
Live Video of Royal Baby Watch in London
        
The Five Stages of the Royal Baby Wait
        
American Declared Blogger Non Grata in Britain for Anti-Islam Crusade

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BRITISH MONARCHS (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); BRITISH ROYALTY (89%); FAMILY (89%); HISTORY (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); TRENDS (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); WORLD WAR II (50%); RELIGION (50%) Catherine, Duchess of Cambridge; Great Britain; Royal Family; Europe; News; world

COMPANY: IPSOS MORI (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%)

PERSON: ELIZABETH II, QUEEN OF THE UNITED KINGDOM (79%); CATHERINE, DUCHESS OF CAMBRIDGE (68%); PRINCESS DIANA (56%) Catherine, Duchess of Cambridge

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (94%) UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (92%) Great Britain

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2013



652 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 452 words

HEADLINE: Extended Stay America Aims to Go Public

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Extended Stay, a hotel chain owned by three investment firms, filed on Monday for an initial public offering. The I.P.O. would be the latest deal to test investors&#8217; willingness to bet on a recovery in real estate. 

 BODY:
Less than three years after leaving bankruptcy, Extended Stay America has made plans to sell its shares to the investing public.
Extended Stay, a hotel chain owned by three investment firms, filed on Monday for an initial public offering. The I.P.O. would be the latest deal to test investors' willingness to bet on a recovery in real estate. 
The offering will consist of common stock of Extended Stay America and Class B stock of ESH Hospitality, a real estate investment trust, the filing said. Those two securities will be attached and trade together, according to the company.
The company said in the filing that it would aim to raise up to $100 million in an I.P.O., but that amount could change. It did not specify the number of shares to be sold or the price.
The offering would represent a relatively rapid turnaround for Extended Stay under its three owners - the investment firms Centerbridge Partners and Paulson & Company and the private equity firm Blackstone Group - which bought the company out of bankruptcy for about $3.9 billion in 2010.
It would also be the latest "exit" for a company backed by private equity. With stocks buoyant, private equity firms have held public offerings this year for a range of companies, including HD Supply, Quintiles Transnational and SeaWorld Entertainment.
Founded in 1995, Extended Stay has grown into a giant in the North American hotel business, with 682 hotel properties in the United States and Canada. In addition to its flagship brand, it operates under the names Crossland Economy Studios and Hometown Inn.
The company has had a handful of financial owners in recent years, starting in 2004 with an acquisition by Blackstone. Several years later, at the peak of the commercial real estate market, Blackstone sold Extended Stay for $8 billion to the Lightstone Group, a real estate firm.
But the hotel chain suffered in the economic downturn, hurt as business and leisure travelers cut back on trips, and it filed for bankruptcy protection in 2009. Blackstone returned, with Centerbridge and Paulson, to buy the company in October 2010.
The company plans to use proceeds from an I.P.O. to maintain its majority ownership of the real estate investment trust, which, in turn, plans to reduce its debt. Extended Stay reported $3.6 billion of total debt as of March 31.
The company reported $1 billion of revenue last year, a 7 percent increase from the year earlier. Its adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization rose to $434.3 million in 2012 from $409.8 million in 2011.
Deutsche Bank, Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan Chase are handling the offering.

        
Public Offering Values SeaWorld at $2.5 Billion
        
Billabong Secures $364 Million in Financing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HOTEL CHAINS (92%); REAL ESTATE (92%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (91%); PRIVATE EQUITY (91%); HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (89%); COMMON STOCK (78%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (78%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (78%); LEISURE TRAVEL (76%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (71%); EBITDA (70%); COMPANY EARNINGS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%) Centerbridge Partners; Hotels and Travel Lodgings; Initial Public Offerings; Paulson & Co; Private Equity; Real Estate (Commercial); The Blackstone Group; I.P.O./Offerings; Retail/Leisure

COMPANY: BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (92%); EXTENDED STAY AMERICA INC (90%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%); QUINTILES TRANSNATIONAL CORP (54%); QUINTILES TRANSNATIONAL HOLDINGS INC (54%); SEAWORLD ENTERTAINMENT INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Centerbridge Partners; Paulson &amp; Co; The Blackstone Group

TICKER: BX (NYSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); GS (NYSE) (58%); DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%); Q (NYSE) (54%); SEAS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (92%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (90%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (54%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (54%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2013



653 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 400 words

HEADLINE: Royal Baby Boomlet

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: While some are speculating on whether the soon-to-arrive British royal heir will be a boy or a girl, an economist at IHS Global Insight has turned thoughts to how the birth will affect the economy. 

 BODY:
As you've probably heard, Kate Middleton isin labor. While some royal watchers are wondering whether the baby will be a boy or a girl, or what its name will be, the good folks at IHS Global Insight have turned their thoughts to a more important matter: how will it affect the economy? 
In a client note, the group's chief European and United Kingdom economist, Howard Archer, writes that he thinks the birth event will have a positive but "limited" effect on the economy as people potentially spend a few more pounds to celebrate the event:
The most obvious support to the economy coming from the royal birth will be some boost to retail sales through people buying souvenirs and commemorative items, while there is also likely to be a small lift to alcohol sales as some people will want to toast the Royal Baby. There has also been a boost to the bookies through people betting on the sex of the baby and its name. However, even the boost to retail sales from the royal birth needs to be qualified by the possibility that the buying of souvenirs and commemorative items may be displacing some other discretionary spending. There will also likely be few if any street parties that the Diamond Jubilee and the Royal Wedding encouraged, so the boost to food and alcohol sales will likely be much more limited. 
Mr. Archer notes that the royal wedding and Diamond Jubilee may have actually had a negative impact on British economic output because both involved "the granting of an extra day's public holiday to celebrate the events," meaning offices and stores were closed. Some of that loss may have been recovered thanks to the tourism that the wedding and the jubilee generated, which Mr. Archer does not believe the impending birth will do (at least not now; maybe the international coverage of the new baby could attract travelers' attention in the future).
The royal birth, like those other House of Windsor events, could also temporarily help increase local consumer confidence through its "feel-good factor," Mr. Archer writes, especially on the heels of other good economic and sports news, including Andy Murray's winning Wimbledon and Chris Froome's taking the Tour de France.

        
Dispatch From Europe: Learning, or Not, From Policy Mistakes
        
Stronger U.S. Growth Ahead
        
Labor's Declining Share Is an International Problem
        
How the Revival of Postwar Germany Began
        
The Current U.S. Economy: Text and Subtext

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); QUEEN ELIZABETH'S DIAMOND JUBILEE (90%); BRITISH ROYALTY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (89%); ROYAL WEDDING OF PRINCE WILLIAM & KATE MIDDLETON (89%); RETAIL SALES (88%); BRITISH MONARCHS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (76%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (76%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (75%); TRENDS (74%); BEVERAGE SALES & REVENUES (74%) Catherine, Duchess of Cambridge; Economic Conditions and Trends; Great Britain; Royal Family

PERSON: CATHERINE, DUCHESS OF CAMBRIDGE (90%) Catherine, Duchess of Cambridge

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED KINGDOM (93%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Great Britain

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2013



654 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Latitude)

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 549 words

HEADLINE: The Occupation Preoccupation

BYLINE: SHMUEL ROSNER


HIGHLIGHT: However unfortunate the recent timeout in the Palestinian peace process, it did free up Israelis to examine other problems they had long neglected. 

 BODY:
TEL AVIV - Talks between Israel and the Palestinian Authority are likely to resume soon, it was announced Friday, after three years of stalemate. I guess I'm pleased about this, because communication is preferable to deadlock, and brokering peace remains "urgent" (Secretary of State John Kerry) and of "vital and strategic interest" to Israel (Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu). 
But I am also, unoriginally, worn out at the thought of returning to the same tedious agenda and skeptical about its chances of progress. The maximal concessions Israel is willing to make still don't meet the minimum the Palestinians are willing to accept.
And however unfortunate the recent timeout in the peace process, it did free up Israelis to examine other problems they had long neglected. When the country turned inward over the last three years, it discovered that there was life beyond the conflict.
Perhaps there was a measure of self-denial to this change of agenda. But there was also something very healthy about Israelis talking about economic issues (like growing inequality) and social justice (like providing free education to more children), or about whether the ultra-Orthodox should participatein the work force and the military.
The discussion about integrating the ultra-Orthodox, for example, became possible only after the creation of a governing coalition combining a large centrist party, Yesh Atid, and a large rightist party, the Habayit Hayehudi Party. With the Palestinian issue off everyone's agenda, Yesh Atid, which favors peace and the two-state solution, and the Habayit Hayehudi Party, which supports settlements and opposes the creation of a Palestinian state, could get together and address other matters.
But now, partly thanks to Kerry's good work, we're back to the tired questions of the peace process and their well-known answers. Are you for or against settlements? Are you for or against the two-state solution? What are you willing to sacrifice?
Both the drudgery and the pseudodrama have already returned in the very few days since the prospect for negotiations has been rekindled. The American mediator had to extend his visit because of unexpected difficulties. The Israeli government agreed to concessions but on the condition that it wouldn't have to endorse them publicly. The Palestinian leaders staged a last-minute crisis in the hope of gaining more ground. While Palestinian rejectionists promptly criticized the talks, saying that President Mahmoud Abbas has no legitimate mandate to negotiate on their behalf, Israeli hard-liners promptly threatened to pull out of the governing coalition if Netanyahu cedes too much.
We have been there - and there, and there, and there - so many times before. These negotiations are like a ritual dance, and all actors are too well rehearsed at their roles.
If the peace process stood any chance of going anywhere, the return to boring talks would be a small price to pay. But it doesn't, and this theater could prevent Israel from focusing on other problems it needs to fix.
Is this a reason to reject holding negotiations? On the contrary: It is yet one more reason to get on with them without wasting any more time.

        
Action-Overreaction
        
Coalition of the Unwilling
        
A Few Good Lawyers
        
The One-State Problem
        
The New Scapegoats of Europe

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PEACE PROCESS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (72%) International Relations; Israel; Palestinians; Middle East

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); MAHMOUD ABBAS (58%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (92%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (96%); ISRAEL (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) Israel

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2013



655 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1511 words

HEADLINE: A Legal Bane of Wall Street Switches Sides

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS and PETER LATTMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Robert S. Khuzami is following the quintessential Washington script: an influential government insider becoming a paid advocate for industries he once policed. 

 BODY:
When he left his role as Wall Street's top federal enforcer, Robert S. Khuzami began a long courtship with a who's who of the legal world.
The calls rolled in from financial giants like Visa and Bridgewater, and from white-shoe law firms, like WilmerHale. Some offered outsize paydays, others promised an office not only in New York but also in Washington, where his family lives. They all wanted the benefit of his experience as a terrorism prosecutor and enforcement chief at the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 Six months later, lawyers briefed on the matter say, Mr. Khuzami has accepted a job that pays more than $5 million a year at Kirkland & Ellis, one of the nation's biggest corporate law firms. In doing so, he is following the quintessential Washington script: an influential government insider becoming a paid advocate for industries he once policed.
As a partner at Kirkland, Mr. Khuzami will represent some of the same corporations that the S.E.C. oversees. Critics say this revolving door - common at the S.E.C. - undermines the agency's independence and links it inextricably to Wall Street. Mr. Khuzami, who spent 17 years in the government and has publicly called for lawyers to build public and private experience, called defense work essential to the justice system. 
"It's both aggressive enforcement and vigorous defense that are critical to justice and fairness," Mr. Khuzami, who will start in Kirkland's Washington office around Labor Day, said in an interview.
His compensation package, the lawyers briefed on the matter said, is guaranteed for at least two years. Kirkland, known for lavishing its star partners with some of the highest salaries in the industry, also hired one of Mr. Khuzami's lieutenants at the S.E.C., Kenneth R. Lench. Kirkland is expected to announce the personnel moves on Tuesday.
Some companies and firms offered Mr. Khuzami more money, reflecting law firms' high demands for former S.E.C. enforcers. As Wall Street faces greater regulation after the financial crisis, the firms are clamoring for marquee names who can navigate the agency.
"To make a white-collar practice work, you have to have an incredibly strong and credentialed lawyer who can generate a material number of matters," said Peter Zeughauser, a consultant to large firms. Or, put another way, "You want a big name you can trot out before corporate boards."
Mr. Khuzami's name has circulated around Wall Street for decades. After putting himself through University of Rochester working as a truck driver and overnight dockworker, Mr. Khuzami went to law school at Boston University and ultimately became a junior lawyer at Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft in New York, where he handled securities cases and commercial disputes.
The job paved the way for him to join the United States attorney's office in Manhattan, where he ran a securities task force. During his 11-year tenure at the office, he also prosecuted terrorism cases, including the conviction of Omar Abdel-Rahman, tied to the 1993 bombing of the World Trade Center.
Mr. Khuzami returned to the financial world in 2002, arriving at Deutsche Bank, where he eventually became general counsel for the firm's American businesses. Mr. Khuzami helped steer the bank through the financial crisis and an investigation into its tax shelters.
When the S.E.C. was reeling from the crisis, the agency turned to Mr. Khuzami to revamp its enforcement unit. He joined at a time when some lawmakers wanted to abolish the agency, making it a curious choice for Mr. Khuzami, who already possessed a coveted job.
"When he went to the S.E.C., this was not a guaranteed happy ending," said Richard Walker, Mr. Khuzami's boss at both Deutsche Bank and Cadwalader and a former S.E.C. enforcement official himself. But his prospects improved. Mr. Khuzami drew praise for creating units to track complex corners of Wall Street and applying prosecutorial tactics to civil cases. Under Mr. Khuzami, the enforcement division logged a record number of actions, including a case against Goldman Sachs.
When Mr. Khuzami announced his departure from the S.E.C. in January, the offers came pouring in. All told, lawyers say, he fielded more than 20 inquiries. About a dozen were serious. In addition to WilmerHale; Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison; and Cravath, Swaine & Moore, he heard from Latham & Watkins; Skadden Arps; Fried Frank; and his alma matter, Cadwalader. Kirkland's interest came through an independent recruiter.
Visa and Bridgewater, the giant hedge fund, were among the companies that approached Mr. Khuzami for in-house counsel jobs. The fervor grew so great that Fox Business declared it the "biggest bidding war on Wall Street."
"We started out knowing that everybody and anybody wanted him," said Mark Filip, who leads Kirkland's government and regulatory defense group.
But in recent weeks, Mr. Khuzami and Mr. Lench selected Kirkland, irking some rival firms that waited months for a response.
For one, Kirkland offered Mr. Khuzami the chance to settle in Washington. He has reached deals to buy a home there and sell his apartment in Manhattan.
And unlike WilmerHale, where the white-collar practices are overflowing with former government lawyers, Kirkland offered Mr. Khuzami an opportunity to mold his own practice. At Kirkland, he will handle internal investigations, S.E.C. enforcement cases, white-collar criminal matters and crisis management. He will also advise companies on ways to bolster internal controls.
He joins a white-collar defense group that includes Mr. Filip, a former federal judge and United States deputy attorney general who has led BP's defense in the Justice Department's investigation stemming from the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. Other senior members of the practice are Neil Eggleston, a former senior lawyer in the Clinton White House and Michael Garcia, a former United States attorney.
The revolving door at firms like Kirkland has alarmed some watchdog groups. The Project on Government Oversight, a nonprofit group, released a study this year highlighting a pattern of former S.E.C. officials securing favorable results from the agency.
"It can really help a Wall Street bank to show they're represented by the former top cop on Wall Street," said Michael Smallberg, an investigator at the group. "It's not like you see an equal number of S.E.C. lawyers going to represent shareholders and whistle-blowers."
Mr. Khuzami, however, has embraced the revolving door, delivering speeches outlining its benefits. Anyone required to shine a light on the darkest corners of Wall Street, he argues, must know how it works.
Mr. Khuzami also points to a study last year, prepared by a group of accounting experts, that found the revolving door actually toughened enforcement results. And as a check on improper influence, Mr. Khuzami will face a one-year "cooling off" period during which he cannot have any contact with the S.E.C. He also is forever banned from appearing before the agency in any case in which he was involved.
"You don't undertake a historic restructuring of the enforcement division and bring a record number of cases if you're trying to curry favor with the industry," he said. "Wherever I go, I'm not expecting favors."
Mr. Khuzami joins Kirkland at a time when many corporate law firms have bolstered their white-collar defense groups, a response to enhanced government scrutiny on Wall Street. In addition to the Dodd-Frank regulatory overhaul law, banking regulators and the S.E.C. have warned of new enforcement cases.
As such, Kirkland is the latest firm to make a trophy hiring in this area. Patrick Fitzgerald, the former United States attorney in Chicago, joined Skadden, Arps last year. In June, Winston & Strawn, a large firm based in Chicago, hired Gerald Shargel, a noted criminal defense lawyer in New York. And Ballard Spahr, a firm based in Philadelphia, recently expanded into New York by merging with Stillman & Friedman, a prominent white-collar defense boutique.
As these practices grow, and gaggles of government lawyers leave the public sector to join firms, there is a rising concern that, even with the stepped-up demand, there is an oversupply of white-collar criminal defense lawyers. The problem, legal experts say, is that most assignments don't involve a large team of lawyers billing many hours.
Yet in recent years, amid a challenging environment, Kirkland has performed well. The firm's revenue increased nearly 11 percent last year, to nearly $2 billion, according to American Lawyer magazine.
One reason for Kirkland's ascent has been its aggressive recruitment of top talent from rival firms. In recent years, for example, it made a big push in mergers and acquisitions, adding David Fox and Daniel Wolf from Skadden Arps, and Sarkis Jebejian from Cravath.
As for Mr. Khuzami's pay package, it won't stand out at Kirkland. A small number of the firm's top-producing lawyers make about $8 million a year.

        
S.E.C.'s Revolving Door Hurts Its Effectiveness, Report Says
        
S.E.C. Tries to Use Trader's Goldman Colleague to Bolster Case

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LAWYERS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (75%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (74%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (73%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); FAMILY (71%); US LABOR DAY (64%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (60%); TERRORISM (56%) Banking and Financial Institutions; Khuzami, Robert S; Kirkland & Ellis; legal profession; Securities and Exchange Commission; Legal Profession; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory; Revolving Door; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: WILMER CUTLER PICKERING HALE & DORR LLP (91%); KIRKLAND & ELLIS LLP (90%); CADWALADER WICKERSHAM & TAFT LLP (84%)

ORGANIZATION: Kirkland &amp; Ellis; Securities and Exchange Commission

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (91%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (91%)

PERSON: Khuzami, Robert S

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2013



656 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 982 words

HEADLINE: Royal Baby Arrives to Both Traditional Pomp and Modern Circumstance

BYLINE: By SARAH LYALL; Reporting was contributed by John F. Burns, Alan Cowell, Stephen Castle, Julia Werdigier and Katrin Bennhold.

 BODY:
LONDON -- The news, when it finally came, was hardly a surprise. But after the days of fruitless speculation, of webcams showing live scenes of inactivity, of bystanders photographing one another and of wilting reporters straining for new ways to say that nothing was happening, the arrival of the newest royal heir on Monday afternoon turned out to be as much a relief as a joy.
The baby, a boy who weighed in at 8 pounds, 6 ounces, will not be king for some time: he has to wait in the long line behind his great-grandmother Queen Elizabeth; his grandfather Prince Charles; and his father, Prince William. Nor are British monarchs as important in the wider scheme of things as they were in, say, the 16th century. 
But the birth of the as-yet-unnamed (at least as far as we know) royal son of William and his wife, the Duchess of Cambridge, gave Britain a chance to celebrate itself by connecting its past to its present, something it is especially good at.
It also gave the wider world a chance to demonstrate once again that there is something about royal occasions that can apparently turn republicans into monarchists, however briefly, even in countries that renounced their own monarchies long ago.
Failing that, it gave people here something to focus on that did not have to do with the bad political situation, the bad economy or the bad weather.
Like a bride wearing something old and something new, Buckingham Palace announced the birth in a way that reflected both traditional pomp and modern circumstance. Yes, a piece of paper signed by the royal doctors and announcing that Kate ''was safely delivered'' of a boy was driven from the hospital to Buckingham Palace, where it was solemnly placed on an ornate, gold-trimmed easel to impress tourists.
But the palace first announced the birth the modern way, via a news release that meant the information flashed around the world before the piece of paper even made it into the car. The palace did not explain why it had reneged on its plan to make both statements simultaneously, but one possibility is that it wanted to forestall potential tabloid efforts to follow the car in a dangerous fashion while trying to photograph the contents of the paper.
Following ancient custom, political leaders in Britain hastened to join the happy bandwagon by expressing their pleasure. Prime Minister David Cameron announced on Twitter that he was ''delighted'' and that Kate and William would be ''wonderful parents.''
Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg said that ''this is wonderful news that will make the whole country smile.'' And across the Atlantic, President Obama referred to the ''special relationship'' enjoyed by Britain and the United States -- always a way to warm British hearts -- and declared that he and his wife, Michelle, wished William and Kate ''all the happiness and blessings parenthood brings.''
Members of the royal family said they, too, were thrilled, led by Prince William, who said, ''We could not be happier.''
The story began Monday morning when people woke up to the news that the Duchess of Cambridge, formerly known as Kate Middleton, was in the early stages of labor and that she had been admitted to St. Mary's Hospital in Paddington, where Prince William was born 31 years ago.
For most of the day, that was all the news there was. Hundreds of people gathered at the hospital to find out what was going on, but nothing was going on, at least as far as anyone told them. No one emerged to reveal whether Kate had an epidural, for instance, or whether she swore at William when he told her how to breathe -- these are the Windsors, not the Kardashians -- and the crowd had to wait in ignorance.
It was the hottest day in seven years. Téba Diatta, a British-Senegalese Kate-and-William fan wrapped in a long, homemade Union Jack skirt, had made a cake to commemorate the occasion, but by the afternoon the icing had cracked and the writing had become partly illegible. ''It used to say, 'Come on Kate, we can't wait, give us something to celebrate,' '' Ms. Diatta said sadly.
Meanwhile, another equally in-the-dark crowd had gathered at Buckingham Palace, many people pressed right up against the gates, as if they were prisoners trying to break out of their non-royal lives. Some were Britons who had come especially for the occasion; some were tourists who claimed they just happened to be there; others for some reason turned up in elaborate costumes.
Some couples seemed to be in slight discord over the cosmic importance of the event.
''We're going to wait here until the baby's born,'' announced Denise Cave, a 49-year-old Canadian.
''We are?'' said her husband, Wayne, 51, who did not share his wife's unalloyed excitement. He thought of an alternative plan, whereby Ms. Cave could remain where she was to wait out the labor, while he went to ''grab a beer and watch it on TV.''
The news was released to huge cheers, and then an air of anticlimax. The reporters who had obsessively speculated for days about when the baby would be born enjoyed a moment of emotional satisfaction, and then switched to their next obsessive speculation: what the baby will be named.
The BBC reported that it took Prince William's parents, Prince Charles and Diana, Princess of Wales, a week to name their firstborn son, so who knows when this next bit of news will come. The palace said it would happen ''in due course.''
As night fell at the palace, the crowds realized that nothing else was going to happen -- Queen Elizabeth, for instance, was not going to ruin generations of tradition and suddenly come out to answer their questions -- and began to dissipate. They said it had been an arduous experience.
''It was like going through labor,'' said Michael Frederick, who works in public relations, speaking of the wait, and the heat, and the crowds, and the excitement, and finally of Kate. ''I hope she realizes what I have been through.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: People strained at the gates of Buckingham Palace on Monday to get a picture of the birth announcement, which was placed on an ornate, gold-trimmed easel. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SANG TAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRITISH MONARCHS (90%); BRITISH ROYALTY (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (86%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (76%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (73%); POLITICS (69%); US PRESIDENTS (60%)

PERSON: ELIZABETH II, QUEEN OF THE UNITED KINGDOM (79%); PRINCE WILLIAM (56%); CATHERINE, DUCHESS OF CAMBRIDGE (54%); DAVID CAMERON (54%); PRINCE CHARLES (54%); NICK CLEGG (50%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%) UNITED KINGDOM (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2013



657 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 461 words

HEADLINE: Page Morton Black, 97; Sang Heavenly Jingle

BYLINE: By MARGALIT FOX

 BODY:
For Gothamites of a certain vintage, it was as much a part of life as BUtterfield, ALgonquin and Horn & Hardart -- a jaunty little waltz, its lyrics connoting warmth, fiscal security and celestial reward: 
Chock Full o'Nuts is that heavenly coffee,
Heavenly coffee, heavenly coffee.
Chock Full o'Nuts is that heavenly coffee,
Better coffee a millionaire's money can't buy.
Page Morton Black, the cabaret singer whose sprightly rendition of that song in radio and television ads was indelibly engraved on New Yorkers' brains at midcentury, died on Sunday at her home in the Premium Point enclave of New Rochelle, N.Y. She was 97.
Her death was announced by the Parkinson's Disease Foundation, of which Mrs. Black, a noted philanthropist, was a past chairwoman.
Mrs. Black, the widow of William Black, the founder of the Chock Full o'Nuts company, curtailed her singing career after their marriage. But her voice lived on in the jingle, which was broadcast for more than 20 years. Upon frequent and nostalgic request, she continued singing it at public events long afterward.
The daughter of pianists, Page Morton was born in the Chicago area on Oct. 27, 1915. As a girl, walking to piano lessons in that city, she was enthralled by the nightclubs she passed and vowed one day to appear in them.
As a young woman she moved to New York, where she played and sang in clubs and hotels, including the Pierre, the Vanderbilt and the Sherry-Netherland.
Some years later, in the late 1950s or early '60s, Mr. Black, who needed a new singer for his jingle, heard Page Morton at a Greenwich Village nightclub. She got both the jingle and Mr. Black, becoming his third wife in 1962.
Mr. Black had begun Chock Full o'Nuts in New York City in 1926 as a chain of nut shops, later converting them into lunch counters. By the mid-1950s he was selling its packaged coffee at stores in the Northeast, primarily in New York. (It is now a national brand.)
Not long afterward, the jingle -- a reworked version of an existing love song, ''That Heavenly Feeling,'' by Bernie Wayne and Bill Silbert -- made its debut. The original singer was Mr. Black's second wife, Geanne Martin.
The jingle's original last line, ''Better coffee Rockefeller's money can't buy,'' was changed in 1957, after John D. Rockefeller Jr. and his family complained.
It was the rewritten version, with Page Black's voice and image, that became ubiquitous on the airwaves in the New York region in the 1960s and '70s.
Mr. Black died in 1983. Mrs. Black's survivors include three stepdaughters.
Chock Full o'Nuts, now owned by Massimo Zanetti Beverage USA, has revived the jingle, in a new arrangement, for its contemporary ads. The lyrics have been adjusted for inflation, with ''billionaire'' replacing ''millionaire'' in the last line.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Page Morton Black, a cabaret singer, and William Black, the founder of the Chock Full o'Nuts company, in the early 1960s. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (78%); CHARITIES (76%); PARKINSONS DISEASE (75%); MARRIAGE (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (71%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (70%); STEPPARENTS (68%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: PARKINSON'S DISEASE FOUNDATION (56%)

PERSON: JAY ROCKEFELLER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%); NETHERLANDS (74%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2013



658 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1208 words

HEADLINE: Prices Fuel Outrage in Brazil, Home of the $30 Cheese Pizza

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO; Lucy Jordan contributed reporting from Brasília, Taylor Barnes from Rio de Janeiro, and Paula Ramon from São Paulo.

 BODY:
SÃO PAULO, Brazil -- Shoppers here with a notion of what items cost abroad need to brace themselves when buying a Samsung Galaxy S4 phone: the same model that costs $615 in the United States is nearly double that in Brazil. An even bigger shock awaits parents needing a crib: the cheapest one at Tok & Stok costs over $440, more than six times the price of a similarly made item at Ikea in the United States.
For Brazilians seething with resentment over wasteful spending by the country's political elite, the high prices they must pay for just about everything -- a large cheese pizza can cost almost $30 -- only fuel their ire.
''People get angry because we know there are ways to get things cheaper; we see it elsewhere, so we know there must be something wrong here,'' said Luana Medeiros, 28, who works in the Education Ministry. 
Brazil's street protests grew out of a popular campaign against bus fare increases. Residents of São Paulo and Rio de Janeiro spend a much larger share of their salaries to ride the bus than residents of New York or Paris. Yet the price of transportation is just one example of the struggles that many Brazilians face in making ends meet, economists say.
Renting an apartment in coveted areas of Rio has become more expensive than in Oslo, the capital of oil-rich Norway. Before the protests, soaring prices for basic foods like tomatoes prompted parodies of President Dilma Rousseff and her economic advisers.
Inflation stands at about 6.4 percent, with many in the middle class complaining that they are bearing the brunt of price increases. Limiting the authorities' maneuvering room, the popular indignation is festering at a time when huge stimulus projects are failing to lift the economy from a slowdown, raising the specter of stagflation in Latin America's largest economy.
''Brazil is on the verge of recession now that the commodities boom is over,'' said Luciano Sobral, an economist and a partner in a São Paulo asset management firm who maintains an irreverent economics blog under the name the Drunkeynesian. ''This is making it impossible to ignore the high prices which plague Brazilians, especially those who cannot easily afford to travel abroad for buying sprees where things are cheaper.''
Brazil's sky-high costs can be attributed to an array of factors, including transportation bottlenecks that make it expensive to get products to consumers, protectionist policies that shield Brazilian manufacturers from competition and a legacy of consumers somewhat inured to relatively high inflation, which remains far below the 2,477 percent reached in 1993, before a drastic restructuring of the economy.
But economists say much of the blame for the stunningly high prices can be placed on a dysfunctional tax system that prioritizes consumption taxes, which are relatively easy to collect, over income taxes.
Alexandre Versignassi, a writer who specializes in deciphering Brazil's tax code, said companies were grappling with 88 federal, state and municipal taxes, a number of which are charged directly to consumers. Keeping accountants on their toes, the Brazilian authorities issue an estimated 46 new tax rules every day, he said.
Making matters worse for many poor and middle-class Brazilians, loopholes enable the rich to avoid taxation on much of their income; wealthy investors, for instance, can avoid taxes on dividend income, and partners in private companies are taxed at a much lower rate than many regular employees.
The result is that many products made in Brazil, like automobiles, cost much more here than in the far-flung countries that import them. One example is the Gol, a subcompact car produced by Volkswagen at a factory in the São Paulo metropolitan area. A four-door Gol with air-conditioning sells for about $16,100 here, including taxes. In Mexico, the equivalent model, made in Brazil but sold to Mexicans as the Nuevo Gol, costs thousands of dollars less.
The ability of many Brazilians to afford such cars reflects positive economic changes over the past decade, like the rise of millions of people from grinding poverty and a decline in unemployment, which is now at historically low levels. Salaries climbed during that time, with per-capita income now about $11,630, as measured by the World Bank, compared with $6,990 in neighboring Colombia. But Brazil finds itself far below developed nations like Canada, where the per-capita income is $50,970.
As a result, a resident of São Paulo, Brazil's financial capital, has to work an average of 106 hours to buy an iPhone, while someone in Brussels labors 54 hours to buy the same product, according to a global study of wages by the investment bank UBS. To buy a Big Mac, a resident here has to work 39 minutes, compared with 11 minutes for a resident of Chicago.
Stroll into any international airport in Brazil, and such imbalances are vividly on display, with thousands of residents packing into flights each day for shopping trips to countries where goods are substantially cheaper.
Even though the Brazilian currency, the real, has weakened against the dollar this year (it currently stands at about 2.20 to the dollar), Brazilians spent $2.2 billion abroad in May, the highest amount on record for the month since the central bank began tracking such data in 1969.
Eyeing this market, some travel agents have begun tailoring trips to Miami for clients eager to buy baby products like digital monitors, strollers, pacifiers, even Pampers wipes, which in Brazil cost almost three times as much as in the United States.
Seeking to prevent such shopping binges from getting out of control, the federal police screen travelers upon arrival, picking out people whose luggage appears to bulge with too many items. If it can be proved that Brazilians spent over a certain limit abroad, they are immediately forced to pay taxes on their purchases.
Such screening catches foreigners, too. In May, the police at São Paulo's international airport arrested two American Airlines flight attendants, both American citizens, on smuggling charges after they were found going through customs carrying a total of 14 smartphones, 4 tablet computers, 3 luxury watches and several video games. The smartphones were hidden in their underwear, the police said, and were intended to be sold on the black market.
Before the protests began, Brazil's government had begun trying to combat price increases. The central bank raised interest rates after an uproar over food prices this year contributed to inflation fears. The authorities removed some taxes on some products, like cars. Even so, inflation remains high while the economy remains sluggish, leaving many Brazilians fuming about the high taxes embedded in the price of products they buy.
A new federal law requiring retailers to detail on receipts how much tax customers are being charged has fed some of this anger. Fernando Bergamini, 38, a graphic designer, was stunned after spending $92 one recent day on groceries like tomatoes, beans and bananas, only to glance at his receipt and discover that $25 of that was in taxes.
''It is shocking given the services we receive for giving the government our money,'' Mr. Bergamini said. ''Seeing it like this on a piece of paper makes me feel indignant.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARCELO SAYAO/EUROPEAN PRESS PHOTO AGENCY)(A3) GRAPHIC: Samples of Sales Taxes on Products in Brazil: Brazilians pay at least 30 percent in sales taxes on more than 400 products and services, according to data compiled by a group advocating reduced taxes. Above, protesters in Rio de Janeiro last month demonstrating against government spending on the 2014 World Cup. (Source: Brazilian Institute of Tributary Planning (IBPT))
 CHART: iPhone 5 (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE INCREASES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); SMARTPHONES (78%); RECESSION (76%); FOOD PRICES (76%); EXCISE TAX (74%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (73%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (72%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (61%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (53%)

PERSON: DILMA ROUSSEFF (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (92%); OSLO, NORWAY (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (75%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORWAY (79%); LATIN AMERICA (78%); FRANCE (75%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2013



659 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 451 words

HEADLINE: I.P.O. Plans

BYLINE: By WILLIAM ALDEN

 BODY:
Less than three years after leaving bankruptcy, Extended Stay America has made plans to sell its shares to the investing public.
Extended Stay, a hotel chain owned by three investment firms, filed on Monday for an initial public offering. The I.P.O. would be the latest deal to test investors' willingness to bet on a recovery in real estate. 
The offering will consist of common stock of Extended Stay America and Class B stock of ESH Hospitality, a real estate investment trust, the filing said. Those two securities will be attached and trade together, according to the company.
The company said in the filing that it would aim to raise up to $100 million in an I.P.O., but that amount could change. It did not specify the number of shares to be sold or the price.
The offering would represent a relatively rapid turnaround for Extended Stay under its three owners -- the investment firms Centerbridge Partners and Paulson & Company and the private equity firm Blackstone Group -- which bought the company out of bankruptcy for about $3.9 billion in 2010.
It would also be the latest ''exit'' for a company backed by private equity. With stocks buoyant, private equity firms have held public offerings this year for a range of companies, including HD Supply, Quintiles Transnational and SeaWorld Entertainment.
Founded in 1995, Extended Stay has grown into a giant in the North American hotel business, with 682 hotel properties in the United States and Canada. In addition to its flagship brand, it operates under the names Crossland Economy Studios and Hometown Inn.
The company has had a handful of financial owners in recent years, starting in 2004 with an acquisition by Blackstone. Several years later, at the peak of the commercial real estate market, Blackstone sold Extended Stay for $8 billion to the Lightstone Group, a real estate firm.
But the hotel chain suffered in the economic downturn, hurt as business and leisure travelers cut back on trips, and it filed for bankruptcy protection in 2009. Blackstone returned, with Centerbridge and Paulson, to buy the company in October 2010.
The company plans to use proceeds from an I.P.O. to maintain its majority ownership of the real estate investment trust, which, in turn, plans to reduce its debt. Extended Stay reported $3.6 billion of total debt as of March 31.
The company reported $1 billion of revenue last year, a 7 percent increase from the year earlier. Its adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization rose to $434.3 million in 2012 from $409.8 million in 2011.
Deutsche Bank, Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan Chase are handling the offering.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); HOTEL CHAINS (90%); PRIVATE EQUITY (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (89%); COMMON STOCK (78%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (78%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (73%); LEISURE TRAVEL (71%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (71%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (71%); EBITDA (70%); COMPANY EARNINGS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%)

COMPANY: BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); EXTENDED STAY AMERICA INC (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%); QUINTILES TRANSNATIONAL CORP (54%); QUINTILES TRANSNATIONAL HOLDINGS INC (54%); SEAWORLD ENTERTAINMENT INC (54%)

TICKER: BX (NYSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); GS (NYSE) (58%); DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%); Q (NYSE) (54%); SEAS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (58%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (54%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (54%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2013



660 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 365 words

HEADLINE: Home Sales Slipped 1.2% Last Month

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Sales of existing homes slipped in June to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 5.08 million, but they remain near a three-and-a-half-year high. 
The National Association of Realtors said on Monday that sales fell 1.2 percent last month from an annual rate of 5.14 million in May. The association revised down May's sales, but they were still the highest since November 2009.
Despite last month's dip, home sales have surged 15.2 percent from a year earlier. Sales have recovered since early last year, buoyed by job gains and low mortgage rates.
Still, mortgage rates have increased in recent weeks over concern that the Federal Reserve could slow its bond-buying programs later this year. The Fed's bond purchases have helped keep long-term mortgage and other rates low.
Higher mortgage rates slowed sales last month of higher-priced homes in states like California and New York, the association said. The average rate nationally on a 30-year fixed mortgage jumped to 4.46 percent by the end of June from 3.81 percent at the end of May. The rate was 4.37 percent last week.
That rate increase could hamper sales in coming months, economists said. But most expect housing to continue to recover, though at a slower pace.
''There's little doubt the housing market slowed in the summer as mortgage rates rose,'' Daniel Greenhaus, chief global strategist at BTIG, an institutional brokerage firm, said in a note to clients. ''Housing is still expected to grow and contribute to economic output. It just may not be at the pace we've seen of late.''
Sales of existing homes in June reflect contracts that were mostly signed in April and May, when mortgage rates were lower. Rising rates can cause some signed contracts to fall through if buyers no longer qualify for mortgages at higher rates.
The one factor that might be holding back sales is a limited supply of homes available. Though more sellers put their homes on the market in June, the supply remained unusually low -- nearly 8 percent less than a year ago.
At the current sales pace, the number of homes for sale would be exhausted in 5.2 months. That's below the six months' supply that's consistent with a healthy housing market.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Existing-Home Sales: Annual pace of existing singlefamily homes sold during the month, seasonally adjusted.
 Home Prices: Median price for existing homes, not seasonally adjusted. (Source: National Association of Realtors) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE RATES (91%); MORTGAGE LOANS (91%); REAL ESTATE (91%); EXISTING HOME SALES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (73%); HOME PRICES (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); SECURITIES BROKERS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (75%); CALIFORNIA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2013



661 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1104 words

HEADLINE: European Union Adds Military Wing of Hezbollah to List of Terrorist Organizations

BYLINE: By JAMES KANTER and JODI RUDOREN; James Kanter reported from Brussels, and Jodi Rudoren from Jerusalem. Reporting was contributed by Ben Hubbard from Beirut, Lebanon; Michael R. Gordon and Michael D. Shear from Washington; Thomas Erdbrink from Tehran; and Rick Gladstone from New York.

 BODY:
BRUSSELS -- The military wing of Hezbollah, the powerful Lebanese Shiite group, was blacklisted by European Union ministers as a terrorist organization on Monday in a policy shift that reflected their concern about Hezbollah's suspected involvement in Europe-based bombings and its growing role in the Syria war.
The blacklisting designation was welcomed by the United States and Israel, which have long regarded Hezbollah as a terrorist organization. Hezbollah and Iran, the group's biggest ally, denounced the designation as a capitulation to United States and Israeli pressure. ''It appears that the decision was written with an American hand in Zionist ink,'' Hezbollah said in a statement from Beirut. 
The immediate practical effects of the new designation were not clear, but symbolically at least they were an embarrassment to Hezbollah, the most important political organization in Lebanon. Many Lebanese expressed concern the designation would damage Lebanon's international relations and worsen internal tensions, and Lebanon's president, Michel Suleiman, asked the European Union to ''re-examine its decision,'' Lebanese media reported..
The sanctions that result from the European Union designation are expected to include asset freezes and possible travel bans on some individuals. But some sanctions experts said the policy shift set a precedent that over time could compromise Hezbollah's fund-raising operations.
Europe has been an important financial conduit for Hezbollah, which has been implicated in attacks on Israelis abroad, maintains an arsenal of rockets trained at Israel and has come to the aid of Syria's government in its effort to crush an uprising now in its third year.
The shift in policy toward Hezbollah, announced by European Union foreign ministers at a meeting in Brussels, comes as the United States is trying to broker new talks in the Israeli-Palestinian peace process that could start in the next week or so.
''It is good that the E.U. has decided to call Hezbollah what it is: a terrorist organization,'' Frans Timmermans, the foreign minister of the Netherlands, said in a statement. He said the move would have the effect of ''limiting its capacity to act.''
European diplomats said government experts would need a day or more to agree on how to phrase language to punish only the armed wing of Hezbollah and not its other operations, which run schools, clinics, hospitals and charitable fund-raising activities.
That declaration is expected to affirm that the union's authorities will maintain contacts with all political parties in Lebanon, including Hezbollah, and that ''legitimate financial transfers'' to Lebanon can continue, the diplomats said.
Asked about the effectiveness of the measures, Catherine Ashton, the European Union's top foreign policy official, said at a news conference that ''of course it's partly a political signal.''
In commending the designation, Secretary of State John Kerry said the European Union had sent ''a strong message to Hezbollah that it cannot operate with impunity.'' Mr. Kerry also asserted that the designation would ''have a significant impact on Hezbollah's ability to operate freely in Europe by enabling law enforcement agencies to crack down on Hezbollah's fund-raising, logistical activity and terrorist plotting on European soil.''
But complicating the application of the decision is the intense secrecy surrounding Hezbollah's military activities. While the group's political leaders are well known, its fighters hide their affiliation, sometimes even from their own families. The identities of the group's highest-ranking military commanders usually become publicly known only after their deaths.
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel welcomed the move, but implied criticism that it was addressed only to Hezbollah's militant wing.
''As far as the State of Israel is concerned, Hezbollah is one organization, the arms of which are indistinguishable,'' he said in a statement. ''I hope that the implementation of the decision will lead to tangible steps against the organization.''
Britain began to campaign for the designation after a terrorist attack in Bulgaria a year ago, which killed five Israeli tourists and their Bulgarian driver, and the conviction in March of a Hezbollah operative in Cyprus for plotting a similar attack.
The decision, which required the approval of all 28 members of the European Union, ''shows that no organization can carry out terrorist acts on European soil, such as the appalling attack in Bulgaria one year ago, without facing the consequences,'' William Hague, the British foreign secretary, told reporters while leaving the meeting. ''European nations have rightly come together in response.''
Support for the sanctions grew in recent months partly because of Hezbollah's aid to President Bashar al-Assad of Syria in his military campaign against the insurgency.
To make the decision possible, Ireland and Austria were among the countries that dropped their opposition. Both countries have peacekeepers in the Middle East. Those countries were wary of destabilizing Lebanon by cracking down on militant elements like Hezbollah, and of eroding their own influence on events there.
Italy also was wary of the decision because it has significant numbers of peacekeepers in southern Lebanon, and European diplomats said the country had gone along with the decision to maintain unity in the bloc's foreign policy.
After the decision, Mr. Hague sought to reassure member states that support for Lebanon, including significant aid payments, would remain intact.
Kamel Wazne, a Lebanese analyst and director of the Beirut-based Center for American Strategic Studies, said that by designating only the military wing of Hezbollah, the Europeans appeared to want to maintain dialogue with others in the group, including members of Parliament and the cabinet. He doubted such a strategy would work.
Others called the European Union's action a significant setback for Hezbollah, partly because it could provide the United States with a new legal basis for strengthening its own sanctions against Hezbollah's commercial and fund-raising activities in a way that could then pressure the Europeans to do the same.
The toughened European sanctions against Iran, including an oil boycott, evolved in the same way under American pressure, said Mark Dubowitz, executive director of the Foundation for Defense of Democracies, a group in Washington that supports sanctions. ''Today's military designation was a powerful symbolic blow,'' he said. ''It hasn't been a death blow. But it's certainly laid an important predicate.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Hezbollah fighters, bearing Lebanese and Hezbollah flags, taking part in a Martyr's Day parade in 2009 in the southern suburbs of Beirut, Lebanon. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RAMZI HAIDAR/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEZBOLLAH (94%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (93%); TERRORISM (92%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (88%); POLITICS (88%); FUNDRAISING (86%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (74%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); PEACE PROCESS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%); HEZBOLLAH (94%)

PERSON: MICHEL SULEIMAN (58%); BARONESS ASHTON OF UPHOLLAND (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIRUT, LEBANON (92%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (89%) LEBANON (97%); EUROPE (97%); ISRAEL (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SYRIA (93%); BELGIUM (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2013



662 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 

LENGTH: 760 words

HEADLINE: An Opening in Iran

BYLINE: By CLIFF KUPCHAN

 BODY:
When Iran's president-elect Hassan Rouhani takes office on Aug. 3, he will probably bring moderation to at least some aspects of Iranian nuclear policy. It would be tragic if Rouhani's ascent becomes yet another missed opportunity in the U.S.-Iran saga.
Rouhani was elected with a popular mandate to pursue centrist policies and ease the nuclear standoff. He has consistently called for more transparency in Iranian policy in order to show that Iran seeks nuclear energy and not an atomic bomb. He has called for a more prudent negotiating strategy. He has committed himself to improving Iran's economy, and he recognizes that lifting the yoke of sanctions is important to achieving that goal. 
But Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei will continue to call the shots on nuclear policy, and the common wisdom is that Khamenei is implacably opposed to an agreement. Indeed, Khamenei views the United States with great enmity, and his core constituency -- the Revolutionary Guard -- will be wary of a deal.
But there are reasons for hope. Khamenei must be aware of Iran's dire economic plight, which is in significant part the result of sanctions; the inflation rate is over 40 percent; nearly a quarter of men under the age of 25 are unemployed; and swaths of the economy are failing.
Khamenei is aware of Rouhani's mandate for change, and the election campaign made clear that other powerful groups share Rouhani's views. Khamenei also very likely knows how the new Middle East handles autocrats who completely ignore popular will.
Soon after Rouhani's inauguration, the United States must test whether Iran's new political alignment will produce just happy talk or real policy change.
The best test would be a more creative and forthcoming proposal on an interim nuclear deal -- one that would be difficult for Iran to refuse. The essence of the approach should be ''more for more'' -- more sanctions relief for more Iranian concessions on the most threatening aspects of their nuclear program. The sides would agree that after the interim deal is reached, they would negotiate the end-state of Iran's program within a year.
An interim deal would need to place constraints on Iran's nuclear program so that the West would be confident that Iran could not quickly acquire a nuclear weapon. The West should add the new demand that Iran suspend installation of centrifuges; the growing size and sophistication of Iran's program makes a fast breakout more feasible.
The United States should insist that Iran agree to a more frequent and intrusive inspection regime, and continue to demand that Iran cease production of 20 percent enriched uranium, which is dangerously close to weapons grade, and eliminate its stockpile of the material.
That's a big ask, and in return, the Obama administration has to sweeten the pot.
Iranian elites, including Rouhani, view the disposition of 20-percent enriched uranium as Iran's key bargaining chip; the West won't defang this or other key threats without offering significant sanctions relief.
The United States should propose to ease oil and financial sanctions, using presidential waiver authority to the extent permitted by law. The administration should be willing to allow at least several hundred thousand barrels per day of Iranian crude (of roughly 1.2 million barrels per day that sanctions have blocked) to return to the market. The sanctions relief would be implemented in a slow, reversible manner to deter Iranian backsliding. The elements of this deal should be implemented in stages, to build confidence, but could be agreed as a package.
The Obama administration should not seek an end-state agreement at the outset. While general principles on the endgame should be discussed, the issues involved are far too complex -- and trust between the sides insufficient -- to negotiate a final deal quickly.
Neither should the United States offer any form of a ''take it or leave it'' proposal. Iran's elites would almost surely say no to an ultimatum. And that could well lead to military conflict.
The United States has time, but it is limited. Within the next one to two years, Iran will probably acquire the ability to make a bomb faster than the United States could detect and attack the breakout. After that point, diplomacy would be useless.
The West has effectively used sanctions to rattle Iran. But sanctions will not have succeeded until Iran's nuclear program is tamed. Now is the time to make every effort to reach a deal.
Cliff Kupchan is director for the Middle East at Eurasia Group and a former U.S. State Department official.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (75%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (74%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (73%); INFLATION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); CENTRIFUGES (60%)

PERSON: HASSAN ROUHANI (92%); ALI KHAMENEI (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2013



663 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 724 words

HEADLINE: Biden Arrives in India in Effort to Improve Relations

BYLINE: By GARDINER HARRIS

 BODY:
NEW DELHI -- Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. arrived in New Delhi on Monday as part of a continuing effort by the Obama administration to convince the country's elite of its good will after decades of strong support for India's archrival, Pakistan.
Mr. Biden's trip is the first by an American vice president in nearly 30 years, and it comes one month after Secretary of State John Kerry traveled to New Delhi, the capital, to discuss climate change and diplomacy. 
Mr. Biden's itinerary calls for him to spend a day with political leaders before flying Tuesday night to India's financial capital, Mumbai. During his two days there, he is expected to voice growing concerns about India's economy and its openness to foreign investment before leaving for Singapore on Thursday night.
Investors from the United States and around the globe once flocked to India, drawn by its rapid economic growth, gradual economic liberalization and huge population. But in the last decade, many American companies have found the going far tougher than expected, and their complaints are beginning to resonate in Washington.
The problems that companies confront here -- endemic corruption, shifting government rules and poor infrastructure, among others -- seemed less dire when the Indian economy was growing at a blistering rate. But growth has slowed to 5 percent over the past year, and those issues have become far greater irritants.
Mr. Biden's complaints about India's investment climate are likely to be greeted with some sympathy in Mumbai, since even Indian companies have begun looking for growth outside their country's borders. Investments by both foreign and domestic companies have fallen over the past five years to 31 percent of the country's gross domestic product from nearly 38 percent, said Subir Gokarn, director of research at Brookings India, with crucial sectors like manufacturing and mining doing especially poorly.
Prime Minister Manmohan Singh acknowledged in a speech to a prominent business group here on Friday that the nation's economy was under stress.
''We, like most other countries, are going through a difficult period,'' Mr. Singh said in his barely audible whisper. ''I know that business is deeply concerned about the slowdown in our economy.''
The Indian rupee has lost about 9 percent of its value against the dollar in recent months, a decline exceeded only by the Brazilian real among major emerging market currencies. India has substantial budget and current account deficits, and inflation is running at nearly 10 percent annually.
The country's central bank has been faced with the difficult task of defending the currency by trying to raise short-term interest rates without pushing up long-term rates, which would further slow growth. But the Reserve Bank of India took the unusual step last week of withdrawing a bond sale after investors insisted on interest rates that were higher than the government's bankers wanted to pay.
Ajay Shah, a professor at the National Institute of Public Finance and Policy in New Delhi, said these problems guaranteed that India's era of rapid economic growth would not return for many years.
''There's been a tremendous collapse in confidence,'' Mr. Shah said.
India's government has taken steps to put its fiscal house in order by reducing fuel subsidies, a hugely expensive program that largely benefits the rich. And last week, the government announced a loosening of restrictions on certain foreign investments.
But national elections scheduled for next year are likely to mean that the government will be loath to make additional cuts to popular welfare projects, said Sreeram Chaulia, a professor and dean at the Jindal School of International Affairs. A new food security bill could even expand such social spending significantly.
''Right now, this government is concerned about winning the next election,'' Mr. Chaulia said.
Mr. Biden also intends to push India for further defense cooperation and more arms purchases from the United States, according to a senior Obama administration official.
India has long resisted becoming too close to the American military. Recent border tensions between India and China have jangled nerves in New Delhi and made officials here strive to improve India's defense manufacturing abilities, something the United States has said it could help achieve.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (88%); CURRENCIES (84%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CLIMATOLOGY (75%); BUDGETS (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); BONDS (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); INTEREST RATES (65%); CENTRAL BANKS (63%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (62%); SECURITIES TRADING (60%); CORRUPTION (51%)

COMPANY: RESERVE BANK OF INDIA (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (50%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (50%)

PERSON: JOE BIDEN (91%); JOHN KERRY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); MANMOHAN SINGH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (92%); MUMBAI, INDIA (90%) INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2013



664 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 645 words

HEADLINE: Joint Chiefs Chairman Hopeful on Afghan Pact

BYLINE: By AZAM AHMED

 BODY:
KABUL, Afghanistan -- Though Afghan-American relations have been badly strained, Gen. Martin E. Dempsey, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, expressed optimism on Monday about the prospects for a long-term security agreement between the two countries, saying he would like to see it signed no later than October.
General Dempsey made the remarks in Kabul, where he met with President Hamid Karzai and other Afghan leaders after an especially tense month of accusations and recriminations between the two countries. Mr. Karzai's office was more guarded about the talks, saying that while the Afghans were ready to sign a security agreement, it would have to be one that would bring ''peace and security, strengthen the security forces and create a united and strong Afghanistan.'' 
The Afghan side has been viewing the United States with mounting mistrust. Frustrated over the collapse of an effort to start talks with the Taliban in Doha, Qatar, President Karzai suspended negotiations on the security agreement, which would set the terms for a long-term American presence in Afghanistan. His top aide accused the United States in a television broadcast of using the Taliban and Pakistan to divide the country.
General Dempsey's visit is meant as much to ease those tensions as to address the looming question of the American presence after 2014, when the last coalition troops are scheduled to depart. Afghans across the country are consumed with concerns about the country's security and economy after 2014, and American military planners are stuck in a holding pattern, unsure of how to prepare for later years without a sense of the forces that will be deployed.
''If the question is how will Afghanistan continue to secure itself over time, then the answer over time has to be that it has to develop the capability to do so,'' General Dempsey told reporters at the coalition's headquarters. ''Our offer is to be part of helping that occur.''
He said he was not preparing for what is known as the zero option, in which no American forces would remain in Afghanistan after 2014 to continue the training mission; most likely no other coalition forces would remain, either.
''I don't have a zero option,'' the general said. ''No one has asked me to prepare a zero option. I don't recommend a zero option.''
Still, he said, if the two sides cannot reach a deal, ''there could be a zero outcome,'' where no American troops would remain in the country. Other Obama administration officials have said there is planning under way for that possibility.
Though Afghan security forces have made great strides in the last few years, many people in the country remain suspicious of them. High attrition rates, widespread drug use and rampant corruption continue to damage the reputation of the Afghan forces, even as they take on most of the responsibility for security across the country. Among the many questions that could halt the Afghan forces' momentum is where their budget will come from if there is no security agreement: right now, the forces, including the army and the police and numbering more than 325,000, rely almost entirely on foreign money.
''We've made so much progress, but it's not yet irreversible,'' General Dempsey said. ''The confidence of the security forces and the confidence of the Afghan people will continue to grow, and I think any disruption in that growth, that progress, could be a setback for the country, both economically and in the security arena.''
While General Dempsey lauded the Afghans for the progress their forces have made, though, the Afghan government was publicly airing some reservations.
The Afghan parliament voted on Monday to impeach the interior minister, Mujtaba Patang, saying he was to blame for inadequate security and mounting casualties among the police, including 300 officers killed and another 618 wounded in June alone.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); CORRUPTION (71%)

ORGANIZATION: JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (84%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (78%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (94%) AFGHANISTAN (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); QATAR (92%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2013



665 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 818 words

HEADLINE: South Koreans Ask U.S. to Reconsider Timing of Military Handoff

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN and THOM SHANKER

 BODY:
SEOUL, South Korea -- South Korea, reluctant to weaken its strong relationship with the American military, has asked the United States to reconsider the timing of a plan to cede to Seoul the responsibility for control of the South Korean military in case of war, a Defense Ministry spokesman said Monday.
The Pentagon assumed operational control of South Korea's military in 1950, during the Korean War. It returned peacetime control to Seoul in 1994, but is still obliged to command South Korea's 640,000-member military in the event of war. In 2007, the United States agreed to return that power to the South by 2012. But the date was pushed to 2015 a few years ago, as high tensions on the Korean Peninsula increased the South's fear of appearing militarily weakened. 
This spring, after the North began a new wave of nuclear-related threats, South Korean officials delivered another request to ''re-examine'' the planned transfer through various channels, including in their May meeting with Gen. James D. Thurman, the commander of American forces on the peninsula, said the Defense Ministry spokesman, Col. Wi Yong-seob.
South Korea's defense minister, Kim Kwan-jin, also discussed the request briefly with his American counterpart, Chuck Hagel, when they met on the sidelines of multilateral security talks in Singapore on June 1, Colonel Wi said.
The colonel cautioned that South Korea was not publicly insisting on another postponement; rather, it was requesting that the Pentagon review plans for the hand-off, including its target date, given ''North Korea's worsening nuclear program.''
Such cautious language reflected Seoul's desire to find a quiet solution and avoid a possible public dispute with Washington.
Since North Korea conducted its third nuclear test in February and responded to new international sanctions by repeatedly threatening to attack the South, conservative politicians affiliated with President Park Geun-hye's governing Saenuri Party have argued that South Korea was not ready to take wartime command of its military by 2015.
At the Pentagon, senior officials confirmed that the issue was under discussion. But one senior official said there had been "no formal proposal to adjust plans."
''Both sides have reaffirmed, and continue to work to meet, the conditions'' for transfer by 2015, said the official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss private talks between the two nations.
Gen. Martin E. Dempsey, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, told the Senate last week that the South Korean military ''is a very capable force, but it has had some setbacks in funding to achieve" some of the steps the two allies have set for transfer of control, including the purchase of weapons, the stockpiling of munitions and the mastering of certain surveillance platforms.
General Dempsey stated his support for the existing timetable, and noted that General Thurman and his team were working with their South Korean counterparts to help them "meet the certification and capability requirements."
Seoul is currently negotiating a series of arms purchases, including missiles and a next generation of fighter jets, with the United States.
The two sides were expected to discuss the South Korean request in their regular defense talks in coming months, officials in Seoul said.
When North Korean troops overwhelmed South Korean forces at the start of the Korean War, the South's president at the time, Syngman Rhee, relinquished operational control of his military to Gen. Douglas MacArthur, the commander of American forces then fighting under the United Nations flag.
To South Korean conservatives, the continued promise that the United States would command their country's armed forces in the event of war symbolized Washington's commitment. But as the South's economy grew in recent decades, it also began to seem like a slight to national pride, and efforts to reclaim command responsibility began.
But the mood in South Korea shifted after conservatives came to power in 2008 with President Lee Myung-bak, and especially after a South Korean Navy patrol ship sank in 2010 in an explosion the South blamed on a North Korean torpedo attack.
Opposition parties in South Korea oppose another delay. They said the old defense arrangement hampered the development of the military by keeping it overly dependent on its American ally. But conservatives here said that the hand-off would deprive Washington and Seoul of a key bargaining chip in dealing with North Korea's nuclear weapons program: Pyongyang has sought to diminish and eventually end American military influence on the peninsula.
Last Friday, North Korea's state-run radio warned that a delay in the transfer would be a ''crime against the nation.'' The North has said it built its nuclear weapons as a defense against American hostilities and has long demanded that Washington withdrew its military from the peninsula.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); ARMED FORCES (78%); KOREAN WAR (78%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (72%); POLITICS (67%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (50%)

PERSON: PARK GEUN-HYE (79%); CHUCK HAGEL (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (95%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); SINGAPORE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2013



666 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 319 words

HEADLINE: Slight Gains for Wall St. as Earnings Satisfy but Don't Excite

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
The stock market edged higher on Monday, although disappointing McDonald's earnings kept the Dow Jones industrial average from making any significant gains.
Banks and health shares were the day's best performers; financial stocks advanced for the 10th time in the last 12 sessions. Bank of America led the group, while the American-listed shares of UBS rose 60 cents, or 3.22 percent, to $19.24, after the Swiss bank's second-quarter profit exceeded forecasts. 
Analysts said the market would probably trend higher in the absence of any weak economic news, but it would need strong earnings and positive forecasts to post large gains.
''Most earnings have been good, maybe not great but good, and as a consequence I think investors continue to show that equities is the asset class of choice for them right now,'' said Richard Meckler, president of LibertyView Capital Management.
Weaker-than-expected results from the fast-food company McDonald's weighed on the Dow after it said its full-year results would be ''challenged'' by falling sales in Europe. McDonald's shares lost $2.69, or 2.68 percent, to $97.58.
The Dow Jones industrial average gained 1.81 points, or 0.01 percent, to 15,545.55.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index reached another nominal closing record high, rising 3.44 points, or 0.2 percent, to 1,695.53.
The Nasdaq composite index added 12.77 points, or 0.36 percent, to 3,600.39.
The S.& P. 500 has advanced nearly 19 percent so far this year.
Nearly one-third of S.& P. 500 companies are expected to report earnings this week, including Apple on Tuesday. Of the 109 companies in the S.& P. 500 that have reported earnings for the quarter, 64.2 percent have exceeded analysts' expectations, while fewer than half have topped revenue estimates.
In the bond market, interest rates were stable. The price of the Treasury's 10-year note was unchanged at 93 21/32, while its yield remained at 2.48 percent.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); TRENDS (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); FAST FOOD (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); BONDS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); TREASURY SECURITIES (66%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (71%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2013



667 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 370 words

HEADLINE: McDonald's Posts Tepid Results And Expects More of the Same

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
McDonald's on Monday dashed investor hopes that its business would strengthen in the second half of the year, blaming tougher competition in the United States and weaker sales in Europe. 
The chain, the world's biggest by sales, reported a lower-than-expected profit for the second quarter and said it expected global same-restaurant sales in July to be relatively flat. Its shares closed down 2.7 percent at $97.58.
''Based on recent sales trends, our results for the remainder of the year are expected to remain challenged,'' Don Thompson, the chief executive, said in a statement.
Wall Street analysts had expected McDonald's business to improve in the middle of the year as food inflation and other pressures eased.
''I would have liked to have seen them be a little more positive on things,'' said Jack Russo, an analyst at Edward Jones.
Results for the quarter, which ended June 30, put pressure on Mr. Thompson, who was promoted to chief executive a year ago, when the chain was enjoying a multiyear run of rising sales and profits.
Still, Mr. Russo said Wall Street probably would give him more time, adding, ''I don't see an operator in the United States or Europe really tearing it up.''
In the quarter, global sales at McDonald's restaurants open at least 12 months rose 1 percent, in line with analysts' forecasts.
McDonald's said second-quarter same-restaurant sales in the United States increased 1 percent, missing the analysts' average forecast for a 1.5 percent increase.
The company is fighting to bolster sales as smaller American rivals like Wendy's and Burger King introduce attention-grabbing items, like bacon sundaes, and offer limited-time specialties.
McDonald's, which still dominates fast food, has offered late-night breakfasts, adjusted other menus and advertised value-priced meals to increase traffic.
The chain, based in Oak Brook, Ill., said its new line of Quarter Pounders had sold well. It recently dropped lackluster sellers like premium Angus burgers, while catching up with rivals by introducing an egg-white version of its breakfast sandwich.
Second-quarter profit rose 3.7 percent to $1.4 billion, but earnings per share, $1.38, missed analysts' estimate by 2 cents, according to Thomson Reuters.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: McDonald's profit rose 3.7 percent to $1.4 billion, but its restaurants, like this one in San Francisco, faced tough competition. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAST FOOD (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); TRENDS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%)

COMPANY: MCDONALD'S CORP (94%)

TICKER: MCD (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (94%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2013



668 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 888 words

HEADLINE: Obama Adopts Catchphrase to Describe Proposed Recipe for Economic Revival

BYLINE: By ANNIE LOWREY

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama says prosperity does not trickle down, and a rising tide does not necessarily lift all boats. The conservative policies predicated on those ideas, he maintains, amount to a you're-on-your-own economics, when the country really needs a we're-in-this-together approach: in short, prosperity needs to come from the ''middle out'' rather than the top down.
That is the catchphrase that the White House has settled on to signal both a diagnosis of the problems that have ailed the economy since long before the recession hit and the liberal policies that might act as an antidote. 
Mr. Obama plans to elaborate on the middle-out theory in a series of speeches intended to move the national conversation from Washington's political dysfunction to the economic one on Main Street.
But the middle-out idea is also an intellectual counteroffensive against the supply-side economics that has dominated conservative thinking for decades -- and that were manifested in the tax and budget cuts that Mitt Romney put forward in his failed campaign last year.
The grand idea behind the rhetorical flourish -- which Mr. Obama has used for the past two years or so but which the White House put front and center this week -- is that the hollowing out of the American middle class is not just unfair or unfortunate, it has slowed growth and created a more fragile economy, too.
In that sense, the thinking goes, a thriving middle class is not just a worthy goal in itself, but a path to a stronger economy.
That is because the wealthy tend to spend less of their income on goods like cars, clothes and houses than the middle class, said Jared Bernstein, a former Obama administration economist. But in the past three decades, income has become more and more concentrated among the rich, he said, and that might have depressed the consumer spending that drives the American economy and slowed down the recovery.
''It makes this interesting macroeconomic linkage between the growth story and the inequality story, which has usually been discussed solely in terms of fairness,'' said Mr. Bernstein, who is now at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a Washington research group.
Neera Tanden, president of the Center for American Progress, a Washington research group with close ties to the White House, said, ''What we've learned in this recession is how much of a challenge the demand side has been.''
''A big reason why we still have overly high unemployment is that we have a demand challenge,'' she added. ''Wealthy people are doing really well, and we're still not getting high growth rates.''
Middle-out economics is rooted in liberals' thinking dating back to the first Clinton campaign in 1992 at least. Mr. Obama himself put forward many of its ideas in a 2005 speech at Knox College in Illinois and in his book ''The Audacity of Hope.''
''Middle-out economics is not only an affirmative description of a set of ideas of where growth comes from in the economy, but an inherent criticism of conservative views of where growth comes from in the economy,'' Ms. Tanden said. But White House officials and many on the left said that two factors had recently crystallized the idea: rising inequality and the 2012 presidential campaign.
Since the late 1970s, the top 1 percent of earners has gained an increasingly large share of overall income. The recession interrupted that trend, but the rich have rebounded during the sluggish recovery while other Americans have struggled. The incomes of the 1 percent grew more than 11 percent between 2009 and 2011, but the incomes of the 99 percent actually shrank.
Even before the recession, middle-class families were struggling. Rapidly growing health costs ate away at paychecks, and technological change and economic globalization hit blue- and white-collar workers alike. The median household income, adjusted for inflation, has fallen about 9 percent since its peak in 1999, though the economy has expanded by about 23 percent.
Politicians left, right and center agree that the middle class is being squeezed. But the policies they have proposed to alleviate those pressures are sharply different -- and the conservatives' ideas have galvanized liberals.
Politicians -- including Representative Paul D. Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin, the influential chairman of the House Budget Committee and Mr. Romney's running mate -- have argued that Washington needs to balance the budget, slash taxes, reduce regulations and get out of the way of American businesses and markets to benefit consumers and return the country to prosperity.
But Mr. Obama is again making the case that government need not get out of the way, but do more to help. Already, he has led the fight to raise taxes on the wealthiest Americans and has pushed through a health care bill that will extend insurance coverage to tens of millions of households. Other tax, education and social spending initiatives could do more to help, a White House official said.
The phrase ''middle out'' itself seems to have gained broad usage among liberals after the publication of the 2011 book ''The Gardens of Democracy'' by the entrepreneur Nick Hanauer and the writer Eric Liu.
Mr. Obama started using the phrase during his re-election campaign, and this summer the liberal journal Democracy is devoted to the ''Middle-Out Moment.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); RECESSION (89%); BUDGETS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (87%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (68%); BUDGET CUTS (66%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); MITT ROMNEY (73%); JARED BERNSTEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2013



669 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1098 words

HEADLINE: For the Administration, Another Try To Put the Economy on Center Stage

BYLINE: By MICHAEL D. SHEAR and JONATHAN WEISMAN; Dalia Sussman contributed reporting from New York.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama is restarting a major effort this week to focus public attention on the American economy, a strategy aimed at giving him credit for the improving job market and lifting his rhetoric beyond the Beltway squabbles that have often consumed his presidency.
The new effort, which begins with a major address on Wednesday followed by as many as six economic-themed speeches over the next two months, reflects how often world events, his political adversaries and his own competing agenda have conspired to knock him off that subject. Republicans were already mocking Mr. Obama on Monday, noting that his speeches were among many campaign-style efforts over the last five years to jump-start an economic conversation with Americans. 
The United States economy has grown steadily but slowly for more than four years, with home prices, stocks and retail sales rebounding from their lows in 2009. The economic growth has not resulted in large job gains, but there has been a turnaround in longstanding pessimism among Americans about their financial futures. A New York Times/CBS News poll conducted in early June found Americans increasingly positive in their views of the nation's economy. Nearly 4 in 10 in the poll said the condition of the economy was very good or fairly good, the most in Mr. Obama's presidency.
''We have come a long way since the depths of the Great Recession,'' Jay Carney, the president's spokesman, said Monday.
But the White House strategy brings risks, given that the economy is not yet close to full recovery from the financial crisis. Mr. Carney quickly added that ''we have more work to do.''
Even as they sought to build anticipation for Mr. Obama's address at Knox College in Illinois on Wednesday, White House officials acknowledged the constraints on the president, especially since political gridlock in Washington has persisted through dozens of previous efforts at public outreach by Mr. Obama.
The economic speeches will not contain sweeping new proposals, senior administration officials said Monday. Nor are they intended to break the hardening stalemate on economic issues between the president and his Republican adversaries in Congress. Instead, they are largely repackaged economic proposals that the president has offered for years. Aides said they did not anticipate the speeches leading to a breakthrough with Republicans on looming fiscal fights.
That admission may suggest that the president's advisers recognize how little the president -- any president -- can do to alter the country's economic trajectory when global forces increasingly shape the financial system in the United States and the domestic political system has ground to a standstill.
In Congress, House and Senate spending bills for the coming fiscal year are so far apart that few lawmakers believe common ground can be found to pass them. Instead, the government may have to be financed come October by a stopgap measure that largely keeps spending at current levels with no changes to meet Mr. Obama's priorities -- and both sides say even that is likely to be problematic.
Mr. Obama's adversaries on Monday were quick to point out that the president has frequently set out on similar campaign-style efforts to redefine or restate his economic agenda, often accompanied by rhetoric from his advisers about a new direction or emphasis. Congressional Republicans said they were incredulous that Mr. Obama planned to use another set of speeches instead of legislative negotiations to advance his economic agenda.
''It's a cliché, but if all you've got is a hammer, everything looks like a nail,'' said Michael Steel, a spokesman for the House speaker, John A. Boehner of Ohio. ''They don't know how to do anything else.''
In the fall of 2011, Mr. Obama addressed a joint session of Congress to unveil a $447 billion jobs bill that has not passed. In 2012, as his re-election campaign neared its end, he renewed his vision with a 20-page economic plan. In his State of the Union address in February, the president refocused on the economy after beginning his second term focused on gun control, immigration, climate change and gay rights. And just this past May, Mr. Obama announced he was restarting his ''Middle Class Jobs and Opportunity Tour,'' with stops in Baltimore and Austin, Tex.
''They've been saying the same thing for four years,'' said Don Stewart, a spokesman for Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader in the Senate. ''The previous Democrat Congress passed his agenda -- Obamacare, the stimulus, thousands of pages of regulations -- and the economy is treading water. More taxes, more regulation, and more failures to unleash American energy jobs are not the answer.''
Administration officials on Monday conceded that the president was partly to blame for the debates in Washington veering away from the economic issues that many Americans believe are the most important. One official said that it was incumbent on Mr. Obama to shift the overall focus of the conversation in Washington, but acknowledged that has not happened.
The officials also criticized Republicans, especially in the House, for seizing on what the White House says are overblown scandals: the targeting of nonprofit groups at the Internal Revenue Service and the actions of officials after the attacks in Benghazi, Libya.
They said that some of the distractions in Washington have been out of Mr. Obama's control: the 2010 oil spill from the Deepwater Horizon well in the Gulf of Mexico; Hurricane Sandy's destruction late last year and the tornadoes in Oklahoma City in May; tensions in the Middle East and even the Trayvon Martin verdict.
Administration officials said the timing of the president's speeches was broadly related to the looming fiscal deadlines that are likely to cause bitter fights in Congress later this fall. But they said the president wanted to avoid using the speeches as a negotiating platform over legislative programs, saying he would not offer a to-do list for Congress.
''Our economic vision is not focused solely on the skirmishes that occur on Capitol Hill,'' Mr. Carney told reporters.
Mr. Obama's adversaries in Congress are nonetheless eager to engage him in the trenches. Spending bills winding their way through the House threaten to do profound damage to the president's priorities. Although Mr. Obama has said he will not negotiate terms to raise the nation's debt limit, Congressional Republicans say they will not let the deadline pass without concessions, either on programs like Medicare or on an overhaul of the tax code.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama speaking in May in Baltimore, where he discussed the economy and jobs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHARTS: Americans on the Economy: In a poll conducted in early June, nearly 4 in 10 people said the condition of the nation's economy was fairly or very good -- the most since President Obama took office. (Sources: New York Times/CBS News polls
 National Bureau of Economic Research) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); POLITICS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); EMPLOYMENT (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); APPROPRIATIONS (69%); FUTURES (68%); HOME PRICES (68%); LEGISLATION (64%); RETAIL SALES (53%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2013



670 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ON THE ROAD; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: Fight for Bed Supremacy Spreads to the Skies

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY. 
E-mail: jsharkey@nytimes.com

 BODY:
AFTER years of a cease-fire, the hotel bedding wars are resuming, and now airstrikes are even being called in.
I've deployed ridiculously martial language there only to underscore a point about hotel bedding, which had been a mundane and boring business among old-line mattress makers until 1999, when Westin Hotels introduced a new mattress and bedding accessories branded as the Heavenly Bed, which was developed by Simmons, the big mattress manufacturer.
Whereupon a couple of remarkable things happened that truly did constitute a big pillow fight, or even a marketing war. First, seeing the overnight (sorry) success of the Heavenly Bed, other hotel companies rushed to develop their own branded high-end bedding, whether made by Simmons or by competitors like Serta or Sealy, which markets hotel-branded bedding through its Global Hospitality Collection, and others. 
As hotel companies began buying luxury beds for their properties and selling them through their own catalogs and online sites, the overall retail bedding industry underwent a revolution. Travelers, and especially a new wave of female business travelers after 1999, came home and decided that their own beds simply didn't measure up to the ones they were finding in hotels.
After the Heavenly Bed introduction, hotels in every top category ''understood that they couldn't have a bed in the room that was crummier than the one the customer had at home,'' said Steve Tipton, the vice president of Simmons Hospitality, the mattress company's hotel unit. At the same time, hotel-branded mattresses started to be sold in retail outlets like department stores, and high-end mattresses and other bedding in general had become such a market standard that overall sales soared, to about $6.8 billion last year.
''The consumer connection between the bed and the hotel is a big deal'' in the overall mattress business, Mr. Tipton said.
By 2006, when one hotel company, Hilton, had already invested $1 billion in new bedding since 1999, the hotel mattress race subsided. But now it's back on. As hotels recover from the recession and begin investing again in improvements, Simmons recently introduced a line of hotel bedding called Recharge Beautyrest, positioned to sell upgraded bedding featuring foams that regulate mattress temperature. And even some airlines are now heralding the virtues of high-end mattresses and bedding in international first-class and business-class cabins, where lie-flat beds have become the industry standard.
For example, Delta Air Lines recently began promoting a new ''Westin Heavenly In-Flight bedding product'' for its BusinessElite cabins on international flights and on domestic flights between Kennedy Airport in New York and Los Angeles, San Francisco and Seattle, as well as between Atlanta and Honolulu. Singapore Airlines advertises private suites featuring luxurious double beds in first-class cabins of its A380s, and Lufthansa Technik, the maintenance and upgrade unit of the big German airline, is marketing its own Flexidreamer bed (''for a heavenly sleep''), first developed for luxury private jets and now available for first-class cabins on commercial airplanes.
While such sumptuous comforts are most definitely not available in the airlines' increasingly cramped and austere coach cabins, the evolution of luxury bedding into premium cabins on commercial planes reflects what the hotel business learned well over the last 23 years. As Delta's announcement of the new high-end bedding for its BusinessElite cabins put it, ''In recent surveys, customers have told us that the most important part of the in-flight experience is sleep.''
In the hotel business, a good night's sleep on high-quality bedding is increasingly a top marketing point. For example, Crowne Plaza hotels, a brand of the IHG hotel group, is emphasizing bedding improvements as part of its multiyear initiative to refurbish quality standards at its hotels in nearly 60 countries.
Incidentally, one of the most interesting aspects of the whole hotel bed-wars phenomenon to me has been the impact on the home-bedding market. For most people, buying a home mattress was always an unpleasant chore, ''right up there with used cars,'' said Mr. Tipton at Simmons.
But hotels in effect became real-time showrooms for mattresses. No more plopping down uneasily on a mattress at a department store in a futile attempt to try it out. At a hotel, you use the mattress the way you'd use one at home. Then you can purchase that bedding from the hotel company, or from a retail store that sells lines of mattresses branded with whichever hotel they are found in.
''It really takes a lot of the unpleasantness out of trying a mattress out,'' Mr. Tipton said.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHI BIRMINGHAM) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (94%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); MATTRESSES (89%); MATTRESS MFG (89%); RETAILERS (88%); AIRLINES (84%); HOTEL CHAINS (78%); SALES FIGURES (77%); FURNITURE STORES (77%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (72%); AIRPORTS (64%); RECESSION (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (51%); SINGAPORE AIRLINES LTD (50%)

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (51%); C6L (SGX) (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (51%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); SINGAPORE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2013



671 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 445 words

HEADLINE: Russia Says Assad Is Ready for Peace Talks

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

 BODY:
MOSCOW -- The Russian foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, said on Monday that the government of President Bashar al-Assad of Syria was ready to engage in peace negotiations without preconditions and he urged the United States and other Western nations to bring Syrian opposition groups to the table for a new round of talks. 
Mr. Lavrov, who met here on Monday with the Syrian deputy prime minister, Qadri Jamil, blamed opposition groups for the lack of progress in peace efforts. He and Mr. Jamil said that they had discussed the possibility of additional economic aid for Syria, in the form of a loan from Russia, with terms to be finalized later this year.
After more than two years of civil war, the Syrian economy is in tatters and the Assad government is heavily reliant on foreign aid, particularly from Russia and Iran. Russia is also an important supplier of arms and humanitarian aid to the Syrian government.
Mr. Lavrov and Mr. Jamil said that Russia would continue to sell weapons to Syria through existing arms contracts but said they had not discussed the sale of S-300 surface-to-air antiaircraft systems that have alarmed the United States and its allies, according to Russian news agencies.
The lack of progress in settling the Syrian conflict has been persistent source of tension between the United States and Russia.
The White House is also deeply frustrated over the continued presence of the fugitive former intelligence contractor, Edward J. Snowden, in the transit zone of a Moscow airport and officials in Washington have recently signaled that President Obama may cancel a planned summit meeting with President Vladimir V. Putin scheduled to take place in Moscow in September before the Group of 20 conference in St. Petersburg.
Mr. Lavrov, in comments before and after the meeting with Mr. Jamil, said that Russia remained committed to finding a peaceful resolution to the Syrian crisis and he urged all sides to attend peace talks in Geneva, in accordance with a plan that he brokered with Secretary of State John Kerry.
Mr. Lavrov insisted that the opposition groups were responsible for delaying the talks and, clearly referring to the United States and its Western allies, he said Russia was persistently pushing its partners with influence over the opposition groups to bring them to the table.
''To our regret, in contrast to the Syrian government, a significant part of the opposition, including the National Coalition, does not show such readiness,'' Mr. Lavrov said.
In a statement, the Russia Foreign Ministry said the meeting ''emphasized the common desire for a speedy end to all violence in Syria and the beginning of the recovery process.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PEACE PROCESS (93%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); ARMS TRADE (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (72%); ANTIAIRCRAFT WEAPONS (72%); CIVIL WAR (69%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (67%)

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (90%); JOHN KERRY (79%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); EDWARD SNOWDEN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (79%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) SYRIA (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); SWITZERLAND (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2013



672 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1497 words

HEADLINE: A Legal Bane Of Wall Street Switches Sides

BYLINE: By BEN PROTESS and PETER LATTMAN

 BODY:
When he left his role as Wall Street's top federal enforcer, Robert S. Khuzami began a long courtship with a who's who of the legal world.
The calls rolled in from financial giants like Visa and Bridgewater, and from white-shoe law firms, like WilmerHale. Some offered outsize paydays, others promised an office not only in New York but also in Washington, where his family lives. They all wanted the benefit of his experience as a terrorism prosecutor and enforcement chief at the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Six months later, lawyers briefed on the matter say, Mr. Khuzami has accepted a job that pays more than $5 million a year at Kirkland & Ellis, one of the nation's biggest corporate law firms. In doing so, he is following the quintessential Washington script: an influential government insider becoming a paid advocate for industries he once policed.
As a partner at Kirkland, Mr. Khuzami will represent some of the same corporations that the S.E.C. oversees. Critics say this revolving door -- common at the S.E.C. -- undermines the agency's independence and links it inextricably to Wall Street. Mr. Khuzami, who spent 17 years in the government and has publicly called for lawyers to build public and private experience, called defense work essential to the justice system. 
''It's both aggressive enforcement and vigorous defense that are critical to justice and fairness,'' Mr. Khuzami, who will start in Kirkland's Washington office around Labor Day, said in an interview.
His compensation package, the lawyers briefed on the matter said, is guaranteed for at least two years. Kirkland, known for lavishing its star partners with some of the highest salaries in the industry, also hired one of Mr. Khuzami's lieutenants at the S.E.C., Kenneth R. Lench. Kirkland is expected to announce the personnel moves on Tuesday.
Some companies and firms offered Mr. Khuzami more money, reflecting law firms' high demands for former S.E.C. enforcers. As Wall Street faces greater regulation after the financial crisis, the firms are clamoring for marquee names who can navigate the agency.
''To make a white-collar practice work, you have to have an incredibly strong and credentialed lawyer who can generate a material number of matters,'' said Peter Zeughauser, a consultant to large firms. Or, put another way, ''You want a big name you can trot out before corporate boards.''
Mr. Khuzami's name has circulated around Wall Street for decades. After putting himself through University of Rochester working as a truck driver and overnight dockworker, Mr. Khuzami went to law school at Boston University and ultimately became a junior lawyer at Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft in New York, where he handled securities cases and commercial disputes.
The job paved the way for him to join the United States attorney's office in Manhattan, where he ran a securities task force. During his 11-year tenure at the office, he also prosecuted terrorism cases, including the conviction of Omar Abdel-Rahman, tied to the 1993 bombing of the World Trade Center.
Mr. Khuzami returned to the financial world in 2002, arriving at Deutsche Bank, where he eventually became general counsel for the firm's American businesses. Mr. Khuzami helped steer the bank through the financial crisis and an investigation into its tax shelters.
When the S.E.C. was reeling from the crisis, the agency turned to Mr. Khuzami to revamp its enforcement unit. He joined at a time when some lawmakers wanted to abolish the agency, making it a curious choice for Mr. Khuzami, who already possessed a coveted job.
''When he went to the S.E.C., this was not a guaranteed happy ending,'' said Richard Walker, Mr. Khuzami's boss at both Deutsche Bank and Cadwalader. But his prospects improved. Mr. Khuzami drew praise for creating units to track complex corners of Wall Street and applying prosecutorial tactics to civil cases. Under Mr. Khuzami, the enforcement division logged a record number of actions, including a case against Goldman Sachs.
When Mr. Khuzami announced his departure from the S.E.C. in January, the offers came pouring in. All told, lawyers say, he fielded more than 20 inquiries. About a dozen were serious. In addition to WilmerHale; Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison; and Cravath, Swain & Moore, he heard from Latham & Watkins; Skadden Arps; Fried Frank; and his alma matter, Cadwalader. Kirkland's interest came through an independent recruiter.
Visa and Bridgewater, the giant hedge fund, were among the companies that approached Mr. Khuzami for in-house counsel jobs. The fervor grew so great that Fox Business declared it the ''biggest bidding war on Wall Street.''
''We started out knowing that everybody and anybody wanted him,'' said Mark Filip, who leads Kirkland's government and regulatory defense group.
But in recent weeks, Mr. Khuzami and Mr. Lench selected Kirkland, irking some rival firms waiting for a response.
For one, Kirkland offered Mr. Khuzami the chance to settle in Washington. He has reached deals to buy a home there and sell his apartment in Manhattan.
And unlike WilmerHale, where the white-collar practices are overflowing with former government lawyers, Kirkland offered Mr. Khuzami an opportunity to mold his own practice. At Kirkland, he will handle internal investigations, S.E.C. enforcement cases, white-collar criminal matters and crisis management. He will also advise companies on ways to bolster internal controls.
He joins a white-collar defense group that includes Mr. Filip, a former federal judge and United States deputy attorney general who has led BP's defense in the Justice Department's investigation stemming from the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. Other senior members of the practice are Neil Eggleston, a former senior lawyer in the Clinton White House and Michael Garcia, a former United States attorney.
The revolving door at firms like Kirkland has alarmed some watchdog groups. The Project on Government Oversight, a nonprofit group, released a study this year highlighting a pattern of former S.E.C. officials securing favorable results from the agency.
''It can really help a Wall Street bank to show they're represented by the former top cop on Wall Street,'' said Michael Smallberg, an investigator at the group. ''It's not like you see an equal number of S.E.C. lawyers going to represent shareholders and whistle-blowers.''
Mr. Khuzami, however, has embraced the revolving door, delivering speeches outlining its benefits. Anyone required to shine a light on the darkest corners of Wall Street, he argues, must know how it works.
Mr. Khuzami also points to a study last year, prepared by a group of accounting experts, that found the revolving door actually toughened enforcement results. And as a check on improper influence, Mr. Khuzami will face a one-year ''cooling off'' period during which he cannot have any contact with the S.E.C. He also is forever banned from appearing before the agency in any case in which he was involved.
''You don't undertake a historic restructuring of the enforcement division and bring a record number of cases if you're trying to curry favor with the industry,'' he said. ''Wherever I go, I'm not expecting favors.''
Mr. Khuzami joins Kirkland at a time when many corporate law firms have bolstered their white-collar defense groups, a response to enhanced government scrutiny on Wall Street. In addition to the Dodd-Frank regulatory overhaul law, banking regulators and the S.E.C. have warned of new enforcement cases.
As such, Kirkland is the latest firm to make a trophy hiring in this area. Patrick Fitzgerald, the former United States attorney in Chicago, joined Skadden, Arps last year. In June, Winston & Strawn, a large firm based in Chicago, hired Gerald Shargel, a noted criminal defense lawyer in New York. And Ballard Spahr, a firm based in Philadelphia, recently expanded into New York by merging with Stillman & Friedman, a prominent white-collar defense boutique.
As these practices grow, and gaggles of government lawyers leave the public sector to join firms, there is a rising concern that, even with the stepped-up demand, there is an oversupply of white-collar criminal defense lawyers. The problem, legal experts say, is that most assignments don't involve a large team of lawyers billing many hours.
Yet in recent years, amid a challenging environment, Kirkland has performed well. The firm's revenue increased nearly 11 percent last year, to nearly $2 billion, according to American Lawyer magazine.
One reason for Kirkland's ascent has been its aggressive recruitment of top talent from rival firms. In recent years, for example, it made a big push in mergers and acquisitions, adding David Fox and Daniel Wolf from Skadden Arps, and Sarkis Jebejian from Cravath.
As for Mr. Khuzami's pay package, it won't stand out at Kirkland. A small number of the firm's top-producing lawyers make about $8 million a year.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: After he left his position as Wall Street's top federal enforcer, Robert S. Khuzami was wooed by several financial giants and white-shoe law firms. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ROSENBAUM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAWYERS (91%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (75%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (74%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (73%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); FAMILY (71%); US LABOR DAY (64%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (60%); TERRORISM (56%)

COMPANY: WILMER CUTLER PICKERING HALE & DORR LLP (91%); KIRKLAND & ELLIS LLP (90%); CADWALADER WICKERSHAM & TAFT LLP (84%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (91%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2013



673 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 400 words

HEADLINE: STMicro and France to Invest in New Microprocesors

BYLINE: By KEVIN J. O'BRIEN

 BODY:
STMicroelectronics, the largest chip maker in Europe, said Monday that it planned to invest almost 2 billion euros in conjunction with the French government to develop a new line of microprocessors for smartphones, TV set-top boxes and home routers. 
The company, which is based in Geneva, said it planned to spend 1.3 billion euros ($1.7 billion) through 2017 on new research and development and to expand chip production at its factory in Crolles, France, a town near Grenoble in the French Alps.
France, along with regional and municipal governments in and around Crolles, would contribute 600 million euros to the project, which is part of an industry the government is eager to promote.
France and Italy hold a combined 27.5 percent stake in STMicro, making them the biggest shareholders in the chip maker.
A spokesman for the company, Alexis Breton, said that most of the investment would be used to develop faster and more efficient chips for TV set-top boxes, smartphones and routers to control home security, heating, air and entertainment systems wirelessly.
The market for such chips is expected to grow to 67 billion euros this year, according to World Semiconductor Trade Statistics, an industry research organization in San Jose, Calif. The investment would allow STMicro to double its production capacity of such chips at Crolles, potentially making it a stiffer rival to Broadcom, Texas Instruments, Infineon Technologies and Sony.
Because of the government subsidies involved, the investment must be approved by Joaquín Almunia, the European Union competition commissioner.
STMicro employs 48,000 people, almost half of them in France and Italy, and had sales of $8.5 billion last year.
The company's factory in Crolles, which employs 2,500 workers, expanded recently with 1.8 billion euros in public and private investments.
But continuing losses at ST-Ericsson, a joint venture with the Swedish equipment maker Ericsson to produce chips for handsets, have put pressure on STMicro, which has reported losses for the last six quarters. The venture with Ericsson is set to close later this year.
In a speech to factory workers in Crolles on Monday, the French prime minister, Jean-Marc Ayrault, said the investment reflected an ''exemplary'' partnership between private business and local governments, among others. ''There are more than 24,000 jobs that depend on this ecosystem,'' Mr. Ayrault said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EURO (90%); ELECTRONICS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); MICROPROCESSORS (90%); SMARTPHONES (90%); COMPUTER CHIPS (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (90%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (77%); SEMICONDUCTORS (77%); FACTORY WORKERS (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (76%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (76%); JOINT VENTURES (74%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (74%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (70%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (69%); APPROVALS (66%)

COMPANY: STMICROELECTRONICS NV (90%); INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES AG (59%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (54%); BROADCOM CORP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (53%)

TICKER: STM (PAR) (90%); STM (NYSE) (90%); STM (BIT) (90%); IFX (FRA) (59%); TXN (NASDAQ) (54%); BRCM (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS334416 CAPACITOR, RESISTOR, COIL, TRANSFORMER & OTHER INDUCTOR MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (59%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (54%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (54%)

PERSON: JOAQUIN ALMUNIA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ALPS (58%) FRANCE (98%); EUROPE (93%); SWITZERLAND (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2013



674 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; TRAILSIDE; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 547 words

HEADLINE: Once Creditor and Debtor, Now Rivals for Mayor

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM; Anemona Hartocollis contributed reporting.

 BODY:
In the spring of 1989, a wealthy supermarket mogul entered into an unusual arrangement with an up-and-coming advocate for the homeless.
The mogul owned a slender, four-story apartment building on the Upper East Side. The advocate wanted to buy it.
So the two struck a deal: the advocate could purchase the home, but he would have to pay off the mortgage to the mogul himself, at an interest rate that at one point reached 11 percent. 
The advocate, George McDonald, moved in. The mogul, John A. Catsimatidis, collected his money. And 24 years later, they found themselves running against each other for mayor.
Only in New York, as they say.
The real estate link between Mr. McDonald and Mr. Catsimatidis, both Republican candidates, resurfaced recently after the two hopefuls sparred at a debate, with Mr. McDonald semi-seriously accusing his opponent of arranging a Mafia-like hit on him. (Mr. Catsimatidis said this was not the case.)
Later, in an interview with a Greek-language television station, Mr. Catsimatidis was asked about the exchange. He joked that Mr. McDonald might have ''had a few drinks'' before the debate. Then he began to reminisce.
''I've known him for 30 years,'' he said of Mr. McDonald. ''I sold him his house, and when he didn't have money to pay for it, I gave him a little more time to pay.''
Told of these remarks in a telephone interview on Monday, Mr. McDonald emitted a guttural moan, its pitch landing somewhere in the spectrum between exasperation and contempt.
''That's not true,'' he said. ''That is not true. If I didn't have money to pay, John Catsimatidis would have evicted me!''
Mr. McDonald still lives in the house on East 84th Street, which doubles as the offices of his foundation, the Doe Fund. The mortgage is not yet paid off, although Mr. McDonald took out his own financing in 1998, allowing Mr. Catsimatidis to cash out.
''People should elect me as mayor just for what I did there: paying Catsimatidis and building the Doe Fund at the same time,'' Mr. McDonald said.
At the time of the sale, the value of the house, a modest walk-up, was a little north of $1 million. Mr. Catsimatidis, who has numerous real estate holdings around the city, had bought it for about $300,000 in 1983, he said.
The terms of the mortgage were tweaked over the years, city records show; in at least one case, Mr. McDonald made a one-time lump sum payment in return for a reduction in the overall amount outstanding.
There is no love lost between the two, although accounts of their relationship differ.
''He was my best friend until that debate,'' Mr. Catsimatidis said on Monday, to which Mr. McDonald retorted: ''He's got some idea that we're friends or something.''
Mr. McDonald, in the interview, insisted that any animus toward his opponent had little to do with their past real estate dealings. He derided Mr. Catsimatidis's policy ideas, like reviving the World's Fair and providing tricycles to police officers, as silly.
''It drives me up a tree,'' he said of the proposals. ''He's probably the last person I ever thought I'd be running against for mayor of New York City.''
Mr. Catsimatidis, for his part, declined to insult his rival.
''I bought it for nothing, I sold it for double the money,'' he said of the Upper East Side home. ''It was just a good deal.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: George McDonald, a Republican candidate for mayor, at his home on the Upper East Side. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DEMETRIUS FREEMAN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); EVICTION (78%); HOMELESSNESS (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (76%); INTERVIEWS (72%); HOME PRICES (72%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (69%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (52%)

PERSON: JOHN CATSIMATIDIS (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2013



675 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 607 words

HEADLINE: Getting Detroit Back on Its Feet

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

 BODY:
After suffering through decades of economic decline and official mismanagement, the city of Detroit sought bankruptcy protection last week, becoming the largest American municipality to take that extreme step. The city's debts total a staggering $18 billion, far more than it could ever afford to pay back given its shrinking population and tax base.
There is no doubt that bankruptcy proceedings will be very painful for Detroit's population of 700,000. Bankruptcy cases can drag on for years, and city services, which have already been slashed, could deteriorate further. 
But the bankruptcy case might also allow Detroit to be relieved of paying back its bondholders and banks much of estimated $9 billion they lent to Detroit on overly rosy assumptions. This group will, of course, push the city and state to also force concessions on city workers and retirees, whose pension funds are underfinanced by about $3.5 billion.
But city officials should resist the idea of cutting the pension payments for the city's public workers, which averages $19,000 a year. Unlike the situation in other troubled cities where government officials made lavish pension promises and workers gamed the system to inflate their benefits, Detroit's are quite modest. Moreover, city employees have already had their pay and benefits reduced significantly in recent years. Slashing the meager fixed incomes of retirees will also hurt the city's weak economy because they are more likely to spend most of the money they receive in local businesses. Labor unions also argue that Michigan's Constitution protects their pensions from cuts, which will set up a potentially long legal battle that the city can ill afford.
There are many causes to Detroit's financial problems. Foreign competitors and global economic forces have battered its industrial base, particularly the Big Three automakers. Corrupt and inept government officials have squandered its wealth. And a flight to the suburbs by businesses and residents has sapped its resources and spirit. In recent years, the city has tried to respond these challenges by raising taxes and severely cutting spending on vital services like police, fire and even streetlights. But its efforts have not been sufficient to pull it out of a downward spiral that in many ways exacerbated its decline by, for instance, undermining public safety.
Its federal bankruptcy filing, which has been challenged in state courts by city pension funds, gives Detroit a chance to hit reset and try to start over. The city is seeking to have a big chunk of its liabilities, including the pensions it owes to city employees and retirees, written down significantly. An emergency manager appointed by the State of Michigan, Kevyn Orr, also wants Detroit to spend more money to clean up blighted neighborhoods and bring down its high crime rate.
Even if the city is able to wipe out much of its debts in bankruptcy court, officials in Detroit and at the statehouse will have to develop a much more comprehensive and far-reaching plan to deal with the city's problems. They will have to, for instance, say how they intend to deal with neighborhoods filled with abandoned homes and businesses. Detroit's decline is not just bad for its residents, it also hurts the surrounding suburbs. One way state officials could aid Detroit is to urge the consolidation of some public services that are currently provided separately by Detroit and other cities in Wayne County.
Detroit once served as the engine that powered Michigan and a large chunk of the national economy. It may never regain its lost stature, but it does not have to be a symbol of failure.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (92%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PENSION FUNDS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (89%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); POPULATION DECLINE (78%); CITIES (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); CRIME RATES (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); SUBURBS (73%); BONDS (69%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (68%); LABOR UNIONS (68%); CORRUPTION (67%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (62%); AUTOMAKERS (62%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2013



676 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1258 words

HEADLINE: Exploring the Warp Factor

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

 BODY:
HOUSTON -- Beyond the security gate at the Johnson Space Center's 1960s-era campus here, inside a two-story glass and concrete building with winding corridors, there is a floating laboratory.
Harold G. White, a physicist and advanced propulsion engineer at NASA, beckoned toward a table full of equipment there on a recent afternoon: a laser, a camera, some small mirrors, a ring made of ceramic capacitors and a few other objects.
He and other NASA engineers have been designing and redesigning these instruments, with the goal of using them to slightly warp the trajectory of a photon, changing the distance it travels in a certain area, and then observing the change with a device called an interferometer. So sensitive is their measuring equipment that it was picking up myriad earthly vibrations, including people walking nearby. So they recently moved into this lab, which floats atop a system of underground pneumatic piers, freeing it from seismic disturbances.
The team is trying to determine whether faster-than-light travel -- warp drive -- might someday be possible. 
Warp drive. Like on ''Star Trek.''
''Space has been expanding since the Big Bang 13.7 billion years ago,'' said Dr. White, 43, who runs the research project. ''And we know that when you look at some of the cosmology models, there were early periods of the universe where there was explosive inflation, where two points would've went receding away from each other at very rapid speeds.''
''Nature can do it,'' he said. ''So the question is, can we do it?''
Einstein famously postulated that, as Dr. White put it, ''thou shalt not exceed the speed of light,'' essentially setting a galactic speed limit. But in 1994, a Mexican physicist, Miguel Alcubierre, theorized that faster-than-light speeds were possible in a way that did not contradict Einstein, though Dr. Alcubierre did not suggest anyone could actually construct the engine that could accomplish that.
His theory involved harnessing the expansion and contraction of space itself. Under Dr. Alcubierre's hypothesis, a ship still couldn't exceed light speed in a local region of space. But a theoretical propulsion system he sketched out manipulated space-time by generating a so-called ''warp bubble'' that would expand space on one side of a spacecraft and contract it on another.
''In this way, the spaceship will be pushed away from the Earth and pulled towards a distant star by space-time itself,'' Dr. Alcubierre wrote. Dr. White has likened it to stepping onto a moving walkway at an airport.
But Dr. Alcubierre's paper was purely theoretical, and suggested insurmountable hurdles. Among other things, it depended on large amounts of a little understood or observed type of ''exotic matter'' that violates typical physical laws.
Dr. White believes that advances he and others have made render warp speed less implausible. Among other things, he has redesigned the theoretical warp-traveling spacecraft -- and in particular a ring around it that is key to its propulsion system -- in a way that he believes will greatly reduce the energy requirements.
He is quick to offer up his own caveats, however, saying his warp research is akin to a university science project that is just trying to prove that a microscopic warp bubble can be detected in a lab. ''We're not bolting this to a spacecraft,'' he said of the warp technology.
Dr. White was an engineer with a background in the aerospace industry when he came to NASA in 2000, starting his career at the agency by operating the arms of space shuttles. He got his doctorate in physics from Rice University in 2008, and now works on a range of projects aimed at taking NASA beyond the fiery rockets that have long characterized space travel.
For NASA, Dr. White's warp speed experiments represent a rounding error in its budget, with about $50,000 spent on equipment in an agency that spends nearly $18 billion annually. The agency is far more focused on more achievable projects -- building the next generation Orion series spacecraft, working on the International Space Station and preparing for a planned future mission to capture an asteroid.
But it has made internal resources available for the project and freed up other engineers to assist Dr. White. It has also restored the pneumatic system in the laboratory Dr. White is using, to allow it to float. The lab was once used to test equipment for Apollo missions and has control panels underneath it that look like they belong in a fallout shelter that time forgot.
Steve Stich, the deputy director of engineering at the Johnson Space Center, said, ''You always have to be looking towards the future.'' He held up his iPhone.
''Forty years ago, this was 'Star Trek,' Captain Kirk talking on a communicator whenever he wanted to,'' he said. ''But today it exists because people made the battery technology that allows this device to exist, worked on the software technology, worked on the computational technology, the touch screen.''
Theoretically, a warp drive could cut the travel time between stars from tens of thousands of years to weeks or months. But we should probably not book reservations anytime soon.
''My personal opinion is that the idea is crazy for now,'' said Edwin F. Taylor, a former editor of The American Journal of Physics and senior research scientist at M.I.T. ''Check with me in a hundred years.''
But Richard Obousy, a physicist who is president of Icarus Interstellar, a nonprofit group composed of volunteers collaborating on starship design, said ''it is not airy-fairy, pie in the sky.''
''We tend to overestimate what we can do on short time scales, but I think we massively underestimate what we can do on longer time scales,'' he said of the work of Dr. White, who is a friend and Icarus collaborator.
Dr. White likened his experiments to the early stages of the Manhattan Project, which were aimed at creating a very small nuclear reaction merely as proof that it could be done.
''They tried to go through and demonstrate a nuclear reactor and generate half a watt,'' he said. ''That's not something you're going to market. Nobody's going to buy that. It's just making sure they understood the physics and science.''
Neil deGrasse Tyson, the well-known astrophysicist at the American Museum of Natural History, said some leap beyond our current technology would be needed to make interstellar travel feasible.
''Routine travel among the stars is impossible without new discoveries regarding the fabric of space and time, or capability to manipulate it for our needs,'' he said, adding, ''By my read, the idea of a functioning warp drive remains far-fetched, but the real take-away is that people are thinking about it -- reminding us all that the urge to explore continues to run deep in our species.''
Still, one of the most dubious is Dr. Alcubierre himself. He listed a number of concerns, starting with the vast amounts of exotic matter that would be needed.
''The warp drive on this ground alone is impossible,'' he said.
And he posed a more fundamental question: How would you turn it on?
''At speeds larger than the speed of light, the front of the warp bubble cannot be reached by any signal from within the ship,'' he said. ''This does not just mean we can't turn it off; it is much worse. It means we can't even turn it on in the first place.''
Dr. White, who has never spoken to Dr. Alcubierre, said ''I appreciate his thoughts. I don't know whether I agree with all of his observations, based on some work I've done.''
''He and I could certainly debate for a very long time,'' he added.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Harold G. White, a NASA physicist, is working on the concept of warp drive, like on 'Star Trek.' (D1)
 Harold G. White uses an interferometer to measure any change caused in a photon's trajectory. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL STRAVATO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPACE EXPLORATION (90%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (90%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (90%); SPACECRAFT (89%); PHYSICS (89%); SPACE PROPULSION (78%); ASTROPHYSICS (78%); NEW ISSUES (78%); SPEED LIMITS (74%); ELECTRONIC CAPACITORS (56%)

ORGANIZATION: LYNDON B JOHNSON SPACE CENTER (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%) TEXAS, USA (92%); EARTH (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2013



677 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 218 words

HEADLINE: The Path to Legalization

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''Being Legal Doesn't End Poverty'' (Sunday Review, July 21) accurately argues that legalizing unauthorized immigrants may not be a surefire ticket to improving their wages, if they are employed in the cash-only economy. 
But remaining in the informal economy will carry heavy penalties for immigrants who might qualify for legalization. Under the proposed Senate bill, applicants must demonstrate that they have been employed continuously in the United States, except for brief periods lasting not more than 60 days, to maintain their provisional legal status and transition to a green card.
Alternatively, applicants can demonstrate that they have an average income at least 125 percent of the federal poverty level throughout the legalization process. Obtaining the documentation for meeting these continuous employment and income requirements will be virtually impossible for immigrants in the cash economy. They have a powerful incentive to seek more stable jobs in which they are not paid exclusively in cash.
If their path to formal-sector employment is blocked by lack of legal status, then undocumented workers are truly facing a Catch-22.
WAYNE A. CORNELIUS La Jolla, Calif., July 21, 2013
The writer is director, Mexican Migration Field Research Program, University of California, San Diego.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (91%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); FOREIGN LABOR (77%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (77%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); LEGISLATION (71%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2013



678 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1104 words

HEADLINE: Inflationphobia, Part III

BYLINE: BRUCE BARTLETT


HIGHLIGHT: It&#8217;s time for all those who have warned in recent years that inflation is looming to acknowledge that there&#8217;s no basis for that view, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Bruce Bartlett held senior policy roles in the Reagan and George H.W. Bush administrations and served on the staffs of Representatives Jack Kemp and Ron Paul. He is the author of the forthcoming book "The Benefit and the Burden: Tax Reform - Why We Need It and What It Will Take."
When the most recent recession began in December 2007, there was no reason at first to believe that it was any different from those that have taken place about every six years in the postwar era. But it soon became apparent that this economic downturn was having an unusually negative effect on the financial sector that threatened to implode in a wave of bankruptcies. The Federal Reserve reacted by doing exactly what it was created to do - be a lender of last resort and prevent systemic bank failures of the sort that caused the Great Depression and made it so long and severe. 
As the Fed lent freely to banks and other financial institutions, its balance sheet grew very rapidly. The reserves of the banking system grew concomitantly; reserves are funds that banks have available for immediate lending that theoretically should lead to credit expansion and new investment by businesses, durable goods purchases by households and so on.
During the inflation of the 1970s, most economists became convinced that if the Fed adds too much money and credit to the financial system it will inevitably cause prices to rise. Since the increase in the money supply in 2008 and 2009 was unprecedented, many economists reacted fearfully to the Fed's actions.
Given the order of magnitude of the increase in bank reserves, from virtually nothing to more than $1 trillion almost overnight and now to more than $2 trillion, it was not unreasonable to be concerned about the potential for Zimbabwe-style hyperinflation.
But inflation fell rather than rising. In the five and a half years since the start of the recession, the consumer price index has risen a total of 10.2 percent. In the five and a half years previously, it rose 17.7 percent. That is, the rate of inflation fell by almost half.

Now, I don't expect all the people who filled The Wall Street Journal's editorial page in 2008 and 2009 predicting an imminent rise in inflation to offer a mea culpa, but at some point I think the inflationphobes should at least stop saying that hyperinflation is right around the corner.
By 2010, the annual inflation rate was down to 1.5 percent, and the yield on the Treasury's 10-year bond had fallen to 3.2 percent from 4.3 percent in 2007 - historically, long-term interest rates rise when inflationary expectations rise. In short, there was no evidence that Fed policy was causing inflation to rise.
Yet in November 2010, both Sarah Palin and Paul Ryan warned that inflation was imminent. As they are Republicans, one can assume they were just playing politics, pandering to their constituency. But a week later, a group of economists signed an open letter to the Fed chairman, Ben Bernanke, warning that continuation of an easy money policy risked "currency debasement and inflation."
In 2011, there were still no signs of actual inflation, but the economist Allan Meltzer nevertheless asserted, "Inflation is coming." He wisely chose not to say when. Writing in The New York Times, the former Fed chairman Paul Volcker made the time-honored slippery-slope argument: a little inflation always leads to higher inflation.
The inflationphobe Niall Ferguson at least acknowledged that official data showed no evidence of inflation but asserted that the data were wrong, that the consumer price index is "a bogus index." He cited the authority of a Web site called ShadowStats, which, like the Unskewed Polls site that said all polls showing Mitt Romney losing were simply wrong, just arbitrarily adjusts the data to make it conform to its belief that inflation is high, not low.
In 2012, the consumer price index rose just 1.7 percent, but the inflationphobe Amity Shlaes feared that inflation could suddenly appear out of nowhere, apparently because there was hyperinflation in Germany in the 1920s. Representative Ron Paul, Republican of Texas, was so alarmed by the danger of inflation that he suspended his presidential campaign to lead a Congressional hearing on the subject in June.
In October 2012, Rick Santelli of CNBC said "printing money" caused the German hyperinflation and the same thing was happening in the United States. He, like other inflationphobes, saw the rising price of gold as an ominous sign of a takeoff of consumer prices.
Since Mr. Santelli made his prediction, the seasonally adjusted monthly inflation rate has been negative 0.2 percent in November 2012, zero in December and January 2013, 0.7 percent in February, negative 0.2 percent in March, negative 0.4 percent in April, 0.1 percent in May and 0.5 percent in June. Without seasonal adjustments, the annual inflation rate was 1.4 percent over that time.
Many conservatives, including the publisher Steve Forbes and Larry Kudlow of CNBC, always say that gold is the perfect forward indicator of inflationary expectations. I've often heard Mr. Forbes say that the price of gold is like a thermometer that continually gives us inflation's temperature in real time.
Most economists think that's ridiculous, but insofar as the gold price reflects inflationary expectations, its falling price is impossible to reconcile with Fed policy. The Fed has not decreased the money supply and continues its policy of "quantitative easing," which means further increases in the money supply.
To inflationphobes, all increases in the money supply are inflationary; indeed, many define the word "inflation" to mean a money supply increase rather than a rise in the price level.
Hard-core inflationphobes like Peter Schiff simply ignore the reality of today's economy and assert without evidence that it is exactly like the inflationary 1970s. Inflation is due any day now and gold is "on the verge of its biggest rally ever," he said. On June 18, Mr. Paul said gold could go to "infinity."
To be sure, some inflationphobes never believed their own rhetoric; they were just trying to score political cheap shots or con unsophisticated investors into buying gold - from which the inflationphobe reaped a commission. But many others were sincere in their belief that higher inflation was inevitable.
Intellectually honest inflationphobes need to explain why they were wrong and stop crying wolf or else it will be reasonable to assume they are simply cranks and crackpots.

        
Inflationphobia, Part II
        
Inflationphobia, Part I
        
Yes, We Have No Inflation
        
Little Cause for Inflation Worries
        
The Gorilla and the Maginot Line

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); INFLATION (89%); RECESSION (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); WRITERS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (75%); BANK FAILURES (74%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); MONEY SUPPLY (74%); TREASURY SECURITIES (74%); EXTERNAL DEBT (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (71%); GREAT DEPRESSION (71%); BONDS (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); DURABLE GOODS (66%); PRICE INCREASES (64%); INTEREST RATES (60%); TAX REFORM (57%) Federal Reserve System; Inflation (Economics); United States Economy; Today's Economist

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Federal Reserve System

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (79%); RON PAUL (78%); GEORGE H W BUSH (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2013



679 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 196 words

HEADLINE: The New Railway Age

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Iron camels, hurtling across the Stans. 

 BODY:
I'm surprised that the econoblogosphere hasn't taken much notice yet of Keith Bradsher's interesting piece on the revival of the Silk Road - now not consisting of camels carrying Chinese silk, but of huge freight trains carrying Chinese electronics. 
But really, if you're interested in globalization, this should be of great interest. Transportation technology matters, a lot; container shipping revolutionized the world.
And the revival of trains is an interesting story. In the United States, freight rail bottomed out in the 1970s, and has since been carrying a rising share of ton-miles - around 40 percent these days. Now it's starting to play a role in long-distance international trade.
It comes down, of course, to time and money. Air freight is expensive, especially in what is looking - despite fracking - like an era of sustained high fuel costs. So, to a lesser extent, is trucking, which in any case isn't a realistic option for long-range international trade. Shipping is cheap but slow. So there's an important niche for rail - a niche that probably hasn't been fully exploited, because people forgot for a while about a technology that seemed old-fashioned.
All aboard!

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (77%); RAIL FREIGHT (77%); TRAINS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); CONTAINERIZATION (71%); GLOBALIZATION (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2013



680 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2013

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 1092 words

HEADLINE: Big Data Analysis Adds to Guest Worker Debate

BYLINE: QUENTIN HARDY and SOMINI SENGUPTA


HIGHLIGHT: A private job placement company said that except for certain kinds of engineers, there are plenty of job seekers in the United States for thousands of openings in the tech industry, raising doubts over appeals for more foreign guest workers. 

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO - Although certain kinds of engineers are in short supply in the United States, plenty of potential candidates exist for thousands of positions for which companies want to import guest workers, according to an analysis of three million résumés of job seekers in the United States. 
The numbers, prepared by a company called Bright, which collects résumés and uses big data tools to connect job seekers with openings, enter a contentious debate over whether tech companies should be allowed to expand their rolls of guest workers. In lobbying Congress for more of these temporary visas, called H-1B visas, the technology industry argues there are not enough qualified Americans. Its critics, including labor groups, say bringing in guest workers is a way to depress wages in the industry. 
Many economists take issue with the industry's argument, too. One side points out that wages have not gone up across the board for engineers, suggesting that there is no stark labor shortage. Another counters that unemployment rates in the sector are minuscule and that in any event, H-1B workers represent a tiny fraction of the American work force. 
"I didn't expect this result," said Steve Goodman, Bright's chief executive. 
Bright is based in San Francisco, and it makes money in part by placing qualified candidates with recruiters and, according to Mr. Goodman, employs workers using H-1B visas. "We're Silicon Valley people, we just assumed the shortage was true," Mr. Goodman said. "It turns out there is a little Silicon Valley groupthink going on about this, though it's not comfortable to say that."
For a few job categories, like computer systems analysts, there are relatively few "good fits" among American applicants, Bright found. Computer systems analyst jobs, considered relatively low-skilled in the tech world, had four openings for every American candidate. For others, like high-skilled computer programmers, there were more than enough potential candidates in the United States, the company found. 
Bright's study is unlikely to end the debate, partly because it rests on the company's proprietary algorithm to determine who is a "good fit" for a particular job opening. Its algorithm uses a range of criteria, including work experience and education, but also work descriptions that indicated a high likelihood of other skills. Its analysis also doesn't specify how many job openings there are at a particular point in time, or whether they are sufficient to accommodate both American engineers and foreign guest workers.
Lawrence Katz, an economist at Harvard, said that while the tech industry's claims of a labor shortage may be overblown, the argument over expanding temporary work visas should not be made on the basis of whether there are shortages at one point in time. He said the data from Bright were useful in showing that there was most likely not "a huge mismatch" in the demand and supply of computer professionals, except perhaps in certain job categories like computer systems analysts. 
"But they don't help us determine whether the U.S. economy would benefit from an expansion of the H1-B visa program or what the impact would be on U.S. workers in these occupations," he said. "The case for and against expanding the H1-B visa program should be done on an overall assessment of the impact on the U.S. economy (workers, consumers, investors, students/future workers) and not only on whether there are short-run 'shortages' in any specific occupation." 
For the study, Bright looked at the job categories for which firms applied for H-1B visas, and then, looked at résumés of job seekers in the United States whose résumés matched those same categories. 
Giovanni Peri, an economist at University of California, Davis, said that the Bright study was insufficient to determine whether there was a need for foreign engineers. "It is the difference between job vacancies (demand) and unemployed with right qualifications (supply) that provides a measure of the excess (or not) of demand," he said. "Knowing only the number of unemployed with right qualifications does not do it." 
"There are many more job openings" where companies do not file for H-1Bs, but search for candidates on the domestic job market, he added. 
The Senate immigration bill, passed last month, nearly doubles the number of H-1B visas that companies can seek every year. Industry lobbied heavily for it, bulldozing efforts to add language that would force companies to try to hire an equally qualified American first. The House is mired in arguments over what kind of immigration legislation it can pass. Technology industry groups are lobbying members of the House for a substantial increase in H-1Bs, among other things. 
Outsourcing companies, mostly from India, have lately sought the largest chunks of H-1B visas. Companies like Tata Consultancy Services and Wipro bring thousands of temporary workers, mostly from India, and place them for short-term projects in a variety of American industries, from banks to technology firms like Microsoft and Oracle. H-1B visas are also used by graduates of American universities who are hired by companies in the United States.
Bright's analysis suggests a hierarchy in the industry that mirrors what has long been said about jobs like low-skilled agricultural or restaurant work: Americans could do these jobs, but are unlikely to accept the pay or conditions. As a result, the jobs are taken by immigrants. 
The age of workers, which the study did not look at, may also play a role. Experienced American workers tend to be older in an industry that prizes youth. A study conducted by a Seattle-based company called Payscale found that among 32 technology companies surveyed, only six had a work force with a median age over 35. At Monster, the job search portal, the median age was 30; at Google, 29; and at Facebook, 28. The median age of American workers over all is 42.3 years old, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. 
As if to underline the study's findings, Mr. Goodman spoke from a conference room that looked out on decorated ping-pong tables, a liquor bar and tiki-themed snacks. Later that day, Bright was having a party, partly to attract new talent, he said, including foreign programmers here on H-1B visas. 

        
Daily Report: Dispute Over Tech Companies' Motives in Immigration Debate
        
Tech Pushes to Keep Its Spoils in Immigration Bill
        
Technology Workers Are Young (Really Young)
        
Tech Industry Weighs In as Senate Panel Works on Immigration Bill
        
Tech Lobby Pushes for Tweaks to Immigration Bill

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (99%); FOREIGN LABOR (97%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (91%); EMPLOYMENT VISAS (90%); BIG DATA (90%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (90%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); LABOR SHORTAGES (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (89%); LABOR FORCE (78%); LOBBYING (78%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); IMMIGRATION (75%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); EXECUTIVES (51%) Bright Media Corp; Engineering and Engineers; Foreign Workers; Hiring and Promotion; Immigration and Emigration; Labor and Jobs; Silicon Valley (Calif); Data; Policy

ORGANIZATION: Bright Media Corp

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (98%) Silicon Valley (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2013



681 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1208 words

HEADLINE: Support for College Students and Banks: Not So Different

BYLINE: PHILLIP SWAGEL


HIGHLIGHT: Proposals to link the interest rates for federal student loans to the rate at which banks borrow from the Federal Reserve are misguided but provide a useful analogy, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Phillip Swagel is a professor at the School of Public Policy at the University of Maryland and was assistant secretary for economic policy at the Treasury Department from 2006 to 2009. 
A bipartisan deal reached in the Senate clears the way for legislation on federal student loans to undo the July 1 increase in interest rates on new loans to 6.8 percent from 3.4 percent. The House of Representatives previously approved a bill that embraced the key feature of President Obama's proposal, which was to link interest rates on student loans to borrowing costs for the government. The Senate approach includes this link, pegged to yields on 10-year Treasury notes. The rate on new loans would adjust each year up to a cap, but an individual borrower's interest rate would be fixed over the life of the loan. This is expected to lead to relatively low interest rates on student loans in the near term and higher rates in the future as yields on Treasury bonds rebound with the economy over the next several years. 
Mr. Obama in particular deserves recognition for putting forward a reasonable proposal that was in the ballpark of what Republicans would accept, and for rejecting partisan pleas to stick with his previous advocacy, electorally motivated, of setting low loan rates a year or two at a time. We can only hope to see similar leadership rather than partisan rhetoric from the president on other economic issues in his series of economic speeches beginning this week.
Left aside in the bonhomie was a proposal from Senator Elizabeth Warren, a Democrat from Massachusetts, that would have used the Federal Reserve's discount window lending as the benchmark for student loans while Congress worked on a "fair, long term solution." Under what was titled the Bank on Students Loan Fairness Act, college students would get their loans from the federal government for one year at the same 0.75 percent interest rate the Fed charges banks. The proposal garnered nine co-sponsors, all Democrats, along with a long list of endorsements from the likes of university professors and administrators and organizations representing students, and others. 
Others were not as welcoming. President Obama reportedly tried to steer Senator Warren toward the bipartisan compromise, while education experts from the Democratic-leaning Brookings Institution wrote that Senator Warren's proposal "should be quickly dismissed as a cheap political gimmick." The Washington Post's fact checker challenged Senator Warren's assertion that the government was racking up large profits from higher interest rates on student loans, assigning a "two Pinocchio" rating of "significant omissions and/or exaggerations" to the budgetary arithmetic behind the proposal. The idea that the federal government was balancing the budget on the backs of college students was among the motivating factors for setting a lower interest rate.
I am glad to see the prospect of a bipartisan agreement on student loans (and not just because I am a professor - the process by which the House and President Obama reached substantive agreement and then brought along the Senate suggests the possibility of similar progress on other economic issues). But I believe that Senator Warren has a valid point in making an analogy between federal support for banks and support for college students. This is worth developing more fully, in part because it sheds light on the government's role in the financial sector.
The Federal Reserve lends money to banks at the discount window; the interest rate has been 0.75 percent since Feb. 19, 2010, but reached as low as 0.50 percent starting on Dec. 16, 2008. These loans are made in the Fed's capacity as the lender of last resort, under which it provides temporary liquidity (typically overnight) to solvent banks on a fully secured basis at a penalty rate. (Four lectures by the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, in March 2012 provide an accessible introduction to monetary policy.) Incredible as it might sound, the 0.75 percent interest rate charged by the Fed is indeed a penalty. Banks eligible to borrow at the discount window would normally borrow from other institutions in the federal funds market, where the interest rate has recently hovered around 0.1 percent, roughly in the middle of the Fed's target range of zero to 0.25 percent.
For students looking to finance their educations, seeing the federal government as a lender of last resort might be appropriate, since many college students would turn first to their parents if family resources permit. Even Senator Warren's proposed 0.75 percent interest rate on federal student loans might well be more than what Mom and Dad charge.
Banks provide collateral for their loans in the form of securities such as Treasury bonds, and the owners of banks must finance their activities in part with their own capital at risk. It is natural to view college students as solvent-but-illiquid to the extent that their education unleashes the higher future earnings with which to repay their loans. Students thus put up as collateral their own human capital: it is quite difficult to walk away from federal student loans, meaning that a college-age borrower's future earnings effectively serve as the surety for repayment. Indeed, a further motivation for the low interest rate proposed by Senator Warren is the concern that the burden of college debt is having a negative impact on graduates' spending and thus on the overall economy. On the other hand, others have raised concerns that easier financing spurs higher college tuitions and thus does not improve college affordability.
The analogy between banks and students is not perfect. A challenge for making the connection between the interest rates charged to banks and to students is that the Fed generally provides overnight lending at the discount window, whereas students have 10 to 25 years to repay their loans. President Obama's proposal, adopted by Congress, to tie student loan interest rates to the 10-year Treasury note thus makes eminent sense. At the same time, students signing loan contracts for the 2013-14 academic year will benefit from the Fed's activities even without Senator Warren's bill, just not directly. Through its third quantitative easing program, QE3, the Fed is intervening in the Treasury bond market and likely holding down borrowing costs for the federal government, including the interest rate on 10-year Treasury notes.
The other potential difficulty for students in connecting their loans to federal support for banks is that to get access to the discount window, banks are subject to a wide-ranging regulatory and supervisory regime. For college students, the analogy would be to have a federal examiner watch to make sure they do their homework and get through the required readings ahead of a lecture. As a professor, I can see the attraction of fleshing out this aspect of Senator Warren's proposal to give college students the same federal support as banks. I am not sure that my students would agree.

        
Mortgaged Diplomas
        
Getting More Bang for the Buck in Higher Education
        
Health Coverage Worthy of a Senator
        
A Closer Look at College Completion Rates for Full-Time Students
        
Student Loan Debt: Who Are the 1%?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); INTEREST RATES (94%); STUDENT LOANS (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); APPROVALS (77%); BONDS (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%) Colleges and Universities; House of Representatives; Interest Rates; Obama, Barack; Senate; Student Loans; Warren, Elizabeth; Today's Economist

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives; Senate

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (51%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (51%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (51%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); ELIZABETH WARREN (79%) Obama, Barack; Warren, Elizabeth

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2013



682 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Ross Douthat)

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1161 words

HEADLINE: Republicans and the Rich

BYLINE: ROSS DOUTHAT


HIGHLIGHT: Is right-of-center economic populism ultimately a political impossibility? 

 BODY:
In a post questioning the plausibility of the much-discussed concept of "libertarian populism," Will Wilkinson raises an eyebrow at the idea that the Republican Party could ever be authentically populist on economics (as opposed to just on social issues):
... political parties are coalitions of interests, and the Republican Party is the party of the rich, as well as the ideological champion of big business. A principled anti-corporatist, pro-working-class agenda stands as much chance in the GOP as a principled anti-public-sector-union stance in the Democratic Party.
I'm generally skeptical of these kind of essentialist arguments, since coalitions can break apart and re-form in unexpected aways, and the parties have been known to change positions dramatically as their ground shifts beneath their feet. But it's true that the G.O.P.'s identity as the party of the wealthy has been quite resilient, the one obvious thread connecting the Republicanism of McKinley to the Republicanism of Romney a century later. And nothing about the last campaign cycle suggested a party on the verge of breaking with that historic identity. 
But I think a little exit poll data can shed light on why would-be conservative populists, libertarian and otherwise, aren't just dealing in an ahistorical fantasy. Flash back to 1988, the last presidential election when the Reagan coalition was plainly dominant: In that year, George H.W. Bush won 53 percent of the vote - and 67 percent of the vote from Americans who made $100,000 a year. Now leap forward to 2004, arguably the last gasp of the Reagan coalition: George W. Bush won 51 percent of the vote, not that far off his father's total - but only 58 percent of the vote from Americans who made $100,000 or more, down nine points from the party's 1988 edge. Now take the time machine forward four years to 2008, the election which made it clear that the Reagan coalition was well and try finished: John McCain won 46 percent of the vote overall, just 49 percent of the $100,000-plus demographic ... and just 46 percent of the $200,000-plus demographic, which thanks to inflation is probably a better proxy for making comparisons to the rich of 1988.
In other words, between 1988 and 2008 the Republican Party went from winning wealthy voters by 34 points overall, and by 17 points more than the party won the median voter, to losing the wealthy vote by the same total - 6 points - as it lost the electorate as a whole. In the election that put Obama in the White House, whatever the G.O.P.'s prejudices and policy stances, it was no longer functionally the party of the rich.
Why? Well, mostly because the Democratic Party changed (becoming much more pro-business and backburnering the priorities of a weakened labor movement), the composition of the richest 5 percent changed (becoming more professional and less managerial/entrepreneurial), and the views of the upper class diverged more sharply, on social issues especially, from the views of the G.O.P.'s heartland/Southern base. All of these trends made it seem much more natural to be moneyed and liberal, and by the 2008 election the two parties no longer really represented the old labor vs. capital split: Instead, there were two parties of capital, each representing a different (though sometimes overlapping) coalition of corporate interests and a different wealthy demographic - and the Republicans were worse off, politically, for that shift.
Now there are two ways a party can react when part of its coalition swings into the other party's orbit - by trying to win that constituency back, or by trying to expand its margins somewhere else. The former option, in this case, would mean courting wealthier voters even more aggressively than the Bush-era party did, and trying mobilize entrepreneurs the way Karl Rove mobilized evangelicals. The latter would mean finding a way to make the Republican Party more appealing - via, yes, some kind of economic populism - to the middle class and working class voters whose parents and grandparents would have been New Deal/Great Society Democrats, but who have shifted back and forth between the two coalitions since the 1970s.
Obviously a lot of different things have happened inside the Republican Party in the last four years, but to some extent you can see the G.O.P.'s anti-Obama, post-2008 strategy as an attempt to execute the first approach. Republicans attacked the president as a European-style socialist, framed the political debate in "makers versus takers"/47 percenter terms, chose a successful businessman-cum-corporate raider as their nominee, made "you didn't build that" their convention slogan, and cast the entire election as a referendum on American capitalism. Meanwhile, Bush-era compassionate conservatism was abandoned and nothing really took its place: Apart from some purely cynical China-bashing, the party's only economic pitch to hard-strapped Americans was a ritualistic invocation of the unemployment rate.
The strategy worked, in a sense: Obama's gains with the upper class were reversed, the over-$100,000 demographic swung sharply Romney's way (he won them by 10 points), and in 2012 the G.O.P. was the party of the rich again. The problem was that it wasn't the party of anybody else. Voters making under $50,000 voted the same way they did four years earlier, working class whites stayed home in larger numbers than expected, Hispanics actually broke harder for the Democrats than in 2008 - and the country's overall view of the post-Bush G.O.P.'s economic vision was summed up by the fairly devastating chart that the would-be conservative populist Tim Carney reproduces here.
Now the 2012 defeat doesn't prove the case for a more populist alternative, or answer the (reasonable) objections that any soi-disant conservative populism would either be too libertarian and thus anti-redistribution to be genuinely populist, or else too genuinely populist for the base and the conservative movement as currently constituted to accept. (Where "libertarian populism" is concerned, the first objection seems to me the stronger one, but both have some bite.) Nor does it answer the rather substantial question of how a G.O.P. that embraced economic populism would raise enough money to compete with the new Democratic money machine.
But it does explain why the idea of "an effort to make the GOP no longer the party of the rich, in both reality and perception," as Carney puts it, doesn't seem impossibly far fetched right now. Not because it wouldn't be wrenching in various ways (it would), not because it wouldn't cut against the party's historical identity (it would), but because parties want to win elections, and it isn't obvious what other course a G.O.P. that hopes to win again should take.

        
Rubio-Schumer and the Republican Future
        
What Is Reform Conservatism?
        
What Conservative Reformers Don't Like About Immigration Reform
        
Immigration Reform and the Lessons of 2012
        
In Search of Republican Reformers

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (96%); POLITICS (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (87%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%) Bush, George; Bush, George W; McCain, John; Republican Party; United States; United States Economy; United States Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

PERSON: GEORGE H W BUSH (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (77%); GEORGE W BUSH (74%); BARACK OBAMA (57%) Bush, George; Bush, George W; McCain, John

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%) United States

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2013



683 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Taking Note)

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 575 words

HEADLINE: Boehner's Hearing Problem

BYLINE: DAVID FIRESTONE


HIGHLIGHT: Adventures in extreme misinterpretation. 

 BODY:
Does Speaker John Boehner speak the same language as the rest of Washington?
Last week, Ben Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, told Congress that it was the biggest threat to economic growth in this country. And he wasn't the least bit ambiguous about why: unnecessary austerity, and dangerous threats to refuse to raise the debt ceiling.
"The risks remain that tight federal fiscal policy will restrain economic growth over the next few quarters by more than we currently expect," Mr. Bernanke said, "or that the debate concerning other fiscal policy issues, such as the status of the debt ceiling, will evolve in a way that could hamper the recovery."

But Mr. Boehner apparently heard a different speech. Or perhaps a different Fed chairman. Or maybe, like so many Republicans, he has his news pre-digested for him by media outlets so that it comes out more to his taste. 
At a news conference this morning, Mr. Boehner was asked about Mr. Bernanke's comments, and here's what he said:
"Well, I think what the chairman's referring to is the fact that we've got spending that continues to be out of control, a red tape that's out of control."
No. Mr. Bernanke wasn't referring to either of those things, because spending and "a red tape" are not out of control, and have nothing to do with sluggish growth. The chairman was, in fact, saying exactly the opposite, urging Congress to spend more money.
But Mr. Boehner wasn't finished with his extreme misinterpretation. After the usual demands for the Keystone pipeline and a delay in health care reform, he went on to do exactly what the Fed chairman warned against: threatening to send the country into default unless Democrats agree to more cuts.
"We're not going to raise the debt ceiling without real cuts in spending," he said. "It's as simple as that." He added: "I believe that the so-called Boehner rule is the right formula for getting that done."
The "Boehner rule," for those of you who have blotted it from your memory, requires spending cuts in the exact amount of the debt ceiling increase. That ruinous formula plunged the country into a crisis in 2011, forced a downgrade of the country's credit rating and produced the sequester, which costs the country more jobs every day.
Having said in the past that default is not an option, Mr. Boehner may be bluffing or playing to his most radical members, who would love nothing more than a dangerous confrontation with President Obama. But the effect is to once again raise expectations on the far right that the speaker really will take things to the brink this fall - expectations that he should be trying to lower if he truly wants the mantle of a national leader.
Mr. Boehner's oppositional comments are the perfect prelude to the big economic speech Mr. Obama has planned for tomorrow. Americans who tune in will get a sense of everything that is being lost because the Republicans refuse to govern: millions of jobs, opportunities for the middle class, desperately needed repairs to infrastructure, and the learning potential of low-income kids.
Most economists, and clearly Mr. Bernanke, support the kind of vision Mr. Obama will describe. But with Mr. Boehner's words ringing in their ears, at least Americans will know why that vision is likely to be ignored.

        
Raising the Debt Ceiling, Inch by Inch
        
Boehner's Latest Blow to Immigration
        
The Winning Recipe: Attack, Attack, Attack
        
The Tea Party Caucus: It's Baaack!
        
Does High Debt Cause Slow Growth?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); DEBT CEILING (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); DEAFNESS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%); US PRESIDENTS (60%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (50%) Bernanke, Ben S; Boehner, John A; National Debt (US); Featured Posts

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (93%); BEN BERNANKE (91%); BARACK OBAMA (58%) Bernanke, Ben S; Boehner, John A

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2013



684 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 412 words

HEADLINE: The Death of High Inflation

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Way more Weimars? Not lately. 

 BODY:
Back home, although I got a bit worried when the gate agent in Edinburgh announced a delay. At least I think that's what she announced. The truth is that I couldn't understand most of what she said. Ah, Scotland. 
Anyway, blogging may be limited by various real-life responsibilities. But I thought I'd post a quick calculation that might be of some interest.
As a number of people have been reminding us lately, talk of high inflation, nay hyperinflation, has been widespread ever since the Fed began trying to fight the Great Recession. And the failure of the predicted high inflation to appear has done nothing to shake their conviction that they have the truth, and that those of us who have been right are nonetheless wrong.
So, one thing I wonder about is the extent to which this attitude is reinforced not just by the usual crank tendencies, right-wing leanings, and so on, but also by the fact that economists love - looooove - to talk about runaway inflation, precisely because it's something that's so easy to explain: you run the printing presses to cover your deficits, and off you go.
Yet this is getting awfully stale.Not only has the promised high inflation failed to appear here in America, but high inflation has largely vanished everywhere.
I did a quick calculation using the IMF's World Economic Outlook Database, which runs back to 1980. Year by year, how many countries had triple digit inflation in any given year? It looks like this:
Basically, there was a wave of hyperinflations caused by the chaos following the breakup of the Soviet Empire, much like the wave after World War I; since then, Zimbabwe and nobody else.
Even double-digit inflation has become quite rare:
There's a brief spike around 2008; if you look at it, it turns out to be mainly small commodity-exporting countries pushed into big devaluations by the crisis, leading to one-time jumps in consumer prices. But then it was back to the downward trend.
There are, I think, a couple of morals here. One is that economics textbooks probably talk too much about high inflation; it's a nice pedagogical set-piece, but not something that's a real issue in today's world. Another is that high inflation doesn't happen just because a country's rulers are spendthrifts or don't know about the Emperor Diocletian or something; it is always associated with severe political and social disruption. To stand Milton Friedman on his head, high inflation is never and nowhere a merely monetary phenomenon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (72%); TRENDS (67%); TEXTBOOKS (66%); EXPORT TRADE (64%); DEVALUATION (64%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (63%); WORLD WAR I (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND (73%) SCOTLAND (88%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2013



685 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 976 words

HEADLINE: Witness in Tourre Case Describes Difficulty in Knowing Deal's Friends From Foes

BYLINE: SUSANNE CRAIG and WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Laura Schwartz, a witness in the trial of Fabrice Tourre, said she believed a hedge fund supported a transaction her firm invested in, but the fund actually bet against it. 

 BODY:
A transaction named Abacus 2007-AC1 became one of the most infamous trades of the financial crisis, netting more than $1 billion for Paulson & Company, a hedge fund that successfully wagered that the housing market would crash.
According to a crucial witness who took the stand on Tuesday at the trial of a former Goldman Sachs trader, the trade would never have happened had ACA Management, a firm that helped assemble it, been told that Paulson & Company was betting the trade would fail. The witness, Laura Schwartz, was testifying at the trial of Fabrice P. Tourre, who has been accused of participating in a scheme to defraud investors in connection to the trade and who is now on trial in Manhattan. 
 Ms. Schwartz was a senior executive at ACA and the main contact between her firm and Goldman, where Paulson & Company was a client eager to create a new security to capitalize on the housing market.
She is one of most important - and controversial - witnesses to take the stand in this trial, which on Wednesday will enter its eighth day. The civil case was brought in 2010 by the Securities and Exchange Commission, which also sued Goldman. Goldman settled its case in 2010, paying $550 million without admitting or denying guilt. That has left Mr. Tourre as the sole employee to battle the charges that ACA was misled about Paulson & Company's role in the transaction.
The lawsuit is among the biggest cases the S.E.C. has brought stemming from behavior during the financial crisis, and Mr. Tourre, 34, has steadfastly denied wrongdoing. If the jury finds he did defraud investors, he faces a possible bar from the securities industry and financial fines.
Ms. Schwartz was a convincing, well-spoken witness as Matthew T. Martens, a lawyer for the S.E.C., questioned her about the deal, which started to come together in January 2007. She frequently looked at the jury when answering questions, explaining that ACA got involved in the transaction after receiving an e-mail from a Goldman managing director, Gail Kreitman.
Soon after receiving Ms. Kreitman's e-mail, Ms. Schwartz sent out a meeting notice to various people, including Mr. Tourre and officials from Paulson & Company. The subject field read "Meet With Paulson, Potential Equity Investor." This note set the tone for Mr. Martens's questioning, as he presented Ms. Schwartz with countless ACA documents and e-mails, all referring to the hedge fund as an "equity" investor. Ms. Schwartz explained that she understood that the firm was betting the deal would succeed, or rise in value. In fact, Paulson & Company had taken a short position, in hopes of profiting if the security lost value.
"I believed Paulson was the equity investor in the transaction," she said, repeating this refrain multiple times to the jury. She added that no one from Goldman Sachs, including Mr. Tourre, ever corrected e-mails to the firm from ACA that stated Paulson & Company was taking an equity position. In addition to arranging the trade, ACA was an investor, betting the security would rise in value.
Ms. Schwartz's testimony contradicted testimony from a former Paulson & Company executive, Paolo Pellegrini, who told jurors last week that he made it clear to ACA that his company was betting the housing market would fall precipitously, and that the security would fall in value.
The trade in question, Abacus 2007-AC1, is what is known on Wall Street as a collateralized debt obligation, or C.D.O. Such instruments typically compile a package of mortgage-backed bonds into one deal for investors to buy. Abacus was a synthetic C.D.O., which, rather than selling securities with the actual bonds, is arranged through an insurance contract that is linked to the bonds' performance.
The complexity of the security, as well as the way Wall Street does business, could make it hard for the jury to understand exactly what happened. In fact, the presiding judge, Katherine B. Forrest, tried to emphasize to both sides the need for clarity before the trial began.
Ms. Schwartz was far from a perfect witness for the S.E.C. A week before Mr. Tourre's trial began, the court was notified that the S.E.C. had decided not to bring a case against Ms. Schwartz; the jury heard about this reprieve on Tuesday and may conclude that it colored her testimony.
Sean Coffey, a lawyer for Mr. Tourre, cross-examined Ms. Schwartz, and her demeanor was decidedly less friendly as he peppered her with questions.
Mr. Coffey stressed to the jury that in a synthetic C.D.O., one investor bets the trade will fail while another bets it will succeed. So, even if Paulson & Company was a long, or bullish, investor, a short investor was still needed to complete the trade.
Ms. Schwartz testified that she assumed Paulson & Company was wagering the trade would succeed and that she did not know who was on its other side.
Mr. Coffey was also quick to zero in on how ACA carefully analyzed each component that went into the Abacus trade, so it should not have mattered if the portfolio had been picked by Paulson & Company or by Joe, a court clerk for Judge Forrest.
"How about if you had found it on the floor?" he asked. Ms. Schwartz said that in each case, ACA would have done its own analysis of the various components of the C.D.O.
On Wall Street, the long investor is typically called the "transaction sponsor," a term often used to describe Paulson & Company in documents. At least one witness, however, has said that the term could in certain circumstances describe a short investor, and on cross-examination Ms. Schwartz said she did not know if it meant long or short, a point that may bolster Mr. Tourre's case.
Ms. Schwartz will be followed on the stand by Mr. Tourre. It is expected that he will testify all day Thursday as well.

        
Tourre Lawyers Focus on Reliability of Federal Witness
        
S.E.C. Hopes for Validation in Goldman Sachs Trader Case

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (91%); WITNESSES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); JURY TRIALS (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (88%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (79%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); TESTIMONY (77%); VERDICTS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); LAWYERS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (68%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (66%) ACA Financial Guaranty Corp; Collateralized Debt Obligations; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Paulson & Co; Schwartz, Laura; Securities and Commodities Violations; Securities and Exchange Commission; Suits and Litigation (Civil); Tourre, Fabrice P; Goldman Sachs Group Inc|GS|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: ACA Financial Guaranty Corp; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Paulson &amp; Co; Securities and Exchange Commission

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%) Goldman Sachs Group Inc; GS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%)

PERSON: FABRICE P TOURRE (91%) Schwartz, Laura; Tourre, Fabrice P

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2013



686 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(In Transit)

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2013

SECTION: TRAVEL

LENGTH: 408 words

HEADLINE: A QE2 Hotel May Ply the Waters

BYLINE: STEPHEN HEYMAN


HIGHLIGHT: QE2 Holdings announced plans to convert the Queen Elizabeth 2, one of the world&#8217;s most storied ocean liners, into a floating hotel, most likely in Hong Kong or Singapore. 

 BODY:
It's been a nerve-racking few years for admirers of the Queen Elizabeth 2, one of the world's most storied ocean liners. In 2007, the QE2 was purchased for $100 million by one of Dubai's state-owned investment companies, which moved it to the Persian Gulf with plans to transform the ship into a floating Jumeirah hotel. Then the financial crisis hit, stalling the project. 
As recently as December, reports suggested that the venerable Cunard ship, which had ferried millions across the Atlantic in its proud 40-year history, was bound for the scrap yard.
Now comes a course correction. Earlier this month, a company called QE2 Holdings - a new joint venture between Dubai World and the Singapore-based cruise company Oceanic Group - announced plans to go ahead with the floating hotel project, but to move the QE2 from the Dubai cargo port where it has been laid up to a city in East Asia, most likely Hong Kong or Singapore. The company said it would invest $100 million in remaking the QE2 into a 400-room luxury hotel, with 7 restaurants, 10 lounges, a cinema and shopping mall. After leaving Dubai in October and being overhauled at a shipyard in China, the floating hotel is scheduled to open as early as winter 2014. Nightly room rates will start around $400.
In a telephone interview from Singapore, Daniel Chui, the chief executive of QE2 Holdings, said that his company was exploring either mooring the ship permanently in an Asian port city or changing locations every few years, which means the QE2 would remain seaworthy and might even take on occasional cruise passengers. "We might spend three years in Singapore, then three years in Taiwan or Hong Kong," he said.
Mr. Chui said his company was studying the second lives of other historic ocean liners - notably Cunard's Queen Mary, which is now a hotel and exhibition space moored off Long Beach, Calif. Unlike that project, which appeals to nautical enthusiasts as a kind of novelty hotel, the QE2 will target the "top-end of the travel market," Mr. Chui said. The company is soliciting proposals for the renovation from architecture firms. The goal for the final design is to preserve the soul of the QE2 - many of the original furnishings and much of the décor will be incorporated - while creating a modern five-star hotel.

        
A Travel Boom in Myanmar
        
A Passengers' Bill of Rights
        
Calendar: Coming Events in New Orleans; Wisconsin; Goteborg, Sweden
        
Tackling Paris With Children
        
Room With a Bike

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (92%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (89%); CRUISES (89%); MARINE SHIPPING (78%); FULL SERVICE HOTELS (76%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (76%); SHIPBUILDING (76%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (72%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (71%); RESTAURANTS (71%); INTERVIEWS (69%); PASSENGER RIGHTS (63%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (56%); JOINT VENTURES (54%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Cruises; Cunard Line Ltd; Dubai World; Ships and Shipping; Travel and Vacations

ORGANIZATION: Cunard Line Ltd; Dubai World

PERSON: ELIZABETH II, QUEEN OF THE UNITED KINGDOM (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (94%); INDIAN OCEAN (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) SINGAPORE (94%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (94%); HONG KONG (94%); CHINA (79%); MYANMAR (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); TAIWAN (79%); GULF STATES (73%); ASIA (71%); EASTERN ASIA (70%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013



687 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 794 words

HEADLINE: Bonjour, America!

BYLINE: By STEPHEN R. KELLY. 
Stephen R. Kelly is a retired American diplomat and the associate director of the Center for Canadian Studies at Duke University.

 BODY:
DURHAM, N.C. -- WATCHING the free-for-all in Washington over immigration reform, it's easy to conclude that an airtight border has always been our national goal.
After all, the unmistakable message behind the bevy of border-security measures in the immigration bill, which was approved last month by the Senate and now sits in the House, is that a country that can't prevent foreigners from swarming unchecked across the land border is in serious jeopardy.
The trouble with this narrative, as I discovered when serving as the American consul general in Quebec City in the late 1990s, is that it flies in the face of our own history. 
From the late 1800s to the early 1900s, nearly a million French Canadians poured across our northern border to take jobs in New England textile and shoe mills. This movement, part of an even larger mass of Anglo Canadians also moving south, surged after the Civil War and ended with the Great Depression, with peaks in the 1880s and 1920s.
The majority of these job seekers -- French speaking, slow to assimilate, mainly Catholic -- entered without visas, work permits or passports, because during most of this period our land border with Canada was effectively wide open.
The United States not only survived this unregulated onslaught, it prospered. Indeed, our history suggests that having an open border with our continental neighbors isn't such a bad thing.
Exactly how many French Canadians made the trek is difficult to calculate, because before 1895 no federal immigration officials monitored the northern land border. Neither Canada nor the United States had seen the free movement of people across their common border as a problem seeking a solution.
Even when the United States finally built land border posts in the late 1800s and early 1900s, they were aimed primarily at Eastern and Southern Europeans who were using Canada to sidestep immigration screenings at seaports like New York and Boston.
Canadian migrants, despite their huge numbers -- by 1900 the number of Canadian-born United States residents equaled an astounding 22 percent of Canada's entire population -- continued to receive special treatment.
They did not have to pay the head tax imposed on other foreigners, and no records were kept of their entry until the Naturalization Act of 1906. And it wasn't until 1926 that they had to get a visa to move permanently to the United States.
When the United States first imposed immigration quotas in 1921, Canadians -- along with Mexicans and other Latin Americans -- were exempt, a status they enjoyed until the quota system was modified in 1965.
So how did the United States fare during this period of largely unregulated border crossings? And what happened to all those French Canadians, whose linguistic and religious differences made them stand out more sharply than Anglo-Canadian migrants?
Most flocked to mill towns in New England, where they powered the textile factories that boomed after the Civil War. In a pattern that reflects today's Mexican migration, they followed family members to places where jobs were plentiful, but hard and undesirable.
Their labor was in such demand that mill owners sent recruiters to Quebec to hire more. Entire villages would relocate south, usually by train, swelling the populations of towns like Biddeford, Me.; Southbridge, Mass.; and Woonsocket, R.I., whose populations by 1900 were more than 60 percent French Canadian.
As with Mexican migrants today, not everyone welcomed this influx. One Massachusetts official called French Canadians ''the Chinese of the eastern states'' in an 1881 report that described them as ''indefatigable workers'' who had no interest in assimilating and drove American wages down. They were even vilified at home in Quebec, where religious and political leaders sent emissaries to woo them back.
Some did return, but the majority stayed and assimilated. Besides helping to fuel New England's manufacturing boom, thousands served in the world wars. Rene Gagnon, whose Quebec-born mother worked at a shoe factory in Manchester, N.H., was one of the Marines photographed raising the American flag over Iwo Jima in 1945. The author Jack Kerouac was born of French Canadian parents in Lowell, Mass.
Far from causing the collapse of the republic, these largely unregulated border crossers helped build the United States we know today.
What the French Canadian experience shows is that our current obsession with border security is inconsistent with our history, undermines our economic vitality and is likely to fail.
Instead of vainly trying to fortify our land borders, we should be working with Canada and Mexico to keep the things we should really worry about -- terrorists, weapons of mass destruction, cocaine -- out of North America all together.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY LAURIE ROLLITT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (91%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BORDER CONTROL (89%); NATURALIZATION (78%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (73%); APPROVALS (72%); EMPLOYMENT (71%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (70%); CITIZENSHIP (69%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (68%); RELIGION (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DURHAM, NC, USA (74%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (67%); BOSTON, MA, USA (56%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); QUEBEC, CANADA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (67%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (99%); CANADA (99%); MEXICO (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2013



688 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 963 words

HEADLINE: The Limits on Nationalism in Japan

BYLINE: By JENNIFER LIND. 
Jennifer Lind, an associate professor of government at Dartmouth, is the author of ''Sorry States: Apologies in International Politics.''

 BODY:
HANOVER, N.H. -- THE landslide victory of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's Liberal Democratic Party in elections Sunday for the upper house of Japan's Parliament immediately raised a question: Will it embolden Mr. Abe toward increasing nationalism that might further alienate Japan from some of its neighbors?
Mr. Abe's party seeks to revise Japan's Constitution to allow a full-fledged military, and he put in pre-election appearances in a tank, in a fighter plane and on an island near a chain that is the subject of a dispute with China. 
But polls have overwhelmingly attributed his victory to his main campaign promise, which was to keep improving Japan's economy, rather than to pursue a nationalist agenda. As Sheila A. Smith, a Japan expert at the Council on Foreign Relations, writes, Mr. Abe's speeches indicate an understanding ''that his success depends on staying close to the desires and aspirations of the Japanese people.''
Just as important, if events earlier this year are any guide, Mr. Abe can expect a severe backlash from voters if he steps too far in the direction of offending Japan's neighbors.
We may not have to wait long to find out the tone he wants to set. Aug. 4 marks 20 years since Japanese officials signed the Kono Statement, formally apologizing for Japan's use of ''comfort women,'' or women forced into sex work, during World War II. (In the past, Mr. Abe has cast doubt on whether the women were coerced, despite overwhelming historical evidence.)
And on Aug. 15, the 68th anniversary of Japan's surrender in the war, many officials are likely to visit the Yasukuni Shrine, which honors the nation's war dead and includes among them convicted war criminals.
The way Mr. Abe observes those two anniversaries will be read, especially by China and South Korea, as a measure of his attitudes toward the past and his sensitivities toward Japan's neighbors.
An episode from this spring suggests that nationalism is the last thing Japanese voters want from their government. Toru Hashimoto, the mayor of Osaka, made comments justifying the use of comfort women by citing soldiers' hardship. ''If you want them to have a rest in such a situation, a system like the 'comfort women' is necessary,'' he said. ''Anyone can understand that.''
Mr. Hashimoto's comments created an international furor. Scholars have documented that the comfort women were often deceived or abducted, and then raped daily by dozens of soldiers; countless numbers were tortured and killed. Those who survived emerged traumatized, suffering chronic pain and injuries, unable to bear children. Among Japan's neighbors and around the world, Mr. Hashimoto's comments were considered deeply disturbing.
Even more significant was the reaction at home. In multiple polls, some 70 percent of respondents deemed Mr. Hashimoto's remarks inappropriate. A multipartisan group of women in Parliament denounced him as ''the shame of Osaka.'' Political allies deserted him. He tried to backtrack, saying he supported an apology to the victims. Nevertheless, the media pronounced his political death. With good reason: his party performed dismally in metropolitan elections in Tokyo in June and in the parliamentary elections on Sunday.
This recent controversy offers a cautionary lesson for Mr. Abe and other Japanese nationalists: within Japan's democracy there is a growing commitment to greater truth telling about Japan's wartime past and an intolerance for leaders who deny or speak insensitively about it. It also has important lessons for Japan's neighbors, who in their condemnation of the mayor missed the prodigious anger of Japanese citizens -- which should reassure them as Mr. Abe guides Japan toward a more activist foreign policy. In East Asia today, historical resentment is inextricable from territorial disputes, like the one between Japan and China over islands in the East China Sea.
One episode in the Hashimoto controversy shows promise of a way forward; Mr. Abe and neighboring leaders alike should heed it. After Mr. Hashimoto's blunder, Japan's defense minister, Itsunori Onodera, spoke in Singapore at a regional security forum known as the Shangri-La Dialogue. He went out of his way to condemn Mr. Hashimoto, criticizing him for ''causing misunderstanding and mistrust to Japan's neighboring countries'' with his ''inappropriate remarks about the history of Japan.'' Mr. Onodera acknowledged, as he has done before, that Japan had caused ''tremendous damage and suffering'' to many Asian nations, and he emphasized previous Japanese apologies.
A Chinese delegate, Senior Col. Zhou Bo of the Defense Ministry, immediately welcomed Mr. Onodera's remarks and his ''positive attitude on history.'' The remarks, he said, pointed toward an ''optimistic future for the region.'' Mr. Onodera promptly responded: ''I appreciate your feedback concerning my speech.''
This is the kind of mature leadership -- on both sides -- that East Asia needs more of. In August, if Mr. Abe or other Japanese leaders deny or seek to rationalize wartime atrocities, then Japanese voters and leaders should repudiate them as they did with Mr. Hashimoto. For their part, Japan's neighbors need to acknowledge that Japan in fact has a diverse national conversation about history. True, there are atrocity-denying nationalists -- but there are also many reasonable conservatives and moderates, as well as liberal activists, scholars, journalists, artists, writers and filmmakers who have devoted their careers to historical truth telling and fighting the whitewashing of wartime horrors in school textbooks.
Taking the historical high road will not be easy. But as Mr. Abe moves forward from his electoral victory into a tension-filled summer, it is the essential road for him -- and his neighbors -- to take.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (87%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); ARMED FORCES (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); WORLD WAR II (71%); ANNIVERSARIES (69%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (69%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); WAR CRIMES (69%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (68%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (64%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (62%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (61%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (56%)

PERSON: SHINZO ABE (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OSAKA, JAPAN (79%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%) JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2013



689 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2782 words

HEADLINE: Students Recall Special Schools Run Like Jails

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY WILLIAMS

 BODY:
After Alexander Chomakhidze and his family moved to the United States from Greece a few years ago, he became so despondent he started skipping school and even tried to kill himself. Worried, his parents sent him to Horizon Academy, a Utah boarding school that promised therapy.
But Mr. Chomakhidze, now 18, said that instead of getting help he was roughed up and taunted by staff members, who held him down and cut off his long hair when he arrived. Later, after he slit his wrists, he said he was disciplined but received no mental health counseling.
''They didn't help,'' said Mr. Chomakhidze, who will be a college freshman this fall. ''No one talked to me about it. They just punished me.''
During the past 15 years, a network of Utah-based ''tough love'' boarding schools for troubled youths has closed nearly two dozen programs amid claims of child abuse, which the schools have denied. But Horizon Academy and at least half a dozen other schools with business or family ties to those who ran the network are still operating, and others with those ties are newly opened. And once again, former students, parents and former staff members say that children at some of the schools, Mr. Chomakhidze among them, have been routinely mistreated. 
School officials have denied Mr. Chomakhidze's claims. But interviews and e-mail exchanges with more than 30 former students, parents, current and former staff members, and owners of the schools reveal a rigid system of discipline at the facilities, which are typically locked compounds, often in remote areas. Everyday activities like speaking, using the bathroom, walking freely between rooms, taking showers and talking to parents are limited by the staff.
Robert B. Lichfield, the founder of the network, the World Wide Association of Specialty Programs and Schools, said in an e-mailed statement that he no longer owns any of the schools and that he was unaware of children being harmed. He said that for more than a decade he has supplied only business and educational services to the programs.
''Allegations against schools I did not own or manage, I can't answer,'' he wrote in an e-mail. ''I wasn't there, I didn't abuse or mistreat students, nor did I encourage or direct someone else to do so. I provided business services that were non-supervision, care, or treatment services to schools that were independently owned and operated.''
Behavior modification programs for troubled teenagers have thrived as state and federal laws allow private boarding schools far greater leeway in how they treat children than is permitted in public school systems, which generally prohibit physical punishment, the isolation of children and other severe discipline methods.
In fact, there are no federal laws governing schools like those built on the World Wide model. A 2011 Congressional bill that would have banned physical abuse and the withholding of food at such schools died in committee after it was opposed by lawmakers reluctant to impose new federal standards on a matter often regulated by states.
Instead, states oversee the facilities variously as camps, boarding schools or residential treatment facilities, and state regulators often hesitate to step in because the programs exist in an ill-defined area of the law. For example, private boarding schools are not regularly inspected and are not required to be licensed or accredited, according to the federal Department of Education.
In a case that is not directly related to World Wide, children at a number of privately operated facilities in Florida recently said they had been abused in programs with little governmental control because the schools are regulated as religious institutions.
'Manipulative' Students
Mr. Lichfield said that accusations of mistreatment by troubled adolescents are common in the business. ''All schools working with disturbed teens have a few students who are angry and manipulative, with long histories of lying and dishonesty, who will make allegations,'' he wrote. ''Find one school for me that does not. The schools we provided services for had such volume that even a very small percentage of students who make such allegations start to add up, but every school has about the same percentage of students who didn't like being there and are willing to make such allegations.''
Mr. Lichfield's lawyer, J. Ralph Atkin, said that parents of the nearly 20,000 children who have attended World Wide schools during the past 20 years had a satisfaction rate of 96 percent, and that the schools' employees had been required by law to report signs of mistreatment. Mr. Atkin himself owned a World Wide program in the Czech Republic during the 1990s. It was investigated by Czech authorities after accusations of child abuse and was later closed; World Wide said no children had been mistreated there.
A lawsuit on behalf of more than 350 former students and their parents in a Utah state district court claims that World Wide's programs provide little education or mental health help, and that staff members engage in outright assault. ''In many instances,'' the suit says, ''the abuse could be accurately described as torture of children.''
In May, a lawsuit against a World Wide-related company was resolved for $3 million without the company admitting liability -- nine years after a 16-year-old girl hanged herself in a bathroom stall at a facility in Montana called Spring Creek Lodge Academy, which has since closed. Before her suicide, the girl had been punished by being forced to carry a bucket of rocks, according to depositions by the school's owners and staff.
Owners of the facilities that are currently open say their programs have no connection to World Wide, and turned down requests to visit. But in interviews, former students, parents and staff members -- many of them, like Mr. Chomakhidze, not part of a lawsuit against World Wide -- described them as spartan places.
Daily life is highly structured, with limited free time. Students, who are required to wear uniforms, generally perform schoolwork at their own pace for about five hours a day, though many students and parents say the curriculum is far less rigorous than that of local public schools. While some of the programs have gyms, usually only those who have earned enough points for good behavior can use them. Former students say those points can be rescinded quickly after months of hard work.
Violating rules often leads to being placed in isolation, or being ''restrained'' -- held on the floor for as long as an hour by staff members, who students say twist their limbs in painful positions until they stop resisting. Other punishments at World Wide programs have included pepper spraying, handcuffing, being forced into dog cages and being made to sit or stand in uncomfortable positions for hours, according to former students and claims in lawsuits.
Complaining or crying invited further punishment, the former students said, and children who intentionally injured themselves, including attempting suicide, were punished with demerits and extra work, according to former students and a school handbook. The programs' contracts require parents to release the schools from legal liability.
The schools are typically surrounded by fences or walls to thwart runaways. As an additional deterrent, those who have insufficient accumulated points are required to wear flip flops, even in winter, because, staff members have told them, they make it harder to run.
Even if a student does escape, however, the schools' isolated locations make hiding difficult, and former students said escapees were usually quickly recaptured. On a recent trip to one of the programs, Seneca Ranch, in Donalds, S.C., which is set amid pastures and woods on 500 acres, there was little along a stretch of rural highway.
World Wide once had behavior modification schools in at least 11 states, as well as countries including Costa Rica and Mexico. In recent years, hit by the recession and accusations of abuse, Mr. Lichfield has divested ownership of the schools, which he once likened to McDonald's franchises. But the programs' structure and the disciplinary philosophy he helped conceive continue to be the template at most if not all of the schools.
Mr. Lichfield, an entrepreneur who has an interest in dozens of Utah, Arizona and Nevada businesses, has along with members of his family raised hundreds of thousands of dollars for political candidates nationally over the years, and was a fund-raiser for the 2008 presidential campaign of Mitt Romney.
World Wide lawyers say Mr. Lichfield's original company has largely dissolved, and exists in name only. But World Wide was reregistered with the state of Utah in March, according to business records.
The Money Flow
Mr. Lichfield, family members and business partners have financial interests in a layer of secondary companies through a web of limited liability companies, consulting arrangements and property ownership that Mr. Lichfield has acknowledged in depositions -- while also saying he does not fully understand the links himself. These entities oversee the marketing, business and educational services for many of the schools, and have received up to one-third of the programs' gross revenues, according to business records and court depositions.
One former owner of two World Wide schools, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because he still does business with Mr. Lichfield, said that even after Mr. Lichfield transferred ownership of a school to him, Mr. Lichfield continued to treat him as an employee, including dictating contractual terms.
''He controlled the money flow,'' he said.
According to business filings and Mr. Lichfield's court testimony, the schools and programs that have ties to Mr. Lichfield and his associates are Horizon Academy, Cross Creek Programs and Old West Academy in Utah; Seneca Ranch in South Carolina; Midwest Academy in Iowa; Red River Academy in Louisiana; and Pillars of Hope in Costa Rica. Annual tuition ranges from about $36,000 to $60,000. Most of the schools denied an affiliation with World Wide.
An example of the complex financial bond between Mr. Lichfield and the schools is illustrated in Red River Academy in Lecompte, a small Louisiana town.
The company that owns the school's property, Octwell L.L.C., shares an address in LaVerkin, Utah -- population 5,000 -- with World Wide, of which Mr. Lichfield is listed in records as a trustee and part owner. Business filings show Mr. Lichfield is also a manager at Octwell. Further, Red River Outsources L.L.C., which has provided business services to Red River Academy, is owned in part by Mr. Lichfield and is based at the same LaVerkin address as World Wide and Octwell -- 50 South State Street.
Still, Brent Hall, Red River's owner, said he was not aware of any connection with World Wide or Mr. Lichfield. ''Any association that I ever had with World Wide ended nearly a decade ago when I left my employment at Cross Creek Manor as a therapist,'' Mr. Hall wrote in an e-mail.
Many of the hundreds of adolescents in the schools are sent by parents who say they can no longer cope with their problems, including Asperger's syndrome, depression and drug use. Many have been sexually or physically abused.
Some former students and their parents, while acknowledging the tough rules at the schools, say the programs' emphasis on discipline and order helped steer children from serious antisocial behavior. ''I don't think my son would have graduated from high school,'' said Jeff Cardwell, 52, an Illinois man who sent his 16-year-old son to Midwest Academy in 2012. ''He probably would have ended up in some legal trouble.''
But other parents, students and former staff members say the programs' harsh culture has had dire consequences, including at least one other suicide, in 2001, when a 17-year-old girl jumped from a balcony at Tranquility Bay, a facility in Jamaica that is now closed as well.
World Wide schools in Samoa, Mexico and Costa Rica, in addition to the Czech Republic program, have closed after concerns were raised about mistreated children. World Wide says that while the school in Mexico was closed by the Mexican authorities, the other three programs were closed voluntarily. World Wide denies that any children in the Mexican program or the others were abused.
Tackled by Staff Members
Ken Stettler, director of licensing for Utah's Department of Human Services, said he had received numerous complaints about World Wide programs over the years, and had temporarily closed one of its facilities after finding evidence of child abuse.
He said that while World Wide's claims about high satisfaction rates among parents may be true, the company's reasoning was flawed because it discounted the experiences of children who have been mistreated.
''Do you want to have a milkshake with a half teaspoon of dog poop in it? Would you still drink the milkshake?'' he said. ''There probably is a small percentage who had a bad experience, but why did they have a bad experience?''
Mr. Chomakhidze was at Horizon Academy for seven months in 2011 before his mother pulled him out. He said that on one occasion -- after he was sent to an isolation room -- he began to cry and was tackled by two staff members who twisted his arms behind his back for about 10 minutes.
Mr. Chomakhidze also said staff members and students bullied him because he is gay -- and even though he had a history of suicide attempts, he said one staff member encouraged him to kill himself. ''They said I was a girl,'' he said. ''They said I was crazy.''
When he slit his wrists, he lost his accumulated points for good behavior, which are necessary to finish the program. The school has denied mistreating Mr. Chomakhidze, but acknowledged a policy of taking away students' points after a suicide attempt.
John, who requested that his last name not be used, was 16 when he was sent to Horizon last year. He said he had been restrained by staff members several times during his five-month stay, and that he became so distressed that he refused to eat for nearly three weeks, losing 15 pounds off his thin frame.
''When I stopped eating, they put me in a room for a few days,'' he said, referring to a small isolation room used to punish students. He said his pants and jacket were taken away, leaving him with only his T-shirt and underwear in a room so cold he shivered. Horizon denied that the room was cold or that his clothes were removed.
Taylor Smith, who recently sent her 17-year-old daughter to Horizon, said she had wanted her child to receive therapy for depression. But Ms. Smith said it was only after she had enrolled her daughter that she was told there were no licensed therapists on staff. ''I sent her there because it was supposed to be a residential treatment center,'' she said. She took her daughter home after nine days.
Like some other managers at schools based on the World Wide model, Jade Robinson, Horizon's director, has moved frequently among programs, including Casa by the Sea, which was shut by the Mexican authorities in 2004.
Another school run by Mr. Robinson, Bell Academy, in Terra Bella, Calif., was closed in 2003 after state officials found it operating without a proper license, according to California Department of Social Services records.
Several former students at schools operated by Mr. Robinson, a former amateur boxer, said in interviews -- some dating back to the 1990s -- that he had physically harmed them while disciplining them, and that they remained psychologically damaged.
Mr. Robinson declined a request for an interview and to respond to most written questions. But he wrote in an e-mail: ''My intent and action for years have always been pure to help teens and their family. It is unfortunate that there are a few past students that are unhappy that want to tarnish my reputation for their revenge.''
He added that he had ''always followed the state regulations in all areas and especially on restraints.''
One former student, Matt Hoyler, was 16 when his parents sent him to Casa by the Sea for smoking marijuana and being disobedient.
Mr. Hoyler, now 30, said that after violating a rule prohibiting passing gas without permission, staff members had hogtied him with duct tape and rope and left him in that position for 8 to 12 hours.
While bound, Mr. Hoyler said, Mr. Robinson climbed atop him and pressed a knee into his spine while applying extreme pressure with an elbow to the back of his neck. Mr. Hoyler said that Mr. Robinson, who denied harming Mr. Hoyler, had physically hurt him in three or four similar incidents during his 11-month stay.
''It was terrifying,'' said Mr. Hoyler, who said he still has nightmares about the episodes.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CROSS CREEK PROGRAMS, in LaVerkin, Utah, is a boarding school with links to the World Wide Association of Specialty Programs and Schools. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RONDA CHURCHILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
MATT HOYLER, 30, was sent by his parents to Casa by the Sea in Mexico when he was 16. He said that staff members hogtied him and that the operator of the school climbed on him and applied pressure to his neck. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JASON HENRY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 ALEXANDER CHOMAKHIDZE, 18, says he was punished at Horizon Academy in Utah. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (89%); BOARDING SCHOOLS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); EDUCATION LAW (78%); SCHOOL VIOLENCE (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); MENTAL HEALTH (75%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); CHILD ABUSE (72%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2013



690 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 300 words

HEADLINE: Altria Improves Forecast for Year as Profit Rises 3%

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
RICHMOND, Va. -- The Altria Group, which makes Marlboro cigarettes, said on Tuesday that its second-quarter profit rose about 3 percent as higher prices and lower expenses from a longstanding legal settlement offset a decline in cigarette sales. 
Altria, which owns the nation's biggest cigarette maker, Philip Morris USA, also raised the lower end of its earnings guidance for the year.
The company, based here, earned $1.27 billion, or 63 cents a share, for the quarter that ended June 30, up from $1.22 billion, or 60 cents a share, a year earlier.
Excluding one-time items, earnings were 62 cents a share, missing Wall Street expectations by a penny.
Revenue, excluding excise taxes, fell 2.5 percent, to $4.5 billion. Analysts polled by FactSet had expected $4.62 billion.
Cigarette volume fell nearly 7 percent, to 33.8 billion cigarettes, compared with a year ago. Marlboro volume fell more than 7 percent, and volume for its other premium brands fell by nearly 11 percent. Volume for discount cigarette brands like L&M increased nearly 4 percent.
Altria's share of the American retail market rose 0.3 percentage points, to 50.7 percent. Marlboro's share of the American market was flat at 43.7 percent.
The premium Marlboro brand has been under pressure from competitors and lower-priced brands as consumers face economic difficulties, including high unemployment.
Tax increases, smoking bans, health concerns and social stigma also have made the cigarette business tougher.
Altria and rivals are focusing on alternatives to cigarettes, including electronic cigarettes, cigars, snuff and chewing tobacco, for sales growth because smoking is expected to fall further.
The company on Thursday raised the lower end of its full-year adjusted earnings guidance by a penny, to a range of $2.36 to $2.41 a share.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOBACCO INDUSTRY (92%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); TOBACCO MFG (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (89%); SMOKING (89%); EXCISE TAX (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); MARKET SHARE (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); RETAIL SALES (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (72%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (69%); TAX LAW (69%); SMOKING BANS (64%)

COMPANY: ALTRIA GROUP INC (96%); PHILIP MORRIS USA (57%)

TICKER: MO (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (96%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (57%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (74%) VIRGINIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2013



691 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: Apple Tops Forecasts, but Not Itself

BYLINE: By BRIAN X. CHEN

 BODY:
The news on Tuesday was not particularly good for Apple: revenue was flat, profit was lower, and even the sales of iPads were down.
Investors did not seem to mind, at least in the short term, sending the company's shares about 4 percent higher in after-hours trading. Strong iPhone sales helped beat the expectations of Wall Street.
But Apple's earnings report on Tuesday highlighted some of the challenges the company faces as it continues to expand overseas. The company sells plenty of devices in the United States, but sales have lagged in some larger overseas markets, which are crucial for its future growth. 
China has been especially problematic for the company. Overall sales of Apple devices in China fell 4 percent compared with the same quarter last year. And in Hong Kong, Apple's sales were down about 20 percent -- a trend that Timothy D. Cook, the company's chief executive, found puzzling.
''Hong Kong is an international shopping haven,'' Mr. Cook said on the company's earnings call in response to an analyst's questions about Apple's performance in China. ''We saw some dramatic downturn there. It's not totally clear exactly why that occurred.''
Gaining a foothold in foreign markets is becoming increasingly vital for Apple. Its growth has slowed in the most recent quarters, as its devices have largely saturated the United States and some top markets in Europe.
The tepid growth has led many investors to clamor for a new blockbuster product to restart growth and give Apple's sagging stock a much-needed lift. But no such product has been announced. For several quarters now, Mr. Cook has suggested that the company has plenty of new products in the pipeline, and that some could reach the public this fall or next year.
The company could decide to introduce a cheaper iPhone to spur growth in China and other foreign markets, or even a so-called smartwatch that would compete in a brand-new market of wearable computers. Those ideas have long been discussed and considered at the company.
''Competition is heating up,'' said Laurence Isaac Balter, chief market strategist at Oracle Investment Research, which has clients that own Apple shares. ''They need to come up with some game-changers pretty soon.''
The third quarter is typically a slow time for Apple. That is because the company traditionally introduces a new iPhone model in the fall, so in the summer many consumers are waiting for the next model to be released.
But sales of iPhones were strong. The company sold 31.2 million iPhones, up from 26 million in the same period a year ago. It was the most Apple had ever sold in a third quarter.
Those sales helped generate a net income in the third quarter of $6.9 billion, or $7.47 a share. But that was down from $8.8 billion in the same quarter a year earlier. The company said revenue was roughly flat at $35.3 billion, from $35 billion a year ago.
The net income beat the expectations of Wall Street analysts. They had expected $7.32 a share and revenue of $35 billion, according to a survey by Thomson Reuters.
Analysts closely watch Apple's gross profit margins. For the third quarter, Apple's gross margin was 36.9 percent, down from 42.8 percent a year ago. In April, Apple warned that its gross margin would continue to fall in the fiscal third quarter to 36 to 37 percent.
Strong sales of Apple's cheaper iPads and older iPhones are putting the squeeze on the margins. Apple did not disclose how many of each phone or tablet model it sold. But it said that while its iPhone 5 was the best seller, sales of the previous generations, the iPhone 4 and iPhone 4S, were also strong. Late last year, Apple added the cheaper iPad Mini to its lineup.
Even with the Mini, Apple's iPad sales were a disappointment, coming in at 14.6 million for the quarter, missing analyst estimates for 16.7 million. Mac sales were also down slightly, at 3.8 million, from 4 million a year ago.
Investors concerned about Apple's growth have punished the company's stock. The stock price has fallen by roughly 40 percent from its peak of $705.07 in September. Shares closed at $418.99 on Tuesday, down 1.7 percent, before gaining ground in after-hours trading.
Apple may face a challenge in China, but the tech industry's other two giants, Microsoft and Google, have their struggles, too. Microsoft posted a profit of almost $5 billion for the quarter, missing expectations of analysts, thanks in part to disappointing sales of its Surface tablet and an industrywide decline in sales of personal computers. Google also posted a profit, of $3.23 billion, but still missed analysts' expectations as its desktop search business continued to slow and ad prices shrank.
Mr. Cook told investors to stay optimistic about Apple in China. About half a million people there are creating apps for iOS, Apple's mobile software system for iPhones and iPads, he said. Sales of the iPad in greater China were up 8 percent and up 37 percent in mainland China, he said.
''Over the arc of time, China is a huge opportunity for Apple,'' Mr. Cook said, ''so I don't get discouraged over a 90-day kind of cycle with economic factors.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Timothy D. Cook, Apple's chief executive, said he was not discouraged by lagging sales in China. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW GOMBERT/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAIL SALES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (89%); TABLET COMPUTERS (89%); SMARTPHONES (89%); NEW PRODUCTS (89%); TRENDS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); EXECUTIVES (68%); WEARABLE COMPUTERS (50%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (98%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (98%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (98%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (98%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (98%)

PERSON: TIM COOK (89%); STEVEN JOBS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); HONG KONG (90%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2013



692 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1099 words

HEADLINE: The Death Of a Museum

BYLINE: By ROBIN POGREBIN

 BODY:
How does a museum decide to dissolve?
That question could ultimately face two cultural institutions: the Detroit Institute of Arts, whose artwork may be sold off because the city has declared bankruptcy, and the South Street Seaport Museum, which is desperately trying to stay afloat.
Museums don't often go out of business. They cut back, they pare down, but they tend to persevere as cultural anchors of their communities. And neither of these institutions has announced plans to close; both are hoping to weather their current storms.
But both are arguably in jeopardy -- the Detroit Institute because a sale would denude its prestigious collection of its most valuable artworks and compromise its integrity, since nonprofit museums, founded in the public trust, are ethically obligated not to sell pieces except to acquire others; the Seaport because it has struggled for years to pay its bills and recently lost its white knight when the Museum of the City of New York said it could no longer afford to run the museum, which was damaged by Hurricane Sandy.
Should these institutions find themselves forced to close, they could look to the Fresno Metropolitan Museum of Art and Science, which shut down in 2010, as an object lesson in the complex, painful process of dissolution. 
Although vastly different in scale and reputation from the august Detroit Institute and the endearing Seaport Museum, the Fresno Met had certain key things in common with those institutions. It was a nonprofit whose building was in the end owned by the city. (The City of Detroit owns the Institute and much of its collection, and the Seaport Museum leases its building from the city's Economic Development Corporation.) Also like the Detroit Institute and the Seaport Museum, the Fresno Met was a flagship attraction and a local point of pride.
''It was extremely difficult,'' said Dana Thorpe, the Fresno Met's last executive director. ''For many people in the community, this was their Disneyland.''
The Fresno Met was one of nearly 30 museums that decided to close in 2009, the last year statistics were compiled, according to the American Alliance of Museums, a national association. The alliance no longer tries to calculate the number of closings, said a spokesman, Dewey Blanton, because many go unreported.
The Fresno Met didn't have a lot of history behind it. It was created in 1984 in the former home of The Fresno Bee newspaper, a 1922 Renaissance Revival building on the National Register that the Bee's owner donated. Among the largest arts institutions in California's Central Valley, the museum had a few gems in its collection like American Indian baskets and a cache of Ansel Adams photographs.
For a while, the Fresno Met thrived as a center for programs in art and science. But by the time Ms. Thorpe became director in June 2008, the museum was foundering. A $28 million renovation project was $15 million over budget and three years behind schedule, closing the museum during construction.
Although the Met finally managed to reopen in November 2008, and attendance reached a record 110,000 over the ensuing year, contributions diminished as the recession hit donors' stock portfolios. In 2009, carrying more than $4 million in debt, the museum cut its operating budget by 45 percent, went through two rounds of layoffs and closed its Chagall exhibition early.
''It was a Taj Mahal and a beautiful museum, but the demographics were not there to support it,'' said Stewart Randall, the former board president.
The museum sought help from the City of Fresno, which agreed to guarantee a $15 million loan. But the economic downturn left the museum unable to raise money to refinance the loan, so the city took over the building. And the writing was on the wall.
''We were spending $300,000 a month and had income of $200,000 a month,'' Mr. Randall said. ''That's when it became evident to me that there was no way this was going to survive.''
Staff members were let go. The collection had to be sold. Debts had to be paid. ''We were now talking about closing the museum with dignity and grace,'' Ms. Thorpe said.
To deal with all this, the museum hired Riley C. Walter, a Fresno bankruptcy lawyer.
The museum considered filing for Chapter 11 protection. But, after calculating the potential costs and delays, it instead pursued an insolvency proceeding to benefit creditors that is governed by state law rather than federal bankruptcy law.
The procedure turns the museum's assets over to an assignee -- in this case, O. James Woodward III, a prominent local lawyer and art collector -- who then oversees their disposal.
''It was far less expensive and far faster than a Chapter 11,'' Mr. Walter said. ''In Chapter 11, you would have to go through elaborate notice procedures and give a lot more opportunity for people to object.''
The museum notified creditors of its liquidation, so that they could file claims, then auctioned off non-art items like pedestals and display cases. Sotheby's handled the sale of the most valuable art works, which brought about $2 million; other auction houses sold the rest.
The unsecured creditors received 80 cents on the dollar.
At the beginning of the process, a group of local patrons lent the museum $675,000 and took a lien against its assets. That money was used in the liquidation for payroll while the museum was obtaining valuations from auction houses. This loan was paid off through the Fresno Met's first sale of assets.
The liquidation prompted only one lawsuit: The family of Ansel Adams said the photographs were meant to stay in a museum. So the family traded other pieces it had for those in the collection, based on a fair market value price determined by an auction house.
Note to institutions contemplating a similar move: The aftermath wasn't all grim. A science and math exhibition for children was bought by a children's museum in north-central California; a large collection of original boxed puzzles went to a toy museum. The museum's building is now rented out by the city as commercial space. And some of the staff members and trustees landed at the Fresno Art Museum, an older institution that focuses on contemporary American art.
Still, ''it was really unfortunate,'' Mr. Walter said. ''And it's led to there being one fewer cultural amenity in the whole region.''
Ms. Thorpe said she had received calls for advice from other museum directors whose institutions were in similar straits on how to avoid the same fate.
''I share the story of the Fresno Met,'' she said. ''I never want to see another museum close, even though I know it continues to happen.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CLOSED: The Fresno Met in California, which shut down in 2010 after an expensive renovation and a fall in donations. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CRAIG KOHLRUSS/THE FRESNO BEE)
THREATENED: An empty gallery at the South Street Seaport Museum. Hurricane damage has put its future in jeopardy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
AT RISK: A Diego Rivera mural at the Detroit Institute of Arts. Detroit's bankruptcy filing has raised fears that works will be sold. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REBECCA COOK/REUTERS) (C1)
An exhibit at the ''Feathered Dinosaurs'' show in 2008 at the Fresno Met, an art and science museum in California that closed in 2010. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KURT HEGRE/THE FRESNO BEE)
 Patrons of the Detroit Institute in front of Rembrandt Peale's ''Court of Death,'' from 1820. Much of the museum's collection is owned by the city. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN MCGEE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); CLOSINGS (77%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (76%); HURRICANE SANDY (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); EXECUTIVES (62%); NATIVE AMERICANS (60%); HURRICANES (52%)

ORGANIZATION: SOUTH STREET SEAPORT MUSEUM (91%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRESNO, CA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2013



693 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: Senate Scrutiny of Potential Risk In Markets for Commodities

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Wall Street's lucrative commodities businesses came to the fore here Tuesday as a Senate panel questioned whether banks should be allowed to control warehouses, pipelines and other infrastructure used to store and transport essential goods.
The hearing, convened by the Senate Financial Institutions and Consumer Protection subcommittee, came as Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan Chase and others face growing scrutiny over their role in the commodities markets and the extent to which their activities can inflate prices paid by manufacturers and consumers. The Federal Reserve is reviewing the potential risks posed by the operations, which have generated many billions of dollars in profits for the banks. 
The hearing followed an article in The New York Times on Sunday that explored the operations of warehouses controlled in part by Goldman Sachs. The bank's tactics, along with those of other financial players, have inflated the price of aluminum and ultimately cost consumers billions of dollars, an investigation by The Times found. The Commodity Futures Trading Commission is now gathering information on the warehouse operations.
Several witnesses at Tuesday's hearings warned that letting the country's largest financial institutions own commodities units that store and ship vast quantities of metals, oil and the other basic building blocks of the economy could pose grave risks to the financial system. The ability of those bank subsidiaries to gather nonpublic information on commodities stores and shipping also could give the banks an unfair advantage in the markets and cost consumers billions of dollars, the witnesses said.
Representatives from the financial industry did not testify on Tuesday, but Goldman Sachs for the first time addressed its role in the aluminum market. In a statement posted on its Web site, Goldman said that its ownership of aluminum warehouses did not affect prices of the metal, in part because only 5 percent of the aluminum that is used in manufacturing passes through the warehouses owned by Goldman and others. Goldman controls 27 warehouses in the Detroit area that are used to store aluminum for customers.
In addition, Goldman said, delivered aluminum prices are nearly 40 percent lower than they were in 2006. During the financial crisis, warehoused inventories of aluminum more than tripled, the company said, because of weakened consumer demand.
The Times investigation found that Goldman's warehouse subsidiary moved large amounts of aluminum among its warehouses daily, a process that lengthened the storage time and increased the premium that was added to the basic price of aluminum. The London Metal Exchange, which sets the rules under which the metals warehouses operate, said in a separate statement that it was working with the industry to amend the delivery obligations of warehouse companies with long waiting periods.
Even with the waiting periods, ''there is no reported shortage of aluminum in the market,'' the exchange said. ''Consumers can continue to buy directly from producers as they always have done.''
Saule T. Omarova, a law professor at the University of North Carolina who has studied the issue, told the subcommittee that there was one other company that was an early leader in combining the practice of moving physical commodities with the financing of market activity -- Enron.
The comparison was seized upon by Senator Elizabeth Warren, a Massachusetts Democrat. ''The notion that two of largest financial companies are adopting a business method pioneered by Enron,'' she said, ''suggests that this movie will not end well.'' Major beverage companies have complained about the maneuvers. Tim Weiner, a MillerCoors executive, told the panel on Tuesday that while consumers might not think they have much at stake from tons of aluminum bars stored in a warehouse near Detroit, the actions of Goldman and others have raised prices, cost jobs and hindered innovation.
That is in part because waiting times for customers who want to retrieve their metals purchases have grown to more than 16 months since Goldman Sachs took over the warehouses three years ago. Before Goldman arrived, the average wait was six weeks.
Imagine going to a liquor store to buy a case of beer, and taking it up to the cash register to pay, Mr. Weiner said. Then instead of taking the case of beer to your car, the clerk told you to visit the store's warehouse, where you can retrieve the beer in 16 months.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Senate subcommittee held a hearing on Tuesday on Wall Street's business role in commodities like metals and oil. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHER GREGORY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (90%); METALS MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (89%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (89%); ALUMINUM MARKETS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TESTIMONY (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (89%); WITNESSES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (78%); BASE METALS MARKETS (78%); FUTURES (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); CONSUMER LAW (77%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); EYEWITNESSES (72%); SECURITIES TRADING (71%); WEB SITES (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%)

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (56%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2013



694 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1229 words

HEADLINE: House G.O.P. Sets A New Offensive On Obama Goals

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WEISMAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Congressional Republicans are moving to gut many of President Obama's top priorities with the sharpest spending cuts in a generation and a new push to hold government financing hostage unless the president's signature health care law is stripped of money this fall.
As Mr. Obama prepares to deliver a major economic address on Wednesday in Illinois, Republicans in Washington are delivering blow after blow to programs he will promote as vital to a more robust economic recovery and a firmer economic future -- from spending on infrastructure and health care to beefing up regulatory agencies. While Mr. Obama would like to keep the economic conversation lofty, his adversaries in Congress are already fighting in the trenches.
On Tuesday, a House Appropriations subcommittee formally drafted legislation that would cut the Environmental Protection Agency's budget by 34 percent and eliminate his newly announced greenhouse gas regulations. The bill cuts financing for the national endowments for the arts and the humanities in half and the Fish and Wildlife Service by 27 percent. 
For the fiscal year that begins Oct. 1, Mr. Obama requested nearly $3 billion for renewable energy and energy efficiency programs -- a mainstay of his economic agenda since he was first elected. The House approved $826 million. Senate Democrats want to give $380 million to ARPA-E, an advanced research program for energy. The House allocated $70 million.
A House bill to finance labor and health programs, expected to be unveiled Wednesday, makes good on Republican threats to eliminate the Corporation for Public Broadcasting. The labor and health measure -- for years the most contentious spending bill -- will protect some of the White House's priorities, like Head Start, special education and the National Institutes of Health, but to do so education grants for poor students will be cut by 16 percent and the Labor Department by 13 percent, according to House Republican aides.
''These are tough bills,'' acknowledged Representative Harold Rogers, the Kentucky Republican who leads the House Appropriations Committee. ''His priorities are going nowhere.''
The Democrat-controlled Senate will not go along with the House cuts, but the different approaches will complicate negotiations. With just 24 legislative days remaining before Oct. 1, talks to resolve the disparities have not really begun, lawmakers said, putting Congress and the president on a collision course that could shut down the government after this fiscal year ends Sept. 30.
''This is as serious a challenge on fiscal matters as I've ever seen,'' said Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, the No. 2 House Democrat and a veteran of more than three decades in Congress.
In the Senate, Republicans are circulating a letter to Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, warning they will not approve any spending measure to keep the government operating after Sept. 30 if it devotes a penny to put in place Mr. Obama's health care law. Signers so far include the No. 2 and No. 3 Republican senators, John Cornyn of Texas and John Thune of South Dakota, as well as one of the party's rising stars, Marco Rubio of Florida.
The letter, drafted by Senators Mike Lee of Utah, Ted Cruz of Texas and Rand Paul of Kentucky, states: ''If Democrats will not agree with Republicans that Obamacare must be repealed, perhaps they can at least agree with the president that the law cannot be implemented as written. If the administration will not enforce the law as written, then the American people should not be forced to fund it.''
Taken together, efforts in both chambers amount to some of the most serious cuts to domestic spending since the Republicans in 1995 tried to shutter the departments of Energy, Education and Commerce -- and ended up shutting the government down for 28 days. ''It's about time we cut some spending around here,'' said Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, chairman of the House Budget Committee.
A senior White House adviser, Dan Pfeiffer, said Republicans were offering no plan ''other than indiscriminate cuts as far as the eye can see and repeal Obamacare as often as possible.''
''We need them to step away from the brink, stop the gridlock and work with Democrats to make progress,'' Mr. Pfeiffer said. ''If they don't, a train wreck is inevitable and the country will suffer.''
If the White House can reach the coming fiscal year without economic disruption, the fight will transition immediately to the next showdown: raising the government's statutory borrowing authority. The Treasury has been shifting money within government accounts for weeks to keep the government solvent, but by October or early November, such ''extraordinary measures'' will have been exhausted, Treasury officials have told lawmakers.
Mr. Obama has said he will not negotiate terms to raise the debt ceiling, but Congressional Republicans say they will not let the deadline pass without concessions, either on changes to entitlement programs like Medicare or on some statutory timeline to put in place a sweeping overhaul of the tax code next year.
''We're not going to raise the debt ceiling without real cuts in spending,'' Speaker John A. Boehner of Ohio said Tuesday. ''It's as simple as that.''
To resolve the brewing fiscal crisis, the House and Senate must first agree on a total spending number for the next fiscal year, then adjust their respective spending plans to comply with it. Republicans would have to drop their insistence that spending in fiscal 2014 be set at a level equal to the total fixed by the 2011 Budget Control Act, then cut further by the automatic, across-the-board spending cuts known as sequestration, something Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, said Tuesday that he will not do.
Democrats will almost certainly have to come down from the spending levels set in the spending bills being drafted in the Senate. And Mr. Obama, who has issued veto threats on every House spending bill, will have to give up on some of his priorities, Republicans say.
But beyond a few casual conversations on the Senate floor and between White House aides and Republican senators, no real negotiations have even begun.
Republicans are open about their intentions to target the president's priorities. The House transportation and housing bill for fiscal 2014 cuts from $3.3 billion to $1.7 billion the financing for Community Development Block Grants, which go mainly to large cities and urban counties for housing and social programs, largely for the poor. That level is below the number secured by President Gerald R. Ford when he created the program -- without adjusting for inflation.
The Securities and Exchange Commission, which has been flexing its muscle against hedge fund managers and insider trading schemes, would see financing cut 18 percent from the current level. Though Mr. Obama will finally get a fully operational National Labor Relations Board under a Senate agreement that forced Republicans to drop their filibuster of his three board nominees, House lawmakers are slashing spending on the board's operations.
Under other House legislation, the budget for the Internal Revenue Service would be cut by 24 percent, Amtrak would lose a third of its financing, and clean water grants from the Environmental Protection Agency would be slashed by 83 percent.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Harold Rogers said of President Obama, ''His priorities are going nowhere.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. SCOTT APPLEWHITE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A3) CHART: Diverging Spending Plans: Committees in the Republican-controlled House have approved spending cuts in 2014 for several non-defense programs, including in many priority areas of President Obama's agenda. His administration has proposed rolling back the automatic spending cuts known as sequestration, already in place in favor of other spending reductions and increased taxes. (Source: Center on Budget and Policy Priorities) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (77%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (77%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (75%); ENERGY REGULATION (75%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (75%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (75%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (75%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (74%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (73%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (72%); ENDOWMENTS (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (72%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (71%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (71%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (68%); WILDLIFE (68%); GREENHOUSE GASES (68%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (66%); SCIENCE NEWS (65%); INFRASTRUCTURE (56%)

COMPANY: CORPORATION FOR PUBLIC BROADCASTING (66%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (66%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (66%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); HAROLD ROGERS (58%); HARRY REID (58%); STENY HOYER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2013



695 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 865 words

HEADLINE: Biden Meets India's Leaders to Promote Closer Ties

BYLINE: By GARDINER HARRIS

 BODY:
NEW DELHI -- Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. held a parade of meetings on Tuesday with India's top political leaders, but the most important part of his trip to India will begin Wednesday, when he is expected to discuss with India's business elite in Mumbai the growing concerns about India's economy.
Mr. Biden started his trip Monday afternoon with a visit to a memorial in New Delhi to Mohandas K. Gandhi, who is considered India's founding father. Mr. Biden wrote a tribute to Gandhi in the visitors' book, calling Gandhi ''one man who changed the world." 
On Tuesday, Mr. Biden held meetings with Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, President Pranab Mukherjee, Vice President Mohammad Hamid Ansari and Sushma Swaraj, a leader of the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party. A banquet in Mr. Biden's honor was scheduled for Tuesday night, after which he was scheduled to fly to Mumbai, India's financial capital.
Mr. Biden's trip is part of a long-term effort to convince India's officials and people that the days when Pakistan, India's longtime rival, was the United States' favorite friend in South Asia are over. Mr. Biden's trip is the first by an American vice president in nearly 30 years, and it comes one month after Secretary of State John Kerry traveled to New Delhi, the capital, to discuss climate change and diplomacy.
But Mr. Biden is expected to deliver more than just happy talk about the growing strategic and cultural ties between the United States and India. While in Mumbai, he is expected to express growing concerns about India's economy and its openness to foreign investment before leaving for Singapore on Thursday night.
Investors from the United States and around the globe once flocked to India, drawn by its rapid economic growth, gradual economic liberalization and huge population. But in the last decade, many American companies have found the going far tougher than expected, and their complaints are beginning to resonate in Washington.
The problems that companies confront here -- endemic corruption, shifting government rules and poor infrastructure, among others -- seemed less dire when the Indian economy was growing at a blistering rate. But growth has slowed to 5 percent over the past year, and those issues have become far greater irritants.
Mr. Biden's complaints about India's investment climate are likely to be greeted with some sympathy in Mumbai, since even Indian companies have begun looking for growth outside their country's borders. Investments by foreign and domestic companies have fallen over the last five years to 31 percent of the country's gross domestic product from nearly 38 percent, said Subir Gokarn, director of research at Brookings India, with crucial sectors like manufacturing and mining doing especially poorly.
The prime minister, Mr. Singh, acknowledged in a speech to a prominent business group here on Friday that the nation's economy was under stress.
''We, like most other countries, are going through a difficult period,'' Mr. Singh said in a barely audible whisper. ''I know that business is deeply concerned about the slowdown in our economy.''
The Indian rupee has lost about 9 percent of its value against the dollar in recent months, a decline exceeded only by the Brazilian real among major emerging-market currencies. India has substantial budget and current account deficits, and inflation is running at nearly 10 percent annually.
The country's central bank has the difficult task of defending the currency by trying to raise short-term interest rates without pushing up long-term rates, which would further slow growth. But the Reserve Bank of India took the unusual step last week of withdrawing a bond sale after investors insisted on interest rates that were higher than the government's bankers wanted to pay.
Ajay Shah, a professor at the National Institute of Public Finance and Policy in New Delhi, said these problems guaranteed that India's era of rapid economic growth would not return for many years.
''There's been a tremendous collapse in confidence,'' Professor Shah said.
India's government has taken steps to put its fiscal house in order by reducing fuel subsidies, a hugely expensive program that largely benefits the rich. Last week, the government announced a loosening of restrictions on certain foreign investments.
But national elections scheduled for next year are likely to mean that the government will be loath to make additional cuts to popular welfare projects, said Sreeram Chaulia, a professor and dean at the Jindal School of International Affairs. A new food security bill could even expand such social spending significantly.
''Right now, this government is concerned about winning the next election,'' Professor Chaulia said.
Mr. Biden also intends to push India for further defense cooperation and more arms purchases from the United States, according to a senior Obama administration official.
India has long resisted becoming too close to the American military. But recent border tensions between India and China have jangled nerves in New Delhi and made officials here strive to improve India's defense manufacturing abilities, something the United States has said it can help achieve.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); CLIMATE CHANGE (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); CLIMATOLOGY (69%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (68%); ECONOMIC POLICY (67%); CORRUPTION (50%)

PERSON: JOE BIDEN (92%); PRANAB MUKHERJEE (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%); MANMOHAN SINGH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (94%); MUMBAI, INDIA (90%) INDIA (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); SOUTHERN ASIA (58%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2013



696 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 573 words

HEADLINE: Earnings Reports Offer No Clear Signals, So Markets Meander

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The stock market lacked direction on Tuesday following some uneven corporate earnings news.
Most major indexes closed slightly lower, except for the Dow Jones industrial average. Yet even the Dow's modest gain was a result of a 3 percent increase in one stock, United Technologies.
Better earnings from big banks, health insurers and other companies have helped drive the stock market higher this month. On Tuesday, however, the encouraging and the discouraging seemed evenly matched. Wendy's and United Technologies surged after posting stronger results than financial analysts had expected. Netflix and the Altria Group, maker of Marlboro cigarettes, sank after their results fell short. 
''In the absence of major economic news, the focus is on earnings this week,'' said David Joy, chief market strategist at Ameriprise Financial. ''And there's nothing today to drive the market dramatically one way or another.''
The Dow industrials rose 22.19 points, or 0.14 percent, to 15,567.74. If not for the gain in United Technologies stock, the Dow would have closed down a point.
United Technologies jumped $3.01, to $105.12, after the conglomerate said strong orders for commercial airline parts and elevators helped lift its profit.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 3.14 points, or 0.19 percent, to 1,692.39, backing off the nominal record closing high it set Monday. The Nasdaq composite index fell 21.11 points, or 0.59 percent, to 3,579.27.
It was a busy day for earnings as 35 companies in the S.& P. 500 were scheduled to turn in results. The second-quarter scorecard looks good so far. More than six out of every 10 companies have posted earnings that surpassed Wall Street's expectations, according to S&P Capital IQ.
Analysts forecast that second-quarter earnings for companies in the S.& P. 500 increased 3.8 percent over the same period last year.
''The bar has been set pretty low,'' said Joel Huffman, senior portfolio manager at U.S. Bank Wealth Management. So it's hardly a surprise that many companies are able to jump over it, he said.
Sales are another story. Analysts expect revenue to shrink 0.7 percent in the second quarter. Mr. Huffman said he was encouraged that many banks and makers of consumer-discretionary goods had reported stronger American sales. ''It's an indication of the underlying growth in the U.S. economy versus other parts of the world,'' he said.
Apple shares rose 4 percent in after-hours trading, when the company reported earnings and revenue that beat Wall Street's forecasts.
Among the stocks on the move, Wendy's jumped 55 cents, or 8.2 percent, to $7.23. The fast-food company's net income came in above Wall Street's expectations. Wendy's also announced plans to sell 425 restaurants as franchises and raised its quarterly dividend by a penny, to 5 cents.
The Altria Group said its quarterly results fell short of analysts' expectations. Altria's stock sank 89 cents, or 2.4 percent, to $35.99.
Netflix shares dropped $11.70, or 4.5 percent, to $250.26. The company said late Monday that it signed up fewer subscribers than financial analysts had projected. Big expectations have propelled Netflix's stock up 170 percent since the start of the year, putting more pressure on the company to deliver amazing numbers.
In the bond market, interest rates moved higher. The price of the 10-year Treasury note dropped 6/32, to 93 15/32, while its yield rose to 2.51 percent from 2.48 percent late Monday.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg)
 Two-Year Treasury Notes: High yields in percent. (Source: Treasury Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); COMPANY EARNINGS (93%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); COMPANY REVENUES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); FAST FOOD (76%); TOBACCO MFG (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); INSURANCE (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (67%); AIRLINES (66%); HEALTH INSURANCE (57%)

COMPANY: UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (91%); ALTRIA GROUP INC (83%); AMERIPRISE FINANCIAL INC (69%); NETFLIX INC (57%)

TICKER: UTX (NYSE) (91%); MO (NYSE) (83%); AMP (NYSE) (69%); NFLX (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (83%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (69%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (69%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (57%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2013



697 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1246 words

HEADLINE: Pro-Baby, But Stingy With Money For Support

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER. 
E-mail: eporter@nytimes.com; Twitter: @portereduardo

 BODY:
Conservatives have a particularly soft spot for babies. They tend to have more children than liberals and they are much more likely to oppose abortion rights. They also appreciate babies' power.
In December, Ross Douthat wrote an Op-Ed column for The New York Times titled ''More Babies, Please,'' which noted that the United States' relatively high birthrates would give it an edge against aging rivals around the world.
But there is an odd inconsistency in conservatives' stance on procreation: many also support some of the harshest cuts in memory to government benefit programs for families and children.
First Focus, an advocacy group for child-friendly policies, will release on Wednesday its latest ''Children's Budget,'' which shows how federal spending on children has declined more than 15 percent in real terms from its high in 2010, when the fiscal stimulus law raised spending on programs like Head Start and K-12 education. 
Some school districts have been forced to fire teachers, cut services and even shorten the school week. Head Start has cut its rolls. Families have lost housing support. And the 2014 budget passed by Republicans in the House cuts investments in children further -- sharply reducing money for the Departments of Education, Labor and Health and Human Services.
Birth rates have dropped precipitously since the onset of the recession six years ago -- to 63.2 per 1,000 women of childbearing age in 2011, the lowest at least since 1920. The total fertility rate of American women -- the number of children they will bear in a lifetime -- fell to 1.9, the lowest in a quarter-century, well below the 2.1 children per woman needed to maintain a stable population.
The abrupt decline has multiple causes, including less immigration from Latin America, where women tend to have more children. Bruce Sacerdote, an economist at Dartmouth College who has studied fertility, surmises that the deep recession and weak recovery produced enormous pessimism about the future, prompting many families to postpone plans to have children.
But perhaps the biggest factor affecting families' decisions to delay childbearing, cut back on their numbers of children or even forgo having babies entirely is the cost of rearing them, either in money or the value of women's time.
''It is all about the costs and the opportunity costs for women,'' notes Professor Sacerdote.
After more than a decade of stagnant incomes, many families stressed by the rising cost of providing an education to their children appear to have concluded they are too costly.
Fertility can rebound. It has done so before. Birthrates plummeted in the 1960s and 1970s as women by the tens of millions opted out of their traditional role as housewives and mothers, went to college and got jobs -- postponing and often forgoing what until then had been the classical American family of a single male breadwinner and a stay-at-home mother.
In economists' terms, women's ''opportunity cost'' of children rose. By the middle of the 1970s, the fertility rate of American women fell to just over 1.7 children from 2.7 a decade earlier.
But fertility didn't continue to fall. By 1990, it had bounced back to around 2.1, the rate needed to stabilize the population.
In an important study, Professor Sacerdote and his Dartmouth colleagues James Feyrer and Ariel Dora Stern noted that families worked out a way for women to accommodate children and a job. In 1975, women performed three-quarters of the family hours devoted to child care, according to the Multinational Time Use Study. By 1995, they performed 60 percent.
In 2012, men in families with children under 6 spent 59 percent as much time as women performing primary child care duties, compared with 45 percent in 2003.
This shift in cultural norms within American families can explain why fertility in the United States is higher than in many other advanced nations -- places like Japan, Germany, Spain and Hong Kong, where women still shoulder an overwhelming share of child care.
But though American families may have adapted better than others to women's march into the labor force, the United States lags far behind in providing the government support that makes it easier for many couples to start a family.
There is widespread evidence that government assistance to families increases fertility. France's generous child subsidies, for instance, have been credited with lifting that nation's fertility rate above 2, from about 1.75 in the mid-1990s. A study in Quebec found that increasing benefits to new parents by 1,000 Canadian dollars increased the probability of having a child by 16.9 percent. One study in Sweden traced its higher fertility compared to other Scandinavian countries to government programs like paid leave and subsidized day care, which made it easier for mothers to work.
None of this comes cheap. But even conservative thinkers like Gary S. Becker, the Nobel laureate from the University of Chicago, readily acknowledge that government can combat low fertility by subsidizing education or other costs of children. ''Since children are expensive over their first 20 years or so, subsidies have to be big per child to have a sizable effect,'' he told me in a recent interview at his office.
Mr. Douthat, too, has consistently argued for more family-friendly government policies.
There are some troubling trends that suggest that fertility rates will not simply rebound as the economy recovers. Women's participation in the labor force has stagnated over the last 13 years after growing by leaps and bounds for decades. In 1990, the United States had the sixth-highest share of women in the labor force among 22 advanced countries in the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. By 2010, its rank had fallen to 17th.
This suggests increasing tension between women's responsibilities at work and at home. In a study this year, Francine D. Blau and Lawrence M. Kahn of Cornell found that the labor supply of American women fell compared to those of other rich countries partly because the United States does not provide the generous family benefits common in the rest of the industrial world -- like direct subsidies for children, mandatory paid maternity leave and free child care.
Helping children, particularly those from families with modest means, provides a real payoff for society.
A study in the journal Demography found that families' dedicated spending on children roughly doubled between the 1970s and the middle of last decade -- to $2,217, on average, in 2005 and 2006, driven mainly by spending on education.
''Parents appear to know that children require more investment in the form of time and money than even in the recent past if only because changes in the labor market provide a greater premium for education and training,'' wrote the authors, Sabino Kornrich of the University of Sydney and Frank Furstenberg of the University of Pennsylvania.
The richest families increased spending the most. The top 10 percent of families trebled their investments in their children. The poor couldn't keep up. By mid-2005, the poorest 10 percent of families were spending nearly 14 percent of their income on specific investments in children -- on top of basics like food and shelter.
The future of fertility may hinge on whether something can be done to ease the burden. If conservatives truly believe that the United States needs more babies, they might temper their hostility to programs that help families afford them.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A Father's Day lunch at the White House in June. Federal spending on children is down 15 percent in real terms from 2010. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHER GREGORY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Gary S. Becker, a conservative economist, favors some subsidies to combat low fertility. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARIO ANZUONI/REUTERS) (B8) CHART: Fewer Babies: The fertility rate of American women is falling again after holding steady for decades. (Source: World Bank) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INFANTS & TODDLERS (91%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); CHILDREN (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); FAMILY (90%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); WOMEN (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); RECESSION (88%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (86%); CONSERVATISM (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ABORTION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); FERTILITY RATES (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (72%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (72%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (67%); IMMIGRATION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (69%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2013



698 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: Witness in Tourre Case Describes Difficulty in Knowing Deal's Friends From Foes

BYLINE: By SUSANNE CRAIG and WILLIAM ALDEN

 BODY:
A transaction named Abacus 2007-AC1 became one of the most infamous trades of the financial crisis, netting more than $1 billion for Paulson & Company, a hedge fund that successfully wagered that the housing market would crash.
According to a crucial witness who took the stand on Tuesday at the trial of a former Goldman Sachs trader, the trade would never have happened had ACA Management, a firm that helped assemble it, been told that Paulson & Company was betting the trade would fail. The witness, Laura Schwartz, was testifying at the trial of Fabrice P. Tourre, who has been accused of participating in a scheme to defraud investors in connection to the trade and who is now on trial in Manhattan. 
Ms. Schwartz was a senior executive at ACA and the main contact between her firm and Goldman, where Paulson & Company was a client eager to create a new security to capitalize on the housing market.
She is one of most important -- and controversial -- witnesses to take the stand in this trial, which on Wednesday will enter its eighth day. The civil case was brought in 2010 by the Securities and Exchange Commission, which also sued Goldman. Goldman settled its case in 2010, paying $550 million without admitting or denying guilt. That has left Mr. Tourre as the sole employee to battle the charges that ACA was misled about Paulson & Company's role in the transaction.
The lawsuit is among the biggest cases the S.E.C. has brought stemming from behavior during the financial crisis, and Mr. Tourre, 34, has steadfastly denied wrongdoing. If the jury finds he did defraud investors, he faces a possible bar from the securities industry and financial fines.
Ms. Schwartz was a convincing, well-spoken witness as Matthew T. Martens, a lawyer for the S.E.C., questioned her about the deal, which started to come together in January 2007. She frequently looked at the jury when answering questions, explaining that ACA got involved in the transaction after receiving an e-mail from a Goldman managing director, Gail Kreitman.
Soon after receiving Ms. Kreitman's e-mail, Ms. Schwartz sent out a meeting notice to various people, including Mr. Tourre and officials from Paulson & Company. The subject field read ''Meet With Paulson, Potential Equity Investor.'' This note set the tone for Mr. Martens's questioning, as he presented Ms. Schwartz with countless ACA documents and e-mails, all referring to the hedge fund as an ''equity'' investor. Ms. Schwartz explained that she understood that the firm was betting the deal would succeed, or rise in value. In fact, Paulson & Company had taken a short position, in hopes of profiting if the security lost value.
''I believed Paulson was the equity investor in the transaction,'' she said, repeating this refrain multiple times to the jury. She added that no one from Goldman Sachs, including Mr. Tourre, ever corrected e-mails to the firm from ACA that stated Paulson & Company was taking an equity position. In addition to arranging the trade, ACA was an investor, betting the security would rise in value.
Ms. Schwartz's testimony contradicted testimony from a former Paulson & Company executive, Paolo Pellegrini, who told jurors last week that he made it clear to ACA that his company was betting the housing market would fall precipitously, and that the security would fall in value.
The trade in question, Abacus 2007-AC1, is what is known on Wall Street as a collateralized debt obligation, or C.D.O. Such instruments typically compile a package of mortgage-backed bonds into one deal for investors to buy. Abacus was a synthetic C.D.O., which, rather than selling securities with the actual bonds, is arranged through an insurance contract that is linked to the bonds' performance.
The complexity of the security, as well as the way Wall Street does business, could make it hard for the jury to understand exactly what happened. In fact, the presiding judge, Katherine B. Forrest, tried to emphasize to both sides the need for clarity before the trial began.
Ms. Schwartz was far from a perfect witness for the S.E.C. A week before Mr. Tourre's trial began, the court was notified that the S.E.C. had decided not to bring a case against Ms. Schwartz; the jury heard about this reprieve on Tuesday and may conclude that it colored her testimony.
Sean Coffey, a lawyer for Mr. Tourre, cross-examined Ms. Schwartz, and her demeanor was decidedly less friendly as he peppered her with questions.
Mr. Coffey stressed to the jury that in a synthetic C.D.O., one investor bets the trade will fail while another bets it will succeed. So, even if Paulson & Company was a long, or bullish, investor, a short investor was still needed to complete the trade.
Ms. Schwartz testified that she assumed Paulson & Company was wagering the trade would succeed and that she did not know who was on its other side.
Mr. Coffey was also quick to zero in on how ACA carefully analyzed each component that went into the Abacus trade, so it should not have mattered if the portfolio had been picked by Paulson & Company or by Joe, a court clerk for Judge Forrest.
''How about if you had found it on the floor?'' he asked. Ms. Schwartz said that in each case, ACA would have done its own analysis of the various components of the C.D.O.
On Wall Street, the long investor is typically called the ''transaction sponsor,'' a term often used to describe Paulson & Company in documents. At least one witness, however, has said that the term could in certain circumstances describe a short investor, and on cross-examination Ms. Schwartz said she did not know if it meant long or short, a point that may bolster Mr. Tourre's case.
Ms. Schwartz will be followed on the stand by Mr. Tourre. It is expected that he will testify all day Thursday as well.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Fabrice P. Tourre is accused by the Securities and Exchange Commission of misleading investors in a complex transaction in 2007. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SETH WENIG/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WITNESSES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); JURY TRIALS (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (88%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); HEDGE FUNDS (77%); TESTIMONY (77%); VERDICTS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); SUITS & CLAIMS (75%); LAWYERS (73%); LITIGATION (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (66%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (82%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%)

PERSON: FABRICE P TOURRE (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2013



699 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 492 words

HEADLINE: The Student Loan Debacle

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

 BODY:
Senator Elizabeth Warren, a Democrat of Massachusetts, spoke up for poor and middle-class Americans last week when she excoriated the federal government for making money on the student loan program. She also criticized Republicans for killing bills earlier this month that would have prevented interest rates on subsidized student loans from doubling. Rates on those loans have jumped from 3.4 percent to 6.8 percent, further burdening one-third of all college students who use them to pay for an education. 
During the last decade, Congress sensibly replaced a system of variable-rate loans with fixed rates that allowed families to know what their loans would cost. It set the rate on both subsidized and unsubsidized loans at 6.8 percent, but later ordered the rate on subsidized loans -- two-thirds of which go to families with incomes under $50,000 -- to gradually decline by half. The refusal of Republicans in both houses to renew the lower rate means that students who start college this fall and finish in four years will be saddled, on average, with an extra $4,000 in debt.
This increase in costs comes at a time when college debt has already reached record levels, damaging the economy and hobbling young graduates. It also draws attention to the fact that the federal government is making quite a lot of money from the loan program. An analysis by the Congressional Budget Office estimated that the new, higher rate would earn the government about $184 billion over the next decade, after taking into account program costs, including potential defaults. Ms. Warren and other lawmakers describe this pile of money as ''profit.'' The Obama administration disputes this. But if it is not profit, what is it?
The government should not be making money off the backs of struggling student borrowers. In the long term, the loan program needs to be restructured so that the loans are closely linked to the government's actual cost of borrowing, which could reduce rates for students.
A Senate compromise bill that is supposed to address the harmful rate increase falls well short. The bill, supported by the White House, would temporarily lower interest rates, while raising rates in future years to make up for lost federal revenue. (Under interest rate caps included in the bill, rates on undergraduate loans in future years could rise as high as 8.25 percent.) Ms. Warren got it exactly right when she said the bill pits students against one another, requiring future college students to pay for the financial break enjoyed by students who precede them. ''I think this whole system stinks,'' she said, summing it up.
The Senate bill should pass only if it includes a provision, offered by Ms. Warren and Senator Jack Reed, a Democrat of Rhode Island, that would cap most loans at the rate of 6.8 percent. If Republicans resist that, the Senate should leave the loan rate exactly where it is. Congress should not make matters worse than they already are.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENT LOANS (93%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (54%)

PERSON: ELIZABETH WARREN (90%); JACK REED (59%); BARACK OBAMA (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2013



700 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 516 words

HEADLINE: Detroit's Bankruptcy: The Next Steps

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Billions in Debt, Detroit Tumbles Into Insolvency'' (front page, July 19):
Detroit played a huge role in creating America's modern economy, not to mention building the tanks and warplanes that helped us win a war that threatened our way of life. And in the postwar years it was a Detroit-based union, the United Auto Workers, that negotiated the breakthrough contracts that opened the doors to the middle class for blue-collar workers. 
Maybe it's time to repay these large favors. We talk about investing in infrastructure: Why not help a downsizing Detroit bootstrap its recovery by tearing down empty eyesores and replacing them with affordable housing? Why not make long-term zero-interest loans to replace decrepit ambulances and streetlights and hydrants? Why not pool our resources to ensure that Detroit workers get the pensions they've earned?
In short, why not help make Detroit a shining example of what this nation can still do when we put our heads together and commit to the common good?
THOMAS N. BETHELL Washington, July 19, 2013
To the Editor:
If we can bail out the banks, we can bail out Detroit for a lot less money, and more assistance to those who need it.
PATRICIA LOVING New Haven, July 19, 2013
To the Editor:
Re ''Cries of Betrayal as Detroit Plans to Cut Pensions'' (front page, July 22):
It is reprehensible to cut the pensions of retirees in Detroit. Why should there be shared sacrifice? Detroit workers did not cause this crisis, and in fact have made many concessions over the past decade, including large pay cuts.
Their pensions are not a bonus or gift; they are a deferred part of their wages. The banks and bondholders that invested in Detroit were hoping for a profit, but knew they might take a loss. They should bear the whole burden. After all, when you invest money, sometimes you win and sometimes you lose. That's the way the market is supposed to work, right?
ANITA CAREF Chicago, July 22, 2013
To the Editor:
Re ''We Have to Step In and Save Detroit,'' by Steven Rattner (Op-Ed, July 20):
For years the residents of Detroit elected officials who they knew were spending billions more than the city's revenues. For years the union representatives of municipal employees extracted from those same officials, on pain of nonsupport for re-election, unfunded pension contributions.
Now Mr. Rattner argues that the American taxpayer should pick up the tab. No, there must be consequences to greed and irresponsibility.
RICHARD E. MILLER New York, July 21, 2013
To the Editor:
I agree with Steven Rattner that Detroit must receive a government bailout.
However, I'd like to suggest a way that would result in a win-win for everybody. Rather than sell off the treasured paintings of the Detroit Institute of Art and have them hang in the private homes of the 1 percent, where very few would see them, why not have the federal government buy the entire collection? This way, the collection would stay in place to help stimulate the local economy, and the American people would have sound collateral for their investment.
KERRY BRIAN EGDELL San Francisco, July 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (91%); BAILOUTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BANK FAILURES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); LABOR UNIONS (76%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (75%); ZERO COUPON SECURITIES (73%); CIVIL SERVICES (73%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (73%); BONDS (73%); ELECTIONS (64%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (64%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (57%)

PERSON: STEVEN RATTNER (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2013



701 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1258 words

HEADLINE: Legal Battle Lifts Profile Of a Quiet Empire

BYLINE: By JULIE CRESWELL

 BODY:
It is a quiet American fortune, a $25 billion empire stretching from Boston to Honolulu that is rarely noticed outside tight business circles.
But now the private world of Barry Portnoy, the anti-Trump of American real estate, is being dragged into an uncomfortable spotlight in a drawn-out legal battle for part of his empire.
Mr. Portnoy, 67, oversees a wildly lucrative business from unassuming offices in Newton, Mass., west of downtown Boston. In an industry known for big money and bigger egos, he cuts a decidedly unglamorous figure. Mr. Portnoy runs his empire on a shoestring and, by most accounts, is far more interested in making money than spending it. For a time, he commuted to work in a Subaru, according to several former employees, and he keeps a low profile even at events like the annual company clambake in the parking lot.
His son and business partner, Adam Portnoy, lives a bit larger. Adam Portnoy's wife, Elika, was a runner-up in a Miss Bulgaria beauty contest. Said to be an expert marksman, she played a belly dancer in the 2012 Christian Slater thriller ''Assassin's Bullet.'' Adam Portnoy owns a 43-foot yacht called the Mutressa, a Bulgarian term that loosely translates as ''gangster's mistress.'' The couple met while working at the World Bank. 
What unites father and son, the former employees say, is an abiding love for a hard-nosed deal. In their Newton offices hangs a painting of Wild West bank robbers wearing ill-fitting business suits. It is titled ''The Fort Worth Five a k a The Board of Directors.''
For years, some investors have grumbled that the Portnoys have enriched themselves at investors' expense, a claim the Portnoys have dismissed as nonsense.
But now some serious financial players are vying for a multibillion-dollar piece of their kingdom, in a legal battle over an obscure real estate investment trust called CommonWealth REIT. On one side are the Portnoys, who have long blurred the lines between their public companies and their private fiefs. On the other is a cohort of New York money men, among them a protégé of Carl C. Icahn, the quintessential Wall Street gadfly, and associates of Stephen Ross, the Manhattan real estate magnate. Both sides are hurling an accusation often heard when money collides with money: each accuses the other of baldface greed.
Whatever the outcome, the imbroglio has trained attention on a web of trusts and partnerships that the Portnoys have long used to pull many millions from CommonWealth and other public entities that own city towers and suburban office complexes across the nation. Last year, their private management company collected nearly $200 million in various fees and expenses from those businesses. The Portnoy camp says that the dissidents are essentially trying to steal CommonWealth and that courts have repeatedly sided with the Portnoys. In late June, the Portnoys and the rest of the board were voted out, but the Portnoys contend that the vote was invalid and was swayed by their opponents' hedge fund friends. Starting this week, the dispute will go before an industry arbitration panel.
A crucial issue is the Portnoys' management arrangement with the funds they oversee. Essentially, they make money through numerous fees they charge no matter how CommonWealth's share price performs in the stock market, leading one research firm, Green Street Advisors, to brand the Portnoy funds ''uninvestible.''
Over the last decade, CommonWealth has returned about 45 percent. That performance might sounds great, but it lagged the broad stock market and an index of other real estate investment trusts during that period. Real estate investment trusts, a popular investment strategy, pay no corporate income tax as long as they distribute 90 percent of their profits as dividends to investors.
Adam Portnoy, 43, staunchly defends the Portnoy way. He says the family has rewarded investors over the years and points out that CommonWealth found ready buyers for new shares that it sold this spring.
''If we hadn't, how would we be able to raise money so readily?'' Mr. Portnoy said in a telephone interview. ''Why are shareholders investing in our companies?''
Barry Portnoy got into real estate in 1986. While a lawyer at the Boston firm of Sullivan & Worcester, he established a real estate investment trust that was initially involved in health care centers.
Former employees, including several who worked closely with the Portnoys, say Barry Portnoy spends long hours poring over numbers, and they characterize him as demanding boss who can be unforgiving at regular Tuesday night strategy meetings. When Adam Portnoy joined the family firm in 2003, after starting an Internet service provider that eventually merged with another service provider, father and son continued to expand their reach into hotels, retirement homes and buildings leased to the government.
As they built their empire, small, dissident investors argued that some of their acquisitions appeared to benefit the Portnoys more than the shareholders. But now bigger, more powerful adversaries have arrived.
Jeff T. Blau, the chief executive of Related Companies, the real estate giant founded by Mr. Ross, is one of the New Yorkers now battling the Portnoys.
''Maybe if we had known they'd go to such extremes to thwart the will of shareholders, we would have thought twice about doing this,'' Mr. Blau said during an interview in his office overlooking Columbus Circle in Midtown Manhattan. The activist role against the Portnoys has pushed Related into new and uncomfortable territory.
Mr. Blau and Keith Meister, a former top lieutenant of Mr. Icahn who now runs his own hedge fund, invested heavily in CommonWealth earlier this year. The two said they believed the stock was undervalued, contending that, with some improvements, the buildings could draw higher rents. In late February, Related and Mr. Meister's firm, Corvex Capital, disclosed that they together controlled 9.8 percent of CommonWealth.
The Portnoys promptly began a vigorous defense.
Eventually the dissidents sought support from heavyweight investors like Richard Perry, a prominent New York hedge fund manager. They also started making multiple offers to buy CommonWealth at above-market prices, but the fund's trustees decided against a sale, calling the offers ''illusory,'' unfinanced, and an attempt to ''seize control.'' ''There was no offer,'' Adam Portnoy said. ''They wrote on a piece of paper that they might, on a very conditional basis, maybe they would pay a certain price. That's not an offer.''
Mr. Blau shakes his head at that statement.
''It's in writing, and we sent it to the board,'' Mr. Blau said.
In late June, Corvex and Related announced that 70 percent of CommonWealth shareholders had voted to remove the entire board. The Portnoys said that the vote did not follow rules and that it was influenced by a group of shareholders -- hedge fund pals of Corvex and Related -- who have since sold their stake. It now falls to an arbitration panel to decide.
''In all of my experience, I've never seen a management team react with such disregard for corporate value and such personal self-interest as a motivation,'' said Mr. Meister of Corvex.
But the Portnoys say they are on the side of everyday shareholders.
''Everything we've always done has been in the best interest of shareholders,'' Adam Portnoy said. ''When we come in to work every day, our focus is on the common shareholders and executing on the business plan. And it's starting to work. But it needs a little more time to come to fruition.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Properties that are part of CommonWealth REIT, a $25 billion real estate empire based outside Boston, include, clockwise from top: 111 East Wacker Drive in Chicago
the Herald Square building on H Street in Washington
the Triangle Plaza East Tower, near O'Hare International Airport in Chicago
and the British School of Washington, on Wisconsin Avenue in Washington. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NATHAN WEBER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
DREW ANGERER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Adam Portnoy, left, and his father, Barry Portnoy, are said to share an abiding love for a hard-nosed real estate deal. (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE INVESTING (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (86%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (70%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (68%); BANK ROBBERY (65%); ROBBERY (64%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (53%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: COMMONWEALTH REIT (52%)

TICKER: CWH (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (52%)

PERSON: CARL ICAHN (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); HONOLULU, HI, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); HAWAII, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); BULGARIA (89%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2013



702 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1311 words

HEADLINE: For Tech Start-Ups, Sublets Upon Sublets in Manhattan

BYLINE: By C. J. HUGHES

 BODY:
To understand how the current office market for technology companies can resemble a Russian nesting doll, with layer upon layer of increasingly smaller subleases, it might help to consider the upper stories of 568 Broadway in SoHo.
In the cast-iron former sewing factory, Scholastic, the publisher, is subletting two floors of space to Foursquare, a social media company. In turn, Foursquare is subletting one of those floors to a handful of other tech firms, including Fueled, which designs apps for phones.
And Fueled has divided its column-lined room as a co-working space, where $650 a month gets a renter a seat and unlimited snacks from jars along a wall.
One of those seats belongs to David Spiro, a self-employed entrepreneur, who sat alone at the corner of a long table on a recent afternoon, a bag of popcorn by his laptop. ''I've raised some funding,'' Mr. Spiro said, ''but not nearly enough to afford a typical lease in Manhattan, so this place is great.'' 
The sentiment could also apply to the daisy chain of tenants in his building, and more broadly to the surrounding neighborhoods.
In the last few months, the area of Manhattan south of Midtown has been awash in deals where early-stage tech companies have opted to take over office space belonging to another tenant, rather than enter into a direct lease with a landlord.
These sublet deals are often preferred, tenants and brokers say, because the rents are usually slightly cheaper than conventional leases. They can also be for shorter lengths of time than the typical 10 years and require a far smaller security deposit up front.
As important, they say, is that the spaces usually come built out, which means essentials like high-speed Internet lines, air-conditioning and conference rooms are already in place. Getting up and running quickly is critical for companies or self-starters that often measure growth in months, not years, analysts explain.
Of course, the office within an office within an office can carry risks. If the first, second or third tenant goes bankrupt, a subletter could find itself without a home. But because their own leases are so brief, these low-rung tenants can also easily wind down operations quickly if, say, their app never catches fire.
''They don't know about the future, so flexibility is key,'' said Heidi Learner, the chief economist at Studley, the commercial real estate firm, who is the co-author of a report on the tech sublet trend. ''You don't know about what head count will be, whether you will get any venture capital funding, or whether you will be acquired.''
In general, subletting is becoming more popular. In the Midtown South area, or from Canal Street to 30th Street, sublets accounted for 19 percent of major leasing activity this year, up from 11 percent in 2010, Studley said.
And between January and April of this year, 33 percent of all the leases signed in Manhattan by tech companies -- a major driver of the current economy -- were sublets, the report said. Sublet tenants among other industries within the same period were less than half that.
The report also states that the average length of tech subleases is about four years.
Not just any space will do; tech firms almost exclusively want prewar buildings with lofty ceilings and open floors, said Sean Black, a broker with Jones Lang LaSalle. Since that type of converted industrial space is clustered mainly around the Broadway corridor, supply is limited, he added, and demand is robust.
''They like the 'old world meets new world' look,'' said Mr. Black, whose many tech clients include Foursquare. A lack of walls and cubicles, with eclectic art on the walls, embodies a certain attitude. ''The last thing they want to do is conform with corporate America.''
Technology firms have been subletting a bit more space than they personally need, reflecting awareness of heightened demand from a flourishing industry that allows them to rent out extra room to similar companies. Besides, locking in the space at today's asking rents, which for sublets is about $45 a square foot in Midtown South, according to Studley, is considered wise, because rents are expected to climb, companies say.
''It's a great way to hedge the lease,'' said Derek Stewart, who handled leasing for Foursquare before leaving the company this summer.
Foursquare, which has 120 employees in New York, paid about $45 a square foot in 2011 in a seven-year deal, Mr. Stewart said. But he estimated that with companies like ZocDoc, a physician app service, and Thrillist, a lifestyle site for men, under the same roof, the building had gained a bit of buzz as a popular tech address. That means the space could command $55 a foot today, he said.
But so far there has been little urge to profit off the subtenants, he added, saying that Fueled and the other subtenants also pay about $45 a foot for their space. ''We felt kind of badly making money off it,'' Mr. Stewart said. ''We didn't want to have a bad name in this tight community.''
Mr. Stewart, who now works for David Tisch, a tech investor, also pointed out that subleases were essential for the survival of the tech community.
In San Francisco, where Mr. Stewart leased two spaces on behalf of tech companies, start-ups can afford direct leases, which often require just three months of rent for a security deposit. But in New York, 12 months of rent is common. ''Landlords here are just so risk-averse,'' he said.
In a business where a company's start-up phase can be hypercompressed -- Instagram was founded in 2010 and bought by Facebook for $1 billion two year later -- short sublets are not unusual.
The news site BuzzFeed, for example, has signed a two-year sublease for space in the new headquarters of Tiffany & Company at 200 Fifth Avenue, across from Madison Square Park. BuzzFeed, which had been based on West 21st Street in a 20,000-square-foot space, will take an entire 58,000-square-foot floor, which is one of seven floors Tiffany has there.
The rent was not disclosed, but Greg B. Taubin, the Studley broker who represented Tiffany, said that comparable sublet space in the area went for $65 a square foot.
''Companies like this don't sign long-term leases because they don't have a crystal ball,'' Mr. Taubin said. But for Tiffany, which doesn't need the space immediately, there's an upside in cost reduction, too, he added.
Other advantages include having lights on and more people in the elevators, said Bonnie Shapiro, the director of leasing for Allied Partners, an owner of 568 Broadway. ''You don't want tenants touring the building and seeing dark, unused spaces,'' she said.
For tenants that may be consolidating or downsizing, the new demand for sublet space may come at a fortunate time. Credit Suisse, the investment bank, which has undergone several rounds of layoffs in recent months, has managed to sublet all its former office space at 315 Park Avenue South, one of three locations it has in Manhattan.
Tech subletters in the 20-story Beaux-Arts tower, which is at East 23rd Street, include VaynerMedia, X+1 and Responsys, as well as Adap. TV, which this month took the entire seventh floor measuring 16,000 square feet. The new space features a red wall decorated with words like energy, creativity and passion, and executive offices around the perimeter have been turned into shared conference rooms. The space is a far cry from its cramped, plain-jane 4,000-square-foot space at 915 Broadway, said Gerry Manolatos, the communications director for Adap. TV.
Mr. Manolatos would not disclose the terms of his lease, only that it is for less than a decade. But in the merry-go-round of the tech sublet market, Adap. TV is cashing in itself; its former space on Broadway is also being sublet to a tech firm, he said.
''It's like one deal leads to the next,'' Mr. Manolatos said. ''Everybody's thinking, 'Who knows where we will end up next?' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The offices of Fueled, an app maker, which leases the space from Foursquare. Fueled, in turn, leases some of its space to a self-employed entrepreneur.
 The building at 568 Broadway where Fueled has offices on the 11th floor. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHESTER HIGGINS Jr./THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); STARTUPS (85%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); TRENDS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); SOCIAL MEDIA (76%); SNACK FOODS (74%); VENTURE CAPITAL (74%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (73%); WRITERS (72%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (69%); RESEARCH REPORTS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2013



703 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 858 words

HEADLINE: The New Economics of Part-Time Employment, Continued

BYLINE: CASEY B. MULLIGAN


HIGHLIGHT: A new proposal to redefine part-time work in the Affordable Care Act would heighten disruption of the labor market, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Casey B. Mulligan is an economics professor at the University of Chicago. He is the author of "The Redistribution Recession: How Labor Market Distortions Contracted the Economy." 
A revised definition of part-time employment may have some popular appeal, but it will not repair the Affordable Care Act's disincentives for full-time employment or its extra costs for taxpayers.
Part-time employment rarely includes health benefits. The lack of health benefits and the lower pay for part-time work have traditionally discouraged people from taking part-time jobs rather than full-time jobs, but both of those attributes of part-time jobs are about to change. 
I explained in an earlier post how, in many cases, the Affordable Care Act would almost entirely eliminate these two shortcomings of part-time employment by offering access to generously subsidized health insurance to part-time employees while denying it to most people who work full time. As a result, more people will work part time (under the law, less than 30 hours a week) rather than full time, and this will occur at significant taxpayer expense.
Two senators, Joe Donnelly, Democrat of Indiana, and Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, are proposing to tweak the Affordable Care Act by changing the definition of part-time work to include any work schedule of 39 hours a week or less. They say the change conforms with traditional definitions of full-time work and will prevent workers from having their work schedules cut.
Their proposal is likely to have the opposite effect. Although it may be true that their proposal would prevent cuts in hours for those now working, say, 35 hours a week, it would be likely to cause cuts for employees working 40 to 45 hours a week, because staying short of the 40-hour threshold would be closer to their current work schedule than staying short of the law's 30-hour threshold.

More important from an economic point of view, the 40-hour threshold would further magnify the already strong disincentives for working full time. The table below illustrates what may happen.
The left column of the table shows the economics of a full-time position (40 hours a week). Between employer health insurance premiums and the employee paycheck, this position costs the employer $56,000 a year, or about $28 an hour. The full-time employee's pay after his portion of health insurance premiums are withheld is $42,000.
Although covered by health insurance, the employee and his family incur $3,000 in additional health costs from health insurance deductibles, co-payments and so on ($3,000 is typical for a family of four with a comprehensive health plan). The employee also has work expenses for commuting, child care and so on, which I assume to be $100 a week when working full time.
The part-time columns of the table show two situations for a part-time position with the same employer cost an hour of $28. The middle column is the situation I discussed earlier, in which the full-time threshold is the 30 hours contained in the law. The right column is the situation that would apply if Senator Donnelly and Senator Collins have their way and workers become part-time by cutting their weekly hours to 39.
Because the part-time position is 39 hours a week, the annual employer cost is $54,600. All of the $54,600 consists of cash compensation for the employee, because the part-time position does not include health insurance.
The part-time employee has to pay for his own health insurance, but the new law limits his premiums to $3,947 (the law pays the other $8,463 from the Treasury) and limits his out-of-pocket health costs to $4,590 (the law pays the other $510; by design the law increases deductibles and co-payments but uses subsidies to offset those increases for low- and middle-income families).
Net of work expenses ($100 a week for both 40- and 39-hour positions) and health expenses, the 39-hour position pays $41,063, significantly more than the full-time position's $34,000.
By taking a 39-hour position, the employee can have comprehensive health insurance coverage and actually make more money than he would in a full-time position. In effect, the new subsidies totaling almost $8,973 more than fully offset, from the point of view of employers and their employees, the loss of production that occurs from working 39 hours a week rather than 40.
It's one thing for public policies to present workers with a small reward for working full time. But the proposal from the two senators would put millions of people in the position of having to pay - in the form of less disposable income - for the privilege of working full time. When millions of workers choose part-time rather than full-time work under the Donnelly-Collins proposal, it will be taxpayers who pick up the tab.
The Affordable Care Act is full of disincentives. But tweaking the law without carefully considering incentives is likely to increase the law's damage to the labor market and its depletion of taxpayer funds.

        
A Surge in Part-Time Workers
        
What Job-Sharing Brings
        
Working Parents, Wanting Fewer Hours
        
Yes, the Sequester Is Affecting the Job Market
        
The New Economics of Part-Time Employment

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (91%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (91%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); WRITERS (78%); FAMILY (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (76%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (76%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%) Collins, Susan M; Donnelly, Joseph Simon; Part-Time Employment; Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (2010); Working Hours; Today's Economist

PERSON: SUSAN COLLINS (84%); JOE DONNELLY (84%) Collins, Susan M; Donnelly, Joseph Simon

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%) ILLINOIS, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2013



704 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2013

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 359 words

HEADLINE: Daily Report: Apple Earnings Beat Expectations Despite Weaker Sales in China

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: Although Apple reported lagging sales in some large overseas markets, investors did not seem to mind, pushing shares up in late trading. 

 BODY:
The news from Apple on Tuesday was not particularly good - revenue flat, profit lower, iPad sales down. But investors did not seem to mind, at least in the short term, sending the company's shares about 4 percent higher in after-hours trading. Strong iPhone sales helped beat the expectations of Wall Street, Brian X. Chen reports. 
But Apple's earnings report on Tuesday highlighted some of the challenges the company faces as it continues to expand overseas, where gaining a foothold is increasingly vital for the company. Its growth has slowed in the most recent quarters, as its devices have largely saturated the United States and some top markets in Europe. 
China has been especially problematic for the company. Overall sales of Apple devices in China fell 4 percent compared with the same quarter last year. And in Hong Kong, Apple's sales were down about 20 percent - a trend that Timothy D. Cook, the company's chief executive, found puzzling.
Apple may face a challenge in China, but the tech industry's other two giants, Microsoft and Google, have their struggles, too. Microsoft posted a profit of almost $5 billion for the quarter, missing expectations of analysts, thanks in part to disappointing sales of its Surface tablet and an industrywide decline in sales of personal computers. Google also posted a profit, of $3.23 billion, but still missed analysts' expectations as its desktop search business continued to slow and ad prices shrank.
Mr. Cook told investors to stay optimistic about Apple in China. About half a million people there are creating apps for iOS, Apple's mobile software system for iPhones and iPads, he said. Sales of the iPad in greater China were up 8 percent and up 37 percent in mainland China, he said.
"Over the arc of time, China is a huge opportunity for Apple," Mr. Cook said, "so I don't get discouraged over a 90-day kind of cycle with economic factors." 

        
Motorola Ad Seems to Catch the 'Made in U.S.A.' Bug From Apple
        
Apple's Trademark of 'iWatch' Fuels Speculation
        
BlackBerry Posts Loss, Despite New Phone
        
Disruptions: Mobile Competition Shifts to Software Design
        
Positive Response to New iPhone Antitheft Feature

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TABLET COMPUTERS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (89%); SMARTPHONES (89%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (87%); TRENDS (78%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (66%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (64%); EXECUTIVES (53%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (50%) Apple Inc; Company Reports; Smartphones

COMPANY: APPLE INC (98%); GOOGLE INC (83%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (52%); RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Apple Inc

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (98%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (83%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%); MSI (NYSE) (52%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (51%); BB (TSX) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (98%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (98%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (98%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (98%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (83%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (52%)

PERSON: TIM COOK (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); HONG KONG (76%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2013



705 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1614 words

HEADLINE: Morning Agenda: A Possible Crippling Blow for SAC

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Federal authorities are poised to level criminal charges against SAC Capital Advisors. | Yahoo seems like damaged goods now that it has been abandoned by Daniel S. Loeb, the Deal Professor writes. | A witness in the trial of Fabrice P. Tourre described the difficulty of knowing who was betting against a complicated mortgage deal. 

 BODY:
Federal authorities are poised to level criminal charges against SAC Capital Advisors, the hedge fund run by Steven A. Cohen, capping an insider trading investigation into one of Wall Street's most prominent firms, DealBook's Ben Protess and Peter Lattman report. Prosecutors and the F.B.I. in Manhattan are expected to announce the charges in the coming days, people briefed on the matter told DealBook. The aggressive action could cripple SAC.
Any last-minute settlement is an unlikely option at this point. While Mr. Cohen is not expected to be charged criminally, authorities are still contemplating bringing charges against other employees of the firm. Authorities plan to navigate around a legal deadline for filing some insider trading charges by filing a broad criminal conspiracy case against SAC, these people said.
YAHOO AFTER LOEB | Yahoo seems like damaged goods now that it has been abandoned by one of its biggest investors, Daniel S. Loeb, and his hedge fund, Third Point, Steven M. Davidoff writes in the Deal Professor column. Investors reacted negatively to the news that Yahoo had agreed to buy back 40 million shares from Third Point at $1.16 billion - a transaction that has the whiff of greenmail, or repurchasing stock to make an investor go away, Mr. Davidoff says. 
A year after Marissa Mayer was appointed chief executive - a leadership change Mr. Loeb took credit for - Yahoo still has a lot of work to do. And yet, Mr. Loeb is ready to get out. "It appears that Mr. Loeb and his cohorts are departing Yahoo midvoyage. Not only that, but the sale is arguably suspect in terms of its timing," Mr. Davidoff writes.
Yahoo's stake in the Chinese Internet giant Alibaba Group has driven up its share price of the last two years. "In this light, Mr. Loeb's departure is being viewed as riding the wave of hype over Yahoo. He is gaining from the unexpected Alibaba rise but not the restructuring he advocated, leaving just before things get hard and the wave crashes."
On Tuesday, Mr. Loeb apparently could not help leveling a playground taunt over Herbalife, a company he was invested in earlier this year. The barb, displayed on Mr. Loeb's Bloomberg terminal profile, appeared to be directed at a rival, William A. Ackman, who is betting against Herbalife, and it apparently referred to the investor Carl C. Icahn, who is betting Herbalife's shares will rise: "New HLF product: The Herbalife Enema administered by Uncle Carl."
ON THE AGENDA | Shareholders of Dell are scheduled to vote on the $24.4 billion buyout offer from Michael S. Dell and the investment firm Silver Lake. Caterpillar, a target of the prominent short-seller James S. Chanos, reports earnings before the market opens. Facebook reports earnings this evening. Data on sales of new homes in June is out at 10 a.m. Hugh Johnston, the chief financial officer of PepsiCo, is on Bloomberg TV at 7:15 a.m.
DIFFICULTY IN KNOWING A DEAL'S FRIENDS FROM FOES | A transaction named Abacus 2007-AC1 became one of the most infamous trades of the financial crisis, netting more than $1 billion for the hedge fund Paulson & Company, which bet the housing market would crash. According to a crucial witness who took the stand on Tuesday at the trial of a former Goldman Sachs trader, the trade would never have happened had ACA Management, a firm that helped assemble the security, been told that Paulson & Company was betting the trade would fail. The witness, Laura Schwartz, was testifying at the trial of Fabrice P. Tourre, who has been accused of participating in a scheme to defraud investors in connection to the trade. Ms. Schwartz, who was a senior executive at ACA, is one of most important - and controversial - witnesses to take the stand in this trial, which on Wednesday will enter its eighth day.
Paulson & Company was referred to in ACA documents as an "equity investor," contributing to Ms. Schwartz's understanding that the firm was betting the deal would succeed. In fact, Paulson had taken a short position. "I believed Paulson was the equity investor in the transaction," Ms. Schwartz said, repeating this refrain multiple times to the jury.
 | Contact: @williamalden | E-mail
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions »
Ryanair Says It's Open to Selling Stake in Aer Lingus | The airline's conditional offer was seen by some analysts as more maneuvering in its pursuit of Aer Lingus. DealBook »
Sale of Dexia Unit to GCS Capital Collapses | Dexia said it had pulled out of talks to sell its asset management arm to GCS Capital of Hong Kong. FINANCIAL TIMES
Cisco to Buy Sourcefire, a Cybersecurity Company, for $2.7 Billion | Cisco Systems has agreed to buy Sourcefire, a provider of cybersecurity services, for about $2.7 billion in cash, amid a growing fervor for companies that can help guard against computer-based attacks. DealBook »
Big Shareholder of KPN Withholds Support for Telefonica Deal | Two directors of KPN who were appointed by América Móvil did not vote in favor of the deal to sell KPN's German operations to Telefónica, The Financial Times reports. Still, there was enough support for the board to approve the deal. FINANCIAL TIMES
KPN's $10.7 Billion Retreat From Germany | KPN's deal to sell its E-Plus mobile unit is heartening for investors in Europe's fragmented, cutthroat and heavily regulated telecommunications industry, Quentin Webb of Reuters Breakingviews writes. REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS
INVESTMENT BANKING »
BlackRock Executive Says No to Top Job at R.B.S. | After being approached by the Royal Bank of Scotland in its search for a new chief executive, BlackRock's chairman for the Asia-Pacific region told his staff members on Wednesday that he had no plans to leave. DealBook »
Deutsche Bank to Combine Debt-Trading Units | The move by Deutsche Bank, intended to cut costs and reduce risk, has led a senior trader in Europe to depart the firm, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Regulators May Ease a Mortgage Requirement | Federal regulators "want to loosen a proposed requirement that banks retain a portion of the mortgage securities they sell to investors, according to people familiar with the situation," The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Amid Market Volatility, Concerns Over E.T.F.'s | The Financial Times reports: "The global sell-off last month sparked the highest amount of settlement failures in parts of the $2 trillion exchange-traded fund market in nearly two years, reviving a debate over whether the popular investment vehicles suffer from structural issues that flare up in times of market stress." FINANCIAL TIMES
Intersection: Keeping Cool on Wall St. | Jose De Haro skips the suit on most days, but pays special attention to fit and tailoring when dressing for his broadcast job on Wall Street. DealBook »
PRIVATE EQUITY »
K.K.R.'s Credit Investments Chief Is Stepping Down | "Orson Welles once said: 'If you want a happy ending, you need to know when to end your story,'" William Sonneborn, the head of corporate credit and equity investments for K.K.R., said in a conference call on his departure. REUTERS
K.K.R. Said to Secure Low Rates for Gardner Denver Deal | For its $3.9 billion takeover of Gardner Denver, the private equity firm K.K.R. "secured the cheapest borrowing rates it ever got to fund a leveraged buyout," Reuters reports, citing unidentified "banking sources." REUTERS
HEDGE FUNDS »
On Reading the Fed, Humans Triumph Over Machines | Bloomberg News reports: "Currency funds that use computer models for trading decisions made 0.9 percent this year through May, compared with 2.5 percent for those that don't, the biggest margin since 2008, according to the latest data from Parker Global Strategies L.L.C." BLOOMBERG NEWS
I.P.O./OFFERINGS »
Aramark Said to Choose Banks for I.P.O. | Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan Chase, Credit Suisse and Morgan Stanley have been chosen to handle an initial public offering for Aramark, the Philadelphia-based food services company, The Wall Street Journal reports. (Trivia: Aramark runs Goldman's cafeteria at its 200 West Street headquarters.) WALL STREET JOURNAL
VENTURE CAPITAL »
Twitter Expands Advertising Feature Aimed at TV Viewers | The service lets advertisers direct their promotions at viewers who post messages about particular TV shows. BLOOMBERG NEWS
LEGAL/REGULATORY »
Senate Panel Examines Banks' Involvement in Commodities | Several witnesses warned of significant risks to the nation's financial system and to taxpayers if big banks continued to own commodities units that store and ship vast quantities of metals and oil, Edward Wyatt reports in The New York Times. NEW YORK TIMES
Cities Need to Weigh Costs of Private Partnerships | Cities and states should make certain that the public interest is being served before they enter into deals with profit-making companies, Donald Cohen, the executive director of In the Public Interest, writes. DealBook »
S.E.C. Says Texas Man Operated Bitcoin Ponzi Scheme | The regulator has also warned investors that "the rising use of virtual currencies in the global marketplace may entice fraudsters." DealBook »
Summers Seen as Front-Runner for Fed Chairman | Lawrence H. Summers is "increasingly viewed as the leading candidate" to lead the Federal Reserve once Ben S. Bernanke steps down, Ezra Klein reports in The Washington Post's Wonkblog. WASHINGTON POST
Japan's Leader Urges Speedy Action to Support Economy | After a landslide election victory, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe warned his ministers against triumphalism, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); INSIDER TRADING (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); HEDGE FUNDS (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); SALES FIGURES (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); NEW PRODUCTS (76%); SHAREHOLDERS (76%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (71%); REAL ESTATE (71%); NEW HOME SALES (69%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (68%); APPOINTMENTS (67%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (65%); EXECUTIVES (65%) Morning Agenda

COMPANY: YAHOO! INC (94%); ALIBABA GROUP HOLDING LTD (65%); SAC CAPITAL ADVISORS LP (58%); BLOOMBERG LP (52%); FACEBOOK INC (50%)

TICKER: YHOO (NASDAQ) (94%); FB (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (94%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (94%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (94%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (94%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (65%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (52%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (52%)

PERSON: STEVEN A COHEN (90%); CARL ICAHN (79%); FABRICE P TOURRE (57%); MARISSA MAYER (53%); MICHAEL DELL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2013



706 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 361 words

HEADLINE: To The Brink, Again

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Horrors of health insurance. 

 BODY:
If John Boehner is to be believed - which, admittedly, is a real question - Republicans are once again willing to push America into default and/or shut down the government if they don't get their way. As Greg Sargent points out, this is amazing - and what's equally amazing is how this is being treated as normal. Politics ain't beanbag; but "I've got a bomb strapped to my chest, and the whole room gets it if you don't hand over the money" is not normal tactics, especially if pursued repeatedly. 
What adds to the awesomeness of the whole phenomenon is the absence of any halfway plausible rationale. To the extent that there ever was an economic justification for this brinksmanship - the claim that we were on the verge of a debt crisis, the claim that slashing spending would boost the economy - that justification has collapsed in the face of declining debt projections and overwhelming evidence that austerity has large negative impacts in a slump. True, as David Firestone notes, leading Republicans seem to have a hearing problem; they are so deep into their worldview that when, say, Ben Bernanke refutes that view they simply hear him saying the opposite of what he actually said.
Still, how can the GOP be acting this crazy again? This time around, it's hard to see Obama caving in. So why the brinksmanship?
Well, my guess is that despite being drenched in reality-repellent, Republicans are beginning to suspect an inconvenient truth: Obamacare is not going to be a self-destroying train wreck. Instead, it's going to work - not perfectly, not as well as it should, but well enough to help far more people than it hurts. And if that's how it turns out, it will be irreversible. So here comes a last-ditch effort to stop it, at all costs.
But think about that for a moment: the cause for which the GOP is willing to go to the brink, breaking all political norms, threatening the US and world economies with incalculable damage, is the cause of preventing people with preexisting conditions and/or low incomes from getting health insurance. Apparently, the prospect that their fellow citizens might receive this help is so horrifying that nothing else matters.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (84%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); POLITICS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (69%); EVIDENCE (67%)

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (73%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); BEN BERNANKE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2013



707 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2013

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 517 words

HEADLINE: Wheelies: The Dueling Fords Edition

BYLINE: BENJAMIN PRESTON


HIGHLIGHT: Ford may produce current and next-generation F-150s side-by-side for a time, and there&#8217;s talk that Cadillac may shear the wreath from its logo. 

 BODY:
In which we bring you motoring news from around the Web:
 According to a report from Reuters, Ford will be producing the current F-150 and a redesigned one simultaneously for several months. The new F-150 has not yet been revealed, but Ford released a concept vehicle, the Atlas, that most likely contains the design language the automaker will use. With demand for pickup trucks continuing to grow, Reuters suggests that it's in Ford's best interest to maintain production of the older model while ramping up the new. (Reuters) 
 Citing concern over Japanese currency manipulation, Sander Levin, a senior member of the United States House of Representatives Ways and Means Committee, called for tough rules regarding Japanese free trade negotiations. More than 80,000 General Motors, Ford and Chrysler employees have signed a petition opposing the Obama administration's proposed Trans-Pacific Partnership unless Japan deals with currency manipulation and moves toward importing more American cars into the Japanese market. Currently, critics of the partnership are calling for the phase-out of Japanese automotive import tariffs - 2.5 percent for cars and 25 percent for trucks - to stretch over three decades. (The Economic Times)
 Mercedes-Benz announced Tuesday the winner of a competition in golf cart design. The result was the Mercedes-Benz Vision golf cart, a futuristic-looking concept that looks less like a golf cart than it does a Renault Twizy. Powered by a traditional battery-electric motor setup, the Vision golf cart differs from its forebears in that it can be charged with a solar panel as well as its conventional plug-in charging apparatus. (Mercedes-Benz)
 There is a rumor that Cadillac may trim the wreath from its logo for coming models. Although Chevrolet's bow tie has been like a rock, so to speak, remaining the same for the last century, Cadillac's has undergone a number of fairly significant changes over the company's 111-year run. The wreath has been around for a while, but may be passe considering Cadillac's futuristic styling, according to a report from Automotive News. Wheels reached out to Cadillac, which would neither confirm nor deny the report, which it said was speculative. If change is to come, it will probably be announced when Cadillac unveils a new concept vehicle at the Pebble Beach Concours d'Élégance in California next month, says Automotive News. (GM Authority)
 Although Ford and Toyota had conducted a feasibility study on possible collaboration on new hybrid truck and S.U.V. technology, the two companies decided to call it off, they announced this week. Both automakers said in statements that they would continue to study hybrid technology in-house. Ford promised a new hybrid platform for trucks and S.U.V.'s by the end of the decade. Toyota said it would introduce 18 new hybrid models before 2016. (Autoblog)

        
Wheelies: The Steve McQueen Camper Edition
        
Wheelies: The Big Brother Is Watching You Edition
        
Wheelies: The End of an Era Edition
        
Recall Roundup: Honda, Chrysler, G.M., Mercedes and Yakima Issue Recalls
        
Wheelies: The Fabled Ferrari Edition

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: IMPORT TRADE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); HYBRID VEHICLES (89%); CONCEPT CARS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); PICKUP TRUCKS (78%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (77%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (77%); CURRENCIES (75%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (74%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (74%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); SOLAR ENERGY (64%); PETITIONS (53%) automobiles; Cadillac Division of General Motors Corp; Electric and Hybrid Vehicles; Ford Motor Co; General Motors; International Trade and World Market; Japan; Mercedes-Benz; Automobiles; Ford Motor Co|F|NYSE; General Motors|GM|NYSE

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Cadillac Division of General Motors Corp; Ford Motor Co; General Motors; Mercedes-Benz

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (56%) Ford Motor Co; F; NYSE; Ford Motor Co; F; NYSE; General Motors; GM; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

PERSON: SANDER M LEVIN (54%); BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%) Japan

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2013



708 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: Obama's View of the Economic Challenge

BYLINE: ANNIE LOWREY


HIGHLIGHT: The president&#8217;s speech in Illinois lays out how he feels the economy has changed to the detriment of workers over three decades, but has few policy specifics to tackle stagnant wages and income inequality.. 

 BODY:
President Obama's speech in Galesburg, Ill., is more a description of how things are than a plan to get them to where they should be. It lays out Mr. Obama's vision of how the economy has changed to the detriment of American workers, if not American businesses and executives, over the last 30 years or so, since long before the recession hit:
In the period after World War II, a growing middle class was the engine of our prosperity. Whether you owned a company, swept its floors, or worked anywhere in between, this country offered you a basic bargain - a sense that your hard work would be rewarded with fair wages and benefits, the chance to buy a home, to save for retirement, and, above all, to hand down a better life for your kids. 
But over time, that engine began to stall. That bargain began to fray. Technology made some jobs obsolete. Global competition sent others overseas. It became harder for unions to fight for the middle class. Washington doled out bigger tax cuts to the rich and smaller minimum wage increases for the working poor. The link between higher productivity and people's wages and salaries was severed - the income of the top 1 percent nearly quadrupled from 1979 to 2007, while the typical family's barely budged.
Towards the end of those three decades, a housing bubble, credit cards, and a churning financial sector kept the economy artificially juiced up. But by the time I took office in 2009, the bubble had burst, costing millions of Americans their jobs, their homes and their savings. The decades-long erosion of middle-class security was laid bare for all to see and feel.
In other words, the returns to labor just are not as high as they used to be. Robots and computers and globalization have in many cases made your average American worker less valuable - particularly if he or she is less educated. For a while, the housing bubble and cheap credit papered over those problems. But once the bubble burst and the recession hit, the problems afflicting millions of households became obvious. 
Still, Mr. Obama notes that things are getting better: The cyclical recovery from the recession has truly taken hold, even if structural problems remain. Here are some of the statistics he cites:

        
Over the past 40 months, our businesses have created 7.2 million new jobs. This year, we are off to our strongest private-sector job growth since 1999.
        
We sell more products made in America to the rest of the world than ever before.
        
As a country, we've recovered faster and gone further than most other advanced nations in the world.
He also blames Congress - as the Federal Reserve, the International Monetary Fund and many others have done - for instituting cuts that have made the cyclical recovery slower.
Rather than reduce our deficits with a scalpel - by cutting programs we don't need, fixing ones we do, and making government more efficient - this same group has insisted on leaving in place a meat cleaver called the sequester that has cost jobs, harmed growth, hurt our military, and gutted investments in American education and scientific and medical research that we need to make this country a magnet for good jobs.
Economists generally believe that the $85 billion in sudden budget cuts instituted this year have been less harmful than they originally thought they would be. Still, they have slowed down the recovery by taking money out of workers' and business' pockets. Mr. Obama also notes that Congress' refusal to raise the debt ceiling, the government's statutory borrowing limit, this fall would put undue stress on the economy.
But Mr. Obama does not really propose any policy specifics to tackle the structural problems he says he believes remain the greatest challenge to the American middle class - the rising inequality and stagnant wages.
Granted, he's tried to tackle them before. The Affordable Care Act at its heart taxes the wealthy to provide insurance coverage to lower-income households. His tax bill also raises levies on the rich, while cementing tax cuts for the middle class and working poor. But he has no such specific proposals in this speech, at least, only running through the same broad policy goals he and his team have outlined for some time, for infrastructure spending, education, housing finance and manufacturing.

        
Strongest Since 1999?
        
The Multinational Equation on Jobs
        
Dispatch From Europe: Learning, or Not, From Policy Mistakes
        
The Incredible Shrinking Budget Deficit
        
A Budget Focus on Inequality

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (93%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); HOUSING BUBBLE (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); RECESSION (89%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (89%); TRENDS (77%); MINIMUM WAGE (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); PRODUCTIVITY (77%); BUDGETS (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (74%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); TAX LAW (67%); GLOBALIZATION (67%); WORLD WAR II (56%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Federal Budget (US); Obama, Barack; Speeches and Statements; United States Economy; Obama's Economy Speech

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2013



709 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 322 words

HEADLINE: Strongest Since 1999?

BYLINE: FLOYD NORRIS


HIGHLIGHT: Was this the best first half of a year for private-sector jobs since 1999, as President Obama claimed in his speech on the economy? Well, sort of. 

 BODY:
"Add it all up, and over the past 40 months, our businesses have created 7.2 million new jobs. This year, we are off to our strongest private-sector job growth since 1999." 
So said President Obama in a speech in Illinois on Wednesday. And by one measure he has the facts to back him up, at least for now. But those facts could easily be revised away next week, when the July jobs report comes out. And no one reading that statement should overlook that he said "private sector." If you talk about all jobs, the record is not nearly so impressive.
First, the 7.2 million number is accurate. Private-sector employment hit bottom for the recent cycle in February 2010, at 106,850,000. In June, it was 114,051,000, or 7,201,000 higher.
Over the same stretch, governments have reduced employment by 619,000, leaving the total gain at 6.6 million.
As for the strongest start since 1999, that is also accurate, at least if you use the number of jobs, rather than the percentage change.
This year, private-sector employment rose by 1,234,000 jobs during the first six months. That is more than in any comparable period since 1999.
But comparing gross numbers can be misleading. This year's gain of 1.0938 percent is not as good as the 2011 gain over the same period, which was 1.12 percent, or 1,209,000 jobs. And on a percentage basis it was also a smidgen below the 2005 first half, when 1,211,000 jobs, or 1.0942 percent, were added.
Even by Mr. Obama's preferred way of counting, those two years could be better if the July report revises the June figure down by 26,000 jobs. That would not be an unusually large revision.
On a percentage basis, by the way, every first half from 1993 through 1999 was better than the 2013 first half.

        
The Multinational Equation on Jobs
        
Obama's View of the Economic Challenge
        
A Bad Jobs Report Turns Out to Have Been Wrong
        
Snapshots of Upwardly Mobile Areas
        
Dispatch From Europe: Learning, or Not, From Policy Mistakes

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (79%); TRENDS (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (74%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Labor and Jobs; Obama, Barack; Speeches and Statements; United States Economy; Economics; Floyd Norris; Obama's Economy Speech

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2013



710 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 464 words

HEADLINE: New Polls Are Bad News for Obama, and Worse for Congress

BYLINE: DALIA SUSSMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Several national polls find that President Obama&#8217;s job approval rating is slumping, and that fewer than half of Americans approve of the way he is handling the economy. 

 BODY:
Several new national polls find that President Obama's job rating is slumping, that fewer than half of Americans approve of the way he is handling the economy and that broad majorities feel the country is on the wrong track, underscoring the challenges he faces as he begins a campaign-style tour addressing the economy. 
Slow but steady economic growth has not helped Mr. Obama. His approval rating in a new NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll is 45 percent, its lowest level since late 2011. On the economy, 45 percent approve of his work, while 51 percent disapprove. 
In an ABC News/Washington Post poll out this week, 49 percent of Americans say they approve of the way the president is handling his job, the first time since September that his rating has fallen below 50 percent in an ABC/Post poll. That poll, too, put his approval rating on the economy at just 45 percent. 
In both polls, about 6 in 10 respondents say the country is on the wrong track. Still, many more said the same thing in the fall of 2011. 
Ratings of Congress remain far worse, with more than 8 in 10 in the NBC/Wall Street Journal poll and more than 7 in 10 in the ABC/Post poll disapproving. Moreover, while 72 percent of Democrats and independents who lean Democratic say Democratic leaders are taking the party in the right direction, 52 percent of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents say the G.O.P. leadership is taking their party in the wrong direction, the ABC/Post poll found.
A Pew Research Center poll finds 46 percent of Americans approving of the job Mr. Obama is doing, compared with 49 percent in June and 51 percent in May. It also finds that ratings of the economy have slipped in the last month, and more than 4 in 10 say it will be a long time before the economy recovers. 
A finds the president's overall job approval rating at just 41 percent among registered voters, the lowest in almost two years. Just 37 percent approve of his handling of the economy, while 56 percent disapprove. 
The NBC/Wall Street Journal poll was conducted July 17 through 21 among 1,000 adults and has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points. The ABC/Washington Post poll was conducted July 18 through 21 among 1,002 adults and has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus four percentage points. The Pew poll was conducted July 17 through 21 among 1,480 adults and has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points. The McClatchy/Marist poll was conducted July 15 through 18 among 980 registered voters and has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points. 

        
Sunday Breakfast Menu, Jan. 27
        
The Early Word: Reinforcements
        
Obama and G.O.P. Spar Over Direction of Cuts
        
The Weekend Word: The Crucible
        
The Weekend Word: School Supplies

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAUCUSES (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%) House of Representatives; Obama, Barack; Polls and Public Opinion; Senate; United States; United States Economy; United States Politics and Government; The Caucus

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (85%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (57%)

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives; Senate

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (85%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (85%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%) United States

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2013



711 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 350 words

HEADLINE: The Multinational Equation on Jobs

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: President Obama said that foreign companies and big American multinationals are increasing their employment in the United States. Here&#8217;s a look at the data. 

 BODY:
In his speech on Wednesday, President Obama said:
This year, we are off to our strongest private-sector job growth since 1999. And because we bet on this country, foreign companies are, too. Right now, more of Honda's cars are made in America than anywhere else. Airbus will build new planes in Alabama. Companies like Ford are replacing outsourcing with insourcing and bringing more jobs home. 
Is it true that foreign companies are "betting" on the United States, and that American multinationals are returning jobs here in large numbers?
The most recent Bureau of Economic Analysis data available on multinational companies' employment in the United States is for 2011, unfortunately. But those data do show that the total number of people working for American affiliates of foreign companies rose 3.3 percent that year, up to 5.6 million workers from 5.4 million in 2010. That rate of increase was higher than that for total American private industry employment that year, which was 1.8 percent. 
Even so, total employment at these American affiliates of foreign companies had fallen sharply during the recession, and so its 2011 level was about the same as it was in 2002 through 2008, when the population was smaller. 
As for American multinational companies (like Ford, which Mr. Obama cited), their employment in the United States actually stayed flat from 2009 to 2011 while they hired in large numbers abroad. From 2009 to 2011, domestic employment at these American companies was 22.9 million, while the number of employees abroad rose to 11.7 million from 10.8 million.
As a result, the share of employment at these American companies that is based at home has been shrinking, to 66.3 percent in 2011 from 79 percent in 1989:
None of those employment numbers will capture work contracted out to other companies, of course (e.g., Taiwan-headquartered Foxconn does a lot of manufacturing for American companies like Apple). 

        
Strongest Since 1999?
        
Obama's View of the Economic Challenge
        
A Bad Jobs Report Turns Out to Have Been Wrong
        
Snapshots of Upwardly Mobile Areas
        
Implications for Monetary Policy

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (92%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); OUTSOURCING (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RECESSION (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (70%); MONETARY POLICY (50%) Corporations; Labor and Jobs; Obama, Barack; Speeches and Statements; United States Economy

COMPANY: AIRBUS SAS (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: ALABAMA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2013



712 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 967 words

HEADLINE: Dell Considered Novel Tax Strategy in Buyout

BYLINE: LYNNLEY BROWNING


HIGHLIGHT: Dell was presented with a twist on the practice of corporations moving overseas to take advantage of lower taxes but thought it would create image problems. 

 BODY:
In the proposed buyout of Dell Inc. by its founder, the company considered but ultimately rejected as too risky a novel strategy that tweaks the now-curbed practice of corporations moving overseas to take advantage of lower taxes.
The strategy, drafted by JPMorgan Chase and disclosed in Dell's regulatory filings in recent months, proposed a fresh twist on that practice, which has largely been banned by the Internal Revenue Service. In slides of a presentation dated last October, JPMorgan cited a "lack of precedent" for the strategy, calling it a "new structure - has not been executed publicly." 
Dell and its advisers decided not to use the strategy in part because of potential image problems with United States and European regulators and investors, people briefed on the matter said. But the new strategy could serve as a template for future buyout participants because it circumvents anti-abuse regulations, said Robert Willens, a tax and accounting expert. 
While maneuvering continues over the price that Michael S. Dell and the investment firm Silver Lake will offer to buy out the company he founded, the scrapped tax strategy sheds light on Dell's quest for tax benefits to the buyout. 
The slides appeared in a Dell filing as recently as May 20. No other tax structure regarding the buyout has emerged in filings, and it is unclear how large shareholders, including Carl C. Icahn and his ally, Southeastern Asset Management, viewed it. Mr. Icahn was not available for comment on Tuesday. Calls to a Southeastern spokeswoman were not returned.
David Frink, a Dell spokesman, declined to comment on Tuesday on the rejected strategy or its successor. So did Brian Marchiony, a JPMorgan spokesman.
What is clear is that Dell was presented with a maneuver some tax lawyers said appeared legal but aggressive. 
Under a section labeled "political," the slides ask whether use of the strategy could "raise issues" or "impact" government contracts, indication of concern that it could have faced a backlash. 
The apparent reason is the strategy resembles a corporate inversion, a stamp in recent decades for tax-dodging corporations like Tyco International and Nabors Industries. Those companies prompted Congressional investigations and tougher I.R.S. rules after they moved their headquarters to the offshore haven of Bermuda, with a post-office box holding company as the parent to the main United States subsidiary that housed operations and management.
Mr. Willens said the strategy would most likely have passed technical muster under I.R.S. rules but would also have brought "political and popular heat to Dell, and reputational risk."
The proposed strategy involved conducting the buyout through a newly created foreign entity that would have effectively owned Dell. Under United States tax laws, that foreign entity would have legally escaped United States corporate taxes because it would have been a partnership for United States tax purposes.
At the same time, the foreign entity, whose jurisdiction was not specified, would have been treated under tax laws in that unspecified jurisdiction as a corporation and would have been subject to foreign taxes. Those two contrasting tax outcomes, embodied in one structure, would have created a "foreign hybrid," able to navigate different national tax regimes and access offshore cash while paying little or no United States taxes.
The "unprecedented" piece in the JPMorgan strategy was the proposal that Dell designate the foreign hybrid as a partnership, securities filings show. The foreign hybrid would have held a new entity called Denali, which would have held Dell share, and Denali would have owned Dell's foreign subsidiaries. (Mr. Dell was known in secret negotiations on the buyout as "Mr. Denali.")
Dell's physical headquarters would have remained in Round Rock, Tex., while the company would have been able to tap into the cash and tax benefits of being legally based in a lower-tax country. And it would have been able to borrow money from cash-rich offshore subsidiaries to finance Dell's operations, all without having to pay United States corporate income taxes. "Can likely access existing offshore cash without U.S. tax," one slide of the novel structure said.
Global tax officials have increasingly criticized foreign hybrids as leaching corporate profits out of higher tax jurisdictions. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development has railed against what it calls "hybrid mismatches" for several years. 
Edward Kleinbard, a tax law professor at the University of Southern California and a former chief of staff of the Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation, called the strategy "a twist on the old corporation inversion that relies on the fact that U.S. companies can dress up their foreign entities in different costumes for different tax purposes."
Whatever maneuverings are used, tax analysts are wondering precisely how the deal might take advantage of Dell's considerable overseas cash hoard without generating large tax bills. (The United States corporate rate for bringing overseas cash home is 35 percent.) Dell has said it wants to tap nearly half of its estimated $10.4 billion in overseas cash and cash equivalents to help finance the buyout. The rejected strategy would have done just that. Reuven Avi-Yonah, a professor of taxation at the University of Michigan, said that other ways of structuring tax to access cash tax-free could present problems. 
"There are a couple of other options, but those have come under I.R.S. attack," he said, so the rejected option "would have been safer."
Mr. Willens wonders whether shareholders might be interested in the value of that offshore cash.
 "You'd think a shareholder would say, 'Wow, they can afford to pay me more - they're accessing cash tax free,'" he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX CONSULTING (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); ACCOUNTING (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); TAX FRAUD (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (73%); TAX AUTHORITIES (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (68%); SHAREHOLDERS (65%) Legal/Regulatory; Mergers & Acquisitions; Technology

COMPANY: DELL INC (91%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (85%); SOUTHEASTERN ASSET MANAGEMENT INC (54%); TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD (52%); NABORS INDUSTRIES LTD (52%)

TICKER: DELL (NASDAQ) (91%); JPM (NYSE) (85%); JPM (LSE) (85%); 8634 (TSE) (85%); TYC (NYSE) (52%); NBR (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS561621 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (EXCEPT LOCKSMITHS) (52%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335931 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (52%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (52%); SIC1381 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (52%)

PERSON: CARL ICAHN (79%); MICHAEL DELL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2013



713 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1186 words

HEADLINE: Trader and S.E.C. Lawyer Spar Over E-Mail

BYLINE: SUSANNE CRAIG


HIGHLIGHT: Fabrice P. Tourre, a former Goldman Sachs trader, was questioned for about two hours on Wednesday by Matthew T. Martens, a government lawyer, over a trade arranged by ACA Management for the John A. Paulson hedge fund. 

 BODY:
The Securities and Exchange Commission waited more than three years to have a chance to shred the credibility of Fabrice P. Tourre, a former Goldman Sachs trader, in front of a jury. It finally got its chance on Wednesday.
Over the course of two hours, the government's lawyer, Matthew T. Martens, and Mr. Tourre, who has been accused of participating in a scheme to defraud investors, verbally sparred over what Mr. Tourre knew about a 2007 trade he helped structure. Mr. Tourre seemed exasperated on the stand, and at one point during the questioning, tipped over the water container on the witness stand while reaching for a document.
"So the statement was false," Mr. Martens asked just minutes after Mr. Tourre took the stand, challenging him over an e-mail he had written.
 "It was not accurate," Mr. Tourre responded, frustration rising in his voice. 
"Is there a difference between something being inaccurate or false?" Mr. Martens shot back.
"There is," Mr. Tourre said.
Mr. Tourre testified at the midpoint of the trial, one of the biggest cases to come out of the 2008 financial crisis. Mr. Tourre is also one of only a few Wall Street employees to land in court over their actions during the period, and the rarity of the trial underpins its importance.
For Mr. Tourre, who is now enrolled in a doctoral economics program at the University of Chicago, an unfavorable verdict from the civil trial could yield a fine, or worse, a ban from the securities industry. For the S.E.C., which has been dogged by its failure to thwart the crisis and hold executives who played a role in it accountable, its reputation is on the line and victory in the case is crucial.
On Wednesday, Mr. Tourre and Mr. Martens sparred over what could turn out to be a critical misstatement Mr. Tourre made in an e-mail to ACA Management, a company that both invested in the trade in question and helped construct it.
In 2007, at Goldman's behest, ACA helped put together a trade for the hedge fund Paulson & Company. The firm and its leader, John A. Paulson, sensed that the housing market was heading for a collapse and made more than $1 billion by betting against the security ACA had assembled. Earlier this week, a former ACA executive, Laura Schwartz, testified that had she known Mr. Paulson was placing a negative or bearish bet she never would have gone ahead with the transaction.
A central question in the case is whether Mr. Tourre should have corrected ACA's impression that Paulson & Company had a positive outlook on the security. In another correspondence, a January 2007 e-mail that was forwarded to Mr. Tourre, Ms. Schwartz described the Paulson & Company hedge fund as having an "equity perspective," indicating that she believed the hedge fund wanted the security to rise in value.
Mr. Tourre acknowledged that he did not correct her error, and that a firm in ACA's position should have had such a misunderstanding corrected. But Mr. Martens, the S.E.C. lawyer, was not able to get Mr. Tourre to say under oath that he had actually read that phrase in the e-mail from Ms. Schwartz.
Mr. Tourre had forwarded the e-mail to a lawyer at Goldman, saying, "Let's sit down and discuss when you get a chance." Mr. Tourre said all he could recall was that his note to the lawyer referred to the final sentence in the three-sentence e-mail, concerning credit analysis of the deal.
The courtroom was packed on Wednesday, as lawyers including Thomas Ajamie, a well-known plaintiffs' attorney, watched Mr. Martens in action. Mr. Tourre, dressed in a black suit, crisp white shirt and purple tie, looked much younger than his 34 years. He smiled at repetitive questions from Mr. Martens, often raising his eyebrows.
He spoke quickly with a thick accent, and had trouble pronouncing some simple words, which may color the jury's view of him. On more than one occasion, he referred to "bonds" but it sounded more like "bones."
"Sorry, it is my French accent," Mr. Tourre said to the court reporter, who had asked him to repeat a word.
While the highlight of the day was Mr. Tourre's testimony, most of Wednesday was consumed with the cross-examination by Mr. Tourre's lawyers of Ms. Schwartz, the ACA employee who worked with Goldman and Paulson & Company in 2007 to assemble the trade.
Though Ms. Schwartz proved to be an articulate witness for the S.E.C., Sean Coffey, Mr. Tourre's lawyer, spent hours taking apart her testimony, painting her as a poorly informed executive who did not seem to read newspaper articles on the hedge funds she counted as her clients. At one point, she could not remember doing a simple Internet search on Paulson & Company before meeting with them on the trade in question.
Ms. Schwartz, Mr. Coffey contended, was confused about Paulson & Company's role in the trade from the start.
In early January 2007, Ms. Schwartz received an e-mail from Gail Kreitman, a business acquaintance of hers who was then a Goldman saleswoman, about an unnamed client looking to meet with ACA. That same day Ms. Schwartz called Ms. Kreitman to discuss the e-mail. That call was followed up with an electronic meeting invitation to executives at Goldman and ACA, and referred to Paulson as an "equity" investor, meaning he would be a long investor, betting that the security would rise in value.
"Did she tell you the investment strategy?" Mr. Coffey asked Ms. Schwartz about her call with Ms. Kreitman.
"I have no recollection." Ms. Schwartz said.
"You had never set eyes on Fabrice Tourre when you wrote this calendar invite," he said. Ms. Schwartz testified that she did not believe she had met Mr. Tourre at that point.
Mr. Coffey contended that Ms. Schwartz simply assumed Paulson & Company was taking a long position, and never bothered to directly ask Goldman or the hedge fund. Ms. Schwartz has testified that her impression that Paulson & Company was long was based on numerous documents and e-mails stating that Mr. Paulson was the equity investor. She said Goldman never corrected e-mails stating that.
While there were initial representations to ACA from Goldman that left the impression with ACA that Paulson & Company was going long on the trade, Mr. Coffey presented multiple other exhibits, including the offering document, which showed that no investor was taking that equity piece of the trade.
The jury also heard more about the another S.E.C. investigation Ms. Schwartz had been embroiled in. A week before the trial, the court was notified that the S.E.C. had decided not to bring a case against Ms. Schwartz, a reprieve that Mr. Tourre's lawyers hope will shade the jury's view of her.
Once the S.E.C. had decided not to move forward with the charges, it met with Ms. Schwartz to prepare her to testify at Mr. Tourre's trial. Mr. Martens asked Ms. Schwartz what he told her at the end of that preparation session. "You told me to tell the truth and let the chips fall where they may. I have told my truth."
Mr. Tourre is expected to continue his testimony on Thursday, and possibly into Friday.

        
Witness in Tourre Case Describes Difficulty in Knowing Deal's Friends From Foes
        
Arsenal of Legal Firepower Masses Around Tourre Trial

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LAWYERS (91%); WITNESSES (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); TESTIMONY (90%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (89%); HEDGE FUNDS (87%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (76%); LITIGATION (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); HOUSING MARKET (68%) ACA Management; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Securities and Exchange Commission; Suits and Litigation (Civil); Tourre, Fabrice P; Goldman Sachs Group Inc|GS|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Securities and Exchange Commission

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%) Goldman Sachs Group Inc; GS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: FABRICE P TOURRE (94%) Tourre, Fabrice P

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%) ILLINOIS, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2013



714 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1997 words

HEADLINE: The Political Endangered Species List

BYLINE: THOMAS B. EDSALL


HIGHLIGHT: No matter how nimble they are, centrists on both sides of the aisle face an uphill slog to re-election. 

 BODY:
On Election Day 2012, Patrick Murphy emerged as a liberal hero. The 29-year-old political novice, a Democrat, defeated Allen West, the notorious Republican Congressman from Florida who once described President Obama as "a low-level socialist agitator," before suggesting on another occasion that his supporters were "a threat to the gene pool."
West, who declared on April 10 that there were "78 to 81 members of the Democratic Party that are members of the Communist Party," refused to concede defeat until Nov. 20, but when he did, he gave Murphy one of the toughest jobs in Congress: representing a district that cast a majority of its ballots for the presidential candidate of the opposing party. Florida's 18th Congressional District not only elected Murphy by a 1,917-vote margin, but it also voted 51.2 to 48.1 percent for Mitt Romney.
To keep his seat in the district, which runs north along the Atlantic "treasure coast" from Palm Beach Gardens to Fort Pierce, Murphy must navigate a minefield. 
There are just nine Democratic representatives whose constituents backed Romney, and they are all on the endangered species list. If their party is to have a shot at regaining the House, the survival of members like Murphy is crucial.
There is very little sympathy among liberals for the predicament of party centrists. The dangers facing middle-of-the-road Democrats in swing districts is reflected in the exceptionally high casualty rate suffered over the past four years by the Blue Dog coalition of conservative and moderate Democrats.
Before the 2010 election, there were 54 Blue Dogs in the House; after the election, just over half were defeated or retired, reducing the group to 26. The 2012 election was generally favorable to Democrats, but not to the Blue Dogs, who saw their numbers dwindle further still, to 14.
The current home for centrist Democrats, including Murphy, is the 52-member New Democrat Coalition, which is less Southern and rural than the Blue Dogs and more oriented to high-tech.
One purpose of both the Blue Dog and New Democrat coalitions is to provide a mechanism for members to dissociate themselves from traditional left orthodoxy. It's a signal to voters that a member is not a "tax and spend" or social-cultural liberal.
For Murphy, the task of winning over the independents in his district is not as simple as joining a New Democrat caucus. Take a look at what Murphy faced on a single day, June 20, as he walked a tightrope in the course of a sequence of votes on the Farm Bill. The measure was of crucial importance to the citrus and other agricultural interests in Murphy's district, as well as to the 23.4 percent of his constituents who receive food stamps - a figure that includes the 22.4 percent of Murphy's white constituents who get them.
In the course of the daylong series of votes on the bill, Murphy initially moved left, along with the majority of his party. Steve Southerland II, a Florida Republican, had proposed an amendment to the bill allowing states to establish work requirements for food stamp recipients. A vote against the requirement would be a killer in the more conservative Republican sections of the 18th District.
Murphy, calculating that he could appease conservatives when the bill came up for final consideration, voted no on the amendment, along with all but one of his Democratic colleagues. The work requirement amendment passed anyway, with overwhelming Republican support.
In a second key vote, Murphy continued to stand with the majority of Democratic members in voting for an amendment restoring $20.5 billion in food stamps. That amendment failed.
At the end of deliberations on the Farm Bill, however, Murphy executed the third leg of his plan, swinging right to support the bill on the final vote, which did in fact cut food stamps and allow states to impose work requirements.
Murphy's lean-left, lean-right Farm Bill votes are part of a larger survival strategy. 
In addition to breaking with his party at the zero hour on the Farm Bill, Murphy has defied pressure from the Democratic leadership on at least three other occasions. On Jan. 23, he voted for legislation that cut off pay for members of the House or Senate if they failed to pass a budget. On Feb. 6, Murphy opposed party leaders to back a Republican bill requiring Obama to publicly identify the year in which the budget will be balanced. On July 17, Murphy supported a House Republican bill to delay for one year the implementation of the individual mandate of the Affordable Care Act.
So far, in his seven-month career in Congress, Murphy has voted with his party 84 percent of the time, according to OpenCongress.org. That actually puts him close to the bottom on a partisan-loyalty ranking, also computed by OpenCongress.org: 185th out of 200.
For politicians in Murphy's tenuous position, it's crucial to signal to conservative voters an understanding of and sympathy for issues of particular importance to them.
John Barrow of Georgia, the last white Democrat representing a Congressional district in the five states of the deep South - Mississippi, Alabama, Louisiana, South Carolina and Georgia - demonstrated, in a television commerical, his own independence from liberal orthodoxy.
In 2012, Barrow, seeking a fifth term at 57, was widely viewed as on the verge on defeat in his rural-suburban district.
He took to the airways with a new ad. Sitting at home, Barrow looked into the camera and told viewers:
I'm John Barrow and long before I was born [he pulls out a pistol from a holster], my grandfather used this little Smith & Wesson here to stop a lynching. And for as long as I can remember [now he picks up a rifle], my father always had this rifle real handy, just to keep us safe. That's why I support the Second Amendment and I'm proud to be endorsed by the N.R.A. I approved this message because these are my guns now, and ain't nobody going to take 'em away.
Murphy is less outspoken. He has raised a ton of money, kept his head down and pursued explicitly bipartisan goals. As Alex Leary, Washington bureau chief of the Tampa Bay Times, recently wrote, "Murphy seems to be going out of his way to be bland."
I e-mailed Murphy's press secretary, Erin Moffet Hale, last week, asking if I could talk to the congressman. She wrote back, "I apologize but his schedule is packed this weekend." I then asked if Murphy was available Monday or Tuesday. Hale replied: "His next two weeks are booked before the August district work period unfortunately. I apologize but it doesn't look like they'll be time to connect."
While Murphy does not want to attract attention, his chief of staff and former campaign manager, Eric Johnson, did call me. He was quite forthcoming in discussing Murphy's approach to holding office.
Murphy has taken consistently progressive stands on volatile social issues, Johnson said, opposing anti-abortion legislation and backing attempts to repeal the Defense of Marriage Act.
On fiscal issues, however, Murphy has warned Democratic leaders that he will often cast more conservative votes than the full Democratic caucus. "The Democratic leadership understands that," Johnson told me.
The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee has included Murphy on its top priority 26-member "frontline" list.
Steve Israel, a New York Democrat and chair of the D.C.C.C., said in a phone interview there is no ideological or loyalty litmus test for those getting help. The sole criterion is the prospect of a close re-election fight:
Every member fundamentally has to represent the values and the priorities of the districts they serve. The fact of the matter is that most of our frontline districts are very competitive, many lean Republican, and frontline candidates have to be good fits for those districts.
Murphy's political future remains uncertain. The Rothenberg Political Report rates his district "Toss-up/Tilt Democratic." Larry Sabato's Crystal Ball calls the race a tossup, as does the Cook Report.
Locally, Democrats still hold Murphy in high regard for defeating West.
If Murphy keeps his seat he will, in the long run, have to worry about another threat: a primary challenge from the left. As the memory of Murphy the giant killer fades, and if additional liberal voters move into the district, an ambitious Democrat with views more in line with the national party will almost certainly run.
In 2012, after redistricting made Pennsylvania's 4th and 17th Districts more Democratic, the two Blue Dog incumbents, James Altmire and Tim Holden, were defeated in the primary by more liberal challengers who went on to win in the general election. Two years before that, Blanche Lincoln, a two-term Arkansas Senator and a founding member of the Blue Dog coalition during her four years in the House, barely survived a costly liberal primary challenge only to lose the general election to a Republican.
All of which raises a question: is it worth the relentless threat of defeat, and varying degrees of disrepect from more liberal colleagues, to win a Congressional seat in a battleground district?
In many cases, moderate and conservative Democrats are answering that question by heading for the exit. In 2010 and 2012, nine Blue Dog members, many of them still in their prime, retired rather than face another rough election.
These politicians take a beating. It is hard to overestimate the abuse Democrats like Barrow get from the left wing of their own party. It goes on and on and on.
Liberal Democrats have not been nearly as effective in their party as the hard right has been in the Republican Party. Among Republicans, organized forces led by the Club for Growth have been on a decades-long, relatively successful campaign to purge the party of those who break ranks with the conservative agenda.
The club is actively seeking primary candidates to challenge what it views as weak-kneed incumbents, including Greg Walden from Oregon, who is the chairman of the Republican Congressional Campaign Committee.
The survival of the moderate wings of both parties depends in large part on a narrowing of the gulf between the two parties. The prospects for that are not good.
The trend of the past 20 years is shown in Figure 1, which was developed by my soon to be former colleague Nate Silver.
Fig. 1.
In 1992, Democrats represented 58 congressional districts ranked by presidential voting as leaning, strongly or landslide Republican. By 2012, the number of Democrats in these districts had dropped to nine. For Republicans representing districts voting for Democratic presidential candidates, the number fell from 11 in 1992 to 3 in 2012.
Blue Dog Democrats and RINO (Republicans In Name Only) Republicans are the casualties of polarization.
Over the past three decades, as politicians have offered increasingly stark choices, the electorate has followed suit and voters have adopted consistent stands on both the left and the right.
Almost all analyses of likely outcomes in the 2014 elections for both the House and Senate use the presidential voting patterns in states and districts as a central factor in making predictions. The possibility, for example, that Republicans could take over the Senate is based on the assumption that Democratic-held seats in red states - Montana, South Dakota, Louisiana, North Carolina, Alaska, Arkansas and West Virgina - are all vulnerable.
This suggests that no matter how nimble they are, the Murphys and Barrows of the House face an uphill slog.
In public opinion surveys, voters claim to want their politicians to broker compromises across party lines. In the voting booth, voters demonstrate other ideas. As the Pew Research Center reports, the electorate's "values and basic beliefs are more polarized along partisan lines than at any point in the past 25 years."
Translation: voters are all for compromise as long as their side wins.

        
Is This a Government Which I See Before Me?
        
How Much Does Race Still Matter?
        
The Pelosi-Bachmann Conundrum
        
A Midterm Revolution?
        
The New Economic Risk: Complacency

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%) Barrow, John; Democratic Blue Dog Coalition; Democratic Party; Elections, House of Representatives; Holden, Tim; House of Representatives; Israel, Steve J; Johnson, Eric; Lincoln, Blanche Lambert; Murphy, Patrick J; Palm Beach (Fla); Silver, Nate; Walden, Greg; West, Allen B; Thomas B. Edsall

ORGANIZATION: Democratic Blue Dog Coalition; Democratic Party; House of Representatives

PERSON: PATRICK E MURPHY (94%); TIM HOLDEN (88%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); ALLEN WEST (73%); GREG WALDEN (73%); BLANCHE LINCOLN (73%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); JOHN BARROW (73%) Barrow, John; Holden, Tim; Israel, Steve J; Johnson, Eric; Lincoln, Blanche Lambert; Murphy, Patrick J; Silver, Nate; Walden, Greg; West, Allen B

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Palm Beach (Fla)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2013



715 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1559 words

HEADLINE: In Case Against SAC Capital, a Show of Force

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS and PETER LATTMAN


HIGHLIGHT: After years of trying to pin criminal charges on the billionaire Steven A. Cohen, the authorities came together on a more unusual plan: indict Mr. Cohen&#8217;s hedge fund itself. 

 BODY:
When Steven A. Cohen's lawyers arrived for a meeting this spring at the United States attorney's offices in Lower Manhattan, in a Brutalist-style building tucked behind a pair of courthouses, the conference room was so packed with federal investigators that one official had to venture down the hall for additional chairs. 
The meeting was just weeks after Mr. Cohen's hedge fund, SAC Capital Advisors, paid $616 million to settle two civil insider trading cases, and his lawyers were there to present a broad defense of the fund.
 But the marshaled might of law enforcement - which people briefed on the matter said were 17 officials, including representatives from the Securities and Exchange Commission and the F.B.I., and postal inspectors as well as federal prosecutors - signaled that the government was no longer interested in just monetary settlements. Instead, after years of futile attempts to pin criminal charges on Mr. Cohen, the investigators were coalescing around a more unusual plan: indict SAC itself. 
Now the government is poised to do just that. A grand jury voted this week to approve the indictment, a person briefed on the matter said, and authorities were expected to announce the case as soon as Thursday. 
Criminal charges might devastate SAC because the banks that trade with the hedge fund and finance its operations could abandon it. 
Already, after several guilty pleas by former SAC employees and a series of civil actions brought by the S.E.C., the fund's investors have removed about $5 billion of $6 billion in outside money from the firm. Those that have withdrawn money include major financial industry players like the Blackstone Group and Citigroup. The exodus could accelerate when the government levels the indictment. 
SAC, based in Stamford, Conn., with 1,000 employees around the world, is putting on a brave face. 
"The firm will operate normally and we have every expectation that will be the case going forward," it said in a memo to employees on Wednesday. 
In recent years, as the federal government waged an unrelenting crackdown against insider trading, a major focus of its efforts was Mr. Cohen, 57, a billionaire stock picker and collector of art and real estate. Mr. Cohen was not expected to be charged criminally, though authorities were contemplating charges against other employees at SAC.
But while Mr. Cohen may not be charged, he is inextricably tied to the hedge fund that has come into the government's line of fire. Not only are his initials on the door, but Mr. Cohen also owns 100 percent of the firm he founded in 1992.
The indictment, according to the people briefed on the matter, will charge the fund with carrying out a broad conspiracy to commit securities fraud, citing several instances of insider trading. Underpinning the charge, the people say, is the theory of corporate criminal liability, which allows the government to attribute certain criminal acts of employees to a company itself. 
The case is the boldest yet from the top federal prosecutor in Manhattan, Preet Bharara, whose office has overseen the crackdown on insider trading. The government has brought charges against more than 80 people; of those, 73 have either been convicted or pleaded guilty, a success rate that stands in contrast to recent struggles with cases stemming from the financial crisis. 
While lower-level prosecutors have led the SAC case, Mr. Bharara has taken a more active role in recent months. In May, a person briefed on the matter said, he was on a conference call to discuss strategy with his deputies and top S.E.C. officials.
Mr. Bharara's involvement reflects the unusual nature of the case. Criminal charges against large companies are rare, given the collateral consequences for the economy and innocent employees. After the Justice Department indicted Enron's accounting firm, Arthur Andersen, in 2002, the firm collapsed and 28,000 jobs were lost. 
Just days ago, the S.E.C. filed a civil case that accused Mr. Cohen of failing to supervise employees suspected of insider trading. Federal prosecutors, the people say, are planning soon to ask a judge to suspend the commission's case while the criminal charges are pending.
A spokesman for the F.B.I., Peter Donald, declined to comment. SAC also declined to comment.
Mr. Cohen reached the height of his powers in the boom years before the financial crisis. In both 2006 and 2007, Mr. Cohen earned about $900 million, according to Alpha magazine. 
But during the financial crisis, Mr. Cohen's fund, like much of Wall Street, came under pressure. Much of the activity at the center of the government's case took place during that year, when the fund posted its first-ever annual loss.
In 2009, Wall Street was stunned when government authorities announced a series of criminal insider trading charges against hedge fund managers and corporate executives. In the biggest case, federal prosecutors arrested Raj Rajaratnam, the founder of the Galleon Group hedge fund. 
It was around that time that Mr. Cohen's name began to surface as a target of the inquiry. Like Mr. Rajaratnam, Mr. Cohen ran a hedge fund whose traders were known for aggressively pumping corporate insiders for insights that might offer an edge.
Mr. Cohen was infuriated with the comparisons to Galleon, and went on something of a public relations offensive.
"I look at my firm, and I don't see any of that," Mr. Cohen told Vanity Fair magazine in 2010. "In some respects I feel like Don Quixote fighting windmills."
Yet while Mr. Cohen was railing against the scrutiny, federal authorities were methodically building their case against the firm. 
The F.B.I. began to target low-level hedge fund traders whom they would persuade to cooperate. One cooperator, Noah Freeman, a former SAC portfolio manager, said he thought that obtaining corporate secrets was part of his job description. At one point, the F.B.I. also tapped Mr. Cohen's phone line at his 35,000-square-foot home in Greenwich, Conn., the people briefed on the matter said. 
Four onetime SAC employees have pleaded guilty to insider trading while at the fund; five others were implicated in conduct while at SAC. 
The criminal indictment against SAC is likely to center on two employees: Mathew Martoma and Michael S. Steinberg, both of whom were charged criminally. Each pleaded not guilty to insider-trading-related charges and face separate trials.
Mr. Steinberg's case stems from trading the computer maker Dell. In a 2008 e-mail, an SAC analyst, Jon Horvath, told Mr. Steinberg that he had a "2nd hand read from someone at" Dell who provided financial information about the company before its earnings announcement. The e-mail from Mr. Horvath, who has since pleaded guilty and is expected to testify against Mr. Steinberg and SAC, was then forwarded to Mr. Cohen. 
Mr. Martoma's case involves 2008 trading in the stocks of Elan and Wyeth, which at the time were developing an Alzheimer's drug. Prosecutors accused Mr. Martoma of obtaining from a doctor secret information that the drug's clinical trials were going poorly. 
When the government arrested Mr. Martoma last November, the indictment cited a 20-minute phone call that Mr. Martoma had with Mr. Cohen the day before SAC began dumping its holdings in the drug stocks. 
But prosecutors did not claim that Mr. Martoma told Mr. Cohen about the confidential information. And Mr. Martoma rebuffed the government's overtures to cooperate, including as recently as this spring, one person said.
Without evidence directly linking Mr. Cohen to illicit trades, the government ramped up its focus on SAC. With companies, prosecutors often file a so-called deferred prosecution agreement that suspends charges, but prosecutors never considered such a deal with SAC, the people briefed on the matter said. Instead, authorities set their sights on an indictment. 
In alleging a conspiracy at SAC, prosecutors must show that there was an agreement among SAC employees - like Mr. Horvath, Mr. Steinberg and Mr. Martoma - to commit insider trading. The government also must show that the employees committed "overt" acts with "intent." 
In using the corporate liability theory to buttress the charge, the government has another powerful weapon. If prosecutors can show that the traders were acting "on behalf of and for the benefit of" SAC when breaking the law, then they might impute liability to the firm. 
An indictment would present SAC with a crucial question: How will Goldman Sachs and other banks that trade with the fund react? Legal experts said that an indictment could activate default provisions in SAC's trading agreements.
"Those provisions can effectively allow the banks to cut you off," said Steven Nadel, a hedge fund lawyer at Seward & Kissel.
But the charges won't necessarily spell disaster for SAC. Of the roughly $15 billion that SAC managed at the beginning of the year, about $8 billion is Mr. Cohen's own money.
For now, SAC's rank-and-file are staying put, people close to the fund said. When the heightened government scrutiny alarmed SAC's traders this year, the fund offered additional financial incentives to retain employees, many of whom make millions of dollars a year. 
"None of them have to worry about money or a future job," said a senior Wall Street executive who has done business with SAC. "So they're letting this play out and seeing what happens."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INDICTMENTS (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); INSIDER TRADING (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); LAWYERS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (74%); CONSPIRACY (73%); GRAND JURY (73%); GUILTY PLEAS (73%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (73%); APPROVALS (69%) Financial Services; Hedge Funds; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: SAC CAPITAL ADVISORS LP (58%); CITIGROUP INC (55%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (53%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (55%); C (BMV) (55%); 8710 (TSE) (55%); BX (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (53%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (53%)

PERSON: STEVEN A COHEN (91%); STEVEN COHEN (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013



716 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 886 words

HEADLINE: Letter From Ethiopia's Gulag

BYLINE: By ESKINDER NEGA. 
Eskinder Nega, an Ethiopian journalist and the recipient of the 2012 PEN/Barbara Goldsmith Freedom to Write Award, has been imprisoned since September 2011.

 BODY:
ADDIS ABABA, Ethiopia -- I AM jailed, with around 200 other inmates, in a wide hall that looks like a warehouse. For all of us, there are only three toilets. Most of the inmates sleep on the floor, which has never been swept. About 1,000 prisoners share the small open space here at Kaliti Prison. One can guess our fate if a communicable disease breaks out.
I was arrested in September 2011 and detained for nine months before I was found guilty in June 2012 under Ethiopia's overly broad Anti-Terrorism Proclamation, which ostensibly covers the ''planning, preparation, conspiracy, incitement and attempt'' of terrorist acts. In reality, the law has been used as a pretext to detain journalists who criticize the government. Last July, I was sentenced to 18 years in prison. 
I've never conspired to overthrow the government; all I did was report on the Arab Spring and suggest that something similar might happen in Ethiopia if the authoritarian regime didn't reform. The state's main evidence against me was a YouTube video of me, saying this at a public meeting. I also dared to question the government's ludicrous claim that jailed journalists were terrorists.
Under the previous regime of Prime Minister Meles Zenawi, I was detained. So was my wife, Serkalem Fasil. She gave birth to our son in prison in 2005. (She was released in 2007.) Our newspapers were shut down under laws that claim to fight terrorism but really just muzzle the press.
We need the United States to speak out. In the long march of history, at least two poles of attraction and antagonism have been the norm in world politics. Rarely has only one nation carried the burden of leadership. The unipolar world of the 21st century, dominated for the past two decades by the United States, is a historical anomaly. And given America's role, it bears a responsibility to defend democracy and speak out against those nations that trample it.
I distinctly remember the vivacious optimism that inundated the United States when the Soviet Union imploded in the early 1990s. This was not glee generated by the doom of an implacable enemy, but thrill germinated by the real possibilities that the future held for freedom.
And nothing encapsulated the spirit of the times better than the idea of ''no democracy, no aid.'' Democracy would no longer be the esoteric virtue of Westerners but the ubiquitous expression of our common humanity.
But sadly America's actions have fallen far short of its words. Suspending aid, as many diplomats are apt to point out, is no panacea for all the ills of the world. Nor are sanctions. But that's a poor excuse for the cynicism that dominates conventional foreign policy. There is space for transformative vision in diplomacy.
Sanctions tipped the balance against apartheid in South Africa, minority rule in Zimbabwe, and military dictatorship in Myanmar. Sanctions also buttressed peaceful transitions in these countries. Without the hope of peaceful resolution embedded in the sanctions, a descent to violence would have been inevitable.
Now that large swaths of Africa have become safely democratic, ancient and fragile Ethiopia, where a precarious dictatorship holds sway, is dangerously out of sync with the times.
In May, America's secretary of state, John Kerry, visited Ethiopia and lauded the country's economic growth. His words showed how little attention he paid to reality. The State Department's annual report on human-rights conditions has been critical of Ethiopia's government since 2005. I'd like to think that report represents the real stance of America's government, rather than Mr. Kerry's praise for our authoritarian leaders.
Not much has changed since our last dictator, Mr. Meles, died last August. There have been no major policy changes. The draconian press and antiterrorism laws are still there. There has been no improvement when it comes to press freedom.
With a population fast approaching 100 million, Ethiopia, unlike Somalia, is simply too big to ignore or contain with America's regional proxies.
As Ethiopia goes, so goes the whole Horn of Africa -- a region where instability can have major security and humanitarian implications for the United States and Europe. Al Qaeda has a presence here, and hundreds of millions of aid dollars flow into the region while millions of emigrants flow out.
In other words, Ethiopia must not be allowed to implode. And it would be irresponsible for the world's lone superpower to stand by and do nothing.
It is time for the United States to live up to its historical pledge by taking action against Ethiopia, whose reckless government has, since 2005, been the world's star backslider on democracy.
I propose that the United States impose economic sanctions on Ethiopia (while continuing to extend humanitarian aid without precondition) and impose travel bans on Ethiopian officials implicated in human rights violations.
Tyranny is increasingly unsustainable in this post-cold-war era. It is doomed to failure. But it must be prodded to exit the stage with a whimper -- not the bang that extremists long for.
I am confident that America will eventually do the right thing. After all, the new century is the age of democracy primarily because of the United States.
Here in the Ethiopian gulag, this alone is reason enough to pay homage to the land of the brave.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); PRISONS (90%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); CONSPIRACY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); SENTENCING (78%); ARRESTS (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); WRITERS (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (71%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (66%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (65%); FOREIGN POLICY (60%)

PERSON: MELES ZENAWI (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ADIS ABEBA, ETHIOPIA (92%) ETHIOPIA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2013



717 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 850 words

HEADLINE: Asian Economies Encounter Stiff Winds

BYLINE: By BETTINA WASSENER

 BODY:
HONG KONG -- The party might not be over for Asia, but for now, at least, the band has wandered off to take a break.
For the last few years, Asia's developing economies -- including those of China, Indonesia, the Philippines and Thailand -- have been powering ahead of much of the rest of the world, buoyed by a heady cocktail of stimulus from policy makers at home and investment from abroad. In 2011, the region grew more than four times as fast as the American economy, and last year's 6.5 percent growth was nearly three times that of the United States. Stock markets in the Philippines and Thailand were among the world's best performers in 2012.
Over the last couple of months, however, some of the shine has come off the Asia story. 
''The music has stopped playing,'' said Frederic Neumann, a co-head of Asian economics at HSBC, which on July 9 cut its growth forecasts for Asia outside Japan to 6.1 percent for this year and 6.5 percent next year. The bank had projected 7.2 percent growth for both years.
A week later, the Asian Development Bank followed suit, trimming 0.3 of a percentage point off its projections for developing Asia. (The bank's definition includes more countries than HSBC's.) That leaves it with forecasts for 6.3 percent growth this year and 6.4 percent in 2014.
And Wednesday, the latest evidence of weakness in the Chinese economy emerged in the form of a survey that showed manufacturing activity in July had contracted at its quickest pace since last summer. The survey, compiled by the research firm Markit and released by HSBC, produced a reading of 47.7 points for this month, down from 48.2 in June. A figure below 50 signals contraction.
As Mr. Neumann put it: ''The air is getting thinner.''
This could also be bad news for the rest of the world, which had been hoping that booming expansion in Asia could inject some much-needed oxygen into a global economy that is weighed down by anemic growth in the West.
The problem for developing Asia is that two of its main drivers of growth -- China's once red-hot economy and an inflow of money prompted largely by the Federal Reserve's efforts to revive American growth -- have fizzled.
Stocks in most Asian markets have sagged, with top market indexes in Indonesia, the Philippines and Thailand down about 9 percent since mid-May.
Currencies like the Malaysian ringgit, the Philippine peso and the Thai baht have all dropped about 5 percent against the dollar. In Indonesia, the rupiah fell this month to 10,000 per dollar for the first time since September 2009.
In India, the rupee is hovering near its weakest-ever level against the dollar, prompting the central bank to announce a number of steps this month aimed at arresting the currency's slide. And Indonesia and Thailand recently lowered their growth forecasts for 2013.
The declines were not unexpected after a period of strong gains, as investors in search of high returns poured into Asian markets over the last few years. Analysts had long warned that the inflows could reverse if conditions changed.
Now that the situation has shifted, economists at the Australia & New Zealand Banking Group wrote in a recent report, the region is ''facing the consequences of having drunk too readily from an abundance of virtually free credit.''
For the most part, companies are well financed, analysts say, and the recent turmoil does not herald imminent collapses or a flood of defaults. But it has, at least for now, turned off the faucet on the cash that had helped fuel Asia's recent growth spurt.
''The region's leverage-driven growth model has come to an end,'' said Mr. Neumann of HSBC.
Analysts are also nervous about China's cooling economy. The vulnerabilities vary across the region. Commodity-exporting countries like Australia and Indonesia, for example, are most affected by China's reduced appetite for iron ore and coal. Conversely, commodity-importing countries like India, the Philippines, South Korea and Thailand benefit from flagging Chinese demand and the resulting lower prices -- especially as the recent weakening in their currencies has made it more expensive for them to buy materials abroad.
India is less affected by China's cooling because it relies less than most other Asian nations on exports. But the country is one of the few in the region that is running a current account deficit -- meaning its imports of goods, services and income outweigh exports -- and it needs foreign capital to pay for domestic spending. Slow progress on changes and an election next year also weigh on investor confidence and have contributed to the rupee's sharp slide over the last two years.
More vigorous growth in Japan, where the government of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe is trying to resuscitate an economy that has been languishing for decades, could help make up for some of the weakness in China.
''If Japan can succeed in powering up, it could be a powerful offset to the weakness in China,'' said Stephen Schwartz, chief economist for Asia at the Spanish bank BBVA in Hong Kong. ''On balance, I am still relatively optimistic about Asia's growth prospects.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A factory worker in Anhui Province in China. Chinese manufacturing activity in July was contracting further. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); CURRENCIES (83%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (76%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (70%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (70%)

COMPANY: HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (91%); ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (68%)

ORGANIZATION: ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (55%)

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (91%); HSB (PAR) (91%); HBC (NYSE) (91%); 0005 (HKSE) (91%); ATB (ASX) (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EAST CHINA (79%); ANHUI, CHINA (58%) ASIA (99%); CHINA (95%); THAILAND (94%); PHILIPPINES (94%); INDONESIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); HONG KONG (92%); JAPAN (79%); INDIA (79%); MALAYSIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2013



718 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1843 words

HEADLINE: Garment Trade Wields Power In Bangladesh

BYLINE: By JIM YARDLEY; Julfikar Ali Manik contributed reporting.

 BODY:
DHAKA, Bangladesh -- In the honking, congested heart of this overcrowded capital, one glass office tower stands uniquely alone, surrounded by water, accessible by a small bridge. It is a symbol of the power of Bangladesh's garment industry, the headquarters of the country's most powerful association of factory owners. It is also illegal.
So said the Bangladesh High Court, concluding that the land had been illegally obtained, the building had been erected without proper approvals and the location threatened a network of lakes that form the natural drainage system of the capital. The High Court called the building ''a scam of abysmal proportions'' and ordered it demolished within 90 days.
That was two years ago. The building still stands. The case is now in a legal limbo -- more proof, according to critics, of the power of the Bangladesh Garment Manufacturers and Exporters Association. Members control the engine of the national economy -- garment exports to the United States and Europe. Many serve in Parliament or own television stations and newspapers. 
For two decades, as Bangladesh became a garment power, now trailing only China in global clothing exports, the trade group has often seemed more like a government ministry. Known as B.G.M.E.A., the organization helps regulate and administer exports and its leaders sit on high-level government committees on labor and security issues. Industry trade groups in the United States could only imagine such a role.
But the April collapse of the illegally constructed Rana Plaza factory building, which killed more than 1,100 people, has placed the entire global supply chain that delivers clothes from Bangladeshi factories to Western consumers under scrutiny. And the quasi-official garment group, in the eyes of its critics, presents a major conflict of interest at the center of Bangladesh's troubles and is a big part of the systemic problems that have made the country a dangerous place for garment workers.
''You can't put the fox in charge of the chickens,'' said Rizwana Hasan, an environmental lawyer. ''B.G.M.E.A. has no regulatory authority under the laws of the country. It's a clubhouse of the garment industry.''
Bangladesh is working to restore the garment industry's credibility after last month's decision by the Obama administration to suspend a special trade preference for the country. The European Union is also considering penalties. Bangladesh has responded by passing new labor laws and pledging to inspect the structural safety and legal compliance of the nation's 5,000 garment factories.
In both instances, the garment group's interests were well represented. It has hired a team of engineers and is helping oversee the post-Rana Plaza factory inspections -- even as the High Court cited the group for a litany of violations on its own headquarters. Meanwhile, the trade group brought its influence to bear in a lobbying campaign as Parliament amended the labor laws this month.
Bangladeshi officials promised to overhaul their labor laws, which fall short of standards defined by the International Labor Organization and tend to suppress unions, contributing to safety problems, labor advocates say. But the results of the overhaul were less significant, especially for the garment industry. One amendment required that industries create profit-sharing programs for workers. But exporting industries, notably the garment sector, were exempted.
Restrictions on labor organizing were eased, but far from fully lifted. The new law requires that 30 percent of factory workers must sign petitions to form a union, a telling obstacle given that many factories have thousands of employees and have few places to hold meetings and organize.
''Bangladesh had a golden opportunity,'' said Roy Ramesh Chandra, a labor leader, who said that the political influence of factory owners diluted some of the amendments. ''The employers have tremendous influence.''
Business interests dominate Bangladesh's Parliament. Of its 300 members, an estimated 60 percent are involved in industry or business. Analysts say 31 members, or 10 percent of the country's national legislators, directly own garment factories, while others have indirect financial interests in the industry.
Factory owners say their political clout is vastly overstated and dismiss suggestions that they exert influence over top elected leaders, and some analysts agree their influence is sometimes overstated. But the trade group clearly is part of the process in ways that set Bangladesh apart.
Three years ago, the prime minister created an industrial police force to maintain order in factory districts and act as an independent arbiter to solve disputes between workers and management. But many workers and labor organizers say the force almost always favors owners. The trade group is even supposed to buy patrol cars for officers.
''This organization is extremely powerful,'' said one senior government official, who said much of its clout comes from political contributions. ''The political parties are running after money.''
The trade group was formed in 1983 as Bangladesh, then one of the world's poorest countries, was trying to build its economy by developing a garment industry. Initially, it had no headquarters and no bank account.
''When I first went out there, the B.G.M.E.A. was run out of a garage,'' said Don Brasher, who worked as a trade consultant to Bangladesh for more than a decade. ''It was not institutionalized at all.''
That quickly changed. Under the rules of global textiles, developing countries faced restrictions on garment exports and, in the case of the United States, were assigned trade quotas. Managing this quota system was critical and complicated. Bangladesh's government decided to delegate administrative tasks to the trade group -- including the authority to regulate certain transactions and collect fees.
''That was pretty extraordinary,'' said Mr. Brasher, who lived in Dhaka for two years and worked closely with the group on the quota system. ''Ordinarily, that is done by a government agency. There's nothing like that, anywhere. But it was done out of necessity.''
Bangladesh's government is notoriously corrupt and has limited bureaucratic capacity to handle the intricate mechanics of global trade. Politics is ferociously contested and marred by regular nationwide strikes, known as hartals. In this environment, the group became a stabilizing force as global trade rapidly grew.
Even after the quota system expired in 2005, the trade group steadily expanded its regulatory responsibilities. Today, it enjoys a near stranglehold on exports: only factories that are among its members are allowed to export woven garments, with some exceptions. The group regulates the importation of fabric and issues certificates of origin, the required proof that a garment is made in Bangladesh. It has arbitration committees to settle disputes and administers the often-complex practice of subcontracting.
On a recent evening, Atiqul Islam, the group's president, sat at his desk and signed applications from factory owners seeking duty-free status to import machinery. A half-hour earlier, he had presided over a news conference about a skills training program for workers that the group had organized with the United Nations Development Program, the British international development agency UK-AID and the International Labor Organization.
''Zero power,'' he said while signing the tax waiver applications, flicking away a question about the group's influence. ''The government decentralized a few things to us, so we are doing them. We can do it much faster.''
Many factory owners portray the industry as a public service, providing millions of jobs. The health of the garment sector is often seen as a national security issue, with the industry accounting for 80 percent of Bangladesh's manufacturing exports and providing critical foreign exchange. It is the trade group that maintains order in daily operations of the industry, owners say.
''Otherwise, there would be chaos,'' said Annisul Huq, a former president of the trade group. ''Yes, we can criticize the B.G.M.E.A. But it has a very strong role. Somebody has to lead.''
Factory owners face many challenges in Bangladesh, including high interest rates on loans. But the heroic self-image of the sector is somewhat overstated. Garment factories enjoy subsidies and tax breaks not offered to other industries, and pay less tax. A recent study in a Bengali-language newspaper estimated that these subsidies and tax breaks exceeded tax revenues from the industry by roughly $17 million.
''The doors of the treasury are open for them,'' said Badiul Alam Majumdar, secretary of the nonprofit group Citizens for Good Governance. ''They extract all kinds of subsidies. They influence legislation. They influence the minimum wage. And because they are powerful, they can do, or undo, almost anything, with impunity.''
One unlikely critic of the trade group is Rubana Huq, the wife of Mr. Huq, who is now the managing director of the family's garment conglomerate, Mohammadi Group. She said the garment industry in Bangladesh has matured and must be regulated by a transparent, independent arbiter, possibly a new government ministry.
''Of course, there is a conflict of interest,'' she said. ''There is no reason why a body like B.G.M.E.A. would be credible with the international players.''
Ms. Huq and other critics point to the headquarters building as a symbol of its protected status. Environmentalists have long protested and argued that the building's location on a de facto island inside a city lake impedes the natural drainage network and contributes to flooding in the capital during the monsoon.
Illegalities abounded, according to the High Court ruling: construction started before the group had won final approval on a building plan; the land transfer from a government agency violated national laws on usage of public land. Yet the group's leaders argue that the building's status has been validated at the highest level: two prime ministers led different inauguration ceremonies at the site.
''It is not illegal,'' said Mr. Huq, his voice rising. ''We have applied to the government for the land. The government has given us the land. Two prime ministers have opened it. What validation do you want?''
But Iqbal Habib, an architect who designed the plan to renew the lake system, said the group could not be exempted from rules governing others. ''They are always talking about their compliance with the buyers,'' he said. ''What about their compliance with the laws of the country?''
For now, the case is stalled. The Supreme Court is supposed to hold a final hearing, but with elections coming, the government has shown little interest in confronting the country's most powerful industrial bloc. It is unclear if a hearing will take place.
''It has gone to the Supreme Court,'' Mr. Huq said. ''That could take forever. It is Bangladesh. We have full trust -- as long as they give a verdict in our favor.''
He is smiling, joking, to a degree.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An office tower built by the garment trade association in Dhaka, Bangladesh, is in legal limbo. A court ordered it demolished. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TASLIMA AKHTER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 The April collapse of an illegally built factory in Bangladesh has brought new attention to the plight of garment workers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MUNIR UZ ZAMAN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPAREL MFG (91%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); GARMENT WORKERS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (76%); ENGINEERING (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (72%); INSPECTIONS (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (70%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (69%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DHAKA, BANGLADESH (93%) BANGLADESH (99%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2013



719 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 879 words

HEADLINE: European Union Advocates Limiting Fees on Debit and Credit Card Transactions

BYLINE: By JAMES KANTER

 BODY:
BRUSSELS -- European Union officials on Wednesday proposed capping certain fees on credit and debit card purchases, immediately setting off a fierce debate about whether consumers would benefit.
The European Commission, which wants to set a ceiling on the transaction fees that banks charge retailers for purchases with plastic, said the move would help stimulate the sluggish economy by saving retailers 6 billion euros ($7.9 billion) a year.
But it is unclear whether the savings will flow through to consumers. 
While the European Commission and retailers indicated that lower fees would translate into lower prices, financial companies argued that consumers were unlikely to reap the rewards.
The commission's ''decision today is an unqualified disaster for consumers,'' said Todd J. Zywicki, a professor at George Mason University School of Law. ''In every country that has imposed price controls on interchange fees, consumers have felt the pinch through higher bank and credit cards fees and reduced quality in access. Yet in none of these countries has there been any documented pass-through of these savings to retail consumers through lower prices.''
The proposed rules take aim at so-called interchange fees.
The European plan would cap such fees at 0.2 percent for debit card transactions and 0.3 percent for credit card purchases. Officials said the credit card levels would be particularly beneficial in Poland and Hungary, where fees are especially high.
The rules would also limit the surcharges imposed by some merchants on card payments for purchases, in particular airline tickets. Such sums can add 12 euros (about $16) to an individual purchase, according to commission officials.
Another measure would let Visa and MasterCard formally separate their credit card services business from their processing business. The split, said European regulators, should help bolster competition.
''The interchange fees paid by retailers end up on consumers' bills,'' said Joaquín Almunia, the European Union's commissioner for competition policy. ''Not only are consumers generally unaware of this -- they are even encouraged through reward systems to use the cards that provide their banks with the highest revenues.''
European officials said the initiative partly mirrored the American effort to restrict interchange fees on debit card purchases. In 2011, the Federal Reserve capped such fees at 21 to 24 cents a transaction, down from an average of 44 cents.
Europe is going one step further than the United States, which did not address interchange fees on credit cards. Efforts to restrict those fees in the United States have largely stalled in court battles.
Big financial players, which plan further lobbying efforts, called the rules unnecessary, warning that consumers would probably not see substantial savings. Instead, they argued that retailers would pocket the extra money.
''Experience indeed shows that merchants do not pass fee reductions on to consumers as expected by regulators and consumer organizations,'' Sébastien de Brouwer, an executive director of the European Banking Federation, an industry group made up of national associations representing the region's largest banks, said in a statement. ''We have seen this in countries like Australia or Spain.''
MasterCard said in a statement that it would cooperate with the commission to make the payment systems in Europe more secure and efficient, but it said the proposals would have unforeseen and negative consequences.
Some financial players also complained that the rules did not treat all payment companies equally.
Peter Ayliffe, the president of Visa Europe, said the proposals mostly exempted American Express and a number of providers of e-commerce and mobile payment systems. The commission estimated that about 9 percent of fees charged by American Express would be covered by the new rules, because most payments using their cards do not involve interchange fees.
Merchants argued that the rules would essentially level the playing field, making payments with cash or plastic roughly equivalent. That, in turn, retailers said, would help consumers.
''Price competition and the elimination of inefficiencies are in the DNA of retailers,'' said Christian Verschueren, the director-general of EuroCommerce, an industry group that represents national retail associations and some giant retailers, including Carrefour, IKEA and Tesco.
At the same time, retailers indicated the rules might not go far enough.
Some industry players are pushing to abolish transaction fees altogether on debit card payments. Mr. Vershueren warned that debit fees could go up in some countries like Belgium and Denmark, where those fees already were lower than the planned level of 0.2 percent. The proposals ''fall short of the ideal,'' said Mr. Vershueren.
The debate is likely to continue for a while.
The rules would apply to transactions across borders in the European Union as soon as the law went into force. But there would be a 22-month transition period before they went into effect for domestic transactions, which represent a large majority of payments.
The proposal also needs approval by the European Parliament and by a majority of European Union member states before becoming law -- a process that could take years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEBIT CARDS (91%); CREDIT CARDS (90%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); EURO (89%); CARD INTERCHANGE FEES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (85%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (78%); LOBBYING (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (78%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (75%); LAW SCHOOLS (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (54%); TRAVEL TICKETS (50%)

COMPANY: VISA INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (93%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (91%)

TICKER: V (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (91%)

PERSON: JOAQUIN ALMUNIA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (74%) EUROPE (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); BELGIUM (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); HUNGARY (79%); POLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2013



720 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 985 words

HEADLINE: Tax Strategy

BYLINE: By LYNNLEY BROWNING

 BODY:
In the proposed buyout of Dell by its founder, the company considered but rejected as too risky a novel strategy that tweaks the now-curbed practice of corporations moving overseas to take advantage of lower taxes.
The strategy, drafted by JPMorgan Chase and disclosed in Dell's regulatory filings in recent months, proposed a fresh twist on that practice, which has largely been banned by the Internal Revenue Service. In slides of a presentation dated last October, JPMorgan cited a ''lack of precedent'' for the strategy, calling it a ''new structure -- has not been executed publicly.''
Dell and its advisers decided not to use the strategy in part because of potential image problems with United States and European regulators and investors, people briefed on the matter said. But the new strategy could serve as a template for future buyout participants because it circumvents anti-abuse regulations, said Robert Willens, a tax and accounting expert. 
While maneuvering continues over the price that Michael S. Dell and the investment firm Silver Lake will offer to buy out the company Mr. Dell founded, the scrapped tax strategy sheds light on Dell's quest for tax benefits to the buyout.
The slides appeared in a Dell filing as recently as May 20. No other tax structure regarding the buyout has emerged in filings, and it is unclear how large shareholders, including Carl C. Icahn and his ally, Southeastern Asset Management, viewed it. Mr. Icahn was not available for comment on Tuesday. Calls to a Southeastern spokeswoman were not returned.
David Frink, a Dell spokesman, declined to comment on Tuesday on the rejected strategy or its successor. So did Brian Marchiony, a JPMorgan spokesman.
What is clear is that Dell was presented with a maneuver that some tax lawyers said appeared legal but aggressive.
Under a section labeled ''political,'' the slides ask whether use of the strategy could ''raise issues'' or ''impact'' government contracts, indication of concern that it could have faced a backlash.
The apparent reason is the strategy resembles a corporate inversion, a stamp in recent decades for tax-dodging corporations like Tyco International and Nabors Industries. Those companies prompted Congressional investigations and tougher I.R.S. rules after they moved their headquarters to the offshore haven of Bermuda, with a post-office box holding company as the parent to the main United States subsidiary that housed operations and management.
Mr. Willens said the strategy would most likely have passed technical muster under I.R.S. rules but would also have brought ''political and popular heat to Dell, and reputational risk.''
The proposed strategy involved conducting the buyout through a newly created foreign entity that would have effectively owned Dell. Under United States tax laws, that foreign entity would have legally escaped United States corporate taxes because it would have been a partnership for United States tax purposes.
At the same time, the foreign entity, whose jurisdiction was not specified, would have been treated under tax laws in that unspecified jurisdiction as a corporation and would have been subject to foreign taxes. Those two contrasting tax outcomes, embodied in one structure, would have created a ''foreign hybrid,'' able to navigate different national tax regimes and access offshore cash while paying little or no United States taxes.
The ''unprecedented'' piece in the JPMorgan strategy was the proposal that Dell designate the foreign hybrid as a partnership, securities filings show. The foreign hybrid would have held a new entity called Denali, which would have held Dell shares, and Denali would have owned Dell's foreign subsidiaries. (Mr. Dell was known in secret negotiations on the buyout as ''Mr. Denali.'')
Dell's physical headquarters would have remained in Round Rock, Tex., while the company would have been able to tap into the cash and tax benefits of being legally based in a lower-tax country. And it would have been able to borrow money from cash-rich offshore subsidiaries to finance Dell's operations, all without having to pay United States corporate income taxes. ''Can likely access existing offshore cash without U.S. tax,'' one slide of the novel structure said.
Global tax officials have increasingly criticized foreign hybrids as leaching corporate profits out of higher tax jurisdictions. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development has railed against what it calls ''hybrid mismatches'' for several years.
Edward D. Kleinbard, a tax law professor at the University of Southern California and a former chief of staff of the Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation, called the strategy ''a twist on the old corporation inversion that relies on the fact that U.S. companies can dress up their foreign entities in different costumes for different tax purposes.''
Whatever maneuverings are used, tax analysts are wondering precisely how the deal might take advantage of Dell's considerable overseas cash hoard without generating large tax bills. (The United States corporate rate for bringing overseas cash home is 35 percent.) Dell has said it wants to tap nearly half of its estimated $10.4 billion in overseas cash and cash equivalents to help finance the buyout. The rejected strategy would have done just that. Reuven S. Avi-Yonah, a professor of taxation at the University of Michigan, said that other ways of structuring tax to access cash tax-free could present problems.
''There are a couple of other options, but those have come under I.R.S. attack,'' he said, so the rejected option ''would have been safer.''
Mr. Willens wonders whether shareholders might be interested in the value of that offshore cash.
''You'd think a shareholder would say, 'Wow, they can afford to pay me more -- they're accessing cash tax free,''' he said.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX CONSULTING (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); ACCOUNTING (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); TAX FRAUD (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (73%); TAX AUTHORITIES (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (68%); SHAREHOLDERS (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (85%); SOUTHEASTERN ASSET MANAGEMENT INC (54%); TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD (52%); NABORS INDUSTRIES LTD (52%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (57%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (85%); JPM (LSE) (85%); 8634 (TSE) (85%); TYC (NYSE) (52%); NBR (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS561621 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (EXCEPT LOCKSMITHS) (52%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335931 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (52%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (52%); SIC1381 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (52%)

PERSON: CARL ICAHN (79%); MICHAEL DELL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2013



721 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1082 words

HEADLINE: Party in Flux On Economy

BYLINE: By JONATHAN MARTIN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- As President Obama made the case on Wednesday about how the American economy was improving, he went off script to underscore how significant the challenges were that remained.
''But -- and here's the big but -- I'm here today to tell you that we're not there yet,'' Mr. Obama said, expanding on his prepared text to note that the wealthy are doing better while the middle class is struggling and others are faring worse.
He did not need to remind many of his fellow Democrats. 
With Mr. Obama experiencing a difficult first year of his second term and his lame-duck status growing ever nearer, his speech underscored the stirrings of a debate inside the Democratic Party about the party's economic approach, given the halting recovery.
If positions on foreign policy and specifically the Iraq war marked the dividing line in the Democrats' last fierce internal debate, issues related to banks, entitlements and the rights of consumers broadly could shape the party's next search for an identity.
Liberals, pointing to a bankrupt Detroit and new reports of diminished class mobility, believe the plight of lower-income and young Americans is so severe that the party must shift away from the center-left consensus that has shaped its fiscal politics since Bill Clinton's 1992 election and push more aggressively to reduce income disparity.
''The sooner we get back to a good, progressive, populist message, the better off we're going to be as Democrats,'' said Senator Tom Harkin of Iowa.
The growing intraparty economic debate comes even as there is increasing cohesion on the cultural issues that once divided Democrats. Many in the party see progress on matters like gay rights, gun control and immigration, topics that Mr. Obama has spent time on this year but mentioned only glancingly in his address Wednesday at Knox College, in Galesburg, Ill.
The votes and stances on these issues among Democrats in Congress are now far more uniform than they were as late as the 1990s. And it is unthinkable that -- whether their 2016 standard-bearer is Hillary Rodham Clinton or somebody else -- every major contender in the next Democratic primary season will not be down-the-line progressive on cultural issues.
But there is a growing frustration among progressives who are now saying the party must move toward a more populist position on the issue that many on the left see as the great unfinished business of the Obama years: economic fairness.
''Look at where we are going to be at the end of the Obama administration -- we'll see a lot of change on social issues, but on the ground in the country we'll still have this growing economic inequality,'' said Neera Tanden, president of the liberal Center for American Progress.
Dating to his first appointments as president-elect, Mr. Obama has drawn suspicion from some elements of the left on economics. Now, with the first talk of the post-Obama Democratic Party, liberal angst is starting to take form in Washington.
Senator Elizabeth Warren, the former Harvard law professor who is suddenly Massachusetts's senior senator as a freshman, has been at the center of two issues that will be sharply debated within the Democratic Party heading into 2016. Ms. Warren is drawing attention to the college students and recent graduates besieged by debt by proposing to offer them the same interest rate for a year, 0.75 percent, as the Federal Reserve offers banks.
When a bipartisan compromise was struck last week on federal student loans, she declined to support the deal -- irritating some of her more senior Democratic colleagues.
''The student loan issue for the millennial generation will rank up there with the draft for our generation,'' said Robert L. Borosage, a co-director of the liberal Campaign for America's Future.
Ms. Warren is also challenging the centrist consensus on high finance and has sought to revive a dormant conversation about whether investment and commercial banking should be intermingled by introducing a bill to restore Glass-Steagall, an issue few senior Democrats on either end of Pennsylvania Avenue want to revisit.
Center-versus-left tensions have come into view in just the last few days amid speculation that Lawrence H. Summers, the center-left former Harvard president and senior economic official in the Clinton and Obama White House, is a serious candidate to become chairman of the Federal Reserve.
And while the issue has largely been dormant since Mr. Obama's budget proposal earlier this year, he signaled in his Wednesday speech that he would again try to push through changes to Social Security and Medicare, programs the left considers sacrosanct.
''We've got to embrace changes to cherished priorities so that they work better in this new age,'' Mr. Obama said of his party. ''We can't just -- Democrats can't just stand pat and just defend whatever government is doing.''
Matt Bennett, a co-founder of the moderate Third Way, said such a statement would shape the coming Democratic conversation.
''There will be a debate about where our priorities should be,'' said Mr. Bennett, who added that the left was ''starting to rev up their engines'' for the debate. ''On the center-left, the argument we're making is that you can't have robust investment spending on things like education and roads and have unfettered, skyrocketing growth in entitlement programs.''
But the scale and the persistence of the country's economic difficulties may cool Democratic ardor for addressing deficits.
Some in the party took note when Mrs. Clinton used her first major speech since departing as secretary of state to point to the desperate straits of many people and localities in the Obama era.
''In too many places in our own country, community institutions are crumbling, social and public health indicators are cratering, and jobs are coming apart and communities face the consequences,'' Mrs. Clinton said in a speech last month at the Clinton Global Initiative conference in Chicago.
Too much should not be read into one part of one speech. And Mrs. Clinton's sheer force of personality could overshadow any internecine policy debates.
But past arguments by Mr. Clinton and other moderate Democrats that positioning the Democratic Party in the political center was the only way to win elections could be harder to make at a moment when the economy is still wheezing, powerful strains of populism have emerged in both parties, and the Republicans are fighting their own civil wars and face serious demographic challenges.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts is challenging the Democratic centrist consensus on finance and other issues. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DREW ANGERER/GETTY IMAGES) (A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (75%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (68%); IMMIGRATION (68%); LGBT RIGHTS (67%); GUN CONTROL (67%); GAYS & LESBIANS (67%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (67%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); ELIZABETH WARREN (79%); TOM HARKIN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2013



722 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 387 words

HEADLINE: New-Home Sales and Factory Activity Rise

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Sales of new homes in the United States vaulted to a five-year high in June, while other data on Wednesday showed an acceleration in factory activity in July, bolstering hopes of a third-quarter pickup in economic growth. 
Showing no signs of slowing in the face of higher mortgage rates, sales of single-family homes increased 8.3 percent to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 497,000 units, the highest level since May 2008, the Commerce Department said.
Economists, who had expected sales to advance only to a 482,000-unit rate, said buyers sitting on the fence had probably rushed into the market to lock in mortgage rates in anticipation of even higher rates.
''The recent increase in mortgage rates hasn't slowed demand as long as home affordability remains high,'' said Bob Walters, chief economist at Quicken Loans in Detroit. ''We are, however, seeing an increased urgency from potential new home buyers as they move to secure today's historically low rates.''
Though the government revised down sales from March through May by a total 38,000 units, the overall tone of the report was bullish. Compared with June 2012, sales of single-family homes were up 38.1 percent, the largest increase since January 1992.
Some worried that higher borrowing costs could crimp the housing market recovery after a report on Monday showed a surprise drop in home resales in June.
Mortgage rates have been rising in anticipation of the Federal Reserve's starting to reduce its huge monetary stimulus this year. According to Freddie Mac, the 30-year fixed mortgage rate increased 0.53 of a percentage point in June to 4.07 percent, its highest level since October 2011.
Still, mortgage rates, which edged lower last week, remain low by historical standards, and economists, including the Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, contend the fundamentals in the housing market are strong enough to withstand the increase in borrowing costs.
The strengthening housing market is lending support to manufacturing, which has been hit by deep federal spending cuts and slowing global demand.
A rebound in new orders helped to lift factory activity to a four-month high in July. Markit's preliminary Manufacturing Purchasing Managers Index rose to 53.2 this month from 51.9 in June. A reading above 50 indicates expansion in the factory sector.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Prices of New Homes: Median price for new homes.
 New-Home Sales: Annual pace of new private homes sold during the month, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW HOME SALES (93%); REAL ESTATE (91%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MORTGAGE RATES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); EXISTING HOME SALES (78%); STATISTICS (78%); NEW ORDERS (77%); FACTORY ORDERS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); SALES PROJECTIONS (73%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2013



723 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 612 words

HEADLINE: Data on Factories and Lending Raise Hopes for Euro Zone Recovery

BYLINE: By JACK EWING

 BODY:
FRANKFURT -- The long-suffering euro zone may be slowly emerging from recession, as manufacturers in Germany and France begin to ramp up production to meet stronger demand, according to a closely watched report published on Wednesday.
The survey of purchasing managers by Markit, a data provider, suggested that Europe might be near the end of a prolonged slump that has pushed unemployment to record highs. But the recovery is likely to be slow and fragile, economists warned, and recession could persist in some southern countries.
Evidence also appeared Wednesday that a credit squeeze in the euro zone was easing. A survey of banks by the European Central Bank showed that credit for consumers was becoming more available for the first time since the financial crisis began in 2008. While credit for businesses remained tight, tentative signs indicated that lending could begin to recover within months. 
''The recession in the euro zone seems to be coming to an end after two years,'' Ralph Solveen, an economist at Commerzbank in Frankfurt, said in a note to clients. But he added that the upturn could be uneven, with some indicators continuing to fall. ''Activity is still dampened by numerous problems,'' he wrote.
The Markit index of economic output rose to an 18-month high of 50.4 in July, from 48.7 in June, preliminary figures showed. A reading above 50 is considered a sign of economic growth. The July figure was the first above 50 since January 2012.
European stocks rose after the survey was released. Benchmark indexes in Madrid, Paris and Rome all ended up more than 1 percent, and the euro gained slightly against the dollar.
The Markit index suggested that growth was increasing in Germany and that the recession was nearly over in France. Manufacturing was rebounding in both countries, perhaps aided by growth in the United States economy, which has increased demand for European exports.
Daimler, the maker of Mercedes-Benz cars, said on Wednesday that unit sales of passenger vehicles rose 9 percent in the second quarter, in part because of surging demand in the United States for models like its redesigned S-Class luxury sedan, and its net income more than doubled from the period a year ago.
The Markit survey showed that the French economy continued to contract over all, but more slowly, while manufacturing was growing again for the first time since February 2012. The data suggested that the French economy, the second-largest in the euro zone after Germany, was stabilizing and could emerge from recession soon.
In Germany, managers reported solid growth in manufacturing and services, raising hopes that the country could help haul the rest of the Continent out of its slump.
Markit did not issue separate data for other European countries, but an index of economic sentiment in the rest of the euro zone that was part of the report also showed signs of stabilization.
The various encouraging data mean the European Central Bank is probably not likely to cut the benchmark interest rate, already at a record low of 0.5 percent, when it meets next week. Unemployment, often one of the last problems to respond to economic growth, could be near its peak after reaching 12.2 percent in the euro zone, its highest.
Still, the region remains vulnerable. More than a quarter of workers are unemployed in Greece and Spain. Signs of slowing growth in China, which accounts for about 25 percent of European exports, also present a risk for the euro zone.
''An economic recovery is looming, which is encouraging,'' Martin van Vliet, an economist at ING Bank said in a note, ''but we still doubt whether the region is about to embark on a sustainable recovery.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Daimler, which makes the Mercedes-Benz models sold at this dealership in Munich, said unit sales of passenger vehicles rose 9 percent in the second quarter. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAELA REHLE/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EURO ZONE (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); RECESSION (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); EURO (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); STOCK INDEXES (76%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (72%); EXPORT TRADE (70%); CENTRAL BANKS (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); SEDANS (66%); MOTOR VEHICLES (66%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (70%); COMMERZBANK AG (59%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (57%)

TICKER: CZB (LSE) (59%); CBK (FRA) (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (59%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (58%); MADRID, SPAIN (54%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (93%) EUROPE (97%); GERMANY (96%); CENTRAL EUROPE (94%); FRANCE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); SPAIN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2013



724 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: At Ford Foundation, Vice President Rises to Top Job

BYLINE: By JAMES BARRON

 BODY:
Darren Walker was born in a charity hospital in Lafayette, La., and grew up in the 1960s in a single-parent household in rural Texas, where his mother worked as a nurse's aide and he was enrolled in one of the first Head Start programs. He went on to the University of Texas at Austin with help from a Pell grant scholarship, awarded to low-income students based on financial need.
He put in a few years at a prestigious Manhattan law firm and a Wall Street investment bank. Then he moved into the nonprofit world, first in Harlem, where, among other things, he worked on the project to build the first full-service supermarket there in a generation. 
On Thursday, Mr. Walker, 53, will take the next step in a career that has taken him from Harlem to world-famous foundations five and a half miles away in Midtown Manhattan. He is to be named president of the Ford Foundation, the nation's second-largest philanthropic organization. He will succeed Luis Ubiñas, who announced in March that he would step down.
For Mr. Walker, the new job is a promotion. He has been a vice president at Ford since 2010, when Mr. Ubiñas hired him away from the Rockefeller Foundation, where Mr. Walker had worked for several years, also as a vice president.
Ford Foundation officials said they had hired an executive recruiting firm and conducted a wide-ranging search for a new president to manage the foundation's $11 billion in assets and $500 million in annual grants. The search ended down the hall from Mr. Ubiñas's office.
''Darren is someone who brings high energy,'' said Irene Hirano Inouye, the chairwoman of the Ford Foundation board.
He also brings a network of boldface-name friends going back to his years at the Abyssinian Development Corporation, the nonprofit arm of the Abyssinian Baptist Church that played a significant role in Harlem's resurgence. Shaun Donovan, the federal housing secretary, recalled encountering Mr. Walker when Mr. Donovan was New York City's housing commissioner. ''The thing about Darren is, he is a thinker but he is a doer in a way that there aren't enough of in the foundation world,'' Mr. Donovan said. ''He gets things done.''
In an interview, Mr. Walker said the Ford Foundation had weathered the recession and was ready to focus on new issues and initiatives. He said the endowment had rebounded to roughly where it was before the recession. It sank nearly 30 percent in 2009, to $8 billion. Mr. Ubiñas responded by cutting costs by $25 million a year, partly by trimming the 550-person payroll through voluntary buyouts and by streamlining the foundation's operations, including reducing the number of field offices and renegotiating supplier contracts.
But the nonprofit landscape has changed with time, and the 77-year-old Ford Foundation is now outspent by newer groups like the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, which listed assets of $36.4 billion in 2012. The Gates Foundation made grants of $3.4 billion last year and has about three times as many employees as the Ford Foundation.
''It's not about whether Ford or Rockefeller have been eclipsed by Gates,'' Mr. Walker said. ''Understanding the landscape of philanthropy, which is diverse, everyone has a role to play and a contribution to make. It's not as if there is competition and one will eclipse the other. It's a false dichotomy because each has a role to play.''
As a vice president, Mr. Walker has supervised more than 30 percent of the Ford Foundation's grants, covering things like educational access and reproductive rights. He was responsible for grants for ''Just Films,'' a documentary motion-picture fund, and for ''ArtPlace,'' a public-private collaboration that supports cultural development in rural America. His portfolio also included four offices that handled regional programming in Africa and the Middle East.
Before moving to the Ford Foundation, Mr. Walker spent eight years at the Rockefeller Foundation as vice president for foundation initiatives. He supervised the foundation's foreign offices and also led its recovery program in the South after Hurricane Katrina.
He had been chief operating officer of the Abyssinian Development Corporation and was involved in the project for the Pathmark supermarket that opened on East 125th Street in 1999.
''The Pathmark was a turning point for Harlem,'' Mr. Walker said. ''When we first presented the idea of a supermarket, a lot of people thought we were being unrealistic and this was a pie-in-the-sky idea, even though it was based on the evidence which clearly indicated there were as many people in Upper Manhattan as there are in Atlanta and yet it was a total food desert.''
The evidence also showed that people in Harlem were spending a disproportionate amount of income on food, he said. ''We would have meetings with national vendors who shall go unnamed who would say things like, 'We wouldn't open a bookstore in Harlem because African-Americans don't read,' '' Mr. Walker said. ''We would hear things like that.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Darren Walker, at the Ford Foundation headquarters in Manhattan this week, began working in the nonprofit world in Harlem. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA BRIGHT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOUNDATIONS (91%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (90%); WORKING MOTHERS (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); PARENTS (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ENDOWMENTS (89%); PHILANTHROPY (78%); SINGLE PARENTS (78%); NURSES & NURSING (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); CHARITIES (78%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (76%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (76%); GRANTS & GIFTS (76%); APPOINTMENTS (74%); INTERVIEWS (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (73%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (72%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (72%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (71%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (71%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (58%)

PERSON: SHAUN DONOVAN (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2013



725 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; GREEN COLUMN; Pg. 

LENGTH: 890 words

HEADLINE: A Carbon Tax by Any Other Name ...

BYLINE: By KATE GALBRAITH

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO -- The headlines last week were dramatic: Australia abandons its carbon tax. The move seemed to confirm suspicions that putting a price on carbon dioxide emissions is politically toxic.
The reality, experts say, is more nuanced. Australia has not abandoned its commitment to reducing climate-warming emissions. And carbon tax systems, while rare and rife with controversy, retain a firm foothold in a number of advanced economies.
In Australia, the government's decision entails a change of methodology. By next July, the country will shift from its controversial carbon tax system to a cap-and-trade system, which is a different way of limiting greenhouse gas emissions. Australia had already planned to make the shift in July 2015 and will now accelerate the changeover by a year, bowing to the touchy politics of what constitutes a ''tax.'' 
''Calling a policy a 'tax' certainly makes it difficult to sell it to the community,'' David Pannell, director of the Center for Environmental Economics and Policy at the University of Western Australia, said in an e-mail.
Carbon taxes control emissions by establishing a fixed price that polluters must pay. High prices discourage pollution. By contrast, cap-and-trade systems limit amounts of carbon emissions, leaving the market to determine the price for polluting.
Economists and policy makers like to argue over which method is best. But both seek the same goal. In fact, the two may be somewhat similar in practice, given the tweaks and nuances that often accompany their implementation.
Carbon taxes, with their fixed prices, are easier to implement than cap-and-trade systems, noted Janet Milne, director of the Environmental Tax Policy Institute at Vermont Law School. That is why Australia started with the tax in 2012 and then planned to change over.
Australia's move is ''really just a one-year acceleration of what they had planned in any event,'' she said in a phone interview.
But critics of Australia's announcement, who include the country's Green Party, have a point. Switching to the cap-and-trade system will allow Australian industries to pay less to reduce pollution. That is because the trading system, unlike the tax, will link into a similar system in Europe. In Europe, abundant pollution permits have dramatically reduced the market price of carbon emissions. So Australian industries will be able to take advantage of those low prices to access the pollution credits more cheaply, and ahead of schedule.
''In effect they're lowering the cost that Australians can expect to pay,'' Thomas Heller, the executive director of the Climate Policy Initiative, which analyzes climate and energy policies around the world, said by phone.
That means, of course, that it is easier and cheaper for Australian industries to pollute. Christine Milne, leader of the Australian Greens, who is not related to Janet Milne, described Europe's carbon prices as ''far too low to drive pollution cuts or clean-energy growth.''
For Australia, the key question now becomes whether Europe will ''fix the significant problems that they've had with oversupply of emissions permits,'' said Mr. Pannell, of the University of Western Australia.
Europe is trying, a bit weakly: This month, the European Parliament approved a measure intended to remove some of the excess permits that have been keeping carbon prices low. However, whether the move by itself will do much to drive up carbon prices is doubtful.
Another key question raised by Australia's situation is whether the concept of a carbon tax is too politically treacherous for nations seeking to combat climate change.
Climate experts say there is still an appetite for carbon taxes in parts of the world. Janet Milne, of Vermont Law School, points out that Ireland's carbon tax -- born partly of the need for additional government revenue -- is relatively new. So are carbon taxes in Japan. Switzerland recently announced that it would increase its carbon tax next year, and South Africa plans to introduce a carbon tax system in 2015, after delays and protests from mining companies.
But even in climate-conscious Europe, where taxes on heating fuels and transportation exist alongside the better-known emissions-trading system, expanding carbon taxes can be a tough sell. Lithuania, which recently assumed the presidency of the Council of the European Union, has said it plans to revive discussion of a stalled 2011 proposal to harmonize energy taxation across the Continent. However, approving tax measures requires a unanimous vote, according to Stefan Speck, an environmental economics expert with the European Environment Agency, and several E.U. members are blocking it.
Michael Mehling, president of the nonprofit Ecologic Institute in Washington, D.C., said in an e-mail that, ''Given the current diversity of views on future E.U. climate policy among member states, I would be surprised to see any movement towards significantly higher energy taxes.''
Avoiding the term ''carbon tax'' may make such policies a bit easier.
In Australia now, ''it will be possible for the government to say that it has removed a 'tax,' and avoid the unpopularity of that word,'' Mr. Pannell said. ''The opposition is arguing that the new system will still be effectively a tax by another name. But the political effect of their arguments is diminished.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); TAX LAW (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (77%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (76%); INTERVIEWS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (68%); LAW SCHOOLS (67%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (67%); ENVIRONMENTAL PERMITS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WESTERN AUSTRALIA, AUSTRALIA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%) AUSTRALIA (99%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2013



726 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 874 words

HEADLINE: India: Biden Urges Closer Business Ties

BYLINE: By NEHA THIRANI BAGRI

 BODY:
MUMBAI, India -- Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. urged India's financial elite to seize the chance to bolster ties with the United States, to benefit both nations on areas like the economy and environment.
''I would ask you to consider the historic opportunity that we have here,'' Mr. Biden said on Wednesday speaking to a packed room at the Bombay Stock Exchange in Mumbai, India's financial capital. ''Imagine what our two countries can achieve together, not only for one another but for the economic and political stability of the region.''
In a speech peppered with colorful phrases, Mr. Biden identified four targets: improving economic exchange, addressing climate change, collaborating in defense matters and addressing India's role in the Asia-Pacific region. 
He spoke at a time when the United States is shifting its focus in the region toward India, in part to counterbalance China's rise but also because of Washington's increasingly problematic relationship with Pakistan, India's principal foe.
In the course of Mr. Biden's two-day visit to Mumbai he is expected to meet with leading Indian industrialists and business people, and to attend an event at the Indian Institute of Technology, before flying to Singapore on Thursday.
During his speech at the Bombay Stock Exchange, Mr. Biden focused on the need for greater ease in doing business with India and called for further economic reforms, highlighting the frustrations many American businesses have had as they have sought to tap into India's potentially huge consumer market.
''India is no longer an economic island and will continue to rise as an economic power,'' Mr. Biden said as he extolled the economic growth of the country since its economy was opened up in 1991. ''However, significant challenges and problems persist. It is time we take this relationship to a new level to achieve our shared vision.''
Mr. Biden said that among the obstacles to a friendly business environment in India are the lack of protection for intellectual property, inconsistent tax rules, high barriers to market entry, and protectionist policies. He called for a trade and investment partnership that would be open and fair to both countries and pushed for an improved bilateral trade agreement.
Addressing the American immigration bill that would limit the number of foreign workers allowed into the United States, Mr. Biden said that the number of visas the United States has granted has recently increased. He added that bilateral trade between India and the United States had grown fivefold over the last 13 years, reaching nearly $100 billion this year, and could increase even further if both countries make the right choices.
India has introduced many economic reforms since September 2012, reducing the restrictions for certain types of foreign investment, but American officials believe the changes have not gone far enough.
While India's market of 1.2 billion people has attracted several global companies, the country has proved to be a challenging business environment, thanks to deep-seated corruption, bureaucratic red tape and convoluted and ever-changing government regulations.
Recently, an amendment to the law that allows the Indian government to tax past overseas transactions involving Indian assets led to a battle with British telecom company Vodafone Group and created considerable apprehension among foreign investors. In April, India's top court alarmed overseas drug companies by allowing Indian pharmaceutical companies to make generic versions of the Gleevec, a chemotherapy drug from Novartis, which raised questions about the protection of intellectual property in India.
Building on Secretary of State John Kerry's recent visit to India, Mr. Biden also urged India to address the challenges posed by climate change and begin working toward cleaner energy options.
''Unless development is sustainable, the consequences of climate change will seriously undermine the economic progress made by India and risk the very health of the people of the country,'' he said, suggesting that the two countries work to reduce the use of hydrofluorocarbons and encourage scientists from both countries to work on green technology options.
He also pushed for an increased security partnership, adding that such ties would be good for business and regional stability.
''There is no contradiction between strategic autonomy and a strategic partnership,'' he said. ''Global powers are capable of both.''
He added that the United States would like to see India achieve its cherished goal of a permanent seat on the United Nations Security Council, as well as take a bigger role in regional leadership.
Mr. Biden received warm applause when he congratulated India's cricket team for beating England in January.
Mr. Biden's visit to India, his first official trip to the country since assuming office in 2009, is the first by an American vice president in almost three decades. He arrived in New Delhi on Monday and spent a day meeting with India's top political leaders, including Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, President Pranab Mukherjee, Vice President Hamid Ansari and Sushma Swaraj, the leader of the opposition.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMERGING MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PROTECTIONISM (77%); CLIMATE CHANGE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (67%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (66%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (65%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (65%); IMMIGRATION (64%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (60%); TAX LAW (50%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (50%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%)

PERSON: JOE BIDEN (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (94%); DELHI, INDIA (79%) INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); ASIA (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2013



727 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 686 words

HEADLINE: Senate Approves College Student Loan Plan Tying Rates to Markets

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Senate on Wednesday approved a bipartisan plan that would tie interest rates for college student loans to the financial markets, bringing Congress close to finally resolving a dispute that caused rates to double on July 1.
But the 81-18 vote, which drew overwhelming support from Republicans, masked deep divisions among members of the Senate Democratic caucus. Seventeen of them voted ''no.'' 
Many liberals, who are upset that the plan would replace the fixed-rate subsidized federal student loan program, criticized their colleagues for leaving lower- and middle-income students vulnerable to swings in the market.
As the bill was debated, a discordant scene played out as conservative Republicans like Richard M. Burr of North Carolina praised the Democrats they had worked with to strike a deal, and liberal senators like Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts, and Bernard Sanders, independent of Vermont, accused their colleagues of forcing through a bill that betrayed their party's promises to working-class families.
''What I don't understand,'' Mr. Sanders said, ''is when you have a Democratic president, a Democratically controlled U.S. Senate, why we are producing a bill which is basically a Republican bill?''
Noting that the government stood to bring in nearly $200 billion over the next 10 years because of the higher rates, Ms. Warren denounced the bill.
''This is obscene,'' she said. ''Students should not be used to generate profits for the government.''
House Republicans, who had approved a plan similar to the one the Senate passed, although with slightly higher loan rates, are expected to pass the Senate bill before Congress leaves for its summer recess next week.
Republicans did not even try to contain their delight that a plan they championed had passed over the objections of liberal senators. Speaker John A. Boehner's office released a chart comparing the House bill with the Senate bill, noting wryly, ''The final legislation is a permanent fix, and it protects taxpayers by not adding to the deficit -- things that never would have come to pass if Senate Democrats had gotten their way.''
The Democrats defected despite arm-twisting from Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, and deep involvement from the White House, which supported a market-rate compromise.
The White House was pressing for a fix to rates on Stafford loans, which jumped to 6.8 percent from 3.4 percent on July 1 after Congress failed to come up with a plan to replace the rate structure that expired last summer. Congress had also failed to reach an agreement then and just extended the rates a year.
In that sense, the trouble over student loans was like so many other disputes on Capitol Hill today: self-inflicted and prolonged.
''Congress has trouble with deadlines. I think we all know that,'' said Senator Joe Manchin III, Democrat of West Virginia, who helped broker the deal. ''We're here today trying to fix the problem we have with the government's student loan programs because we kicked the can down the road last year.''
The Obama administration estimated that the fix would help 11 million borrowers who will take out loans this school year. The new rates would apply retroactively to people who had borrowed since July 1.
Under the new rate structure, loans to undergraduates, graduate students, and their parents under the PLUS program would be subject to a fixed rate tied to the 10-year Treasury note -- specifically the yield on the 10-year note as determined by the last auction held before each June.
Rates for loans taken out after July 1 of this year would be 3.9 percent for undergraduates, 5.4 percent for graduate students and 6.4 for those receiving PLUS loans. The rates would be fixed over the life of the loan.
In a compromise that pleased many Democrats who had initially been wary of using a rate that fluctuated with the markets, Congress set a cap on all loans: 8.25 percent for undergraduates, 9.5 for graduate students and 10.5 for PLUS recipients.
Liberal critics said that while interest rates are low now, forecasters predict they will rise considerably.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENT LOANS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); APPROVALS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (72%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (70%); FAMILY (70%)

PERSON: ELIZABETH WARREN (79%); BERNIE SANDERS (72%); HARRY REID (58%); RICHARD BURR (58%); JOHN BOEHNER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2013



728 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1141 words

HEADLINE: Willie Louis, Who Named the Killers Of Emmett Till at Their Trial, Dies at 76

BYLINE: By MARGALIT FOX

 BODY:
The truck was going ''real fast,'' Willie Reed testified, as it came down the main road near Drew, Miss., on an August morning.
A green and white 1955 Chevrolet -- that year's model -- it passed Mr. Reed as he was walking to the store, turned into a nearby plantation and parked in front of a barn.
In the cab, Mr. Reed said, were four white men. In the rear were three black men, plus a fourth -- a black youth hunkered down in the very back of the truck.
Soon afterward, Mr. Reed said, he heard ''somebody hollering'' and ''some licks like somebody was whipping somebody'' coming from the barn. 
The youth in the truck was named Emmett Till, and he would not be seen alive again.
The next month, the 18-year-old Mr. Reed, after braving intimidation from one of the suspects and walking through the thicket of Klansmen massed outside the courthouse, testified in open court to what he had seen and heard.
The son of a family of black sharecroppers, Mr. Reed was spirited out of Mississippi immediately after the trial. He changed his name to Willie Louis and lived discreetly in Chicago, where he worked as a hospital orderly.
Mr. Louis, one of the last living witnesses for the prosecution in the Till case, died on July 18 in Oak Lawn, Ill., a Chicago suburb. He was 76.
Till, had he lived, would have been 72 this Thursday.
The murder of Till, a 14-year-old Chicagoan visiting family in Mississippi, and the ensuing trial are watershed moments in the civil rights movement, galvanizing public attention on the deep perils of being black in the Jim Crow South.
Though the two white men tried for the murder were acquitted, the testimony of Mr. Reed was considered so powerful that it made him a hero of the movement -- albeit a quiet, accidental and long unsung one, who spoke of the case only rarely and with obvious pain.
''Willie Reed stood up, and with incredible bravery pointed out the people who had taken and murdered Emmett Till,'' the filmmaker Stanley Nelson, who interviewed Mr. Louis for his 2003 PBS documentary, ''The Murder of Emmett Till,'' said Wednesday. ''He was from Mississippi, and somewhere in his heart of hearts he had to know that these people would not be convicted. But he did what he had to do.''
For decades, Mr. Louis told no one of his involvement in the case. Even his wife, Juliet, whom he married in 1976, did not learn of it until eight years later, when a relative told her.
He began speaking about it publicly only in recent years, with the release of Mr. Nelson's film and another documentary, ''The Untold Story of Emmett Louis Till'' (2005), directed by Keith Beauchamp.
''I couldn't have walked away from that,'' Mr. Louis told the CBS News program ''60 Minutes'' in 2004, speaking of his decision to testify. ''Emmett was 14, probably had never been to Mississippi in his life, and he come to visit his grandfather and they killed him. I mean, that's not right.''
Mr. Louis was born in Greenwood, Miss., in 1937 and as a youth lived with his grandfather in Drew. He worked in the fields picking cotton and received little formal education: though he was 18 at the time of the trial, he was only in the ninth grade.
On Aug. 21, 1955, Emmett Till arrived in Money, Miss., about 30 miles from Drew, to stay at the home of a great-uncle, Moses Wright. On Aug. 24, Till visited Bryant's Grocery and Meat Market, a store in Money owned by a white couple, Roy and Carolyn Bryant.
Inside the store, Mrs. Bryant later testified, Till grabbed her hand and made a sexual suggestion. Leaving the store, according to some accounts, he let out a wolf whistle.
Early in the morning on Aug. 28, Mr. Bryant and his half-brother J. W. Milam abducted Till from his uncle's home. His body, brutally beaten, shot in the head and weighed down with a cotton-gin fan laced round his neck with barbed wire, was found in the Tallahatchie River three days later.
''It didn't hit him until after a picture was released that the kid that he saw in the back of the truck was in fact Emmett Till,'' Mr. Beauchamp, the filmmaker, said of Willie Reed on Wednesday.
After passing Mr. Reed, the truck turned onto a plantation belonging to Leslie Milam, Mr. Milam's brother, and parked outside a barn. When he passed the barn on foot, he said, he heard the beating.
As he looked on, Mr. Reed later said, Mr. Milam emerged, a pistol at his side.
''Did you hear anything?'' he recalled Mr. Milam asking him.
''No, sir, I didn't,'' he replied, terrified.
After Mr. Bryant and Mr. Milam were arrested and charged with Till's kidnapping and murder, a group of black civil rights workers and white journalists prevailed on Mr. Reed to testify.
''He was really the best eyewitness that they found,'' David T. Beito, a historian at the University of Alabama who has written about the Till case, said Wednesday. ''I don't want to diminish the role played by the other witnesses, but his act in some sense was the bravest act of them all. He had nothing to gain: he had no family ties to Emmett Till; he didn't know him. He was this 18-year-old kid who goes into this very hostile atmosphere.''
The trial opened Sept. 19, 1955. On Sept. 23, the all-white jury, after deliberating for 67 minutes, acquitted both defendants.
Mr. Reed's testimony, Professor Beito said, was no less valuable for that.
''The prosecution -- and this is not emphasized enough -- was arguing a conspiracy case,'' he said. ''They were arguing that more than two people were involved in the crime, that it wasn't just Milam and Bryant. And Reed's testimony was that it was a crowded pickup.''
The other white men in the truck were believed to be cronies of Mr. Milam and Mr. Bryant, the black men employees of Mr. Milam who were forced to take part in the crime. None of the other men, black or white, was ever charged.
With the aid of T. R. M. Howard, a prominent local black doctor and civil rights advocate, Willie Reed was sent to Chicago, where he was given round-the-clock police protection at first. But the terrors of the crime and trial overtook him, and he was hospitalized with a nervous breakdown.
For years during their marriage, Mr. Louis suffered from nightmares, Juliet Louis told The Associated Press on Wednesday.
Besides his wife, who confirmed his death to The A.P., Mr. Louis's survivors include a stepson, Sollie McKinnon; grandchildren; and great-grandchildren.
J. W. Milam died in 1980, Roy Bryant in 1994. In a 1956 article in Look magazine for which they were paid, the two men admitted to having murdered Till.
In an interview with Professor Beito and his wife, Linda Royster Beito, for their 2009 book, ''Black Maverick: T. R. M. Howard's Fight for Civil Rights and Economic Power,'' Mr. Louis looked back on the Till case with bewildered dismay. ''Some people say he whistled at a white lady,'' Mr. Louis told his interviewers. ''You know that wasn't nothing to kill nobody about.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An F.B.I. transcript from the trial in the Emmett Till murder case. The full transcript is at nytimes.com/obituaries.
Emmett Till, above, was murdered in 1955. Left, Willie Louis in a doorway after testifying in the murder trial, with Detective Sherman Smith. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHARLES KNOBLOCK/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); TESTIMONY (90%); MURDER (88%); WITNESSES (78%); ACQUITTAL (67%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (65%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (63%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (60%); VISUAL ARTISTS (60%); CIVIL RIGHTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (87%) ILLINOIS, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2013



729 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 342 words

HEADLINE: Back-to-Back Losses, the First in a Month

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
A gloomy earnings report and outlook on Wednesday from Caterpillar, the world's largest construction equipment company, helped to pull two of the three major American indexes lower.
The drop for the Dow and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gave the stock market two consecutive days of losses, for the first time in a month. 
Caterpillar's earnings fell 43 percent in the second quarter as China's economy slowed and commodity prices sank. The company also warned of slowing revenue and profit, and its stock dropped $2.08, or 2 percent, to $83.44.
Nine of 10 industry groups in the S.& P. 500 ended lower.
The holdouts were technology companies, which got a lift from Apple's surging stock. Apple shares jumped $21.52, or 5 percent, to $440.51. The Nasdaq composite index, which lists many technology companies, edged up 0.33 of a point, or less than 0.1 percent, to 3,579.60.
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 25.50 points, or 0.2 percent, at 15,542.24.
The S. & P. 500-stock index fell 6.45 points, or 0.4 percent, to 1,685.94. Although far from a blockbuster earnings season, the larger trend for corporate profits appears strong. Analysts forecast that second-quarter earnings for companies in the S.& P. 500 increased 4.2 percent over the same period last year, according to S&P Capital IQ. At the start of the month, those analysts were looking for earnings to rise 2.8 percent. More than six out of every 10 companies have surpassed Wall Street's profit targets.
''Yes, they're beating expectations, but expectations are so low,'' said Brad McMillan, chief investment officer at Commonwealth Financial.
But financial firms, like Goldman Sachs and Capital One, have posted the highest rate of earnings growth of any industry. Ignore their results, however, and earnings are on track to slump 3.5 percent, according to FactSet.
''You can't call this a blowout quarter so far,'' Mr. McMillan said.
In the market for government bonds, the benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell 21/32 to 92 26/32, to yield 2.58 percent, up from 2.51 percent late Tuesday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (97%); COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); TRENDS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); BONDS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); EXECUTIVES (65%); TREASURY SECURITIES (65%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (60%)

COMPANY: CATERPILLAR INC (91%); APPLE INC (83%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: CTA (LSE) (91%); CATR (PAR) (91%); CAT (SWX) (91%); CAT (NYSE) (91%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (83%); GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS333131 MINING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS333120 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS333111 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3531 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (91%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (83%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (83%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (83%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (83%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (91%); UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2013



730 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1205 words

HEADLINE: The Plan to Swallow Midtown

BYLINE: By MICHAEL KIMMELMAN

 BODY:
Is New York falling behind Shanghai and Chicago? It will, the Bloomberg administration argues, unless the city replaces aging commercial buildings with giant new office towers in East Midtown -- a 73-block area around Grand Central Terminal, up to 57th Street, between Madison and Third Avenues. An ill-conceived rezoning proposal, now wending its way through the approval gantlet, is a parting attempt by the administration to remap this large swath of Manhattan before Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's term ends in December. Transit advocates; various elected officials, among them Daniel R. Garodnick, a City Council member from the area; along with design and preservation groups and an alliance of seven community boards, have all raised concerns about the plan.
It is awaiting recommendation from the Manhattan borough president, Scott M. Stringer, before moving toward a City Council vote. Mr. Stringer has an opportunity to make a public-minded stand, as he recently did with Penn Station.
What's the problem with the plan? 
For starters, its priorities are upside down, focusing on buildings, not what's around them. There is too little concern in this proposal for what the architect Robert A. M. Stern has, in an Op-Ed article for The New York Times, rightly called ''place-making.''
New York can surely never win a skyscraper race with Shanghai or Singapore. Its future, including the future of Midtown real estate values, depends on strengthening and expanding what already makes the city a global magnet and model. This means mass transit, pedestrian-friendly streets, social diversity, neighborhoods that don't shut down after 5 p.m., parks and landmarks like Grand Central Terminal and the Chrysler Building.
If New York wants to learn from London, Tokyo and Shanghai, the lessons aren't about erecting new skyscrapers. Big cities making gains on New York are investing in rail stations, airports and high-speed trains, while New York rests on the laurels of Grand Central and suffers the 4, 5 and 6 trains, which serve East Midtown. They carry more passengers daily than the entire Washington Metro system.
Improving the lives of the 1.3 million people riding those trains would instantly make the city more competitive. Adding thousands of commuters who work in giant new office buildings without upgrading the surrounding streets and subways -- the Second Avenue subway won't do it -- will only set the city back.
New development is of course crucial to the economic future of the city, and will be a boon if it is built around healthy public spaces and thoughtfully integrated with historic preservation. New York isn't Rome; its skyline can evolve and should. Tall buildings belong to the city's DNA. Density is healthy.
But the rezoning of East Midtown harks backward, to the era of ''Mad Men.'' The modern work environment is in flux. The flagship company tower is no longer the only corporate model. Businesses are seeking spaces in untraditional neighborhoods with distinctive building stocks, like the Flatiron district, Chelsea and Lower Manhattan, and Dumbo, in Brooklyn. Google chose Chelsea because the district's vibe seemed to match the company's self-image, and many of its employees live within walking distance or a short subway ride away.
The administration's rezoning plan imagines Fortune 500 companies demanding millions of square feet for giant new headquarters in glass towers on Park Avenue, as if this were 1965. There may well be some demand for those spaces. But how much demand, without the neighborhood amenities and services that led Google and other companies to look outside Midtown?
The Bloomberg administration has certainly not been tone deaf to place-making during the last dozen years, transforming many city parks, waterfronts and plazas, and embracing sustainable design. But its plan for East Midtown fails to recognize a fundamental paradigm shift. The focus in designing cities has now turned from buildings to the spaces between those buildings -- sidewalks, plazas, parks -- whose disposition requires planning.
The Bloomberg administration has focused on zoning, which is a blunt instrument for organizing a city. It is not planning. This proposal envisions developers of the biggest buildings contributing to a fund for vague, as-yet-undetermined improvements to subway stations and other public spaces. The fund is a variation on an old, failed city policy: hinging prospective, unsecured benefits on the actions of private developers, which, as often as not, fail to pay off.
The fear that these new towers might overwhelm beloved monuments like Grand Central or the Chrysler Building is addressed by Bloomberg officials with a wink and nod: given the other obstacles to new construction, only a few big buildings will realistically be built during the next decade, should the rezoning plan go through.
Which means, then, that the fund is a ruse. A couple of extra-big buildings won't throw off nearly enough money for the necessary improvements that the city argues are the payoff for approving the plan in the first place.
The one sop in the proposal imagines turning Vanderbilt Avenue, along the west side of Grand Central, into a pedestrian street, an idea that has already raised concerns among some current occupants and is undercut by the shadows no doubt accompanying immense new commercial towers.
In recent years, the city has granted approvals on a building-by-building basis for exceptional cases in Midtown, as it might now do with a new office building that Norman Foster is designing at 425 Park Avenue, near 55th Street, which looks to be a significant addition to the city's architecture. Another case is 1 Vanderbilt, a tower that S. L. Green, the developer, is proposing for the corner of Vanderbilt and 42nd Street, to be designed by Kohn Pedersen Fox.
So the question arises: Why rezone all 73 blocks? It's conspicuous that the Landmarks Preservation Commission, which answers to the mayor, has seemingly dragged its feet on the landmark status of 32 buildings under consideration in East Midtown. The administration's proposal, at its heart, desires to limit public oversight, greasing the wheels for development.
New Yorkers can be combative and counterproductive when it comes to new construction. But they will make major concessions to attract big businesses -- if there are tangible returns like the High Line or Brooklyn Bridge Park or the extension to the No. 7 subway. Lately, the city has banked considerable public capital on commercial development at the World Trade Center site and Hudson Yards on the West Side, with which East Midtown would inevitably compete for tenants.
Mindful of undercutting those other two projects, the Bloomberg administration includes a ''sunrise'' provision into its Midtown plan: Developers could buy properties in the area, should the proposal be approved -- even rip those properties down -- but wouldn't be granted building permits to erect new towers before 2017, giving the World Trade Center site and the West Side more time to develop.
This implies there is little rush to rezone, only the administration's rush to get this proposal approved before the next mayor takes over.
If development can wait, so should rezoning.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A rezoning plan would pave the way for skyscrapers that could dwarf the Met Life building, Grand Central Terminal and the Chrysler Building. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BEBETO MATTHEWS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (C1)
The East Midtown skyline. Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's plan is awaiting word from the borough president, Scott M. Stringer, on its way to City Council. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARY ALTAFFER/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
Some warn that New York is falling behind cities like Shanghai. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALY SONG/REUTERS)
 In London, major investment in transit service has come with new towers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE MACGREGOR/REUTERS) (C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); CITIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); HISTORIC SITES (89%); ZONING (89%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (89%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (88%); MAYORS (78%); TRAINS (77%); HISTORY (74%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (62%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (68%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2013



731 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 618 words

HEADLINE: Madison Square Garden Is Told to Move

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
Madison Square Garden, home to the Knicks, the Rangers, the Ice Capades, the circus and the ''Fight of the Century'' between Muhammad Ali and Joe Frazier in 1971, received an eviction notice of sorts on Wednesday.
The New York City Council notified the arena that it has 10 years to vacate its 45-year-old premises and find a new home, the Garden's fifth since it opened in 1879. 
By a vote of 47 to 1, the Council voted to extend the Garden's special operating permit for merely a decade -- not in perpetuity, as the owners of the Garden had requested, or 15 years, as the Bloomberg administration had intended.
Ten years should be enough time, officials said, for the Garden to find a new location and for the city to devise plans for an expanded Pennsylvania Station, which currently sits below the Garden, and the redevelopment of the surrounding neighborhood.
''This is the first step in finding a new home for Madison Square Garden and building a new Penn Station that is as great as New York and suitable for the 21st century,'' said Christine C. Quinn, the City Council speaker. ''This is an opportunity to reimagine and redevelop Penn Station as a world-class transportation destination.''
Ms. Quinn renewed her call for the creation of a commission to devise the plans.
Civic leaders and some developers have long sought to rebuild Penn Station, a cramped and crowded maze for the more than 500,000 people a day who traverse it. But doing so would be an enormously complicated, multibillion-dollar undertaking that has foiled officials in the past. And anything can happen in the next 10 years, including several elections for mayor and governor.
James L. Dolan, who controls the Garden, the Knicks and the Rangers, offered a low-key response to the news that barely acknowledged the 10-year deadline. Mr. Dolan expects to complete this fall a $968 million overhaul of the Garden, which has been closing in its off-seasons to accommodate the work.
''Madison Square Garden has operated at its current site for generations, and has been proud to bring New Yorkers some of the greatest and most iconic moments in sports and entertainment,'' Mr. Dolan's company said in a statement issued Wednesday afternoon. ''We now look forward to the reopening of the arena in the fall of 2013.''
Mr. Dolan announced the latest renovation of the Garden in 2008, just after the last $14 billion effort to move the Garden and transform the train station collapsed amid a severe recession, insufficient financing, an absence of political leadership and overreaching by the developers selected for the job.
Late last year, the Regional Plan Association and the Municipal Art Society used the Garden's application for an extension of its permit to resurrect the idea. The Bloomberg administration recommended a 15-year extension. But that city proposal also allowed the city's Planning Department to further extend the permit if officials failed to come up with plans for a new station, and the Garden and the transit operators agreed on a plan for improved access to the station.
''Our goal from the outset was to improve Penn Station. In fact, our proposal would have required government leaders to come together and develop a plan to do just that,'' said Julie Wood, a spokeswoman for Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg.
Critics derided the Bloomberg administration for including what they described as a loophole. Ms. Quinn, who is a Democratic candidate for mayor, called instead for a firm 10-year extension. Bill de Blasio and John C. Liu, two other candidates, also called on the Garden to move. Joseph J. Lhota, a Republican candidate and a former executive at the Garden, and William C. Thompson Jr., a Democrat, backed the Garden.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EVICTION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); MAYORS (77%); RELOCATIONS (76%); RECESSION (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (84%); NEW YORK RANGERS (84%)

PERSON: MUHAMMAD ALI (73%); JAMES L DOLAN (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2013



732 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 7477 words

HEADLINE: Obama's Economics Speech at Knox College

 BODY:
Following is a transcript of President Obama's speech in Galesburg, Ill., as provided by the White House.
Mr. OBAMA: Hello, Galesburg! (Applause.) Well, it's good to be home in Illinois! (Applause.) It is good to be back. It's good to be back. Thank you. Thank you so much, everybody. (Applause.) Thank you. Everybody, have a seat, have a seat. Well, it is good to be back.
I want to, first of all, thank Knox College -- (applause) -- I want to thank Knox College and your president, Teresa Amott, for having me here today. Give Teresa a big round of applause. (Applause.) I want to thank your Congresswoman, Cheri Bustos, who's here. (Applause.) We've got Governor Quinn here. (Applause.) I'm told we've got your Lieutenant Governor, Sheila Simon, is here. (Applause.) There she is. Attorney General Lisa Madigan is here. (Applause.) 
I see a bunch of my former colleagues, some folks who I haven't seen in years and I'm looking forward to saying hi to. One in particular I've got to mention, one of my favorites from the Illinois Senate -- John Sullivan is in the house. (Applause.) John was one of my earliest supporters when I was running for the U.S. Senate, and it came in really handy because he's got, like, 10 brothers and sisters, and his wife has got 10 brothers and sisters -- (laughter) -- so they've got this entire precinct just in their family. (Laughter.) And they all look like John -- the brothers do -- so he doesn't have to go to every event. He can just send one of his brothers out. (Laughter.) It is good to see him.
Dick Durbin couldn't make it today, but he sends his best. And we love Dick. (Applause.) He's doing a great job. And we've got one of my favorite neighbors, the Senator from Missouri, Claire McCaskill, in the house, because we're going to Missouri later this afternoon. (Applause.)
And all of you are here, and it's great to see you. (Applause.) And I hope everybody is having a wonderful summer. The weather is perfect. Whoever was in charge of that, good job. (Laughter.)
So, eight years ago, I came here to deliver the commencement address for the class of 2005. Things were a little different back then. For example, I had no gray hair -- (laughter) -- or a motorcade. Didn't even have a prompter. In fact, there was a problem in terms of printing out the speech because the printer didn't work here and we had to drive it in from somewhere. (Laughter.) But it was my first big speech as your newest senator.
And on the way here I was telling Cheri and Claire about how important this area was, one of the areas that I spent the most time in outside of Chicago, and how much it represented what's best in America and folks who were willing to work hard and do right by their families. And I came here to talk about what a changing economy was doing to the middle class -- and what we, as a country, needed to do to give every American a chance to get ahead in the 21st century.
See, I had just spent a year traveling the state and listening to your stories -- of proud Maytag workers losing their jobs when the plant moved down to Mexico. (Applause.) A lot of folks here remember that. Of teachers whose salaries weren't keeping up with the rising cost of groceries. (Applause.) Of young people who had the drive and the energy, but not the money to afford a college education. (Applause.)
So these were stories of families who had worked hard, believed in the American Dream, but they felt like the odds were increasingly stacked against them. And they were right. Things had changed.
In the period after World War II, a growing middle class was the engine of our prosperity. Whether you owned a company, or swept its floors, or worked anywhere in between, this country offered you a basic bargain -- a sense that your hard work would be rewarded with fair wages and decent benefits, the chance to buy a home, to save for retirement, and most of all, a chance to hand down a better life for your kids.
But over time, that engine began to stall -- and a lot of folks here saw it -- that bargain began to fray. Technology made some jobs obsolete. Global competition sent a lot of jobs overseas. It became harder for unions to fight for the middle class. Washington doled out bigger tax cuts to the very wealthy and smaller minimum wage increases for the working poor.
And so what happened was that the link between higher productivity and people's wages and salaries was broken. It used to be that, as companies did better, as profits went higher, workers also got a better deal. And that started changing. So the income of the top 1 percent nearly quadrupled from 1979 to 2007, but the typical family's incomes barely budged.
And towards the end of those three decades, a housing bubble, credit cards, a churning financial sector was keeping the economy artificially juiced up, so sometimes it papered over some of these long-term trends. But by the time I took office in 2009 as your President, we all know the bubble had burst, and it cost millions of Americans their jobs, and their homes, and their savings. And I know a lot of folks in this area were hurt pretty bad. And the decades-long erosion that had been taking place -- the erosion of middle-class security -- was suddenly laid bare for everybody to see.
Now, today, five years after the start of that Great Recession, America has fought its way back. (Applause.) We fought our way back. Together, we saved the auto industry; took on a broken health care system. (Applause.) We invested in new American technologies to reverse our addiction to foreign oil. We doubled wind and solar power. (Applause.) Together, we put in place tough new rules on the big banks, and protections to crack down on the worst practices of mortgage lenders and credit card companies. (Applause.) We changed a tax code too skewed in favor of the wealthiest at the expense of working families -- so we changed that, and we locked in tax cuts for 98 percent of Americans, and we asked those at the top to pay a little bit more. (Applause.)
So you add it all up, and over the past 40 months, our businesses have created 7.2 million new jobs. This year, we're off to our strongest private sector job growth since 1999.
And because we bet on this country, suddenly foreign companies are, too. Right now, more of Honda's cars are made in America than anyplace else on Earth. (Applause.) Airbus, the European aircraft company, they're building new planes in Alabama. (Applause.) And American companies like Ford are replacing outsourcing with insourcing -- they're bringing jobs back home. (Applause.)
We sell more products made in America to the rest of the world than ever before. We produce more natural gas than any country on Earth. We're about to produce more of our own oil than we buy from abroad for the first time in nearly 20 years. (Applause.) The cost of health care is growing at its slowest rate in 50 years. (Applause.) And our deficits are falling at the fastest rate in 60 years. (Applause.)
So thanks to the grit and resilience and determination of the American people -- of folks like you -- we've been able to clear away the rubble from the financial crisis. We started to lay a new foundation for stronger, more durable economic growth. And it's happening in our own personal lives as well, right? A lot of us tightened our belts, shed debt, maybe cut up a couple of credit cards, refocused on those things that really matter.
As a country, we've recovered faster and gone further than most other advanced nations in the world. With new American revolutions in energy and technology and manufacturing and health care, we're actually poised to reverse the forces that battered the middle class for so long, and start building an economy where everyone who works hard can get ahead.
But -- and here's the big ''but'' -- I'm here to tell you today that we're not there yet. We all know that. We're not there yet. We've got more work to do. Even though our businesses are creating new jobs and have broken record profits, nearly all the income gains of the past 10 years have continued to flow to the top 1 percent. The average CEO has gotten a raise of nearly 40 percent since 2009. The average American earns less than he or she did in 1999. And companies continue to hold back on hiring those who've been out of work for some time.
Today, more students are earning their degree, but soaring costs saddle them with unsustainable debt. Health care costs are slowing down, but a lot of working families haven't seen any of those savings yet. The stock market rebound helped a lot of families get back much of what they had lost in their 401(k)s, but millions of Americans still have no idea how they're going to be able to retire.
So in many ways, the trends that I spoke about here in 2005 -- eight years ago -- the trend of a winner-take-all economy where a few are doing better and better and better, while everybody else just treads water -- those trends have been made worse by the recession. And that's a problem.
This growing inequality not just of result, inequality of opportunity -- this growing inequality is not just morally wrong, it's bad economics. Because when middle-class families have less to spend, guess what, businesses have fewer consumers. When wealth concentrates at the very top, it can inflate unstable bubbles that threaten the economy. When the rungs on the ladder of opportunity grow farther and farther apart, it undermines the very essence of America -- that idea that if you work hard you can make it here.
And that's why reversing these trends has to be Washington's highest priority. (Applause.) It has to be Washington's highest priority. (Applause.) It's certainly my highest priority. (Applause.)
Unfortunately, over the past couple of years, in particular, Washington hasn't just ignored this problem; too often, Washington has made things worse. (Applause.)
And I have to say that -- because I'm looking around the room -- I've got some friends here not just who are Democrats, I've got some friends here who are Republicans -- (applause) -- and I worked with in the state legislature and they did great work. But right now, what we've got in Washington, we've seen a sizable group of Republican lawmakers suggest that they wouldn't vote to pay the very bills that Congress rang up. And that fiasco harmed a fragile recovery in 2011 and we can't afford to repeat that.
Then, rather than reduce our deficits with a scalpel -- by cutting out programs we don't need, fixing ones that we do need that maybe are in need of reform, making government more efficient -- instead of doing that, we've got folks who've insisted on leaving in place a meat cleaver called the sequester that's cost jobs. It's harmed growth. It's hurt our military. It's gutted investments in education and science and medical research. (Applause.)
Almost every credible economist will tell you it's been a huge drag on this recovery. And it means that we're underinvesting in the things that this country needs to make it a magnet for good jobs.
Then, over the last six months, this gridlock has gotten worse. I didn't think that was possible. (Laughter.) The good news is a growing number of Republican senators are looking to join their Democratic counterparts and try to get things done in the Senate. So that's good news. (Applause.) For example, they worked together on an immigration bill that economists say will boost our economy by more than a trillion dollars, strengthen border security, make the system work.
But you've got a faction of Republicans in the House who won't even give that bill a vote. And that same group gutted a farm bill that America's farmers depend on, but also America's most vulnerable children depend on.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Booo --
MR. OBAMA: And if you ask some of these folks, some of these folks mostly in the House, about their economic agenda how it is that they'll strengthen the middle class, they'll shift the topic to ''out-of-control government spending'' --- despite the fact that we've cut the deficit by nearly half as a share of the economy since I took office. (Applause.)
Or they'll talk about government assistance for the poor, despite the fact that they've already cut early education for vulnerable kids. They've already cut insurance for people who've lost their jobs through no fault of their own. Or they'll bring up Obamacare -- this is tried and true -- despite the fact that our businesses have created nearly twice as many jobs in this recovery as businesses had at the same point in the last recovery when there was no Obamacare. (Applause.)
AUDIENCE MEMBER: My daughter has insurance now!
MR. OBAMA: I appreciate that. (Applause.) That's what this is about. That's what this is about. (Applause.) That's what we've been fighting for.
But with this endless parade of distractions and political posturing and phony scandals, Washington has taken its eye off the ball. And I am here to say this needs to stop. (Applause.) This needs to stop.
This moment does not require short-term thinking. It does not require having the same old stale debates. Our focus has to be on the basic economic issues that matter most to you, the people we represent. That's what we have to spend our time on and our energy on and our focus on. (Applause.)
And as Washington prepares to enter another budget debate, the stakes for our middle class and everybody who is fighting to get into the middle class could not be higher. The countries that are passive in the face of a global economy, those countries will lose the competition for good jobs. They will lose the competition for high living standards. That's why America has to make the investments necessary to promote long-term growth and shared prosperity -- rebuilding our manufacturing base, educating our workforce, upgrading our transportation systems, upgrading our information networks. (Applause.) That's what we need to be talking about. That's what Washington needs to be focused on.
And that's why, over the next several weeks, in towns across this country, I will be engaging the American people in this debate. (Applause.) I'll lay out my ideas for how we build on the cornerstones of what it means to be middle class in America, and what it takes to work your way into the middle class in America: Job security, with good wages and durable industries. A good education. A home to call your own. Affordable health care when you get sick. (Applause.) A secure retirement even if you're not rich. Reducing poverty. Reducing inequality. Growing opportunity. That's what we need. (Applause.) That's what we need. That's what we need right now. That's what we need to be focused on. (Applause.)
Now, some of these ideas I've talked about before. Some of the ideas I offer will be new. Some will require Congress. Some I will pursue on my own. (Applause.) Some ideas will benefit folks right away. Some will take years to fully implement. But the key is to break through the tendency in Washington to just bounce from crisis to crisis. What we need is not a three-month plan, or even a three-year plan; we need a long-term American strategy, based on steady, persistent effort, to reverse the forces that have conspired against the middle class for decades. That has to be our project. (Applause.)
Now, of course, we'll keep pressing on other key priorities. I want to get this immigration bill done. We still need to work on reducing gun violence. (Applause.) We've got to continue to end the war in Afghanistan, rebalance our fight against al Qaeda. (Applause.) We need to combat climate change. We've got to standing up for civil rights. We've got to stand up for women's rights. (Applause.)
So all those issues are important, and we'll be fighting on every one of those issues. But if we don't have a growing, thriving middle class then we won't have the resources to solve a lot of these problems. We won't have the resolve, the optimism, the sense of unity that we need to solve many of these other issues.
Now, in this effort, I will look to work with Republicans as well as Democrats wherever I can. And I sincerely believe that there are members of both parties who understand this moment, understand what's at stake, and I will welcome ideas from anybody across the political spectrum. But I will not allow gridlock, or inaction, or willful indifference to get in our way. (Applause.)
That means whatever executive authority I have to help the middle class, I'll use it. (Applause.) Where I can't act on my own and Congress isn't cooperating, I'll pick up the phone -- I'll call CEOs; I'll call philanthropists; I'll call college presidents; I'll call labor leaders. I'll call anybody who can help -- and enlist them in our efforts. (Applause.)
Because the choices that we, the people, make right now will determine whether or not every American has a fighting chance in the 21st century. And it will lay the foundation for our children's future, our grandchildren's future, for all Americans.
So let me give you a quick preview of what I'll be fighting for and why. The first cornerstone of a strong, growing middle class has to be, as I said before, an economy that generates more good jobs in durable, growing industries. That's how this area was built. That's how America prospered. Because anybody who was willing to work, they could go out there and they could find themselves a job, and they could build a life for themselves and their family.
Now, over the past four years, for the first time since the 1990s, the number of American manufacturing jobs has actually gone up instead of down. That's the good news. (Applause.) But we can do more. So I'm going to push new initiatives to help more manufacturers bring more jobs back to the United States. (Applause.) We're going to continue to focus on strategies to make sure our tax code rewards companies that are not shipping jobs overseas, but creating jobs right here in the United States of America. (Applause.)
We want to make sure that -- we're going to create strategies to make sure that good jobs in wind and solar and natural gas that are lowering costs and, at the same time, reducing dangerous carbon pollution happen right here in the United States. (Applause.)
And something that Cheri and I were talking about on the way over here -- I'm going to be pushing to open more manufacturing innovation institutes that turn regions left behind by global competition into global centers of cutting-edge jobs. So let's tell the world that America is open for business. (Applause.) I know there's an old site right here in Galesburg, over on Monmouth Boulevard -- let's put some folks to work. (Applause.)
Tomorrow, I'll also visit the Port of Jacksonville, Florida to offer new ideas for doing what America has always done best, which is building things. Pat and I were talking before I came -- backstage -- Pat Quinn -- he was talking about how I came over the Don Moffitt Bridge. (Applause.) But we've got work to do all across the country. We've got ports that aren't ready for the new supertankers that are going to begin passing through the new Panama Canal in two years' time. If we don't get that done, those tankers are going to go someplace else. We've got more than 100,000 bridges that are old enough to qualify for Medicare. (Laughter and applause.)
Businesses depend on our transportation systems, on our power grids, on our communications networks. And rebuilding them creates good-paying jobs right now that can't be outsourced. (Applause.)
And by the way, this isn't a Democratic idea. Republicans built a lot of stuff. This is the Land of Lincoln. Lincoln was all about building stuff -- first Republican President. (Applause.) And yet, as a share of our economy, we invest less in our infrastructure than we did two decades ago. And that's inefficient at a time when it's as cheap as it's been since the 1950s to build things. It's inexcusable at a time when so many of the workers who build stuff for a living are sitting at home waiting for a call.
The longer we put this off, the more expensive it will be and the less competitive we will be. Businesses of tomorrow will not locate near old roads and outdated ports. They'll relocate to places with high-speed Internet, and high-tech schools, and systems that move air and auto traffic faster, and not to mention will get parents home quicker from work because we'll be eliminating some of these traffic jams. And we can watch all of that happen in other countries, and start falling behind, or we can choose to make it happen right here, in the United States. (Applause.)
In an age when jobs know no borders, companies are also going to seek out the countries that boast the most talented citizens, and they'll reward folks who have the skills and the talents they need -- they'll reward those folks with good pay.
The days when the wages for a worker with a high school degree could keep pace with the earnings of somebody who got some sort of higher education -- those days are over. Everybody here knows that. There are a whole bunch of folks here whose dads or grandpas worked at a plant, didn't need a high school education. You could just go there. If you were willing to work hard, you might be able to get two jobs. And you could support your family, have a vacation, own your home. But technology and global competition, they're not going away. Those old days aren't coming back.
So we can either throw up our hands and resign ourselves to diminishing living standards, or we can do what America has always done, which is adapt, and pull together, and fight back, and win. That's what we have to do. (Applause.)
And that brings me to the second cornerstone of a strong middle class -- and everybody here knows it -- an education that prepares our children and our workers for the global competition that they're going to face. (Applause.) And if you think education is expensive, wait until you see how much ignorance costs in the 21st century. (Laughter and applause.)
If we don't make this investment, we're going to put our kids, our workers, and our country at a competitive disadvantage for decades. So we have to begin in the earliest years. And that's why I'm going to keep pushing to make high-quality preschool available for every 4-year-old in America. (Applause.) Not just because we know it works for our kids, but because it provides a vital support system for working parents.
And I'm going to take action in the education area to spur innovation that don't require Congress. (Applause.) So, today, for example, as we speak, federal agencies are moving on my plan to connect 99 percent of America's students to high-speed Internet over the next five years. We're making that happen right now. (Applause.) We've already begun meeting with business leaders and tech entrepreneurs and innovative educators to identify the best ideas for redesigning our high schools so that they teach the skills required for a high-tech economy.
And we're also going to keep pushing new efforts to train workers for changing jobs. So here in Galesburg, for example, a lot of the workers that were laid off at Maytag chose to enroll in retraining programs like the one at Carl Sandburg College. (Applause.) And while it didn't pay off for everyone, a lot of the folks who were retrained found jobs that suited them even better and paid even more than the ones they had lost.
And that's why I've asked Congress to start a Community College to Career initiative, so that workers can earn the skills that high-tech jobs demand without leaving their hometown. (Applause.) And I'm going to challenge CEOs from some of America's best companies to hire more Americans who've got what it takes to fill that job opening but have been laid off for so long that nobody is giving their résumé an honest look.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: More talent!
MR. OBAMA: That, too.
I'm also going to use the power of my office over the next few months to highlight a topic that's straining the budgets of just about every American family -- and that's the soaring cost of higher education. (Applause.) Everybody is touched by this, including your President, who had a whole bunch of loans he had to pay off. (Laughter.)
Three years ago, I worked with Democrats to reform the student loan system so that taxpayer dollars stopped padding the pockets of big banks, and instead helped more kids afford college. (Applause.) Then, I capped loan repayments at 10 percent of monthly incomes for responsible borrowers, so that if somebody graduated and they decided to take a teaching job, for example, that didn't pay a lot of money, they knew that they were never going to have to pay more than 10 percent of their income and they could afford to go into a profession that they loved. That's in place right now. (Applause.) And this week, we're working with both parties to reverse the doubling of student loan rates that happened a few weeks ago because of congressional inaction. (Applause.)
So this is all a good start -- but it isn't enough. Families and taxpayers can't just keep paying more and more and more into an undisciplined system where costs just keep on going up and up and up. We'll never have enough loan money, we'll never have enough grant money, to keep up with costs that are going up 5, 6, 7 percent a year. We've got to get more out of what we pay for.
Now, some colleges are testing new approaches to shorten the path to a degree, or blending teaching with online learning to help students master material and earn credits in less time. In some states, they're testing new ways to fund college based not just on how many students enroll, but how many of them graduate, how well did they do.
So this afternoon, I'll visit the University of Central Missouri to highlight their efforts to deliver more bang for the buck to their students. And in the coming months, I will lay out an aggressive strategy to shake up the system, tackle rising costs, and improve value for middle-class students and their families. It is critical that we make sure that college is affordable for every single American who's willing to work for it. (Applause.)
Now, so you've got a good job; you get a good education -- those have always been the key stepping stones into the middle class. But a home of your own has always been the clearest expression of middle-class security. For most families, that's your biggest asset. For most families, that's where your life's work has been invested. And that changed during the crisis, when we saw millions of middle-class families experience their home values plummeting. The good news is over the past four years, we've helped more responsible homeowners stay in their homes. And today, sales are up and prices are up, and fewer Americans see their homes underwater.
But we're not done yet. The key now is to encourage homeownership that isn't based on unrealistic bubbles, but instead is based on a solid foundation, where buyers and lenders play by the same set of rules, rules that are clear and transparent and fair.
So already, I've asked Congress to pass a really good, bipartisan idea -- one that was championed, by the way, by Mitt Romney's economic advisor -- and this is the idea to give every homeowner the chance to refinance their mortgage while rates are still low so they can save thousands of dollars a year. (Applause.) It will be like a tax cut for families who can refinance.
I'm also acting on my own to cut red tape for responsible families who want to get a mortgage but the bank is saying no. We'll work with both parties to turn the page on Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and build a housing finance system that's rock-solid for future generations.
So we've got more work to do to strengthen homeownership in this country. But along with homeownership, the fourth cornerstone of what it means to be middle class in this country is a secure retirement. (Applause.) I hear from too many people across the country, face to face or in letters that they send me, that they feel as if retirement is just receding from their grasp. It's getting farther and farther away. They can't see it.
Now, today, a rising stock market has millions of retirement balances going up, and some of the losses that had taken place during the financial crisis have been recovered. But we still live with an upside-down system where those at the top, folks like me, get generous tax incentives to save, while tens of millions of hardworking Americans who are struggling, they get none of those breaks at all. So as we work to reform our tax code, we should find new ways to make it easier for workers to put away money, and free middle-class families from the fear that they won't be able to retire. (Applause.)
And if Congress is looking for a bipartisan place to get started, I should just say they don't have to look far. We mentioned immigration reform before. Economists show that immigration reform makes undocumented workers pay their full share of taxes, and that actually shores up the Social Security system for years. So we should get that done. (Applause.)
Good job; good education for your kids; home of your own; secure retirement.
Fifth, I'm going to keep focusing on health care -- (applause) -- because middle-class families and small business owners deserve the security of knowing that neither an accident or an illness is going to threaten the dreams that you've worked a lifetime to build.
As we speak, we're well on our way to fully implementing the Affordable Care Act. (Applause.) We're going to implement it. Now, if you're one of the 85 percent of Americans who already have health insurance either through the job or Medicare or Medicaid, you don't have to do anything, but you do have new benefits and better protections than you did before. You may not know it, but you do. Free checkups, mammograms, discounted medicines if you're on Medicare -- that's what the Affordable Care Act means. You're already getting a better deal. No lifetime limits.
If you don't have health insurance, then starting on October 1st, private plans will actually compete for your business, and you'll be able to comparison-shop online. There will be a marketplace online, just like you'd buy a flat-screen TV or plane tickets or anything else you're doing online, and you'll be able to buy an insurance package that fits your budget and is right for you.
And if you're one of the up to half of all Americans who've been sick or have a preexisting condition -- if you look at this auditorium, about half of you probably have a preexisting condition that insurance companies could use to not give you insurance if you lost your job or lost your insurance -- well, this law means that beginning January 1st, insurance companies will finally have to cover you and charge you the same rates as everybody else, even if you have a preexisting condition. (Applause.) That's what the Affordable Care Act does. That's what it does. (Applause.)
Now, look, I know because I've been living it that there are folks out there who are actively working to make this law fail. And I don't always understand exactly what their logic is here, why they think giving insurance to folks who don't have it and making folks with insurance a little more secure, why they think that's a bad thing. But despite the politically motivated misinformation campaign, the states that have committed themselves to making this law work are finding that competition and choice are actually pushing costs down.
So just last week, New York announced that premiums for consumers who buy their insurance in these online marketplaces will be at least 50 percent lower than what they're paying today -- 50 percent lower. (Applause.) So folks' premiums in the individual market will drop by 50 percent. And for them and for the millions of Americans who've been able to cover their sick kids for the first time -- like this gentlemen who just said his daughter has got health insurance -- or have been able to cover their employees more cheaply, or are able to have their kids who are younger than -- who are 25 or 26 stay on their parents' plan -- (applause) -- for all those folks, you'll have the security of knowing that everything you've worked hard for is no longer one illness away from being wiped out. (Applause.)
Finally, as we work to strengthen these cornerstones of middle-class security -- good job with decent wages and benefits, a good education, home of your own, retirement security, health care security -- I'm going to make the case for why we've got to rebuild ladders of opportunity for all those Americans who haven't quite made it yet -- who are working hard but are still suffering poverty wages, who are struggling to get full-time work. (Applause.)
There are a lot of folks who are still struggling out here, too many people in poverty. Here in America, we've never guaranteed success -- that's not what we do. More than some other countries, we expect people to be self-reliant. Nobody is going to do something for you. (Applause.) We've tolerated a little more inequality for the sake of a more dynamic, more adaptable economy. That's all for the good. But that idea has always been combined with a commitment to equality of opportunity to upward mobility -- the idea that no matter how poor you started, if you're willing to work hard and discipline yourself and defer gratification, you can make it, too. That's the American idea. (Applause.)
Unfortunately, opportunities for upward mobility in America have gotten harder to find over the past 30 years. And that's a betrayal of the American idea. And that's why we have to do a lot more to give every American the chance to work their way into the middle class.
The best defense against all of these forces -- global competition, economic polarization -- is the strength of the community. So we need a new push to rebuild rundown neighborhoods. (Applause.) We need new partnerships with some of the hardest-hit towns in America to get them back on their feet. And because no one who works full-time in America should have to live in poverty, I am going to keep making the case that we need to raise the minimum wage -- (applause) -- because it's lower right now than it was when Ronald Reagan took office. It's time for the minimum wage to go up. (Applause.)
We're not a people who allow chance of birth to decide life's biggest winners or losers. And after years in which we've seen how easy it can be for any of us to fall on hard times -- folks in Galesburg, folks in the Quad Cities, you know there are good people who work hard and sometimes they get a bad break. A plant leaves. Somebody gets sick. Somebody loses a home. We've seen it in our family, in our friends and our neighbors. We've seen it happen. And that means we cannot turn our backs when bad breaks hit any of our fellow citizens.
So good jobs; a better bargain for the middle class and the folks who are working to get into the middle class; an economy that grows from the middle out, not the top down -- that's where I will focus my energies. (Applause.) That's where I will focus my energies not just for the next few months, but for the remainder of my presidency.
These are the plans that I'll lay out across this country. But I won't be able to do it alone, so I'm going to be calling on all of us to take up this cause. We'll need our businesses, who are some of the best in the world, to pressure Congress to invest in our future. And I'll be asking our businesses to set an example by providing decent wages and salaries to their own employees. And I'm going to highlight the ones that do just that.
There are companies like Costco, which pays good wages and offers good benefits. (Applause.) Companies like -- there are companies like the Container Store, that prides itself on training its employees and on employee satisfaction -- because these companies prove that it's not just good for the employees, it's good for their businesses to treat workers well. It's good for America. (Applause.)
So I'm going to be calling on the private sector to step up. I will be saying to Democrats we've got to question some of our old assumptions. We've got to be willing to redesign or get rid of programs that don't work as well as they should. (Applause.) We've got to be willing to -- we've got to embrace changes to cherished priorities so that they work better in this new age. We can't just -- Democrats can't just stand pat and just defend whatever government is doing. If we believe that government can give the middle class a fair shot in this new century -- and I believe that -- we've an obligation to prove it. And that means that we've got to be open to new ways of doing things.
And we'll need Republicans in Congress to set aside short-term politics and work with me to find common ground. (Applause.)
It's interesting, in the run-up to this speech, a lot of reporters say that, well, Mr. President, these are all good ideas, but some of you've said before; some of them sound great, but you can't get those through Congress. Republicans won't agree with you. And I say, look, the fact is there are Republicans in Congress right now who privately agree with me on a lot of the ideas I'll be proposing. I know because they've said so. But they worry they'll face swift political retaliation for cooperating with me.
Now, there are others who will dismiss every idea I put forward either because they're playing to their most strident supporters, or in some cases because, sincerely, they have a fundamentally different vision for America -- one that says inequality is both inevitable and just; one that says an unfettered free market without any restraints inevitably produces the best outcomes, regardless of the pain and uncertainty imposed on ordinary families; and government is the problem and we should just shrink it as small as we can.
In either case, I say to these members of Congress: I'm laying out my ideas to give the middle class a better shot. So now it's time for you to lay out your ideas. (Applause.) You can't just be against something. You got to be for something. (Applause.)
Even if you think I've done everything wrong, the trends I just talked about were happening well before I took office. So it's not enough for you just to oppose me. You got to be for something. What are your ideas? If you're willing to work with me to strengthen American manufacturing and rebuild this country's infrastructure, let's go. If you've got better ideas to bring down the cost of college for working families, let's hear them. If you think you have a better plan for making sure that every American has the security of quality, affordable health care, then stop taking meaningless repeal votes, and share your concrete ideas with the country. (Applause.)
Repealing Obamacare and cutting spending is not an economic plan. It's not.
If you're serious about a balanced, long-term fiscal plan that replaces the mindless cuts currently in place, or if you're interested in tax reform that closes corporate loopholes and gives working families a better deal, I'm ready to work. (Applause.) But you should know that I will not accept deals that don't meet the basic test of strengthening the prospects of hardworking families. This is the agenda we have to be working on. (Applause.)
We've come a long way since I first took office. (Applause.) As a country, we're older and wiser. I don't know if I'm wiser, but I'm certainly older. (Laughter.) And as long as Congress doesn't manufacture another crisis -- as long as we don't shut down the government just because I'm for keeping it open -- (laughter) -- as long as we don't risk a U.S. default over paying bills that we've already racked up, something that we've never done -- we can probably muddle along without taking bold action. If we stand pat and we don't do any of the things I talked about, our economy will grow, although slower than it should. New businesses will form. The unemployment rate will probably tick down a little bit. Just by virtue of our size and our natural resources and, most of all, because of the talent of our people, America will remain a world power, and the majority of us will figure out how to get by.
But you know what, that's our choice. If we just stand by and do nothing in the face of immense change, understand that part of our character will be lost. Our founding precepts about wide-open opportunity, each generation doing better than the last -- that will be a myth, not reality. The position of the middle class will erode further. Inequality will continue to increase. Money's power will distort our politics even more.
Social tensions will rise, as various groups fight to hold on to what they have, or start blaming somebody else for why their position isn't improving. And the fundamental optimism that's always propelled us forward will give way to cynicism or nostalgia.
And that's not the vision I have for this country. It's not the vision you have for this country. That's not the America we know. That's not the vision we should be settling for. That's not a vision we should be passing on to our children.
I have now run my last campaign. I do not intend to wait until the next campaign or the next President before tackling the issues that matter. I care about one thing and one thing only, and that's how to use every minute -- (applause) -- the only thing I care about is how to use every minute of the remaining 1,276 days of my term -- (laughter) -- to make this country work for working Americans again. (Applause.) That's all I care about. I don't have another election. (Applause.)
Because I'll tell you, Galesburg, that's where I believe America needs to go. I believe that's where the American people want to go. And it may seem hard today, but if we're willing to take a few bold steps -- if Washington will just shake off its complacency and set aside the kind of slash-and-burn partisanship that we've just seen for way too long -- if we just make some common-sense decisions, our economy will be stronger a year from now. It will be stronger five years from now. It will be stronger 10 years from now. (Applause.)
If we focus on what matters, then more Americans will know the pride of that first paycheck. More Americans will have the satisfaction of flipping the sign to ''Open'' on their own business. More Americans will have the joy of scratching the height of their kid on that door of their brand-new home. (Applause.)
And in the end, isn't that what makes us special? It's not the ability to generate incredible wealth for the few; it's our ability to give everybody a chance to pursue their own true measure of happiness. (Applause.) We haven't just wanted success for ourselves -- we want it for our neighbors, too. (Applause.)
When we think about our own communities -- we're not a mean people; we're not a selfish people; we're not a people that just looks out for ''number one.'' Why should our politics reflect those kinds of values? That's why we don't call it John's dream or Susie's dream or Barack's dream or Pat's dream -- we call it the American Dream. And that's what makes this country special -- the idea that no matter who you are or what you look like or where you come from or who you love, you can make it if you try. (Applause.) That's what we're fighting for.
So, yes, Congress is tough right now, but that's not going to stop me. We're going to do everything we can, wherever we can, with or without Congress, to make things happen. We're going to go on the road and talk to you, and you'll have ideas, and we want to see which ones we can implement. But we're going to focus on this thing that matters.
One of America's greatest writers, Carl Sandburg, born right here in Galesburg over a century ago -- (applause) -- he saw the railroads bring the world to the prairie, and then the prairie sent out its bounty to the world. And he saw the advent of new industries, new technologies, and he watched populations shift. He saw fortunes made and lost. And he saw how change could be painful -- how a new age could unsettle long-held customs and ways of life. But he had that frontier optimism, and so he saw something more on the horizon. And he wrote, ''I speak of new cities and new people. The past is a bucket of ashes. Yesterday is a wind gone down, a sun dropped in the west. There is only an ocean of tomorrows, a sky of tomorrows.''
Well, America, we've made it through the worst of yesterday's winds. We just have to have the courage to keep moving forward. We've got to set our eyes on the horizon. We will find an ocean of tomorrows. We will find a sky of tomorrows for the American people and for this great country that we love.
So thank you. God bless you. And God bless the United States of America. (Applause.)
Following is the prepared text of President Obama's speech in Galesburg, Ill., as provided by the White House.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TRANSCRIPTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); JOHN SULLIVAN (78%); LISA MADIGAN (58%); CLAIRE MCCASKILL (58%); PAT QUINN (58%); RICHARD DURBIN (58%); CHERI BUSTOS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (93%); MISSOURI, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2013



733 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 986 words

HEADLINE: Obama Returns Focus to Economy With Vow to Aid Middle Class

BYLINE: By MICHAEL D. SHEAR and PETER BAKER; Michael D. Shear reported from Warrensburg, and Peter Baker from Washington.

 BODY:
WARRENSBURG, Mo. -- President Obama tried to move past months of debate over guns, surveillance and scandal on Wednesday and reorient his administration behind a program to lift a middling economy and help middle-class Americans who are stuck with stagnant incomes and shrinking horizons.
In speeches in two small college towns in the Midwest, Mr. Obama lamented that typical Americans had been left behind by globalization, Wall Street irresponsibility and Washington policies, while the richest Americans had accumulated more wealth. He declared it ''my highest priority'' to reverse those trends, while accusing other politicians of not only ignoring the problem but also making it worse. 
''With this endless parade of distractions and political posturing and phony scandals, Washington's taken its eye off the ball,'' Mr. Obama told an audience at Knox College, in Galesburg, Ill., the site of his first major economic speech as a young senator eight years ago. ''And I am here to say this needs to stop. This needs to stop. This moment does not require short-term thinking. It does not require having the same old stale debates. Our focus has to be on the basic economic issues that matter most to you -- the people we represent.''
The hourlong speech in Galesburg, his first speech of the day and one of the longest of his presidency, at times resembled a State of the Union address. The president mainly offered revived elements of his largely stalled economic program, like developing new energy, rebuilding manufacturing, spending more on roads, bridges and ports, expanding preschool to every 4-year-old in the country and raising the minimum wage.
But he and his aides hoped to use the speech both to claim credit for the progress made since the recession of 2008-9 and to position himself as the champion of a disaffected middle class that has yet to recover fully.
He chastised Republicans in Congress for not focusing on economic priorities and obstructing his initiatives. ''Over the last six months, this gridlock has gotten worse,'' he said.
And he challenged them to come up with their own plans. ''I'm laying out my ideas to give the middle class a better shot,'' he said, addressing himself to Republican leaders. ''So now it's time for you to lay out your ideas.''
In Warrensburg, Mr. Obama repeated his economic themes in a packed gymnasium at the University of Central Missouri. To bursts of applause, he called Americans ''gritty and resilient'' and added that in the last five years ''we've been able to clear away the rubble of the financial crisis.''
He focused on the need for investments in education to help generate more growth in jobs in the future. ''If we don't invest in American education, we are going to put our kids, our companies, our workers at a competitive disadvantage,'' Mr. Obama said, standing in front of a sea of young children in matching red or white T-shirts.
The president also said the government must do more to make college affordable and pledged that his administration would work toward connecting 99 percent of American schools to high-speed Internet in the next five years.
Republican leaders were not impressed by Mr. Obama's renewed push on the economy. Speaker John A. Boehner said beforehand that a speech would not make a difference.
''What's it going to accomplish?'' Mr. Boehner asked on the House floor. ''You've probably got the answer: nothing. It's a hollow shell. It's an Easter egg with no candy in it.''
Republicans said they had in fact advanced ideas for improving the economy, particularly in education, energy, tax changes and regulation. They noted that a House panel was taking up bills intended to relieve businesses of what Republicans consider burdensome regulation by the Environmental Protection Agency.
''Mr. President, just get the federal government out of the way,'' said Representative Kevin Brady, Republican of Texas, the chairman of the Joint Economic Committee. ''Instead of putting handcuffs on job creators, try shaking their hand for a change.''
Senior advisers to the president said he frequently referred to his first speech at Knox College in 2005, long before the economic crisis that seized the country three years later. They said Mr. Obama was eager to discuss how much had changed in the nation's economy since that speech.
''Now, today, five years after the start of that Great Recession, America has fought its way back,'' Mr. Obama said, citing the recovery of the auto industry, growth in energy sectors, higher taxes on the wealthy, new regulation on banks and 7.2 million more private sector jobs.''
But he said too many Americans had been left behind. He said nearly all of the income gains of the past 10 years had gone to the richest 1 percent of Americans, and said the average chief executive had seen raises totaling 40 percent since 2009, while the average American earned less than in 1999.
''This growing inequality, it's not just morally wrong, it's bad economics,'' he said. ''Because when middle-class families have less to spend, guess what? Businesses have fewer consumers. When wealth concentrates at the very top, it can inflate unstable bubbles that threaten the economy. When the rungs on the ladder of opportunity grow farther and farther apart, it undermines the very essence of America, that idea that if you work hard, you can make it here.''
He called on Republicans to pick up his economic proposals and to pass legislation overhauling the immigration system. He also scolded Republicans for trying to undercut his health care program and argued that it would expand coverage and trim costs.
But he also challenged members of his own party to stop defending outdated government programs and resisting change.
''I will be saying to Democrats, we've got to question some of our old assumptions,'' he said. ''We've got to be willing to redesign or get rid of programs that don't work as well as they should.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''Our focus has to be on the basic economic issues that matter most to you,'' President Obama said Wednesday in Galesburg, Ill. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: A Shifting Economic Tide: In a speech on the economy on Wednesday, President Obama said it was his highest priority to reverse rising income inequality among Americans. The trend began long before Mr. Obama took office (though the wealthy were set back by the recession), but it has worsened since, as top earners benefit from a recovering stock market and the bottom 90 percent are held back by persistent unemployment. (Source: Emmanuel Saez, University of California, Berkeley) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); RECESSION (78%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); GLOBALIZATION (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (64%); WAGES & SALARIES (63%); MINIMUM WAGE (63%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) MIDWEST USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2013



734 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; LAC-MéGANTIC JOURNAL; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1248 words

HEADLINE: Fires Are Out, Ruins Are Cooled, but Recovery Is Distant

BYLINE: By IAN AUSTEN

 BODY:
LAC-MÉGANTIC, Quebec -- Throughout the day, regardless of the weather, there is usually a crowd gazing out from the steps of Sainte Agnès Catholic Church. From there, they look down at a statue of Jesus, its arms outstretched in an apparent blessing over the nightmare that lies beyond a tall, temporary fence covered with black plastic and police warning signs.
More than two weeks have passed since a runaway train of oil tank cars, ''the ghost train'' as it is now known, derailed and exploded here, incinerating much of this community's downtown and leaving at least 42 of its 6,000 residents dead. The fire is long extinguished and the ruins cooled, but in an indication of the disaster's severity, the recovery and decontamination effort -- on a scale Quebec has rarely seen -- has erased relatively little of the destruction.
The snaking police fence now divides the town. Well outside its metal latticework, the odor of crude oil still permeates the air. The leaves and needles of trees several blocks downwind from the blast are brown and curled. The apples sprouting on trees are green on one side and burned on the other. The vinyl siding on houses and apartments is sometimes the same way: blistered and warped on the side facing the fire, while seemingly untouched on the other. 
But from the church steps, the view over the police fence is far more startling. The public library and a large swath of the town's main street are now little more than a black strip of rubble, ash and a toxic soup of oil, water and fire extinguishing foam. A few colorful wooden buildings, one with turrets and gingerbread trim, sit surprisingly unharmed next to the blackened void.
The explosion and fire have renewed a longstanding debate over the human and environmental risks of transporting vast quantities of oil by train or by pipeline, and at the northern and southern extremes of the disaster zone, the effects of the accident are the most profound.
Down by the large, resort lake that shares its name with the town, oil-stained containment booms appear to be fighting a losing battle. The plastic slats of park benches along the waterfront have melted away, leaving only their steel framework behind. In the ashes of what appears to have been a family's garage, melted bicycle rims and spokes show the path of the river of fiery oil as it made its way downhill to the lake.
To the north lies ground zero, where the train derailed at more than 60 miles per hour. The pool, gym and ice rink of the town's sports complex serve as a staging area for dozens of tank trucks summoned to haul away the two million gallons of crude oil from North Dakota that officials estimate spilled from the train.
The north end of downtown has been replaced by a black sea of the twisted and melted remains of about 72 railroad tank cars piled three stories high, many with their ends exploded like the shells of oversize fireworks. The melted steel on one side of a shipping container sags and droops like a piece of fabric.
As the workers continue to clear the rubble, a process that some officials predict will take months or longer, Lac-Mégantic lives in a state of limbo. The bodies identified to date have yet to be released by the coroner for burial, so funerals have not begun, though a memorial Mass for the victims will take place on Saturday.
''It's hard to return to our normal life,'' said Christine Poisson, an elementary-school teacher who is still waiting for news about a 9-year-old former student who is missing, although she fears the news can only be bad. ''We try to continue our life, but it's hard because we always think about that.''
Underneath the tank car landscape lies the ruins of the Musi-Café, the town's once-popular nightspot that became a focal point of the tragedy when the Montreal, Maine and Atlantic Railway train roared into town at 1:15 a.m. on July 6. Its patrons disproportionately became the train's victims.
Guy Ouellet, who works at a door factory, said the Musi-Café was still busy when he left his wife, Diane Bizier, and her niece there shortly after 1 a.m.
As he slid her death certificate, which lists Ms. Bizier's precise cause of death only as under investigation, across the dining room table of their suburban house, Mr. Ouellet said her absence was amplified by the fact that they were also co-workers.
''She was by my side, all the time; she was my life,'' said Mr. Ouellet, one of the lead plaintiffs in a class-action lawsuit filed against the railway and several other parties.
Mr. Ouellet is among those who gather on the Sainte Agnès steps most days. Inside, the church is now the town's memorial center. Along with flowers, photos and mementos of the dead are several large boards covered with construction paper hearts carrying handwritten messages. Mixed among them was a photocopy of a poster boasting about a local youth hockey team's championship success last season. ''Au Revoir Coach, You never missed -- Oli,'' was written in black marker on its margin.
Residents now talk about the many questions facing the town. While much of the spilled oil was burned as it fed the explosions and fires, the contamination of the lake, a river and the ground is a prime concern. As of Wednesday, about 2.4 million gallons of oil mixed with water had been pumped away, but it remained unclear to residents whether the ground would ever be fully decontaminated.
Others worry about cost. Despite promises from the railway that it will cover the expenses associated with the wreck, Mayor Colette Roy-Laroche said Monday that the town had to cover a $4 million bill from three decontamination companies hired by Montreal, Maine and Atlantic, which is owned by Rail World of Chicago, or face a shutdown of their work.
The post office, a bank, a drugstore and a clothing boutique have already set up shop elsewhere in town. Whether other businesses can wait out a rebuilding that could take years is unclear.
Other worries predominate. A lack of jobs has long meant that the town has struggled to keep its young. Jean Labbé, who owns a garage near the church, knows it well. His two sons now teach and study mathematics in Europe. Now the tragedy at the Musi-Café means that many of the young people who had stayed became victims. Mr. Labbé said they included three former football teammates of his younger son.
Another debate focuses on the future of the railway. There is little enthusiasm for allowing it to continue running through the center of town. But assuming the company remains in business, rerouting around a river, the lake and surrounding mountains will be costly.
The disappearance of the Montreal, Maine and Atlantic could have an even greater economic impact.
Looming above the town on a hill are the steam-belching chimneys of Tafisa Canada, North America's largest producer of particle board. Inside, where an automated line was applying a white coating to boards destined to become Ikea furniture, Louis Brassard, the chief executive, said that before the derailment about 30 percent of the plant's production, 50 to 60 boxcars a week, was shipped by train.
Within days of the accident, the company began trucking those shipments to other rail lines. Other factories in the town also produce low cost, bulky products that cannot be economically transported by truck over long distances. ''It was a tragic accident,'' Mr. Brassard said in an office furnished with particle board creations. ''Now if we don't do all we can, it's going to be an economic tragedy.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Reminders abound of the runaway tank car train that exploded and set fire to much of the town of Lac-Mégantic, Quebec, in the early hours of July 6. At least 42 residents were killed in the accident. (A4)
 A temporary police fence marks the boundary of the train wreck site in Lac-Mégantic. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY IAN WILLMS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A11) MAP 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RAIL TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (90%); TRAINS (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (75%); DISASTER RELIEF (74%); FIRES (74%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (67%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (65%); SPORTS & RECREATION (60%); SPORTS (60%); BULK SHIPPING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2013



735 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1573 words

HEADLINE: In Case Against Hedge Fund, a Show of Force

BYLINE: By BEN PROTESS and PETER LATTMAN

 BODY:
When Steven A. Cohen's lawyers arrived for a meeting this spring at the United States attorney's offices in Lower Manhattan, in a Brutalist-style building tucked behind a pair of courthouses, the conference room was so packed with federal investigators that one official had to venture down the hall for additional chairs.
The meeting was just weeks after Mr. Cohen's hedge fund, SAC Capital Advisors, paid $616 million to settle two civil insider trading cases, and his lawyers were there to present a broad defense of the fund.
But the marshaled might of law enforcement -- which people briefed on the matter said were 17 officials, including representatives from the Securities and Exchange Commission and the F.B.I., and postal inspectors as well as federal prosecutors -- signaled that the government was no longer interested in just monetary settlements. Instead, after years of futile attempts to pin criminal charges on Mr. Cohen, the investigators were coalescing around a more unusual plan: indict SAC itself. 
Now the government is poised to do just that. A grand jury voted this week to approve the indictment, a person briefed on the matter said, and authorities were expected to announce the case as soon as Thursday.
Criminal charges might devastate SAC because the banks that trade with the hedge fund and finance its operations could abandon it.
Already, after several guilty pleas by former SAC employees and a series of civil actions brought by the S.E.C., the fund's investors have removed about $5 billion of $6 billion in outside money from the firm. Those that have withdrawn money include major financial industry players like the Blackstone Group and Citigroup. The exodus could accelerate when the government levels the indictment.
SAC, based in Stamford, Conn., with 1,000 employees around the world, is putting on a brave face.
''The firm will operate normally and we have every expectation that will be the case going forward,'' it said in a memo to employees on Wednesday.
In recent years, as the federal government waged an unrelenting crackdown against insider trading, a major focus of its efforts was Mr. Cohen, 57, a billionaire stock picker and collector of art and real estate. Mr. Cohen was not expected to be charged criminally, though authorities were contemplating charges against other employees at SAC.
But while Mr. Cohen may not be charged, he is inextricably tied to the hedge fund that has come into the government's line of fire. Not only are his initials on the door, but Mr. Cohen also owns 100 percent of the firm he founded in 1992.
The indictment, according to the people briefed on the matter, will charge the fund with carrying out a broad conspiracy to commit securities fraud, citing several instances of insider trading. Underpinning the charge, the people say, is the theory of corporate criminal liability, which allows the government to attribute certain criminal acts of employees to a company itself.
The case is the boldest yet from the top federal prosecutor in Manhattan, Preet Bharara, whose office has overseen the crackdown on insider trading. The government has brought charges against more than 80 people; of those, 73 have either been convicted or pleaded guilty, a success rate that stands in contrast to recent struggles with cases stemming from the financial crisis.
While lower-level prosecutors have led the SAC case, Mr. Bharara has taken a more active role in recent months. In May, a person briefed on the matter said, he was on a conference call to discuss strategy with his deputies and top S.E.C. officials.
Mr. Bharara's involvement reflects the unusual nature of the case. Criminal charges against large companies are rare, given the collateral consequences for the economy and innocent employees. After the Justice Department indicted Enron's accounting firm, Arthur Andersen, in 2002, the firm collapsed and 28,000 jobs were lost.
Just days ago, the S.E.C. filed a civil case that accused Mr. Cohen of failing to supervise employees suspected of insider trading. Federal prosecutors, the people say, are planning soon to ask a judge to suspend the commission's case while the criminal charges are pending.
A spokesman for the F.B.I., Peter Donald, declined to comment. SAC also declined to comment.
Mr. Cohen reached the height of his powers in the boom years before the financial crisis. In both 2006 and 2007, Mr. Cohen earned about $900 million, according to Alpha magazine.
But during the financial crisis, Mr. Cohen's fund, like much of Wall Street, came under pressure. Much of the activity at the center of the government's case took place during that year, when the fund posted its first-ever annual loss.
In 2009, Wall Street was stunned when government authorities announced a series of criminal insider trading charges against hedge fund managers and corporate executives. In the biggest case, federal prosecutors arrested Raj Rajaratnam, the founder of the Galleon Group hedge fund.
It was around that time that Mr. Cohen's name began to surface as a target of the inquiry. Like Mr. Rajaratnam, Mr. Cohen ran a hedge fund whose traders were known for aggressively pumping corporate insiders for insights that might offer an edge.
Mr. Cohen was infuriated with the comparisons to Galleon, and went on something of a public relations offensive.
''I look at my firm, and I don't see any of that,'' Mr. Cohen told Vanity Fair magazine in 2010. ''In some respects I feel like Don Quixote fighting windmills.''
Yet while Mr. Cohen was railing against the scrutiny, federal authorities were methodically building their case against the firm.
The F.B.I. began to target low-level hedge fund traders whom they would persuade to cooperate. One cooperator, Noah Freeman, a former SAC portfolio manager, said he thought that obtaining corporate secrets was part of his job description. At one point, the F.B.I. also tapped Mr. Cohen's phone line at his 35,000-square-foot home in Greenwich, Conn., the people briefed on the matter said.
Four onetime SAC employees have pleaded guilty to insider trading while at the fund; five others were implicated in conduct while at SAC.
The criminal indictment against SAC is likely to center on two employees: Mathew Martoma and Michael S. Steinberg, both of whom were charged criminally. Each pleaded not guilty to insider-trading-related charges and face separate trials.
Mr. Steinberg's case stems from trading the computer maker Dell. In a 2008 e-mail, an SAC analyst, Jon Horvath, told Mr. Steinberg that he had a ''2nd hand read from someone at'' Dell who provided financial information about the company before its earnings announcement. The e-mail from Mr. Horvath, who has since pleaded guilty and is expected to testify against Mr. Steinberg and SAC, was then forwarded to Mr. Cohen.
Mr. Martoma's case involves 2008 trading in the stocks of Elan and Wyeth, which at the time were developing an Alzheimer's drug. Prosecutors accused Mr. Martoma of obtaining from a doctor secret information that the drug's clinical trials were going poorly.
When the government arrested Mr. Martoma last November, the indictment cited a 20-minute phone call that Mr. Martoma had with Mr. Cohen the day before SAC began dumping its holdings in the drug stocks.
But prosecutors did not claim that Mr. Martoma told Mr. Cohen about the confidential information. And Mr. Martoma rebuffed the government's overtures to cooperate, including as recently as this spring, one person said.
Without evidence directly linking Mr. Cohen to illicit trades, the government ramped up its focus on SAC. With companies, prosecutors often file a so-called deferred prosecution agreement that suspends charges, but prosecutors never considered such a deal with SAC, the people briefed on the matter said. Instead, authorities set their sights on an indictment.
In alleging a conspiracy at SAC, prosecutors must show that there was an agreement among SAC employees -- like Mr. Horvath, Mr. Steinberg and Mr. Martoma -- to commit insider trading. The government also must show that the employees committed ''overt'' acts with ''intent.''
In using the corporate liability theory to buttress the charge, the government has another powerful weapon. If prosecutors can show that the traders were acting ''on behalf of and for the benefit of'' SAC when breaking the law, then they might impute liability to the firm.
An indictment would present SAC with a crucial question: How will Goldman Sachs and other banks that trade with the fund react? Legal experts said that an indictment could activate default provisions in SAC's trading agreements.
''Those provisions can effectively allow the banks to cut you off,'' said Steven Nadel, a hedge fund lawyer at Seward & Kissel.
But the charges won't necessarily spell disaster for SAC. Of the roughly $15 billion that SAC managed at the beginning of the year, about $8 billion is Mr. Cohen's own money.
For now, SAC's rank-and-file are staying put, people close to the fund said. When the heightened government scrutiny alarmed SAC's traders this year, the fund offered additional financial incentives to retain employees, many of whom make millions of dollars a year.
''None of them have to worry about money or a future job,'' said a senior Wall Street executive who has done business with SAC. ''So they're letting this play out and seeing what happens.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: SAC Capital Advisors is based in Stamford, Conn. The hedge fund employs about 1,000 people. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); INDICTMENTS (90%); INSIDER TRADING (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); LAWYERS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (74%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (73%); GRAND JURY (73%); GUILTY PLEAS (73%); CONSPIRACY (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); APPROVALS (69%)

COMPANY: SAC CAPITAL ADVISORS LP (57%); CITIGROUP INC (55%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (75%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (55%); C (BMV) (55%); 8710 (TSE) (55%); BX (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (53%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (53%)

PERSON: STEVEN A COHEN (90%); STEVEN COHEN (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2013



736 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 560 words

HEADLINE: The Middle Class at Center Stage

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

 BODY:
Washington is a city of sideshows, full of people who consider it their job to create distractions from the nation's most serious problems. Politicians would rather argue about nonexistent scandals or plot to undermine each other's programs than come up with ways to create jobs or elevate the hopes of the next generation.
President Obama needs to change the subject to have a successful final term, and he announced on Wednesday, in forceful terms, that he intends to do just that. In a speech in Galesburg, Ill., he said his highest priority for the next 1,276 days would be rebuilding a middle class that has been battered by globalization, technological change, and the concentration of wealth at the highest levels. 
''Washington has taken its eye off the ball,'' he said, ''and I am here to say this needs to stop.''
The fundamentally American idea that hard work leads to success, he said, has been undermined by an inattention to education and decades of government policies that favored only the rich. While income of the top 1 percent nearly quadrupled from 1979 to 2007, there has been almost no change in the typical family's income.
And he wasn't shy about pointing directly at Republicans who have made the problem worse by cutting spending when the economy needs new investments and by damaging the nation's credit by threatening not to pay the government's bills. The ''meat cleaver called the sequester,'' he said, has cost jobs, hurt the military and retarded progress in science and medicine.
Mr. Obama did not deliver a laundry list of new proposals. Most of what he advocated has been on his list for years: a major investment in rebuilding roads and power grids and school buildings; high-quality preschool for every 4-year-old; a reduction in college costs, a huge barrier between lower-income students and professional success; better incentives for retirement savings.
These ideas were good when he first proposed them as part of the American Jobs Act, and they remain essential ingredients of long-term economic growth. They are not ''stale'' and ''tired,'' as Republicans charged; they are familiar only because they remain unfulfilled. The hard-right that controls the Republican Party never really cared about the content of his proposals, anyway. It reflexively opposes whatever he supports.
The speeches he intends to give in the coming weeks on these ideas will be a counterweight to the idea that government needs to shrink to the point of irrelevance. He issued a clear challenge to his opponents: If you have better plans for strengthening manufacturing and improving the prospects of struggling families, let's hear them. But, so far, Republicans have clung to an agenda of less: cutting taxes, cutting spending, cutting regulations and cutting any program that benefits those on the lowest rungs.
''Repealing Obamacare and cutting spending is not an economic plan,'' he said. ''But if we're willing to take a few bold steps, if Washington will just shake off its complacency and set aside the kind of slash-and-burn partisanship that we've just seen for way too long, if we just make some common-sense decisions, our economy will be stronger a year from now.''
If the president himself doesn't get distracted or lose heart in making that case, there is still a chance to put the government -- and millions of people -- back to work.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (87%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); FAMILY (78%); US AMERICAN JOBS ACT OF 2011 (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (74%); STUDENT EXPENSES (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (67%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (65%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2013



737 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1182 words

HEADLINE: Trader and S.E.C. Lawyer Spar Over E-Mail

BYLINE: By SUSANNE CRAIG

 BODY:
The Securities and Exchange Commission waited more than three years to have a chance to shred the credibility of Fabrice Tourre, a former Goldman Sachs trader, in front of a jury. It finally got its chance on Wednesday.
Over the course of two hours, the government's lawyer, Matthew T. Martens, and Mr. Tourre, who has been accused of participating in a scheme to defraud investors, verbally sparred over what Mr. Tourre knew about a 2007 trade he helped structure. Mr. Tourre seemed exasperated on the stand, and at one point during the questioning, tipped over the water container on the witness stand while reaching for a document.
''So the statement was false,'' Mr. Martens asked just minutes after Mr. Tourre took the stand, challenging him over an e-mail he had written.
''It was not accurate,'' Mr. Tourre responded, frustration rising in his voice. 
''Is there a difference between something being inaccurate or false?'' Mr. Martens shot back.
''There is,'' Mr. Tourre said.
Mr. Tourre testified at the midpoint of the trial, one of the biggest cases to come out of the 2008 financial crisis. Mr. Tourre is also one of only a few Wall Street employees to land in court over their actions during the period, and the rarity of the trial underpins its importance.
For Mr. Tourre, who is now enrolled in a doctoral economics program at the University of Chicago, an unfavorable verdict from the civil trial could yield a fine, or worse, a ban from the securities industry. For the S.E.C., which has been dogged by its failure to thwart the crisis and hold executives who played a role in it accountable, its reputation is on the line and victory in the case is crucial.
On Wednesday, Mr. Tourre and Mr. Martens sparred over what could turn out to be a critical misstatement Mr. Tourre made in an e-mail to ACA Management, a company that both invested in the trade in question and helped construct it.
In 2007, at Goldman's behest, ACA helped put together a trade for the hedge fund Paulson & Company. The firm and its leader, John A. Paulson, sensed that the housing market was heading for a collapse and made more than $1 billion by betting against the security ACA had assembled. Earlier this week, a former ACA executive, Laura Schwartz, testified that had she known Mr. Paulson was placing a negative or bearish bet she never would have gone ahead with the transaction.
A central question in the case is whether Mr. Tourre should have corrected ACA's impression that Paulson & Company had a positive outlook on the security. In another correspondence, a January 2007 e-mail that was forwarded to Mr. Tourre, Ms. Schwartz described the Paulson & Company hedge fund as having an ''equity perspective,'' indicating that she believed the hedge fund wanted the security to rise in value.
Mr. Tourre acknowledged that he did not correct her error, and that a firm in ACA's position should have had such a misunderstanding corrected. But Mr. Martens, the S.E.C. lawyer, was not able to get Mr. Tourre to say under oath that he had actually read that phrase in the e-mail from Ms. Schwartz.
Mr. Tourre had forwarded the e-mail to a lawyer at Goldman, saying, ''Let's sit down and discuss when you get a chance.'' Mr. Tourre said all he could recall was that his note to the lawyer referred to the final sentence in the three-sentence e-mail, concerning credit analysis of the deal.
The courtroom was packed on Wednesday, as lawyers including Thomas Ajamie, a well-known plaintiffs' attorney, watched Mr. Martens in action. Mr. Tourre, dressed in a black suit, crisp white shirt and purple tie, looked much younger than his 34 years. He smiled at repetitive questions from Mr. Martens, often raising his eyebrows.
He spoke quickly with a thick accent, and had trouble pronouncing some simple words, which may color the jury's view of him. On more than one occasion, he referred to ''bonds'' but it sounded more like ''bones.''
''Sorry, it is my French accent,'' Mr. Tourre said to the court reporter, who had asked him to repeat a word.
While the highlight of the day was Mr. Tourre's testimony, most of Wednesday was consumed with the cross-examination by Mr. Tourre's lawyers of Ms. Schwartz, the ACA employee who worked with Goldman and Paulson & Company in 2007 to assemble the trade.
Though Ms. Schwartz proved to be an articulate witness for the S.E.C., Sean Coffey, Mr. Tourre's lawyer, spent hours taking apart her testimony, painting her as a poorly informed executive who did not seem to read newspaper articles on the hedge funds she counted as her clients. At one point, she could not remember doing a simple Internet search on Paulson & Company before meeting with them on the trade in question.
Ms. Schwartz, Mr. Coffey contended, was confused about Paulson & Company's role in the trade from the start.
In early January 2007, Ms. Schwartz received an e-mail from Gail Kreitman, a business acquaintance of hers who was then a Goldman saleswoman, about an unnamed client looking to meet with ACA. That same day Ms. Schwartz called Ms. Kreitman to discuss the e-mail. That call was followed up with an electronic meeting invitation to executives at Goldman and ACA, and referred to Paulson as an ''equity'' investor, meaning he would be a long investor, betting that the security would rise in value.
''Did she tell you the investment strategy?'' Mr. Coffey asked Ms. Schwartz about her call with Ms. Kreitman.
''I have no recollection.'' Ms. Schwartz said.
''You had never set eyes on Fabrice Tourre when you wrote this calendar invite,'' he said. Ms. Schwartz testified that she did not believe she had met Mr. Tourre at that point.
Mr. Coffey contended that Ms. Schwartz simply assumed Paulson & Company was taking a long position, and never bothered to directly ask Goldman or the hedge fund. Ms. Schwartz has testified that her impression that Paulson & Company was long was based on numerous documents and e-mails stating that Mr. Paulson was the equity investor. She said Goldman never corrected e-mails stating that.
While there were initial representations to ACA from Goldman that left the impression with ACA that Paulson & Company was going long on the trade, Mr. Coffey presented multiple other exhibits, including the offering document, which showed that no investor was taking that equity piece of the trade.
The jury also heard more about the another S.E.C. investigation Ms. Schwartz had been embroiled in. A week before the trial, the court was notified that the S.E.C. had decided not to bring a case against Ms. Schwartz, a reprieve that Mr. Tourre's lawyers hope will shade the jury's view of her.
Once the S.E.C. had decided not to move forward with the charges, it met with Ms. Schwartz to prepare her to testify at Mr. Tourre's trial. Mr. Martens asked Ms. Schwartz what he told her at the end of that preparation session. ''You told me to tell the truth and let the chips fall where they may. I have told my truth.''
Mr. Tourre is expected to continue his testimony on Thursday, and possibly into Friday.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Fabrice Tourre, left, with his lawyer, Sean Coffey, testified for two hours Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STAN HONDA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B1)
 Laura Schwartz, a former executive of ACA Management, which structured a trade for the John A. Paulson hedge fund. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EDUARDO MUNOZ/REUTERS) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WITNESSES (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); TESTIMONY (90%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); LAWYERS (77%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); HOUSING MARKET (68%); HEDGE FUNDS (60%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (93%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (54%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: FABRICE P TOURRE (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%) ILLINOIS, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2013



738 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 964 words

HEADLINE: Louisiana Agency Sues Dozens of Energy Companies for Damage to Wetlands

BYLINE: By JOHN SCHWARTZ

 BODY:
Louisiana officials filed a lawsuit on Wednesday against dozens of energy companies, hoping that the courts will force them to pay for decades of damage to fragile coastal wetlands that help buffer the effects of hurricanes on the region.
''This protective buffer took 6,000 years to form,'' the state board that oversees flood-protection efforts for much of the New Orleans area argued in court filings, adding that ''it has been brought to the brink of destruction over the course of a single human lifetime.''
The suit, which was denounced by Louisiana's governor, Bobby Jindal, was filed in civil district court in New Orleans by the board of the Southeast Louisiana Flood Protection Authority-East. The board argues that the energy companies, including BP and Exxon Mobil, should be held responsible for fixing damage done by cutting thousands of miles of oil and gas access and pipeline canals through the wetlands. It alleges that the network functioned ''as a mercilessly efficient, continuously expanding system of ecological destruction,'' killing vegetation, eroding soil and allowing salt water into freshwater areas. 
''What remains of these coastal lands is so seriously diseased that if nothing is done, it will slip into the Gulf of Mexico by the end of this century, if not sooner,'' the filing stated.
Mr. Jindal, a Republican, harshly criticized the lawsuit, releasing a statement saying the levee board had ''overstepped its authority'' and would damage Louisiana's ability to tackle coastal issues effectively.
''We're not going to allow a single levee board that has been hijacked by a group of trial lawyers to determine flood protection, coastal restoration and economic repercussions for the entire state of Louisiana,'' he said.
John M. Barry, an author and a member of the flood protection authority board, said the board had not been hijacked, but had investigated its ability to hire the outside law firm and conferred with the state's attorney general before proceeding. He added, ''Our board is independent and arrived at its position based on its collective scientific and policy judgment.''
Mr. Barry said there were other causes of coastal wetlands loss, including decisions by the Army Corps of Engineers over the decades to design navigation and flood-control systems for the Mississippi River that kept its waters from delivering the sediment that once nourished the wetlands. Still, he said, ''we just want them to fix what they broke.''
Gladstone N. Jones III, a lawyer for the flood protection authority board, said the plaintiffs were seeking damages equal to ''many billions of dollars. Many, many billions of dollars.''
Mr. Jones noted that whatever role the government might have had in wetlands loss, Washington had spent billions on repairing and strengthening hurricane defenses since the system built by the Corps of Engineers failed after Hurricane Katrina in 2005. By taking the companies to court, he said, ''we want them to come and pay their fair share.''
A spokeswoman for BP said the company would have no comment. A spokesman for Exxon Mobil said the company had no comment at this time.
The role of the industry is well documented in scientific studies and official reports. In calling for remediation efforts, a 2012 report by the state's Coastal Protection and Restoration Authority stated, ''Dredging canals for oil and gas exploration and pipelines provided our nation with critical energy supplies, but these activities also took a toll on the landscape, weakening marshes and allowing salt water to spread higher into coastal basins.''
The suit argues that the environmental buffer serves as an essential protection against storms by softening the blow of any incoming hurricane before it gets to the line of levees, flood walls, and gates and pumps maintained and operated by the board. Losing the ''natural first line of defense against flooding'' means that the levee system is ''left bare and ill-suited to safeguard south Louisiana,'' the lawsuit says.
The ''unnatural threat'' caused by exploration, it states, ''imperils the region's ecology and its people's way of life -- in short, its very existence.''
The lawsuit relies on well-established legal theories of negligence and nuisance, as well as elements of law more particular to the Louisiana Civil Code, including ''servitude of drain,'' which relates to changing patterns of water flow and drainage across the Bayou State. Even though the industry has been producing oil and gas for 100 years, because the damage is continuing to occur, the board argues, the statute of limitations should not apply.
Walter Olson, a Cato Institute expert on litigation who often expresses skepticism about civil litigation, said that he could not comment extensively without seeing the filing, but that ''it sounds like the sort of thing you couldn't dismiss out of hand.'' He said some environmental lawsuits, like one against power companies over the effects of climate change on sea-level rise and its effect on the Alaskan town of Kivalina, incorporate creative legal arguments that may not stand up in court. ''It's not Kivalina,'' he said, if the plaintiffs can point to specific people or entities causing specific damage. He added that proving causation in court, however, ''can be a big headache.''
No other state agencies have joined the lawsuit, and Mr. Barry said that during preparation of the suit, his board had not discussed the case with other levee boards. The politically powerful oil and gas industries might bring pressure to bear on others who might be inclined to join, Mr. Jones said, but now that the case has been filed, ''it really raises the question that's going to be asked at a whole lot of boards across southern Louisiana: Can we really afford not to do this?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Wetlands in Barataria Bay in southeastern Louisiana, part of an area the state says is in peril. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARIO TAMA/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WETLANDS (92%); SUITS & CLAIMS (91%); LITIGATION (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); RIVERS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); HURRICANES (89%); WEATHER (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); FLOOD INSURANCE (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); DAMAGES (78%); FLOODS & FLOODING (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (77%); FLOOD CONTROL (76%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (76%); ENGINEERING (74%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (73%); EROSION (72%); LAND RECLAMATION (72%); EROSION CONTROL (71%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (66%); ARMIES (50%)

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (58%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (58%)

PERSON: BOBBY JINDAL (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (93%) LOUISIANA, USA (98%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2013



739 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 174 words

HEADLINE: Treating Fistula

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Nicholas D. Kristof's July 14 column features a fistula hospital in Niger financed by outside donors. The Fistula Foundation funds this hospital and others in 19 countries in Asia and Africa. 
The overriding conclusion to our work is that ''one size does not fit all''; local conditions and a country's political, economic and social development determine what's necessary to provide women surgery that relieves their incontinence.
While community action that produces support for government programs is certainly ideal, in many countries with extremely weak central governments this is unrealistic. In the Democratic Republic of Congo and Somaliland, for instance, outside resources are vital to providing treatment.
Two million women suffer from untreated fistula; for them, prevention is too late. Humility to the profound suffering behind those numbers and the tenacity to propel financial and human resources locally and from outside is the way forward.
KATE GRANT Chief Executive Fistula Foundation San Jose, Calif., July 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOUNDATIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INCONTINENCE (88%); WOMEN (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) ASIA (92%); AFRICA (92%); NIGER (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (79%); SOMALIA (79%); SOMALILAND (53%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2013



740 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1081 words

HEADLINE: Welcome Mat for Crime as Neighborhoods Crumble

BYLINE: By TRIP GABRIEL

 BODY:
CLEVELAND -- On the blocks where the slain women were found, their bodies wrapped in plastic, nearly one in three homes is boarded up, some stripped of copper pipes and electrical wiring by scavengers that a Cleveland councilman compared to locusts.
Once again, a chilling crime has drawn national attention to Cleveland, exposing how violence festers in semi-abandoned neighborhoods where social bonds have weakened and women seem especially targeted as victims.
The police on Monday charged a registered sex offender with murdering three women and dumping their bodies in a garage, an overgrown field and the basement of a boarded-up house. The killings, in the suburb of East Cleveland, came two months after the escape of three women held captive for a decade by an unemployed bus driver in a boarded-up house in West Cleveland, an episode that plunged the city into introspection about how well people know their neighbors.
''This is what happens when you have poverty,'' Gov. John R. Kasich, who was in Cleveland on Monday, told reporters. ''It's what happens when you have individuals who are very dangerous inside the community and somehow lose track of them.'' 
The crimes also exposed how a city that is proud of its downtown business revival and world-class cultural and medical institutions continues to harbor pockets of despair and social breakdown.
The governor, a Republican, happened to be in town to announce financing for a new road to move traffic through the East side of Cleveland to the thriving University Circle neighborhood, which is home to the Cleveland Clinic, other hospitals and arts institutions.
Supporters of the $324 million project, known as Opportunity Corridor, including Mayor Frank G. Jackson, a Democrat, believe it will help the poor neighborhoods it transects. But Jeffrey Johnson, a City Council member whose ward is in the path of the project, said it was really a way to speed suburbanites to jobs and shopping while bypassing poverty. ''Instead of restoring the streets, they go around them,'' he said. ''It's a slap in the face.''
''It's symbolic of the problem,'' he added.
Cleveland was hit especially hard by the foreclosure crisis, and its legacy of abandoned homes has frayed neighborhoods, leaving behind those who cannot afford to get out, while providing shelter to people on the social margins. Areas with many vacant and abandoned homes are breeding grounds for crime, local officials said.
Cleveland and surrounding Cuyahoga County receive nearly 20 percent of the population leaving state prisons, with many returning to the neighborhoods on the East side, said Ronnie A. Dunn, an associate professor of urban studies at Cleveland State University and a member of the criminal justice task force within Cleveland's N.A.A.C.P., which has proposed a City Hall forum on women's safety.
''Unfortunately a lot of these crime victims, they tend to be African-American women or minority women,'' he said.
They included 11 black women murdered by the city's most notorious serial killer, Anthony Sowell, whose killings came to light in 2009. Professor Dunn called the case ''Cleveland's Hurricane Katrina'' for exposing neighborhoods of poverty and social collapse.
Mr. Johnson, the councilman for Ward 8 on the East Side, said: ''Most people living in inner cities are great people. But they're afraid. They won't talk about the crazy guy down the street who talks aggressively to women.''
The suburb of East Cleveland, once the home of John D. Rockefeller, has been in decline for much of the century since. It lost 40 percent of its population from 1990 to 2011, as those who could afford to moved out, said Robert L. Fischer of the Center on Urban Poverty and Community Development at Case Western Reserve University.
Mayor Gary Norton of East Cleveland said serial killers could be found anywhere. The suspect charged this week in the three recent murders, Michael Madison, 35, pleaded guilty to attempted rape in 2002 and was registered as a sex offender at an address in Cleveland.
But residents of the neighborhood where the bodies were found said he was living in a nearby apartment on Shaw Avenue, where he was well known as a marijuana dealer.
''Every girl who talked to him wanted to smoke marijuana. He was never out of it,'' said Shaeaun Childs, 42, a cable TV installer who works from an office in the building where Mr. Madison lived.
Last week, Mr. Childs phoned the police with a complaint about a foul smell coming from a garage that Mr. Madison used. The body of one of the women was found there on Friday. A search turned up two more bodies on Saturday.
Residents dated the neighborhood's steep decline to about two years ago. Before then, neighbors and owners of abandoned houses would cut the small front lawns to keep up appearances. But then they let the weeds take over. Now, plywood covering some doors and windows has been pried off, and the interiors have been vandalized. A ''For Sale'' sign offering ''$500 down, no credit check'' seems a hopeless come-on.
Mayor Norton said more money was needed to tear down abandoned houses. ''We know they're havens for crime,'' he said.
As it happens, the father of the first murdered woman the police identified, Angela Deskins, 38, is in the tear-down business. A second victim, Shetisha Sheeley, 28, was identified on Tuesday.
That afternoon, family members of a young woman who disappeared July 10 passed out fliers on the block where she had last been seen, about 10 blocks from Shaw Avenue. Rosa Terry said her granddaughter Shirellda Helen Terry, 18, had been walking home from work in the office of a nearby school but had never arrived.
Relatives described Shirellda as a sheltered girl who was home-schooled and loved reading and ''praise dancing'' at her church. She had ''no link to Madison,'' the suspect, Ms. Terry said. ''I can't see it.''
The relatives and a few volunteers took shelter from the sun under picnic umbrellas, while others stood on the sidewalks and in the middle of traffic handing out fliers. Cars honked their support.
''How many more Sowells and Madisons do they have out there?'' said Christine Wilson, a volunteer with an anticrime group called Black on Black. She said she had been raped decades ago and had not reported it. Then this summer, her 15-year-old granddaughter was raped walking home from her job as a lifeguard. ''I don't want to ever shut my mouth again,'' Ms. Wilson said.
Later that evening, Shirellda Terry was identified as the third victim.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Relatives of Shirellda Helen Terry, a missing 18-year-old, comforted each other Tuesday. Later that day, she was identified as one of three women found dead in East Cleveland. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL F. MCELROY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Michael Madison, 35, a registered sex offender, was charged this week with the three killings. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EAST CLEVELAND POLICE DEPARTMENT, VIA REUTERS) (A12)
East Cleveland residents, top, gathered at an abandoned house Sunday to look for more victims. Above left, Ariel Castro, center, is accused of holding three women captive in Cleveland. Anthony Sowell, above right, the city's most notorious serial killer, was convicted of killing 11 women. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TONY DEJAK/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 MARK DUNCAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROPERTY VACANCIES (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MURDER (78%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); SEX OFFENSES (76%); SUBURBS (76%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (74%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); FORECLOSURE (73%); GOVERNORS (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%); TALKS & MEETINGS (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); CREDIT CRISIS (50%)

PERSON: JOHN KASICH (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (96%) OHIO, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2013



741 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1330 words

HEADLINE: Company In Eden

BYLINE: By JOSHUA LYON

 BODY:
Rene Denis, a college student from Lyndhurst, N.J., was standing with a few friends just inside a guard rail on a remote stretch of Route 23A in the Catskills on a recent summer day when a black car, stereo blasting, sped around the corner. It slowed to a halt, and a young man wearing sunglasses leaned out the window and called, ''You know how to get to Fawn's Leap?''
Zach Ciurczak, a muscular blond 21-year-old covered in tattoos of various Italian phrases, yelled, ''It's right here!'' just as Mr. Denis bolted from the road and leapt over the edge of a cliff. Hailing peace signs to the sky, he looked nothing like a fawn as he plummeted.
A third shirtless young man, with a miniature silver barbell poking through his left nipple, turned to the waiting car and said, ''Just park up the road a ways.'' 
He then inched toward the edge of the cliff and peered down. ''No way,'' he said with a nervous laugh, backing up. A large group of revelers on the other side of the chasm egged him on, their voices nearly indecipherable over the roar of a 24-foot waterfall.
Mr. Ciurczak whooped and hurled himself off the rocks, joining Mr. Denis in the swimming hole below, just one of hundreds of such spots along the nearly 26-mile-long Kaaterskill Creek.
With the faint scent of pot in the air and beer cans glistening in the sun, no one noticed the state trooper who glided into place where the black car had stood idling just moments before.
Swimming holes have always held a sort of mythical quality. Everyone seems to have heard of that one sweet secret location through a friend of a friend: the still pool of crystal water hidden at the end of a winding path, untainted by tourists, inviting a skinny dip. But in the Hudson River Valley, isolated places to shed one's clothes on hot days are becoming tougher to find as a more urban, unencumbered crowd heads upstate, colonizing this part of rural New York as a kind of Williamsburg North.
''Going to the beach is fun,'' Mr. Denis said, ''but we have a house in Ortley and Hurricane Sandy wiped it out. It isn't ready at all, and we needed somewhere else to go.'' A quick Google search and a few YouTube videos later, Mr. Denis decided on Fawn's Leap Falls and rounded up a group of friends for the two-hour drive. ''There were over 25 people here earlier,'' he said. ''Everyone was interacting with each other and celebrating whenever someone jumped. We're going to check out other spots in the area, too.''
This is much to the dismay of many locals in nearby Palenville, a hamlet with just over 1,000 residents. ''We've had complaints of parties,'' said Lt. Adam Brainard of the Greene County Sheriff's office. ''There's definitely drinking going on, and garbage gets left behind. We've sent undercover guys there and made arrests for under-age drinking and possession of drugs. Plus, people just park on the narrow shoulder of these very windy roads. Sometimes they even take down the 'No Parking' signs.''
There are concerns about physical safety as well. ''There's no supervision in these spots, and in our corridor here along 23A there's a lot of flooding and rain runoff that changes the terrain underneath the water,'' Lieutenant Brainard said. ''What you're jumping into today might not be as deep as it was the last time you visited. We get a consistent amount of fatalities and injuries every year.''
Just last month, a man who had been drinking and jumping slipped and fell at Fawn's Leap, and was airlifted to Albany Medical Center for treatment of head injuries. But the element of danger hardly deters visitors. ''It's really exhilarating,'' Mr. Denis said.
There is more-organized thrill-seeking in the area as well. In Phoenicia, a small town 13 miles west of Woodstock, Angelo Nikolopoulos, a 31-year-old poet who lives on the Upper West Side, spent a recent afternoon cruising two miles of white water on the Esopus River in a short pair of black swim trunks and an inner tube rented from Town Tinker -- a last hurrah of summer fun before heading to a residency at the MacDowell Colony.
''There was this one particularly rough stretch of rapids, almost like a small waterfall,'' he said. ''On the shore at the base of it, two locals had set up lawn chairs with a cooler and were watching all the tubers face-plant in the water as they reached the bottom. It was like the D.I.Y. edition of ESPN.''
Downstream from Fawn's Leap, a couple in their 20s were having a more peaceful experience. Kenny Quintano, a construction manager, and Christina Amicucci, a Pace University student, drove up from Westchester County for a picnic. ''My mother used to come here as a kid,'' Mr. Quintano said from a wide, flat rock overlooking a lovely pool in the stream.
The swimsuit-clad duo had spread out towels; a picnic basket was packed with sandwiches, chips and beer. ''The last time I visited, I only saw two others the entire day,'' he said. ''But there was a whole family here earlier, and just now a group of 10 kids passed by. I feel like there are more people.''
Some locals are embracing the new crowds. Will Lytle, a 26-year-old scruffy-face illustrator, was born and raised in artsy Woodstock, which has popular designated natural-water attractions like Big Deep and the Millstream Swimming Hole. ''We've seen more visitors and weekenders every year, and a big element of our economy is tourist-related,'' he said. ''Swimming holes are a part of that. They're part of the upstate cultural identity. They're free to play in, but the surrounding businesses benefit. If a visitor wants a genuine experience though, do what we do: get in your car and start searching.''
Just be prepared for the unexpected. Erin Hosier, 38, a literary agent and former Brooklynite who moved to Woodstock last year, took her Cavalier King Charles spaniel to splash around in a secluded stretch of stream on the edge of town earlier this summer when she came across a curious sight on the trail.
''There was a man, maybe in his 30s, bent over digging around in the tree roots,'' she said. ''He was completely naked, butt in the air. Of course, the dog ran right up to him and licked his ankles, and the trail was so narrow that I had to squeeze by him. He made no attempt to move, so I was just like, 'What's up?' And he said, 'What's up.' At no point did he stand. I carry a knife with me now whenever I go into the woods.''
Surprise nudists aren't the only potential hazard: It's easy to wander accidentally onto private property. ''When I was growing up we always heard rumors of the most beautiful spot over in Platte Clove,'' Mr. Lytle said, referring to a creek north of Woodstock. ''Boyhood legend had it that it was owned by an 'ex-Olympian Russian wrestler.' A few summers ago, some friends and I were hiking up there when we stumbled upon this gorgeous, natural stone amphitheater, waterfall and a deep pond with a pebble beach. There were even ruins of an old mill. We all got naked and swam for about an hour when suddenly this giant, barrel-chested old man came storming out of the woods, screaming in a thick accent: 'You'll all go to jail. You brought beautiful women to a place that is not yours.' He let us get dressed before escorting us out.''
For Mr. Lytle, that was still a preferable experience to an afternoon at Fawn's Leap. ''You think there's tension between the people in Palenville and tourists,'' he said. ''Well, there's tension between me and the locals there. My friends and I always had to go with the caveat that we might get some rocks or racial slurs thrown at us.''
Aside from complaints about parties and traffic, perhaps some of the locals' frustration stems from the fact that tiny Palenville doesn't reap the same economic benefits from out-of-town bathers as Woodstock does, although there is one steady stream of revenue. As the day wound down, many of the exhausted Fawn's Leap jumpers returned to their cars for the long drive home to discover parting gifts, courtesy of the state trooper: $100 parking tickets.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A swimming hole under Kaaterskill Falls in Hunter, N.Y., in Greene County. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID B. TORCH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (E1)
Above, cooling off under Kaaterskill Falls in Hunter, N.Y. Left, a spot below a sharp drop-off downstream from the Big Deep swimming hole in Woodstock, N.Y.
Above, Patrick Stephenson of Albany in the Millstream swimming hole in Woodstock, N.Y. Right, friends from Sayville on Long Island jump from rocks downstream from the Big Deep water hole in Woodstock.
Visitors and locals at play in the Millstream swimming hole in Woodstock. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DANNY GHITIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 DAVID B. TORCH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (E8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOUNTAINS (77%); HURRICANE SANDY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (67%) APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2013



742 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Well)

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2013

SECTION: HEALTH

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: Australians Are Getting Fatter

BYLINE: ANAHAD O'CONNOR


HIGHLIGHT: Australia may be known for its rugged outdoor lifestyles but recent statistics suggest a different reality. Australia and its equally outdoorsy neighbor, New Zealand, are now two of the fattest countries in the developed world. 

 BODY:
Around the world, Australia may be known for its rugged outdoor lifestyles. But recent statistics suggest a different reality. Australia and its equally outdoorsy neighbor, New Zealand, are now two of the fattest countries in the developed world.
Obesity rates in the two countries have tripled in the last three decades, mirroring the sharp rise that occurred in the United States during roughly the same period. In Australia, at least 60 percent of adults and roughly a quarter of children are overweight or obese.
A United Nations report this month showed that Mexico and the United States, in that order, lead the developed world in obesity. But Australia and New Zealand were only slightly behind. 
Populations in many developed nations are, not surprisingly, getting heavier. Industrialization often carries a cultural cost that includes more sedentary behaviors and the spread of sugary drinks and heavily processed foods. According to research by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, one out of two people in nearly half of all developed countries is overweight or obese.
But the prevalence of obesity appears to be increasing faster in Australia than in any other industrialized nation. While obesity rates have recently plateaued in America, for example, researchers say they expect to see the rise in Australia continue across all age groups for at least another decade.
The trend, Australian authorities say, is costing the country tens of billions of dollars a year in reduced productivity, disability and direct health complications. Like their counterparts in the United States, Australian health officials have been struggling to find ways to rein in the country's rapidly expanding waistlines.
Mostly, they have turned to public outreach and education. The Australian government has poured money into national programs that teach schoolchildren to grow and prepare fresh foods and that encourage adults to "swap" things like elevators and chocolate cake for staircases and fruit. There have also been more drastic approaches. Several years ago, the government of the country's most populous state, New South Wales, started paying for its morbidly obese citizens to have weight loss surgery.
Health proponents in Australia are also taking cues from some American public officials, like Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York. In January, three of Australia's leading health organizations - including Diabetes Australia and the Heart Foundation - joined forces for the first time to launch a national campaign called "Rethink Sugary Drinks."
The groups said that vending machines packed with junk food were becoming commonplace in schools and workplaces, and that adults and children were drinking soft drinks to excess. Studies show that half of all children in Australia drink at least one sugar-sweetened beverage daily. The head of Diabetes Australia, Greg Johnson, said it was time for a government tax on sugar-sweetened beverages.
The anti-sugar campaign is blitzing the airwaves with public service announcements, including a television commercial that shows a man eating 16 packets of sugar - the amount, the ad states, in a large soft drink. Americans might find the ad familiar: It was licensed from the New York City health department.
In Western Australia, the state government paid for a separate campaign that warns about the dangers of belly fat using graphic images. One television ad shows a man reaching for a slice of pizza, and then hesitating as he looks down at his waist and grabs a fold of his belly fat. A view from inside his abdomen flashes onto the screen, showing his intestines cloaked in bright layers of fat.
"When you eat more than you need to and aren't as active as you should be, fat doesn't just build up around your waist," a narrator exclaims. "A toxic fat also builds up around your vital organs, releasing dangerous levels of chemicals that bring heart disease, diabetes and cancer closer."
In a critique of the ads, Deborah Lupton, a sociologist at the University of Sydney, said they were designed to provoke shock and horror. She questioned whether the ads would be effective.
"The intention is clearly to invite the target audience - people who have a 'grabbable gut,' as the campaign's print media ads put it - to envisage the insides of their bodies as diseased, poisoned and repulsively overrun with deposits of viscous fat," she wrote. "It's likely," she added, "that many members of the target audience may simply avert their eyes because they find the images so repulsive."
But as health authorities step up their attack on junk foods and sugar-laden drinks, some experts are debating whether such efforts are misguided. In 2011, two leading nutrition and diabetes experts in Australia created controversy when they published a study arguing that at the same time obesity rates soared, the consumption of refined sugar in Australia had appeared to fall substantially. The researchers called this phenomenon "the Australian Paradox," and it suggested, they argued, that public health messages aimed at sugar intake might not do much to curtail obesity.
But another paper published this month by a group at the University of Western Australia argued that there is no paradox.
Australia is one of the leading exporters of raw sugar in the world, exporting more than 80 percent of its raw sugar to countries like South Korea, Indonesia and Malaysia. Production data alone makes it appear that the amount of sugar in the domestic supply has been decreasing. But in reality, the study found, a large amount of the raw sugar that Australia exports is processed elsewhere and then returned to the country in the form of packaged foods.
"Customs data on imports of processed foods show that over the last 20 years there has been rapid and still increasing growth in imports of processed foods, many with high sugar content," the authors wrote. "Our conservative estimate suggests that at least one-sixth of the sugar in the domestic food supply is now imported into the country in this way."

        
Really? The Claim: Children Tend to Gain Weight Over Summer Recess
        
Talk to Gary Taubes About Sugar
        
Blaming the Patient, Then Asking Forgiveness
        
How Carbs Can Trigger Food Cravings
        
Obesity in Teenagers Is Tied to Hearing Loss

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: OBESITY (92%); CHILDHOOD OBESITY (90%); DIETING (89%); CHILDREN (89%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (88%); SOFT DRINKS (88%); TRENDS (78%); VOLUNTARY HEALTH ORGANIZATIONS (77%); NUTRITION (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (76%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); PRODUCTIVITY (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); BARIATRICS (72%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (69%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (69%); PUBLIC SERVICE ADVERTISING (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (66%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (61%); DIABETES (60%) Diet and Nutrition; Obesity; Sugar; Weight; Dieting and Weight; Featured

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (79%) AUSTRALIA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); NEW ZEALAND (94%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2013



743 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1184 words

HEADLINE: A Better Way to Think About Trade

BYLINE: SIMON JOHNSON


HIGHLIGHT: A senior Democrat has proposed that the United States seek stronger trade agreements that would better protect the economy, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Simon Johnson, former chief economist of the International Monetary Fund, is the Ronald A. Kurtz Professor of Entrepreneurship at the M.I.T. Sloan School of Management and co-author of "White House Burning: The Founding Fathers, Our National Debt, and Why It Matters to You." 
Representative Sander Levin of Michigan, the senior Democrat on the Ways and Means Committee, which has jurisdiction over many trade issues, proposed this week that the United States make a significant change in its approach to international trade. The United States is in the middle of trade negotiations that, while still somewhat under the political radar and seldom on the front pages, have the potential to affect the economy - and many people's jobs - in ways that could be quite negative or somewhat positive.
Mr. Levin, in remarks earlier at the Peterson Institute for International Economics, laid out a set of issues that are entirely reasonable and could well draw bipartisan support, even in the House of Representatives. (I'm a senior fellow at the institute, but I was not involved in organizing this event.) The Obama administration should pay attention, particularly as any trade deal ultimately needs Congressional support. 
Mr. Levin made three main proposals that are directly relevant for the negotiations between the United States and countries on the Pacific Rim, aiming to sign a Trans-Pacific Partnership Agreement. (For a primer on that agreement, I recommend the book "Understanding the Trans-Pacific Partnership" by my colleagues Jeffrey J. Schott, Barbara Kotschwar and Julia Muir - the introduction and two other chapters are free.) The same principles are relevant for other potential trade deals.
The first point is that enforceable labor and environmental standards need to be given more emphasis in American trade agreements with other nations. Recent horrendous events in Bangladesh have driven home the unfortunate truth that if matters are left purely "to the market," there will be very unsafe factories and dangerous working conditions. People will die, tragically and unnecessarily, producing cheap goods for American consumers.

Under consumer and legal pressure, companies in the United States and Europe are changing how they interact with suppliers - and insisting on higher standards. Richard Locke, director of the Watson Institute for International Studies at Brown University (and my former colleague at M.I.T.), has worked long and hard on these issues, and his conclusion is that while voluntary standards can help, more formal commitments by governments also play a constructive role. 
(I recommend his book, "The Promise and Limits of Private Power: Promoting Labor Standards in a Global Economy," as well as "The High Price of Cheap Clothing," in which public radio's Warren Olney discussed the issues with Professor Locke and other experts earlier this year.)
When I discuss these matters with global business executives, almost without exception they are of the opinion that health and safety should be subject to minimum acceptable - and legally enforceable - standards everywhere. Mr. Levin is pushing on an open door.
Mr. Levin's second point is just as compelling. Japan has just joined the Pacific Rim negotiations, in part no doubt hoping that American tariffs on Japanese cars and trucks will be lowered. But it should not escape American negotiators that despite many years of promises, the Japanese automotive market - for both completed vehicles and components - remains very much closed to foreigners.
In large part, this is because of what economists like to call nontariff barriers - but it is exactly such barriers that the agreement under negotiation is supposed to address. Mr. Levin's proposal is simple: tie the tariff reduction on Japanese cars and trucks to actual progress with automotive imports into Japan. 
Those would not, by the way, have to be imports from the United States; the Japanese might consider letting in some South Korean cars and components (a repeated and reasonable South Korean request). The point is to get beyond promising that markets will be more open to actually removing the de facto barriers to trade.
Many countries claim to engage in free trade. But some governments, and the companies that work closely with them, have become adept at gaming the system - essentially finding various forms of official actions that tilt the playing field. Or if you prefer to be more blunt, engaging in unfair trade practices. 
Mr. Levin is talking about removing government distortions, and this is why I expect he may receive a great deal of Republican support.
And this is also where Mr. Levin's third proposal will really hit a nerve. There are countries that manipulate their exchange rate - lowering (or depreciating, in technical jargon) its value in order to gain a competitive advantage, increasing exports and reducing imports relative to what they would otherwise be.
The nuances of currency manipulation are fascinating and, as Mr. Levin said, the International Monetary Fund has invested a great deal of time and effort in detecting and measuring such actions. (This is part of what I worked on when I was at the I.M.F. in 2004-5 and 2007-8.)
Unfortunately, constraining or preventing currency manipulation through the I.M.F. and other multilateral forums has not been successful, and this potentially matters a great deal for the United States economy (see, for example, a recent report by C. Fred Bergsten and Joseph Gagnon of the Peterson Institute, or a May lecture by Mr. Bergsten). 
Again, the issue is cheating within the system, with governments' getting away with actions that distort markets on a grand scale. Here, too, I don't know many Republicans who would feel good about this.
Mr. Levin proposes to establish a panel, as part of the Trans-Pacific Partnership Agreement, that would determine if currency manipulation has taken place. (Trade agreements typically include similar mediation mechanisms, but it would be innovative to do this for currency manipulation.) Relying on the I.M.F. or the United States Treasury to make a currency manipulation determination in the past has not worked, primarily for political reasons.
If a country manipulates its currency to gain an unfair advantage, the tariff on its goods and services sold to the United States would rise back to the level that would have existed without the free trade agreement, Mr. Levin proposes. In other words, it is just the additional perceived benefit of the proposed reduction that is on the table in the Trans-Pacific Partnership Agreement or any other free trade proposal.
This is a targeted and responsible proposal. It should get support from both sides of the aisle on Capitol Hill. The Obama administration needs Democratic and Republican votes to get the Trans-Pacific Partnership Agreement and other trade deals adopted. 
Top officials should listen carefully to Mr. Levin's suggestions.

        
An Economic Primer for Spies
        
The Case for Women
        
Ending Poverty by Giving the Poor Money
        
Jacob Lew's Signature, Squiggle-Free
        
The Current U.S. Economy: Text and Subtext

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); WRITERS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); PUBLIC RADIO (73%); NATIONAL DEBT (72%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (63%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%) Currency; Customs (Tariff); International Monetary Fund; International Trade and World Market; Levin, Sander; Treaties; Today's Economist

ORGANIZATION: International Monetary Fund

PERSON: SANDER M LEVIN (90%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (79%); BANGLADESH (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2013



744 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2013

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 845 words

HEADLINE: A Summer of Data Hacking Social Problems

BYLINE: STEVE LOHR


HIGHLIGHT: A summer program at the University of Chicago is intended to let aspiring young data scientists apply their skills to urban and social problems. The program is led by Rayid Ghani, who was chief scientist in the Obama re-election campaign. He hopes the program will show young data experts the challenge and opportunity to do &#8220;things that really matter&#8221; for nonprofits, civic groups and local governments. 

 BODY:
The idea, Rayid Ghani recalled, grew out of his experience speaking to computer science students at elite schools like Carnegie Mellon, Stanford and the University of Chicago. President Obama had just won his re-election bid last fall. And Mr. Ghani, chief scientist for the campaign, was on a kind of explanatory victory tour, describing how cutting-edge data analysis and computing tools gave its side an edge.
For Mr. Ghani, the Obama campaign demonstrated how those tools could be used to influence people in fields beyond the well-known commercial ones, like search, social networks and online advertising. And beyond politics, he would tell the students, were a host of social challenges in health care, education and urban development where their skills could be put to good use, working with nonprofits, civic groups and local governments. 
The students, Mr. Ghani said, seemed mostly unaware of the opportunity for such social applications. "So much of the computing agenda today is motivated by the problems that the big Internet companies face," he observed. "But if all these kids are doing that, they are not working on the things that really matter."
So Mr. Ghani created theData Science for Social Good fellowship program at the University of Chicago, which began in June, and gives aspiring young data scientists a chance to tackle real-world social problems. The program owes its existence to a private pool of wealth created by an Internet giant. It is financed by the Schmidt Family Foundation, an educational charity led by Eric Schmidt, executive chairman of Google, and his wife, Wendy.
In March, Mr. Ghani joined the University of Chicago, where he is a research scientist at both the Harris School of Public Policy and the Computation Institute. That month, he made a trip to Silicon Valley and visited Mr. Schmidt, whom he had worked with on the Obama campaign. Mr. Ghani described his idea for a summer fellowship program. Impressed, Mr. Schmidt urged Mr. Ghani to move quickly and do it for this summer.
In an e-mail, Mr. Schmidt explained that he spent a lot of time in Chicago for the Obama campaign, and he grew fond of the city and admired the University of Chicago. "This is a small way to help that might have a bigger impact than we think," he wrote.
Urban social problems are a fresh challenge for sophisticated data tools. Regardless of what the students eventually do, the summer, Mr. Schmidt wrote, will be a valuable experience. "Almost all the interesting jobs will be related to Big Data in the future."
Mr. Ghani is hoping to encourage students along a path taken in his own career. He spent a decade as a research scientist at Accenture, helping retailers and others design predictive models of consumer behavior. For much of that time, he recalled, "The intellectual, algorithmic challenges were exciting and I didn't care much about the applications."
But while at Accenture, Mr. Ghani spent his spare time volunteering for social programs, like tutoring children from poorer neighborhoods. Joining the Obama campaign, he said, was a step toward work that combined what he was good at and what he cared about.
Mr, Ghani said he wanted to work on complex urban and social problems at the university. The 36 summer fellows - winnowed from 550 applicants - are putting their minds to such challenges. They come from schools across the country, and a few from abroad.
For example, Skyler Whorton, 24, holds a master's degree in computer science from Worcester Polytechnic Institute. He is working with a small team that is helping the Cook County Land Bank come up with a Netflix-style recommendation engine to identify the most promising properties for redevelopment, mostly in blighted neighborhoods on Chicago's South and West Sides.
Emily Rowe, 26, has a master's degree in public policy from the University of Chicago, with a background in statistics and econometrics. Her project is to develop quantitative tools for measuring the national effectiveness of the Nurse-Family Partnership, a community health program that is now in 42 states. The partnership sends nurses to assist low-income pregnant women with their first child, from prenatal care until the child is two years old.
After the summer program, Ms. Rowe will be looking for a job in data science, probably for a research organization or a private company. She said she planned to do volunteer work and perhaps work for a nonprofit later.
In the fall, Mr. Whorton will join Wayfair.com, an online retailer specializing in furniture and home furnishings. But Mr. Whorton said he planned to join "open data" meetups in the Boston area, where volunteer programmers develop Web or smartphone applications, using public data, to improve city services.
"Social problems are an area that is under-served by computer science," Mr. Whorton said.

        
Google Debuts an Updated Nexus 7 Tablet
        
Today's Scuttlebot: Chromecast and Painting With Windows '95
        
Paltalk Tries to Take Advantage of Its Prism Notoriety
        
Mainframe Computers That Change With the Times
        
Big Data Analysis Adds to Guest Worker Debate

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (90%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (90%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (88%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); POLITICS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (77%); SOCIAL MEDIA (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); BIG DATA (71%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (71%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (70%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (70%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (70%); CITIES (69%); RETAILERS (60%) Chicago (Ill); Computers and the Internet; Rayid Ghani; Schmidt, Eric E; University of Chicago; Data; Policy; Social

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (57%); ACCENTURE PLC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: University of Chicago

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (57%); ACN (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (50%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); ERIC E SCHMIDT (89%) Schmidt, Eric E

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (93%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) Chicago (Ill)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2013



745 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 583 words

HEADLINE: Lazard Quarterly Profit Rises 81%

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: The investment bank Lazard defied a weak merger market in the second quarter, reporting that adjusted profit rose to $60 million from $33 million in the period a year earlier. 

 BODY:
Updated, 9:45 a.m. | 
Lazard defied a weak merger market in the second quarter, reporting that profit increased 81 percent.
The investment bank said on Thursday that its adjusted profit rose to $60 million from $33 million in the second quarter of 2012. The earnings of 45 cents a share blew past the average analyst estimate of 34 cents a share, according to Standard & Poor's Capital IQ.
Using generally accepted accounting principles, Lazard reported profit of $31 million, flat from the period a year earlier. 
 The results showed the early effects of a cost-saving plan announced in October that has exceeded its goal, Lazard said. The firm now expects to achieve annual cost savings of about $160 million.
Lazard, an independent firm, also showed its deal-making prowess. Despite a broad slump in deal activity, Lazard reported growth in its core financial advisory business, as operating revenue increased 9 percent, to $263 million.
Revenue from advising on mergers and other deals drove the growth in that segment, while the firm's restructuring business reported a decline in revenue for the quarter.
Over all, Lazard's operating revenue increased to $511 million from $455 million in the second quarter of 2012.
"Lazard continues to perform well in challenging global market conditions," Kenneth M. Jacobs, the firm's chairman and chief executive, said in a statement.
The investment bank had a hand in some of the biggest deals of recent months. It advised Deutsche Telekom on the $29 billion merger of T-Mobile and MetroPCS, and it advised Berkshire Hathaway and 3G Capital in their $28 billion acquisition of H.J. Heinz, which closed in the second quarter. 
Lazard also showed strength in its asset management business, where operating revenue rose 18 percent, to $243 million, the firm said.
The cost savings that Lazard expects to achieve include $120 million related to compensation expenses and about $40 million of other expenses. Those areas have been a focus of investors like Nelson Peltz, who has urged greater discipline.
The firm's adjusted profit excluded a pretax charge of $38 million related to the completion of the cost-saving efforts. 
In an interview, Mr. Jacobs discussed broad trends driving mergers and acquisitions, noting that a slowly improving economy was bolstering confidence in that arena. While valuations in the United States might be on the "rich" side, they seemed favorable, he said, when taking earnings and the economy into account.
"This is the first time when I think there's a wide consensus that we are experiencing a recovery," Mr. Jacobs said. "There's nothing that helps confidence more than seeing your environment improve."
He also said it seemed that the economic situation in Europe had stabilized, as a result of moves by the central bank and government officials there. 
"It feels like to us that a lot of the tail risk that people were so concerned about in Europe is probably diminished," Mr. Jacobs said. "You're starting to see little signs of activity here or there. I wouldn't read too much into it yet, but it's more stable."
Lazard has recently been able to attract senior talent from other firms, including Larry Slaughter, a former JPMorgan Chase deal maker who was hired in May. A restructuring expert at Goldman Sachs, Lachlan Edwards, is reported to be headed to Lazard in October to run the bank's capital structure advisory business in Australia.

        
Lazard's Profit Falls 17% in First Quarter
        
Lazard's Profit Surges as Deal Assignments Pick Up

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (91%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); COMPANY REVENUES (90%); MERGERS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (78%); 3G WIRELESS (78%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); EXECUTIVES (65%); ACCOUNTING (56%) Company Reports; Jacobs, Kenneth M; Lazard LLC; Peltz, Nelson; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Wall Street Earnings

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE TELEKOM AG (54%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (54%); T-MOBILE INTERNATIONAL AG (54%); 3G CAPITAL PARTNERS LTD (54%); T-MOBILE US INC (54%); H J HEINZ CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Lazard LLC

TICKER: DTE (FRA) (54%); DTE (BIT) (54%); BRK.B (NYSE) (54%); BRK.A (NYSE) (54%); TMUS (NYSE) (54%); HNZ (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (54%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (54%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (54%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (54%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (54%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (54%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (54%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (54%); SIC4899 COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES, NEC (54%); NAICS311941 MAYONNAISE, DRESSING & OTHER PREPARED SAUCE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311421 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING (53%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (53%); SIC2035 PICKLED FRUITS & VEGETABLES, VEGETABLE SAUCES & SEASONINGS, & SALAD DRESSINGS (53%); SIC2033 CANNED FRUITS, VEGETABLES, PRESERVES, JAMS, & JELLIES (53%)

PERSON: Jacobs, Kenneth M; Peltz, Nelson

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2013



746 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2013

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 683 words

HEADLINE: The 2014 Hyundai Equus: Nondescript Country-Club Comfort at a Competitive Price

BYLINE: BENJAMIN PRESTON


HIGHLIGHT: Hyundai has redesigned the 2014 Equus, offering a large car that is quiet, comfortable and powerful. But is it ready for competition against other luxury segment marques? 

 BODY:
What luxury means to different people depends upon a variety of things: where they're from, how wealthy they are, whether or not they care much about what other people think and so on. Hyundai, which brought its 2014 Equus luxury sedan in New York City Wednesday, seems to be going for the market where comfort and price matter, but overtly impressing other people doesn't.
When I went to see the new Equus for myself, the first thing that struck me was how unnoticeable it was. If you saw one from far away, you might initially think it was a Mercedes, but you probably wouldn't knock yourself over trying to find out what marque was hiding behind that familiar chrome grille. 
The Equus is pleasant to look at, with a nice shape and lines that my brain tells me equate luxury in some vague way. But that's just the thing. The car blends in. It looks like something that the Agriculture Department would use to pick up midlevel bureaucrats from the airport, if the department were in Seoul. The car's looks are ambiguous, with no defining feature that jumps out at me as really, really distinct. Its generic grille and flying wishbone emblems, which on previous models made me wonder if the car was fake (don't ask me why), remain unchanged.
Before we get any deeper into the actual car bits that make the Equus, let's touch upon its infotainment system controls because that seems to be what Hyundai wants us to look at first. The center stack-mounted display screen, although surprisingly not a touch screen, was a huge 12.3 inches. The controls are straightforward, and to a relative automotive Luddite like myself, the symmetrically placed knobs on the console and center stack were a relief compared to the confusing array of buttons and menu screens in some cars.
I then took the car for a half-hour drive around Manhattan, and I can't say anything other than that it was a nice ride. Quiet, smooth and unobtrusive, the Equus was a serene place from which to escape the city's sticky summertime madness. Although it's a rather large car that fits snugly through tight city spaces, the nondescriptness of the Equus is almost soothing. The car's back seat is what back seats should be - spacious, quiet and with reclining, climate-controlled seats. None of my thinking capacity was taken up by worrying about discomfort because there was none.
One feature that did shine on that brief drive was the engine. For a moment, traffic on the West Side Highway cleared up, and I buried my right foot. I'd already switched the 8-speed automatic transmission to sport mode (is there any other way to travel?) and was able to let the Equus' 429-horsepower, dual-overhead-cam 5-liter engine breathe a bit.
Acceleration was sprightly, although its fuel economy numbers are somewhat less impressive. Hyundai says the estimated city mileage is 15 and the highway mileage 23, for a combined 18 m.p.g. In an age when even the behemoth Audi A8 can break 30 m.p.g., that could be a deal breaker for many.
At the end of the day, the Equus is a nice car. I know I already said that, but it really is. It reminds me of the modern equivalent of the '86 Lincoln Town Car I drove in college; soft and comfy, albeit without the outrageous '70s baroque styling leftovers that made me think that car was so cool.
So who would buy an Equus? I can't say for sure, but my guess is that it's going to be someone who wants a good car that they don't have to pay much for - Hyundai said it would cost from $60,000 to $68,000, whereas that fuel-thrifty Audi A8 costs more than $70,000. I expect to see more of Hyundai's Equus in my grandparents' pensioners-only gated community over the next few years, but I doubt that the days when this car can be seen perched in the spotlight in valet spaces at fancy hotels and restaurants have arrived.

        
Wheelies: The Culled Classics Edition
        
Owners of Vintage Citroëns and Vélosolex Bikes Celebrate in New York
        
G.M. and Honda to Collaborate on Fuel-Cell Development
        
The Specialized Turbo: An Electric Bicycle With Scooterlike Speed
        
Lincoln MKZ Hybrid Is Aimed at Progressive Luxury Buyers Who Also Like Quiet

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SEDANS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (77%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (67%); MONITORS & DISPLAYS (64%) automobiles; Hyundai Motor Co; Manhattan (NYC); Automobiles; New Cars

COMPANY: HYUNDAI MOTOR CO (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Hyundai Motor Co

TICKER: HYUD (LSE) (92%); 005380 (KSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); SIC3569 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (70%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%) Manhattan (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2013



747 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(ArtsBeat)

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2013

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 269 words

HEADLINE: Sicilian Exhibition at Cleveland Museum Is Off Again After Talks Fail

BYLINE: PATRICIA COHEN


HIGHLIGHT: An exhibition planned for the Cleveland Museum of Art was initially canceled, and talks to try to salvage it have failed, resulting in its cancellation again. 

 BODY:
After Sicily unexpectedly announced this month that it wanted the return of a traveling exhibition of its ancient treasures because their absence was hurting tourism, resulting in the cancellation of the show at the Cleveland Museum of Art, for a moment it seemed that a compromise was possible when the announcement was followed by another saying both sides were in talks to try to reach a settlement and allow the exhibition to go on. The show, which was scheduled to open in Cleveland in September after its current run at the J. Paul Getty Museum in Los Angeles, might go on, Sicilian officials suggested, if Cleveland could help soften the financial loss. As it turns out, they made an offer that Cleveland could refuse. 
On Wednesday the museum said it had declined to pay additional fees for the exhibition, "Sicily: Art and Invention Between Greece and Rome." "To announce all new economic terms after the exhibition has been organized, cataloged and shipped is unprecedented and negotiations over this development have to date been unsuccessful," the museum's director, David Franklin, said in a statement. "We are very disappointed not to be able to share this exhibition with our visitors, but at this point we must turn our attention to developing new plans for the fall."

        
Russian Government Decides Against Recreating Museum Shut by Stalin
        
A $1.6 Million Grant for the American Folk Art Museum
        
Collection of Detroit Institute of Arts Cannot Be Sold, Its Director Says
        
Next Concert Season at the Met Will Include Music in Galleries
        
The Met and Israel Museum Buy Illuminated Jewish Manuscript Before It's Auctioned

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); EXHIBITIONS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%) Art; Cleveland Museum of Art; Franklin, David; Museums; Sicily (Italy); art & design; museums

ORGANIZATION: Cleveland Museum of Art

PERSON: Franklin, David

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); ITALY (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (70%) Sicily (Italy)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2013



748 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 844 words

HEADLINE: The Complex Story of Race and Upward Mobility

BYLINE: DAVID LEONHARDT


HIGHLIGHT: Metropolitan areas with large African-American populations tend to have lower rates of upward mobility. But lower-income whites in those regions also face longer odds of moving up economically. 

 BODY:
As my colleagues and I were working on our recent article and graphics about a new study on upward mobility, we found ourselves wondering how big a role race played. When you look at our interactive map showing upward-mobility rates by metropolitan area, you can see why.
Many of the areas where climbing the economic ladder is most difficult are also the areas with the largest concentration of African-Americans. 
In this map, which ran in Monday's Times, regions shaded red have low rates of upward mobility; regions shaded yellow have rates in the middle, and blue regions have the highest:
In this map, from the Census Bureau, the shaded regions have larger populations of African-Americans:

The metropolitan areas with the highest percentage of African-Americans are clustered in the southeast and the industrial Midwest. So are the metropolitan areas where low-income children have the longest odds of making it into the middle class.
Mecklenburg County in North Carolina - the heart of the Charlotte region, which ranks dead last in upward mobility among the 50th largest metropolitan regions, according to the study - is 32 percent black. Georgia's Fulton County - home to Atlanta, which ranks 49th in mobility among the 50th biggest metropolitan regions - is 45 percent black. Indiana's Marion County - site of Indianapolis, which ranks 48th - is 27 percent black.
In areas like these, fewer than one in 20 children born into a family into the bottom fifth of the income distribution in the early 1980s has made it to the top fifth as adults, the study found. By contrast, in the regions with the highest mobility, the chances can exceed one in 10. Those regions include some of the whitest parts of the country, like Utah, Idaho, Minnesota, the Dakotas and upper New England.
Yet the economists who did the study do not list race as one of the main factors that explains the variation in upward-mobility rates across regions. How could this be?
The simplest way to explain their conclusion may be to point out that upward mobility tends to be rare for both blacks and whites, as well as for Latinos, in low-mobility areas. In Charlotte, Atlanta and Indianapolis, low-income white children have also tended to grow up to be low-income adults.
To help demonstrate this pattern, the four researchers - Raj Chetty and Nathaniel Hendren of Harvard and Patrick Kline and Emmanuel Saez of the University of California, Berkeley - have produced another map, showing mobility only for ZIP codes that are at least 80 percent white. (Regions in which no ZIP codes are at least 80 percent white simply appear as blank on the map.)
The numbers on this map will have little meaning to most readers; they are statistical correlations between family income in one generation and family income in the next. But the message is clear: the mobility patterns look overwhelmingly similar in this map and in the map above showing all metropolitan areas.
It's worth pointing out that race may still play a role in creating these patterns. "Racial shares in an area do matter," Mr. Chetty says. "But it's not race at the individual level. It's race at the level of the 'commuting zone,'" he added, using the researchers' term for a region. Whatever the differences are between high-mobility and low-mobility regions, they seem to apply to residents of every race.
One possibility is that areas with large black populations tend to be more economically segregated, with poor residents - of all races - more likely to be isolated from the rich and middle class. Isolation can damage a low-income family's chances in many ways, as the Atlanta residents I interviewed explained.
Writing about the new study for The Atlantic, Matthew O'Brien laid out a specific case for how race might have created economic segregation in sprawl-filled regions:
Atlanta, of course, is the prototypical case here: going back to the 1970s, it's under-invested in public transit, because car-driving suburbanites haven't wanted to pay for something they think only poor blacks would use (to come, they fear, to their lily-white cul-de-sacs). Even last year, a compromise bill that would have increased the sales tax by 1 percentage point for 10 years to pay for expanded roads and railways in the always-congested city got voted down. This malign neglect of infrastructure keeps low-income people from living near or commuting to better jobs - and that's not a race issue. Indeed, the researchers also found that whites and blacks in Atlanta both have a hard time moving up. In other words, racial polarization might spur sprawl, which makes cities less likely to invest in their infrastructure - and underfunded infrastructure hurts low-income people of all races.
Whatever the precise answer, I assume that economic mobility may have something in common with many other subjects in American life: race matters, but not necessarily in the most obvious ways.

        
Strongest Since 1999?
        
Obama's View of the Economic Challenge
        
A Mobility Prophet
        
Inequality, Mobility and the Policy Agenda They Imply
        
A Steeper Climb for Single Parents

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: AFRICAN AMERICANS (92%); CITIES (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (89%); TRENDS (78%); FAMILY (76%); POOR POPULATION (76%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (74%); ETHNICITY (69%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); CENSUS (56%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Income Inequality; Race and Ethnicity; United States Economy

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) GEORGIA, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2013



749 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 2064 words

HEADLINE: Gotham's Only Black Millionaire

BYLINE: SHANE WHITE


HIGHLIGHT: The strange life of Jeremiah G. Hamilton, one of New York City&#8217;s first black tycoons. 

 BODY:
Writing to Frederick Douglass in 1852, the black intellectual James McCune Smith noted Jeremiah G. Hamilton as "the only black millionaire in New York," disparaging him for the crassness of his pursuit of wealth. But despite Hamilton's prominence in his own lifetime, modern American historians have ignored him. 
What makes Hamilton's invisibility all the more remarkable, is that, paradoxically, he was larger than life, anything but a reticent figure lost in the background. Indeed, he left a pretty hefty footprint on the historical record: there are tens of thousands of words of newsprint about him and, in the archives, well over 50 court cases involving Jeremiah Hamilton as either plaintiff or defendant. His well-documented experience as a wealthy black man provides a unique but illuminating perspective on the possibilities and limits of black life in the nation's largest city, before and during the Civil War. 
Hamilton was a broker, a black man whose very existence flies in the face of our understanding of the way things usually were in New York in the middle of the 19th century. Far from being some novice feeling his way around the economy's periphery, he was a Wall Street adept, a skilled and innovative financial manipulator. Unlike later black success stories who would make their fortunes selling goods to black consumers, Hamilton cut a swath through the lily-white New York business world of the mid-1830s, a domain where his depredations soon earned him the nickname of "The Prince of Darkness." Others, with even less affection, simply called him "Nigger Hamilton." 
Hamilton first made his mark in 1828, when he was just 21, running a large sum of counterfeit coins from Canada through New York to Haiti for a consortium of prominent New York merchants. Discovered, Hamilton, aided by several fishermen, escaped and lurked around Port-au-Prince harbor for 12 days until he could surreptitiously board a New York bound vessel. After he left, the Haitian authorities confiscated Hamilton's chartered brig, the Ann Eliza Jane, and sentenced Hamilton, in absentia, to be shot. They nailed proclamations all over the island announcing this summary verdict and offering a $300 reward for him.
By the time of New York's Great Fire of 1835, one of the most destructive events in the city's history, Hamilton was renting an office on Wall Street. He profited handsomely from this disaster, taking pitiless advantage of several of the fire victims' misfortunes to pocket some $5 million in today's currency. Within months he joined in New York's real estate boom, investing more than $7 million in today's dollars to buy 47 lots of land at Hallet's Cove, in present-day Astoria, and docks, wharves and tracts of land up the Hudson River in Poughkeepsie. 
No one will ever erect a statue honoring Jeremiah Hamilton. He was no saint. He was more aggressive and more ruthless toward his competitors than most businessmen. But it's understandable: for a black man to succeed he had to be at least as cavalier about such niceties as keeping within the law as his white contemporaries. Wall Street has never been a place for the faint of heart, but, in the antebellum era, with remarkably few rules of any sort yet established, New York businessmen played hardball and, at least initially sensing an easy mark, they lined up to play with Hamilton. 
Hardly surprisingly, given the prejudice against African-Americans that was a commonplace, businessmen often discriminated against Hamilton. His relationship with the insurance industry was particularly fraught. In the 1830s, the New York insurance firms all agreed to blackball Hamilton by refusing to write policies for any of his ventures. Suggestions that Hamilton had conspired to scuttle heavily insured vessels were bandied about, and almost certainly had some truth to them. In 1843, the district attorney charged him with conspiring to defraud the Atlantic Insurance Company of $50,000. Eventually the case was dropped, but not before Hamilton sensationally burst into the police office one morning and claimed that the Atlantic Insurance Company had paid someone to lure the broker down to the end of Pier No. 1 on the Hudson (then known as the North River) at 9 p.m. and then to drown him. 
He had his run-ins with the stock exchange as well. In 1845, the Public Stock Exchange passed a resolution that forbade members from buying or selling any shares for Hamilton under penalty of expulsion. As one newspaper commented: "the reason for this appears to be, that said Hamilton is a colored man; and so, forsooth, his money is not to be received in the same 'till' with theirs. Oh, 'the land of the free and the home of the brave.'" For all that, brokers and merchants generally were more interested in the color of the black man's money than his skin: regardless, Hamilton simply brushed aside all obstacles placed in his way, or connived to get around them, and carried on amassing his fortune. 
Hamilton also wasn't afraid to get personal, and even physical, with his enemies. In a court case in 1843, a Justice Merrit appeared as a witness and denigrated Hamilton's character. Unable to restrain himself, Hamilton stood up in court and claimed the only reason Merrit had damned him thus was his "refusal to lend the Justice money." Although proceedings were adjourned promptly, Hamilton and Merrit continued abusing one another as they left the chamber, then started jostling and eventually brawling on the steps of the Tombs (the building on Centre Street housing both the prison and courts). Merrit was striking Hamilton with his cane and the latter was energetically wielding a rung he had seized from a passing cart when the police intervened. 
And yet for all of the disdain he attracted, financiers had to concede, time and again, that this black man was sharp as a razor and knew exactly what he was doing. Later, in the 1850s, Hamilton would engage in a titanic struggle with Cornelius Vanderbilt, America's first tycoon and the epitome of unabashed capitalism, over control of the Nicaragua Transit Company. The day after Vanderbilt's death on Jan. 4, 1877, an almost full-page obituary on the front of The National Republican newspaper acknowledged that, in the context of his Wall Street share transactions, "There was only one man who ever fought the Commodore to the end, and that was Jeremiah Hamilton." The writer neither explained who Hamilton was nor even mentioned his skin color, only elaborating that although Vanderbilt "did not fear [Hamilton] because he never feared anybody," without a shadow of doubt "the Commodore respected him." 
There was a startling disjunction between the financial world, where the black broker relished his predatory role, pursuing aggressively whatever edge he could find in his dealings with white businessmen, and his everyday existence on New York streets, ruled by an unforgiving and demeaning racial etiquette. At work Hamilton was, to borrow Tom Wolfe's term, a master of the universe, but for the rest of the day and night he was barely a second-class citizen. For all the distance Hamilton put between himself and other African-Americans, to white New Yorkers seeing him about town, he remained just another Negro. 
Any time Hamilton ventured outside, particularly if accompanied by his wife, there was the chance of an ugly scene. Hamilton was a racist's nightmare, and an affront to the beliefs of a majority of New Yorkers. He was very successful, associated with whites - and married to a white woman. Eliza Morris had become pregnant with Hamilton's child when she was just 13 or 14 and he was at least twice her age. They had nine more children, and their marriage lasted for some 40 years, until Hamilton's death. 
The Civil War merely heightened the absurdity of the black broker's existence. On Wall Street, he carried on accumulating money, caring nothing about whom he upset. Hamilton was a master at manipulating speculations in shares where the client bore any loss but Hamilton reaped any profits, arrangements that spurred the disgruntled to take him to court regularly in these years. He gave scant, if any, thought to moderating his behavior or large style. On one occasion in 1864, he imperiously demanded of a white client, anxious to be given points and included in a deal, "an acknowledgment of his kindness." Hamilton deemed a basket of bottles of champagne and a box of 600 cigars to be suitable, but he also made it clear that he "did not want any but the very best." 
Such cocksure behavior from a black man may have been tolerated on Wall Street, but on any other city street it was an incitement to a lynching. There were always New Yorkers more than willing to remind even this most successful of black men of his blackness and what that meant in a city rived by race. Nowhere was this clearer than in the Draft Riots that erupted in New York in July 1863. 
On the second evening of rioting, somewhere between a dozen and a score of "men and boys," turned onto East 29th Street and strode down the street as if they owned it, shouting out threateningly "68, 68, 68" - the number of the house where Jeremiah G. and Eliza Jane Hamilton lived. The white rioters kicked in the basement door and rushed up the internal stairs to the ground floor where they were confronted by the 40-year-old Eliza Hamilton - not only white but also, according to one of her husband's obituaries, "a daughter of the Hon. Robert Morris of Philadelphia" - who told them Jeremiah Hamilton was away. No one doubted the intruders' intentions. A curious neighbor ambled down the block to see what all the noise was about, only to have a lookout point a cocked pistol at his chest and tell him that "there is a nigger living here with two white women, and we are going to bring him out, and hang him on the lamp post, and you stop and see the fun." 
After the Civil War, in the last decade of his life, Hamilton slowed down and took on a veneer of respectability. To be sure, one obituary still damned him as "the notorious colored capitalist long identified with commercial enterprises in this city." But others were gentler, noting that, when he died, he was "with one exception, the oldest Wall Street speculator" and emphasizing that "his judgment in banking was highly esteemed, and he was often consulted by prominent bankers." In May 1875, Hamilton was buried in his family lot in Brooklyn's Green-Wood Cemetery, next to two of his daughters. 
Jeremiah Hamilton's life offers a way to consider, from the unusual perspective of a black man, subjects that are seen, without too much thought, as being quintessentially white, totally segregated from the African-American past: Wall Street, the stock exchange, the Great Fire and even journalism. Benjamin Day, founder of the pioneer New York Sun in 1833, was Hamilton's best friend. Reputedly, Hamilton wrote several articles about banking that were published in that newspaper and was so closely associated with the Sun in the late 1830s that James Gordon Bennett, proprietor of the rival New York Herald, mistakenly thought for some time that the black man had bought the newspaper. 
Hamilton continually defied contemporary expectations (and those of modern historians too) about African-Americans, turning up in the most surprising of places. When Hamilton, his wife and several children went on a European tour, they stopped over in Paris in late August 1870, just as the German armies were preparing to lay siege to the city.
When Hamilton died in May 1875, obituaries called him the richest black man in the United States, possessing a fortune of $2 million, or in excess of $250 million today. He lived out the American nightmare of race in his own distinctive fashion, and it would be some time before New York City would see his like again. 
 Follow Disunion at twitter.com/NYTcivilwar or join us on Facebook. 
 Shane White is a professor of history and an Australian Professorial Fellow at the University of Sydney. He is the author or co-author of five books, including "Stylin'," " Stories of Freedom in Black New York," "The Sounds of Slavery" and, most recently, "Playing the Numbers." He is writing a book about Jeremiah G. Hamilton. 

        
New York's Mixed-Race Riot
        
Black Elites and the Draft Riots
        
'The Old Flag Never Touched the Ground'
        
Striking the Blow at Fort Wagner
        
Holland's Plan for America's Slaves

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HISTORY (90%); VERDICTS (74%); REAL ESTATE (73%); SENTENCING (69%); RIOTS (61%) Banking and Financial Institutions; Blacks; Civil War (US) (1861-65); Draft Riots; Race and Ethnicity; Disunion

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%); HAITI (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2013



750 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2013

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 999 words

HEADLINE: When New York Teetered on the Brink of Bankruptcy

BYLINE: SAM ROBERTS


HIGHLIGHT: In October 1975, Mayor Abraham D. Beame signed a formal petition attesting to municipal default, but at the last minute, the city dodged the financial fate that Detroit suffered last week. 

 BODY:
One by one, guests on the multi-tiered dais of the annual white-tie Alfred E. Smith Memorial Foundation benefit dinner slipped away for secret negotiations to resolve the city's fiscal crisis. Mayor Abraham D. Beame returned to Gracie Mansion early to confer with fellow formally attired city officials, then slept fitfully, knowing the grave decisions he faced the next morning. 
By midday that Friday, Oct. 17, 1975, Mr. Beame had signed a formal petition attesting to municipal default. The police commandeered squad cars, poised to serve legal papers on banks that were the city's leading creditors. A court order was pending to preserve the city government's assets, including cash and durable goods, like garbage trucks. A judge with whom the Beames regularly played pinochle was enlisted to order Comptroller Harrison J. Goldin to pay the salaries of city workers before paying the principal and interest due that afternoon on municipal debt. 
"I have been advised by the comptroller," a two-and-a-half-page mayoral news release began, "that the City of New York has insufficient cash on hand to meet debt obligations due today. This constitutes the default that we have struggled to avoid." New York City was about to declare bankruptcy. 
But that signed petition was never invoked. Today, it hangs framed in the Fifth Avenue office of Ira P. Millstein, one of the city's private lawyers during the fiscal crisis - a testament to the New Yorkers who, after meeting for hours in an Upper East Side apartment that October morning, dodged the financial fate that Detroit suffered last week. 
They had come this close to declaring that New York had run out of cash and would default on about $100 million in borrowing due that afternoon. As it was, officials had to persuade the comptroller of the currency to keep Manufacturers Hanover, the city's paying agent, open into the night so the debt payments could be processed.
New York avoided what Detroit did not because, literally at the last minute, all parties agreed to share the pain and avoid the prolonged uncertainty that bankruptcy or receivership promised. 
At a key moment, everything depended on Albert Shanker, the teachers' union leader, who, worried about his members, was wary about investing about $150 million of their pension funds in city securities. Just how volatile Mr. Shanker could be had been captured by Woody Allen in "Sleeper," his apocalyptic film. Mr. Allen blamed the end of civilization on the fact that "a man named Albert Shanker got hold of a nuclear device." 
 Mr. Shanker agreed to meet privately in the apartment of Richard Ravitch, whom Gov. Hugh L. Carey had recruited to rescue the state's overextended Urban Development Corporation. At the meeting were Mr. Ravitch; Mr. Shanker; Mr. Carey; his counsel, Judah Gribetz; former Mayor Robert F. Wagner; Sandra Feldman, Mr. Shanker's deputy and eventual successor; and Harry Van Arsdale, head of the city's Central Labor Council.
Among the other principals who played crucial roles in resolving the crisis: Victor Gotbaum, the municipal union leader who had already agreed to invest in city securities; Felix G. Rohatyn, whom Mr. Carey enlisted from the private sector as a financial adviser; Peter C. Goldmark Jr., the state budget director; and Stephen Berger, who would become the first director of the Emergency Financial Control Board. 
 "The one thing that really made a difference was the absolute commitment of a new governor not to put the city into bankruptcy," Mr. Rohatyn recalled. "We were not willing to gamble on something that had never happened before on that scale." (Mr. Carey, his biographer, Seymour P. Lachman, said, had been taught by his father long before that bankruptcy was a deceptively easy solution.)
Few people were advocating bankruptcy because it might abrogate agreements with organized labor and leave financial institutions liable for selling securities that were suspect or even fraudulent. New York bonds and notes were widely held by banks and individuals throughout the United States. World leaders feared the repercussions of a New York bankruptcy. And the city depended on credit, which, had bankruptcy been declared, might have been denied for decades. 
"New York was broke, but it wasn't bankrupt," Mr. Berger recalled. "It was an enterprise that had been badly mismanaged, whose finances were uncontrolled and had no real financial systems and was basically run by a history of pushcart peddlers. However, it had a substantial core of political and business leadership, which saw the long-term danger to short-term solution."
"Detroit has none of the inherent characteristics that New York had in its worst financial moments," he added. "In the end, all the stuff we did was to keep the kid from drowning and three years later the economy swept him back on the shore." 
Mr. Millstein remembered: "Everyone knew that New York, unlike Detroit, was not a dead city. It just needed some mechanism to get out of the mess."
Municipal bankruptcy was largely untested at the time - how would a judge balance the needs of city employees, poor people, vendors and other creditors? How would it affect the state's credit? 
 "The fiscal crisis was misnamed," Mr. Rohatyn later recalled. "It was a bankruptcy crisis. We had a much greater sense of potential doom if we went bankrupt.'' 
Mr. Goldmark said: "Hugh Carey lashed the fate of the state to that of the city. Michigan has done nothing of the kind."
Beyond the financial repercussions, bankruptcy, Mr. Ravitch said, would have been "a failure of democracy to solve its problems and we didn't want to fail. But on the other hand, it was the threat of bankruptcy that got everybody to do things that in the beginning of this process they swore they wouldn't do." 

        
Thompson Picks Up Backing of a Fiscal Repairman
        
Office Owners and Cleaners Reach a Deal, Averting a Strike
        
July 25: Where the Candidates Are Today
        
The Real Beauty Within
        
July 24: Where the Candidates Are Today

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (93%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (91%); PETITIONS (91%); CITIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); MAYORS (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); HISTORY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); TEACHER UNIONS (77%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); CIVIL SERVICES (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); LAWYERS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); DURABLE GOODS (70%) Bankruptcies; Beame, Abraham D; Berger, Stephen; New York City; Organized Labor; Ravitch, Richard; Rohatyn, Felix G; Shanker, Albert; Local History

PERSON: Beame, Abraham D; Berger, Stephen; Ravitch, Richard; Rohatyn, Felix G; Shanker, Albert

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2013



751 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 462 words

HEADLINE: Stiglitz, Minsky, and Obama

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Inequality or excess leverage? 

 BODY:
I haven't commented so far on the president's economic speech, except to mock the journalists demanding "new ideas" for a very old-fashioned economic crisis. And as many people have pointed out, there weren't any actual policy proposals. 
What we got instead was a narrative, which is no small thing, since it was very much not the narrative that has been dominating Washington discourse - including Obama's own pronouncements - for three and a half years. Gone was the deficit/Grand Bargain obsession; instead, this was about a depressed economy, suffering mainly from inadequate demand, and how to fix it.
Within the demand-side camp there is, however, a somewhat subtle and polite but non-trivial divide; Obama mainly came down on one side of that divide, although whether this reflects conviction or political strategy (or simply the vagaries of speechwriting) is less clear.
What we all agree on is that this crisis was a-building for a long time, especially through rising household debt, as shown above. But why was household debt rising?
The president came down pretty much for what we might call a Stiglitzian view (although it's widely held): debt was driven by rising inequality. The rich were taking an ever-larger share of the pie, but not spending to match, while working Americans took on ever more debt to make ends meet.
What's the alternative? Minsky: debt exploded because the Great Depression was receding into the mists of forgetfulness, and both lenders and borrowers - enabled and encouraged by financial deregulation - forgot the dangers of leverage.
Personally, I'm more of a Minskyite than a Stiglitzian, although not 100%; although things like subprime lending were, I believe, mainly about forgetting the past, Elizabeth Warren's old work on bankruptcy pretty clearly shows that at least some families took on excess debt as a result of rising inequality. But I'm inherently suspicious of any story that makes economics a morality play in which all bad results come from things you consider bad for other reasons too; making soaring inequality the cause of our macro woes too is a bit too, well, comfortable for us liberals.
Also, there's a danger in the Stiglitzian approach, namely that people might conclude that fixing the short-run shortfall in demand must wait until we fix the long-run problem of inequality, which is going to be very hard and a long time coming. We need stimulus, or at least an end to austerity, now, even if restoring a middle-class society isn't going to happen any time soon.
I wouldn't make too much of these differences; in practice Stiglitzians and Minskyites agree on what should be done,and it's good to see the president finally talking about the right things. Still, it is interesting to see where he put his emphasis.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (89%); PERSONAL DEBT (87%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); FAMILY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); WRITERS (78%); GREAT DEPRESSION (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); LIBERALISM (72%); SUBPRIME LENDING (64%); DEREGULATION (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); ELIZABETH WARREN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2013



752 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Taking Note)

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 265 words

HEADLINE: Reaping Profits off Student Loans

BYLINE: BRENT STAPLES


HIGHLIGHT: Why is the federal government making money off of poor and middle class students? 

 BODY:
The Obama administration is championing the student loan overhaul passed by the Senate earlier this week as a wonderful thing. But there are two big problems with the new system. First, it lowers rates only temporarily, raising them in future years so that the government can continue to reap unseemly and unjustified profit from the student loan program. This means that future college students will be bled to pay for the financial break given to the students who preceded them. Senator Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts, likened this plan to the way subprime lenders made money in the run-up to the recession: They enticed borrowers with low "teaser" rates and then hammered them with the real costs later on. 
The second problem is that poor and middle class students who are already mortgaging their futures to meet escalating college costs are being asked to subsidize the federal government - when it should be the other way around. For example, the loan program will generate about $185 billion for the federal coffers over the next decade. How much money is that? According to Shahien Nasiripour of The Huffington Post, annualizing the $185 billion figure through 2023 places "the U.S. student loan program among the 20 most profitable public companies in the world."

Education secretary Arne Duncan argued lamely during a press call earlier this week that it was misleading to describe the gains as "profit" because the estimate of what the the government is likely to rake in is based on a projection.
That was a desperate maneuver, intended to obscure an inconvenient truth.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STUDENT LOANS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); STUDENT EXPENSES (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); SUBPRIME LENDING (73%)

PERSON: ELIZABETH WARREN (73%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); ARNE DUNCAN (58%); ARIANNA HUFFINGTON (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2013



753 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 993 words

HEADLINE: Defense Tries to Show Sympathetic Side of Ex-Trader

BYLINE: SUSANNE CRAIG


HIGHLIGHT: Fabrice Tourre&#8217;s legal team worked to rehabilitate his image in court on Thursday. 

 BODY:
Fabrice Tourre has been painted by the Securities and Exchange Commission as one of the great villains of the financial crisis, a smart Goldman trader who duped unsuspecting investors into buying toxic real estate securities he knew were doomed to fail.
At his trial Thursday, the jury saw another side of him as his legal team worked to rehabilitate his image. 
"I am here to tell the truth and clear my name," he said to his lawyer Pamela Chepiga after she asked him why he was sitting in a courtroom in Lower Manhattan.
Mr. Tourre then started describing the rags-to-riches story of his life, telling the jury he was born in a suburb just outside of Paris. His mother, now retired, gave pedicures. His father sells office furniture.
He dreamed of coming to the United States and succeeded in 1999 when he landed an internship in Hamilton, Ohio, as a production worker on an assembly line producing heater cores and air-conditioning units for a French company. He then attended Stanford, where he received a master's degree in management science and engineering.
He testified that he had never heard of Goldman Sachs before arriving at Stanford, and decided to interview at the bank only to practice his English in job interviews. Instead he ended up taking a job at the big Wall Street firm. He is now accused of participating in a scheme while at the firm to defraud investors who bought into a trade in 2007 he helped structure.
Goldman was charged along with Mr. Tourre in 2010, but it chose to settle the charges. That left Mr. Tourre to battle the S.E.C. by himself, although the firm is paying his legal fees. The case is one of the few trials to emerge from the fallout of the financial crisis.
If the jury returns an unfavorable verdict in the civil trial, Mr. Tourre faces monetary penalties and a possible ban from the securities industry.
Ms. Chepiga's questioning is aimed at undoing some of the damage inflicted this week by the S.E.C.'s lead lawyer, Matthew T. Martens. On Wednesday and Thursday, Mr. Martens told jurors that Mr. Tourre failed to disclose to investors in the trade that it was designed by the hedge fund Paulson & Company, which made more than $1 billion betting the transaction would fail. Mr. Martens has effectively used e-mails Mr. Tourre wrote to a girlfriend where Mr. Tourre joked about potentially toxic products he was selling, asking Mr. Tourre to read his words to the court. "Is that a smiley face or a wink?" Mr. Martens asked Mr. Tourre, drawing grins from some jurors.
"It was a silly, romantic e-mail I sent late at night during a period of market stress," Mr. Tourre said. In another potentially damaging message to his girlfriend, he wrote "I love this website" and linked to a site that referred to exploding mortgages. He added during the reading of yet another e-mail, where he joked to his girlfriend that he sold toxic real estate bonds to "widows and orphans" that he deeply regretted writing it and that was "in poor taste."
How Mr. Tourre appears to the jury in this trial, which has been bogged down in financial jargon, will be critical. While jurors have nodded off during technical discussions of structured financial products, they seem engaged by the more human aspects of the case, be it Mr. Tourre's love notes or his humble beginnings.
His thick French accent has been a bit of a stumbling block. The court reporter often asks him to repeat words, but he also comes across as sympathetic.
He looks much younger than his 34 years, and jurors heard he was just one of more than a thousand vice presidents at Goldman Sachs in 2007 when the trade in question was structured.
He did not have an office and could touch the people next to him if he stretched his arms. Still, cubicle life did not seem to stop him. He made $1.7 million in 2007, a nod to the business he was bringing in at Goldman, trading lucrative structured products.
Most of Thursday was dominated by Mr. Martens's examination of Mr. Tourre, who tried to show the jury that Mr. Tourre repeatedly hid from investors Paulson & Company's role in the transaction. Mr. Martens presented the jury with numerous exhibits that showed Mr. Tourre pitched the trade to a number of investors, none of whom were told of the hedge fund's involvement in selecting the components of the trade.
Paulson & Company's involvement in the security became a source of tension, as Mr. Tourre insisted repeatedly that another firm, ACA Management, selected the portfolio, and that is what was disclosed to investors.
Mr. Martens also tried to emphasize to the jury the role that Mr. Tourre had in writing the reams of information about the trade that went to investors. Mr. Martens suggested Mr. Tourre was the point person for what went out, while Mr. Tourre insisted repeatedly he was responsible only for what his team contributed. At one point, Mr. Martens suggested that Mr. Tourre's testimony had contradicted previous testimony he had given to the S.E.C. and Congress, a statement that no doubt signaled to the jury the magnitude of this case.
Ms. Chepiga, the defense's lead counsel, erupted at the suggestion the testimony was contradictory, and read at length from his previous testimony in which he stated he relied on many people to draft the documents, including lawyers. The presiding judge, Katherine Forrest, halted the trial and asked the jury to leave.
Mr. Tourre has not asserted a so-called advice of counsel defense, meaning he is not saying his actions were based on legal advice from his lawyers. As a result, introducing the idea he relied on lawyers is potentially problematic.
"You walked into a buzz saw," the judge told the lawyers. On the break the jury asked about the exchange, and Judge Forrest explained to them that Mr. Tourre was not pursuing an advice of counsel defense.
Mr. Tourre's testimony will continue on Friday.

        
Trader and S.E.C. Lawyer Spar Over E-Mail
        
Witness in Tourre Case Describes Difficulty in Knowing Deal's Friends From Foes

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (77%); LAWYERS (77%); VERDICTS (77%); TESTIMONY (77%); FACTORY WORKERS (76%); EMPLOYMENT (74%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); ENGINEERING (73%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (73%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (71%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (68%); FINES & PENALTIES (62%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Securities and Commodities Violations; Securities and Exchange Commission; Tourre, Fabrice P; Goldman Sachs Group Inc|GS|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Securities and Exchange Commission

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%) Goldman Sachs Group Inc; GS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%)

PERSON: FABRICE P TOURRE (91%) Tourre, Fabrice P

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (71%) OHIO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2013



754 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1000 words

HEADLINE: SAC Case Threatens a Wall St. Cash Cow

BYLINE: PETER EAVIS


HIGHLIGHT: What happens on Wall Street now that SAC Capital Advisors has been accused? 

 BODY:
Wall Street now has to contemplate life without SAC Capital Advisors, the hedge fund that manages billions of dollars.
In a rare and aggressive action, federal authorities on Thursday indicted the fund on criminal charges. And in doing so, the government may have threatened the life of a big golden goose for Wall Street.
 SAC Capital, led by Steven A. Cohen, has been a prodigious, unruly force in the market for years. 
Its whirlwind trading style has helped move stock prices. And the fund consistently pays millions of dollars in commissions and fees to prominent investment banks that handle its trading.
Banks received $9.3 billion from clients in stock trading commissions in the 12 months through the first quarter of this year, according to a study by Greenwich Associates. Brokers said that SAC Capital was one of the largest commission generators for Wall Street.
Not only does Wall Street support the fund's stock and derivatives trades, but the firm is also a reliable client for those further down the food chain, like technology equipment providers. Now, the fund's banks face an uncomfortable choice. Should they keep acting as a broker to SAC Capital? There will be strong temptation to maintain full ties with the fund. The payments from SAC Capital are welcome during these leaner times on Wall Street. And banks may be reluctant to drop a client that has not yet been proved guilty.
But since the financial crisis, banks have to care more about their public reputations and the desires of their regulators. Senior bank executives and their lawyers may therefore decide that the risks of staying loyal to SAC Capital outweigh the financial benefit of having it as a client. "They really don't need this additional reputational load," said Ingo Walter, a professor of finance, corporate governance and ethics at New York University.
Banks write contracts with hedge funds that allow them to drop the funds under certain situations. An indictment might be such a catalyst in the contracts banks have with SAC Capital. But the brokers would have wide discretion over whether to end the relationship.
"It would be highly unusual to have something that is automatically triggered," Leigh R. Fraser, a partner at Ropes & Gray, said.
Unlike a bank, SAC Capital isn't wholly reliant on the confidence of others to stay alive. An indicted bank would almost certainly face collapse. The investment bank Drexel Burnham Lambert filed for bankruptcy protection in 1990 after it faced the possibility of an indictment.
"If you have a bank that is charged with criminality, customers will withdraw," Charles Geisst, a professor in the economics and finance department of Manhattan College, said. "But if a customer is charged, I don't think there are too many banks that will turn them down, at least initially."
Arthur Andersen wasn't a bank, yet it collapsed in 2002 after it was indicted. The accounting firm imploded because its clients fled. But SAC isn't wholly reliant on client money.
The United States attorney's office is seeking a forfeiture of some of the firm's assets, but SAC would likely have considerable resources left even after such an action. In recent months, SAC Capital investors have in effect taken out as much as $5 billion of their money, and the remaining $1 billion to $1.5 billion could well leave after the indictment on Thursday.
But the fund would still have an estimated $9 billion that belongs to Mr. Cohen and other employees. SAC Capital could close down, pay a fine and still move much of that left over money to a new company. Mr. Cohen himself does not face criminal charges, but the Securities and Exchange Commission has accused him of failure to supervise. If found liable, he could be barred from investing money for others but could be allowed to manage his own sizable sum of money.
But any new investment vehicle set up by Mr. Cohen would still need Wall Street. And the banks would have to decide whether they wanted to do business with him.
"His money will be just as green after this indictment as it was before," said Jonathan R. Macey, a law professor at Yale.
So far, SAC Capital's problems have not weighed on the wider market. If a large financial firm becomes unstable, regulators often worry that it will dump its assets, setting off a fire sale. Smelling blood, other investment funds may also bet against those shares to make a profit.
But some of SAC Capital's previously disclosed investments were holding up well on Thursday. For instance, recent filings showed that SAC Capital owned a big stake in GNC Holdings, the retailer of vitamins and health products. Its stock was up over 10 percent on Thursday after reporting earnings.
One wild card is whether SAC Capital has been using margin, or borrowed money from its brokers, to make its biggest bets. If a Wall Street bank demanded those loans be paid back immediately, the fund could face trouble.
SAC Capital's assets look relatively small when placed in the context of the wider market. Hedge funds - which manage money on behalf of college endowments and pension funds as well as the wealthy - as a whole have $2.4 trillion of assets under management, according to Hedge Fund Research. Mutual funds have $28 trillion of assets, according to the Investment Company Institute.
But SAC Capital's frantic trading made it a much bigger source of earnings for Wall Street than investment companies that were many times its size.
SAC Capital's indictment could serve as a reminder to Wall Street and investors not to grow too dependent on funds that pursue aggressive strategies. Assets at hedge funds have grown even though they have generally underperformed in the market. SAC Capital's high profile problems could do even more to take the gloss off the sector.
"Hedge funds were touted as being smarter than everyone else," Mr. Geisst said. "I think this marks something of an end to that era of hedge funds."

        
SAC Capital Is Arraigned on a Raft of Criminal Charges
        
A Relentless Prosecutor's Crowning Case

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); INDICTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); LAWYERS (74%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (71%); ETHICS (69%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (64%); BUSINESS ETHICS (64%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (64%) SAC Capital Advisors; Financial Services; Hedge Funds; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: SAC CAPITAL ADVISORS LP (58%); GREENWICH ASSOCIATES (56%); ROPES & GRAY LLP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: SAC Capital Advisors

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (56%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: STEVEN A COHEN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2013



755 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 832 words

HEADLINE: Fast Food, Low Pay

BYLINE: MARK BITTMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Restaurant workers are fighting for basic rights, and getting somewhere. 

 BODY:
Last November, following the Black Friday protests by Walmart employees, 200 workers at 30 New York fast-food restaurants walked off their jobs.
Not much happened immediately. There was press and vocal support from organized labor and the nascent food movement. But the strike didn't spread like wildfire.
Something else didn't happen, however: no one lost his job. And that was a huge deal. 
As far as I can determine, only one worker was permanently terminated as a result of the many actions that have followed nationwide. Usually, the striking fast-food workers are escorted back to work by co-workers, clergy, union leaders and even elected officials, who together insist that there be no retribution. That's worked.
And so a rapidly increasing number of food industry and other retail workers are now fighting for basic rights: halfway decent pay, a real work schedule, the right to organize, health care, paid sick days, vacations and respect. Next week, organizers say, we'll see a walkout of thousands of workers at hundreds of stores in at least seven cities, including New York and Chicago.

Something is happening here, though exactly what isn't quite clear. Fast food was never a priority of organized labor - it's difficult to imagine a traditional union of four million fast-food workers in something like 200,000 locations - but dozens of organizations are now involved, including, to its credit, the Service Employees International Union, which is providing financing and counsel. The upshot: Workers with nothing to lose are demanding a living wage of $15 an hour, and gaining strength and confidence.
They don't have much else. Those making minimum wage ($7.25) and just above have less buying power than their peers did in the mid-50s. Even business leaders are beginning to recognize that forcing workers onto food stamps is no way to sustain an economy - or a society. The chief executive of Costco, Craig Jelinek, for example, has endorsed President Obama's efforts to raise the minimum wage.
The movement found an unwitting ally when McDonald's offered its workers a sample personal budget that included such laughable features as the need for a second job and budget lines for "Heating" (zero) and "Health Insurance" ($20). Per month. (The company, which is worth $100 billion, give or take a few bucks, now says that heat costs $50 a month. But only if you speak English; the Spanish language site budgets heat at $30.) In the old days you could say: "So what? Those workers are all teenagers. They live at home." But the median age of today's fast-food worker is over 29, and many are trying to support families. One estimate claims that a family of four needs nearly $90,000 a year to get by in the nation's capital. That's six minimum-wage jobs. Explain to me, please, how you can be pro-family and anti-living-wage simultaneously? (Many Republicans in Congress seem to manage.)
We can afford to pay these workers: a petition titled "Economists in Support of a $10.50 U.S. Minimum Wage" estimates that McDonald's could recoup half the cost of such an increase simply by hiking the price of a Big Mac from $4 to $4.05. One item; 1 percent.
So the only reason this kind of outrage continues is that many ultrarich are denying the needs and suppressing the rights of our lowest-paid workers. These people face huge odds, but equal challenges were overcome in both the 1930s and the 1960s by bold and sometimes "crazy" actions. There was mild government support then, and that's weaker now; but perhaps midterm elections will change that.
The recession killed 60 percent of $15- to $20-an-hour jobs, which should be the lowest-paying ones. Around 20 percent have returned, but the rest are being replaced by those paying less than $13 an hour. Thus median income for working-age households fell more than 10 percent from 2000 to 2010.
A vast majority of Americans are much closer in income to McDonald's workers than to corporate C.E.O.'s. Yet we tolerate the fact that one in seven of our fellow Americans live in poverty, with half of those people working tough jobs. Do we want to be part of that? Surely, better scenarios exist. And victory for the lowest-wage workers will have a positive impact on wages for everyone.
Six elements are affected by the way food is produced: taste, nutrition and price; and the impact on the environment, animals and labor. We can argue about taste, but it's clear that our production system - especially in the fast-food world - is flunking all the others. And if you think food is "cheap," talk to the people working in the fields, factories and stores who can't afford it. Remember: no food is produced without labor.
Well-intentioned people often ask me what they can do to help improve our food system. Here's an easy one: When you see that picket line next week, don't cross it. In fact, join it.

        
Checking Out
        
Less Innovation, More Inequality
        
The Rise of the Permanent Temp Economy
        
The Mural Vanishes
        
Rising Inequality, Even Among College Presidents

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FAST FOOD (92%); LABOR UNIONS (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); BUDGETS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); MINIMUM WAGE (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (78%); FAMILY (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); LIVING WAGE (78%); EXECUTIVES (74%); RETAILERS (68%); HEALTH INSURANCE (67%); RELIGION (55%); SICK LEAVE (53%) Fast Food Industry; Labor and Jobs; Organized Labor; Strikes; Wages and Salaries; Mark Bittman

PERSON: W CRAIG JELINEK (72%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2013



756 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 879 words

HEADLINE: A Faustian Pact: Generals as Democrats

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. COOK. 
Steven A. Cook, a senior fellow in Middle Eastern studies at the Council on Foreign Relations, is the author of ''The Struggle for Egypt: From Nasser to Tahrir Square.''

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- THE the luxurious officers' club of Egypt's elite Republican Guard sits near downtown Cairo, its pool and patios surrounded by high walls with reliefs and paintings lauding Egypt's military history, going back to the pharaohs. Where a huge poster of the deposed president Hosni Mubarak once stood, a new one declares: ''The Army. The People. One Hand.''
The slogan echoes chants heard in Tahrir Square in 2011, when the army chose not to fire on demonstrators, and again three weeks ago, when the army deposed President Mohamed Morsi. Now Gen. Abdul-Fattah el-Sisi, Egypt's powerful defense minister, is putting it to the test by calling on Egyptians to return to the streets Friday to support the armed forces' efforts to suppress postcoup violence that has claimed some 170 lives. 
In fact, millions of Egyptians welcomed the coup at the time, even as they claimed to want democracy, and they apparently do not see the tension between these positions. Their faith in the military is probably misplaced, but it can be explained by six decades of Egyptian hopes and disappointments, and the desperation that marks Egypt's politics today.
Since a 1952 coup ousted the corrupt, British-dominated King Farouk, the armed forces have been Egypt's state builder, liberator and savior. That was true when its troops crossed the Suez Canal in 1973 in a war that ultimately ended with the Sinai Peninsula returned from Israeli control. It was even more true in the years between 1956 and 1967, when Gamal Abdel Nasser and his fellow Free Officers nationalized the Suez Canal; stood firm in the face of a British, French and Israeli invasion; rejected the terms of Western financing of the Aswan High Dam; and created new economic and social opportunities for Egyptians.
The fact that the Free Officers delivered on promises of national power, social justice and economic opportunity provided Mr. Nasser and his comrades a reservoir of support. To be sure, they built the archetypal Middle Eastern authoritarian state; they also led Egypt to calamitous defeat at the hands of Israel in June 1967. But Mr. Nasser's heyday still represents, for many, the last time that Egypt felt united under leaders whose espoused principles met the needs of ordinary Egyptians.
Even now, the elderly owner of a tiny grocery could tell me, in reverent tones, that Mr. Nasser and the army gave Egypt ''a gift.'' New generations share the impression, and contrast it with the sheer desperation of today.
The ouster of Mr. Mubarak eventually brought free elections, but the victor, Mr. Morsi, proved a disappointment. By last April, when activists began to collect signatures to force an early presidential election that might remove him, there was no lower house of parliament, the constitution was contested, the economy was near ruin and Mr. Morsi was trying to institutionalize the power of the Muslim Brotherhood. Egyptians faced rising prices, rising crime and heightened sectarian tensions. In June four Shiite Muslims were lynched. Egypt's Christians have never felt so insecure.
In contrast, the military had weathered Egypt's post-uprising politics. In 2011, it was accused of harsh treatment of some protesters, but it left politics in June 2012 under a deal that guaranteed it continued autonomy and enjoyment of the perquisites it had under the old order. The deal also immunized it from prosecution over the virginity tests and military trials inflicted on some democracy activists after Mr. Mubarak fell.
So when millions of Egyptians returned to the streets to oppose Mr. Morsi, they looked to the armed forces to be the capable arbiter to reset country's transition toward democracy. As one longtime activist declared in a private message over Twitter, ''We have no choice.''
The defense minister's call for mass demonstrations did produce hand-wringing among some liberals and activists, but they seem to be vastly outnumbered. And the coup has disturbed critics in the United States, which has built a strong relationship with Egypt's officer corps since the early 1980s and helps sustains the military with $1.3 billion in annual aid. This week, President Obama delayed shipping four F-16 fighter jets to Egypt, a gesture of disapproval of the coup that seems unlikely to threaten the relationship.
The ready acceptance by liberals and pluralists of a coup in the name of democracy is understandable, but at best they are playing with fire. General Sisi's democratic credentials remain suspect, and the champions of a new and more open Egypt have now given him a powerful argument with which to deflect virtually any criticism.
In a poll in May, only 27 percent of the Egyptians surveyed identified civilian control of the military as ''very important.'' But in fact the military's intervention is a setback for the cause of pluralism. Coups d'état, no matter how popular, are by definition anti-democratic. Rarely, if ever, do they improve the environment for democracy. Perhaps Egypt will be different, but even so, full democracy there must someday challenge the military's autonomy, economic interests and singular role as the source of legitimacy and authority -- items the officers will not give up willingly.
Simply put, democracy is built on democratic principles, not coups.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY KEVIN STANTON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); COUPS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ARMIES (90%); MUBARAK RESIGNATION (89%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); HISTORY (72%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (72%); NATIONALIZATION (70%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (69%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (62%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (58%)

PERSON: MOHAMMED MORSI (79%); HOSNI MUBARAK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (90%) EGYPT (99%); ISRAEL (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2013



757 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 6772 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
Art
Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art. A searchable guide to these and many other art shows is at nytimes.com/events.
Museums
American Folk Art Museum: 'Bill Traylor: Drawings From the Collections of the High Museum of Art and the Montgomery Museum of Fine Arts' and 'Traylor in Motion: Wonders From New York Collections' (through Sept. 22) The achievement of this great American artist -- a former slave and sharecropper -- unfolds in exceptional side-by-side exhibitions. The hundreds of drawings Traylor made starting in 1939, at 85, while living on the streets of Montgomery, Ala., reveal a natural stylist and a born storyteller who pushed stories of everyday life toward abstraction with no loss of vivacity. At once modern and archaic, Traylor's indelible vision is rich both in its formal invention and its witnessing of the South before the civil rights movement. American Folk Art Museum, 2 Lincoln Square, Columbus Avenue at 66th Street, (212) 595-9533, folkartmuseum.org. (Roberta Smith) 
&#x2605; Bronx Museum of the Arts: 'State of Mind: New California Art Circa 1970' (through Sept. 8) California in the 1960s and '70s was one of the weirder places on the planet, home to radical strains of both right- and left-wing politics, a hub of the national defense industry and a breeding ground for alternative cultures from Beat to hippie. It also produced its own strain of Conceptualism, the international art style that valued ideas and actions over things. This Bronx Museum show gives a vivid sense of the West Coast version, with its gawky rawness, sense of moral purpose, humor, and dovetailing of braininess and zaniness. 1040 Grand Concourse, at 165th Street, Morrisania, the Bronx, (718) 681-6000, bronxmuseum.org. (Holland Cotter)
Brooklyn Museum: 'The Bruce High Quality Foundation: Ode to Joy, 2001-2013' (through Sept. 22) The New York collective of anonymous young artists known as the Bruce High Quality Foundation has generated much buzz and some puzzlement since emerging in 2004. This messy retrospective answers few questions, but brings enough together for provisional assessment. Mostly there are not very provocative parodies of works by famous artists like Picasso and Warhol. The group's best efforts are videos, including a short zombie movie called ''Isle of the Dead'' that exudes an affecting, generational pathos. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Ken Johnson)
Brooklyn Museum: 'LaToya Ruby Frazier: A Haunted Capital' (through Aug. 11) This preternaturally mature body of work by a 31-year-old photographer connects bedrooms and streetscapes, the suffering of loved ones and the afflictions of a ''distressed municipality'' (the state's official term for Ms. Frazier's hometown, Braddock, Pa.). Simultaneously introspective and extroverted, it's composed of arresting black-and-white photographs that sometimes look like studio portraits or social documentaries but aren't fully at home in either category. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, Brooklyn, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Karen Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Brooklyn Museum: 'Gravity and Grace: Monumental Works by El Anatsui' (through Aug. 4) Born in Ghana and long a resident of Nigeria, where he maintains a productive studio, El Anatsui has for the past decade been creating spectacularly large, fabriclike sculpture from countless numbers of liquor-bottle caps linked together with twists of copper. The work weaves together ideas about colonialism, politics and economics, and it is absolutely gorgeous. The Brooklyn show, which originated at the Akron Art Museum in Ohio, also includes a number of the artist's earlier and now-overlooked carved wood pieces, which are well worth studying. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, Brooklyn, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; The Cloisters: 'Search for the Unicorn: An Exhibition in Honor of The Cloisters' 75th Anniversary' (through Aug. 18) The lonely subject of the ''Unicorn Tapestries'' is united with others of its species in ''Search for the Unicorn,'' honoring the 75th anniversary of the Cloisters. Drawn from the Met's holdings and from other public and private collections, it includes manuscripts, paintings, decorative objects and ''unicorn horns'' (actually the tapered, spiral-patterned tusks of the narwhal). The show is a gateway to various fantasy worlds, some of them beyond the scope of medieval Western Europe; a page from the ''Shahnama,'' the Persian ''Book of Kings,'' shows the monarch Iskandar (otherwise known as Alexander the Great) fighting off the one-horned, equine Monster of Habash. 99 Margaret Corbin Drive, Fort Tryon Park, Washington Heights, (212) 923-3700, metmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Guggenheim Museum: 'James Turrell' (through Sept. 25) At once ravishing and hokey, ''Aten Reign,'' the show's centerpiece, turns the museum's famed rotunda into the bliss-out environmental art hit of the summer: an immense, elliptical, nearly hallucinatory play of light and color achieved with elaborate scrims and computerized lighting that might oxymoronically be called a meditative spectacle. Four other installation works from the 1960s and '70s outline the single-minded trajectory of this leading proponent of the Light and Space movement and also provide a simpler, more direct, more mindful experience of, in his words, ''seeing yourself see.'' 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Roberta Smith)
&#x2605; International Center of Photography: 'A Different Kind of Order: The ICP Triennial' (through Sept. 22) The fourth, and best, edition of the International Center of Photography's triennial turns out to be that extremely rare thing in New York City these days, an exhibition of contemporary art for adults. The up-to-the-minute emphasis is on the continuing and enveloping impact of digital technology on photography. The results, as seen here, couldn't be more varied and gripping in content. This is a show that's in touch with the big, live, real world out there beyond Frieze New York. 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street, (212) 857-0000, icp.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; Jewish Museum: 'Jack Goldstein x 10,000' (through Sept. 29) The first American museum retrospective of this brilliant but elusive artist, organized by the Orange County Museum of Art, is both a celebration and a cautionary tale. It revels in Goldstein's posthumous influence as it reveals the tragic disconnect of his life and his art, the desire to disappear complicated by an intense careerist drive. This exhibition offers (in addition to paintings, sculptures and Goldstein's signature films of the late 1970s) a rare look at the early, performance-based films: works like ''Milk,'' in which the persistent banging of a fist on a table finally topples a glass, or ''Spotlight,'' in which a beam chases the artist around an empty room. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, (212) 423-3200, thejewishmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Jewish Museum: 'As it were ... So to speak: A Museum Collection in Dialogue With Barbara Bloom' (through Aug. 4) Ms. Bloom, invited to organize a show from elements of the museum's collection, has turned to the Talmud for inspiration. Weaving together real and fictional narratives, historical and literary sources, she creates new and often ambiguous contexts for ceremonial and decorative objects like Torah pointers, Kiddush cups and spice containers. Somehow she manages to quote Nietzsche, Freud, Leonard Cohen, Joan Didion, the Bible and various Wikipedia entries, all without losing her own probing, skeptical voice. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, (212) 423-3200, thejewishmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'African Art, New York, and the Avant-Garde' (through Sept. 2) Timed to the centennial of the Armory Show of 1913, this exhibition tells the story of African art's debut in cutting-edge New York museums and galleries with exceptional candor. It makes clear that early-20th-century Americans received Modern art and African art as a single import, derived from French and Belgian colonies, distilled in Paris and presented on these shores by a few tastemaking dealers and collectors. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'The Civil War and American Art' (through Sept. 2) If you've seen ''Photography and the American Civil War'' at the Met, you might suppose that viewing another exhibition about the war would be redundant. It's not. With outstanding works by Frederic Edwin Church, Sanford Robinson Gifford and Winslow Homer, this gripping show sheds expansive light on the nation's experience of its own fratricidal conflict. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Photography and the American Civil War' (through Sept. 2) As intellectually fascinating as it is emotionally wrenching, this exhibition is sure to be remembered as one of the great museum photography shows ever. Its more than 200 photographs include expansive images of battlefields and war-ruined towns; wallet-size portraits of soldiers; preciously framed daguerreotypes; political campaign buttons; a doctor's documents of horrifically wounded soldiers; portraits of loved ones in lockets; and a series depicting the hanging of five co-conspirators in the assassination of President Abraham Lincoln by the photographer Alexander Gardner. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Ken Price: A Retrospective' (through Sept. 22) Tableware? Toys? Genetic accidents? Objets d'art? The ceramic sculptures of Ken Price suggest all these possibilities. To the market's old, divide-and-label query ''Is this art or craft?,'' Price offered one, finessing answer: ''Yes.'' And right he was. You see the rightness instantly in the Met retrospective, which is one of those ideal shows: perfect size, great design (by Frank Gehry), pretty near faultless art. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. Ideal, too, in a plainer way, is a concurrent survey of the artist's works on paper, ''Ken Price: Slow and Steady Wins the Race,'' running through Aug. 18 at the Drawing Center, 35 Wooster Street, SoHo, (212) 219-2166, drawingcenter.org. (Cotter)
Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Punk: Chaos to Couture' (through Aug. 14) This entertaining exhibition proves that high fashion rarely looks quite as frivolous and cluelessly 1 percent-ish as when it upgrades aspects of the obstreperous punk sartorial mode, adding gold-plated safety pins, careful rips and holes, and a feigned DIY look that can involve materials like garbage bags or cellophane. Cleverness abounds. A few designers absorb and transform punk attributes, but most garments simplistically scream punk. Not for nothing do they call the show's organizing department the Costume Institute. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'The Roof Garden Commission: Imran Qureshi' (through Nov. 3) Visitors to the Met's rooftop will discover something shocking: the stone terrace is splattered with paint the color of dried blood so that it resembles the scene of some terrible crime. Looking closer at the areas of spillage, viewers will find they have been delicately altered. With deft white and red brush strokes, the Pakistani artist Imran Qureshi has worked into the raw paint a pattern suggestive of leafy shrubbery and flower petals, turning the whole into a politically fraught, allegorical mix symbolizing dualities of life and death and hope and despair. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)
&#x2605; MoMA PS1: 'Expo 1: New York' (through Sept. 2) A sprawling, multisite extravaganza including a multitude of installations, shows-within-shows and events, ''Expo 1: New York'' offers few answers but raises many provocative questions about the current and future state of our planet's unsettled human and natural ecology. Attractions at PS1 range from a beautiful show of pictures by the beloved nature photographer Ansel Adams to a refrigerated room containing chunks from an Icelandic glacier by Olafur Eliasson. On 53rd Street, next to the Museum of Modern Art, ''Rain Room'' invites viewers into a chamber where steady precipitation ceases wherever bodies are detected by high-tech hardware. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, (718) 784-2084, ps1.org. (Johnson)
&#x2605; Morgan Library & Museum: 'Illuminating Faith: The Eucharist in Medieval Life and Art' (through Sept. 15) Spring-into-summer was the season for open-air processions in medieval Europe. The one staged annually for the feast of Corpus Christi, celebrating the bodily presence of Jesus Christ in the bread and wine of the Mass, was among the most ardent, elaborate and politically loaded of all. And it retains all those qualities in this ravishing, superbly documented survey of sacramental imagery, mostly in the form of exquisitely painted books. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 685-0008, themorgan.org. (Cotter)
Morgan Library & Museum: 'Old Masters, Newly Acquired' (through Oct. 6) This celebration of new acquisitions includes about a hundred pre-1900 drawings, all donated, bequeathed or purchased from 2009 to 2012. Dispensing with themes and chronology, the show groups works by patron: Astor, von Bülow and so on. The late-19th-century selections are especially strong; here are not one but two early Degas self-portraits in black chalk; prismatic watercolors by Cézanne and Renoir; a vibrant Gauguin pastel of two Breton girls; and a Seurat horse and landscape in his mossy shadings of conté. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street; (212) 685-0008, themorgan.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Morgan Library & Museum: 'Subliming Vessel: The Drawings of Matthew Barney' (through Sept. 2) With its Gospels and reliquaries, the Morgan Library is at the right place for the first survey of graphic work by the most medievalizing of American contemporary artists. Encased in thick, pale, plastic frames, Mr. Barney's drawings of the past two decades have the look of precious pages from sacred books displayed on iPads. His images, with their emphasis on redemption through fleshly mortification, suggest sources in heroic epics and penitential religion, filtered through Sade and extreme sports. A display of collagelike storyboards for his films confirms the occult glamour of the personal cosmology he has developed, which feels as artificial and addictive as a video game. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 685-0008, themorgan.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; El Museo del Barrio: 'La Bienal 2013: Here Is Where We Jump' (through Jan. 4) Much of the work by the 37 artists in the seventh edition of El Museo's Bienal is budget-conscious in its materials and modest in size, scaled to small studios. Maybe exactly because of such restrictions, the show is thoughtful and personal, uneven in parts, solid as a whole. It's also a product of that old-fashioned thing, the ethnically specific museum. Even with definitions of ethnicity stretched all kinds of ways -- what does ''Latino'' really mean anymore, anyway? -- the issue of identity remains at the core of such institutions and informs much of the work in this show. 1230 Fifth Avenue, at 104th Street, East Harlem, (212) 831-7272, elmuseo.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; Museum of Arts and Design: 'Against the Grain: Wood in Contemporary Art, Craft and Design' (through Sept. 15) This sixth show in the museum's Materials and Process series is a big improvement on its predecessors, mostly because it feels more artist- and designer-driven. Representing the Chelsea gallery contingent are Alison Elizabeth Taylor, with marquetry installations; Phoebe Washburn and Leonardo Drew, with scrap-wood sculptures; and Roy McMakin, with slyly repurposed found furniture. From the design-fair circuit come functional works like Mark Moskovitz's ''Facecord,'' a sideboard that looks like a stack of firewood when the drawers are closed, and Maarten Baas's knife block in the shape of a head (which seems destined for the MoMA design store). 2 Columbus Circle, (212) 299-7777, madmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Museum of Modern Art: 'Ellsworth Kelly: Chatham Series' (through Sept. 8) Together again for the first time in 40 years, the 14 two-panel Chatham paintings from 1971 offer giddy instruction in the weights, measures and balances of strong color -- red, blue, green, yellow, black and white. The works -- abutting rectangles that form an inverted L -- seem to expand or contract as you move around the gallery. An adjoining display of 40 small collages from 1951 shows Mr. Kelly laying out some of the stringent abstract vocabulary that he has mined ever since. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)
&#x2605; Museum of Modern Art: 'Claes Oldenburg: The Street and the Store' and 'Claes Oldenburg: Mouse Museum, Ray Gun Wing' (through Aug. 5) Pop Art is based on two things: ordinariness and eating. It's about daily consumption; the democratic appetite, ravenous for meat, sweets, life on the street, and getting more of everything, cheap. No artist cooked up a tastier version of the primal Pop recipe than Claes Oldenburg did in New York in the late 1950s and early '60s. The art he made in that brief, fecund time is the focus of a two-meals-for-the-price-of-one MoMA feast. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; Museum of Modern Art: 'Bill Brandt: Shadow and Light' (through Aug. 12) With nearly 160 works ranging from photographs of London in the 1930s and during World War II to nearly abstract Surrealist nudes from the 1950s and '60s, this impeccable survey makes a strong if slightly over-edited argument for Brandt as one of the founders of modern photography. It sticks to vintage prints and brings a wonderful lucidity to a persistent balance of art and humanity that is, as it is frequently described: strange, mysterious and irresistible. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)
Museum of Modern Art: 'Performing Histories (1)' (through Aug. 5) An awareness of the uprisings, protests, occupations and revolutions erupting around the globe is present in ''Performing Histories (1),'' a show of video, film and photographic work recently acquired by MoMA. Insurrection and resistance pervade the Romanian artist Ion Grigorescu's film ''Dialogue With Ceausescu'' (1978), while the feminist personal as political is employed in Martha Rosler's ''She Sees in Herself a New Woman Every Day'' (1976) and Sharon Hayes's four-channel video ''The Interpreter Project'' (2001). Andrea Fraser's two videos connect politics and the museum. In one she describes how scientific philanthropy in the 19th century directed wealth to museums and other public institutions rather than the poor, while another video delves into how MoMA itself interacted with revolutionaries and communists, like the Mexican muralist Diego Rivera. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Martha Schwendener)
National Academy Museum: 'Jeffrey Gibson: Said the Pigeon to the Squirrel' (through Sept. 8) The work of Mr. Gibson, an abstract painter who often works on animal hides in homage to his American Indian heritage (he is a member of the Mississippi Band of Choctaw Indians and is half Cherokee), embodies two sweeping trends in contemporary art: feverishly bright geometric abstraction and the creative reuse of found objects. The animal hides are stretched over antique mirrors and ironing boards, and even wrapped around fluorescent light tubes in a nod to Dan Flavin. His works have plenty of visual pizazz but can be weak conceptually; the better ones evoke performance of various kinds, from raves to traditional American Indian dances. 1083 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 369-4880, nationalacademy.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Neue Galerie: 'Koloman Moser: Designing Modern Vienna 1897-1907' (through Sept. 2) Along with his better-known colleague, Josef Hoffmann, Moser was a founder of the Wiener Werkstätte, the consortium of designers and artisans that produced some of the 20th century's most beautiful objects. Focusing on Moser's most productive years, this gorgeous exhibition presents more than 200 exquisitely elegant works, including books, glassware, metal pieces, ceramics, jewelry and furniture. 1048 Fifth Avenue at 86th Street, (212) 628-6200, neuegalerie.org. (Johnson)
New Museum: 'Ellen Gallagher: Don't Axe Me' (through Sept. 15) Ellen Gallagher emerged in the early 1990s with memorable paintings that yoked Minimalism to minstrelsy by scattering tiny caricatures of eyes and mouths across creamy expanses of paper and canvas. More recently she has branched out from painting and collage to film, and from pop-culture imagery to literary and science-fiction references. For ''Osedax'' (2010), made with her partner, Edgar Cleijne, visitors crouch to enter a black-box theater and settle in to view two simultaneous projections: one of glass slides hand-painted with watery abstractions, the other a 16-millimeter film incorporating footage of a shipwreck off Rhode Island. It's the most interesting part of a piecemeal, sometimes arbitrary-feeling show that coincides with a larger retrospective at Tate Modern. 235 Bowery, at Prince Street, Lower East Side, (212) 219-1222, newmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)
New Museum: 'Llyn Foulkes' (through Sept. 1) Although poorly organized, this exhibition devoted to a great American original contains several one-of-a-kind masterpieces. Displayed in a small, dark corner room where it glows uncannily, partly by virtue of real lights built into it, ''Pop'' (1985-1991) is a 10-foot-wide marvel of comic magic realism and meticulous craftsmanship. In a homey, wood-paneled living room, the main character, a portrait of the middle-aged artist, sits in a paisley-patterned armchair, staring with bugged-out eyes, evidently driven to catatonic paralysis by what he's seeing on the television. 235 Bowery, at Prince Street, Lower East Side, (212) 219-1222, newmuseum.org. (Johnson)
New-York Historical Society: 'Swing Time: Reginald Marsh and Thirties New York' (through Sept. 1) A Social Realist with satirical leanings, Marsh (1898-1954) painted the seamy side of life in New York during the Great Depression. Using egg tempera with a skittery touch, he made flickering, cartoonish images in a palette ranging from sooty to garishly bright; he painted burlesque performers, people on busy sidewalks and crowded subway stations, Coney Island amusement seekers and the homeless and destitute. His voyeuristic eye for fiercely self-assertive, full-figured young women adds an intriguing, creepy psychology. 170 Central Park West, at 77th Street, (212) 873-3400, nyhistory.org. (Johnson)
Rubin Museum of Art: 'Fiercely Modern: Art of the Naga Warrior' (through Sept. 16) The Naga were a diverse collection of peoples speaking similar languages and residing in a mountainous area in northeastern India. Headhunting was one of their most prized pursuits until they were almost entirely Christianized in the early 20th century. They also created extraordinarily beautiful textiles, jewelry and ceremonial objects, as this intriguing, introductory show demonstrates. 150 West 17th Street, Chelsea, (212) 620-5000, rmanyc.org. (Johnson)
&#x2605; Whitney Museum of American Art: 'Hopper Drawing' (through Oct. 6) With more than 200 drawings, two dozen sketchbook pages and an essential bonus of 21 paintings, this landmark exhibition takes us behind the curtain of stillness that makes Hopper's art so riveting to reveal as never before how he used preparatory studies to synthesize reality, memory and imagination. Some of his greatest paintings -- ''New York Movie,'' ''Nighthawks'' -- and other gems are here. An overview indicates how the young Hopper shaped and toughened his versatile gifts into a singular vision. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Smith)
Whitney Museum of American Art: 'I, YOU, WE' (through Sept. 1) The Whitney's latest collection show (and the last one for the Breuer building before the museum decamps to the meatpacking district) finds artists reacting to AIDS, Reagan-era social policies, urban blight and gentrification, and a stock market boom and bust. Everything here dates from the 1980s and early '90s, otherwise known as the era of identity politics. Included are numerous self-portraits, a room of AIDS-related artworks, and Nan Goldin's 45-minute slide installation ''The Ballad of Sexual Dependency.'' (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Rosenberg)
Galleries: Uptown
&#x2605; Paul McCarthy: 'WS' (through Aug. 4) Paul McCarthy's Swiftian film on (among many other things) Walt Disney's ''Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs'' and the American psyche is nasty, funny, X-rated and seven hours long. The jungle-and-ranch-house set in which it was shot is intact in the Armory's drill hall. No one under 18 will be admitted. At Hauser & Wirth, a second extravaganza by the artist, working in collaboration with his son Damon, is in the same politically incorrect, punch-drunk vein on a slightly less epic scale. Here the reference point is the 1955 film ''Rebel Without a Cause.'' Park Avenue Armory, 643 Park Avenue, at 67th Street, (212) 616-3930, armoryonpark.org. (Cotter)
'Salvaging the Past: Georges Hoentschel and French Decorative Arts From the Metropolitan Museum of Art' (through Aug. 11) This sometimes arcane but highly effective assemblage of rare furnishings, artifacts and a smattering of art and printed matter resurrects a once-renowned French interior designer whose collections -- and displays -- of 18th-century French decorative material and medieval art were purchased en bloc by J.P. Morgan and given to the Met. They formed the nuclei of the museum's holdings in these areas, helped shape its departmental structure and influenced the arrangement of its galleries. Bard Graduate Center: Decorative Arts, Design History, Material Culture, 18 West 86th Street, (212) 501-3023, bgc.bard.edu. (Smith)
Galleries: Chelsea
&#x2605; Francis Cape: 'Utopian Benches' (closes next Friday) An artist long preoccupied with the physical and the spiritual aspects of craft and design offers a fascinating excursion into faith-based furniture: 17 meticulous poplar copies of benches built and used in communal, mostly religious societies in North America from the 18th-century to the present. Such ''shared seating'' encouraged both community and equality. Here it also forms an illuminating study of joinery, scale, detailing, proportion and comfort -- comprehended almost as much by sitting as by looking. Murray Guy, 453 West 17th Street, Chelsea, (212) 463-7372, murrayguy.com. (Smith)
'Reinventing Abstraction: New York Painting in the 1980s' (through Aug. 30) This worthy show reconsiders 15 painters who did not fit into fashionable categories in the 1980s. It includes humorously updated Surrealism by Carroll Dunham and Elizabeth Murray; canny play with Modernist devices by Thomas Nozkowski, Jonathan Lasker, Mary Heilmann and David Reed; botanical imagery by Bill Jensen and Terry Winters; gesture and process by Louise Fishman and Pat Steir; abstracted landscapes by Joan Snyder and Stanley Whitney; and enigmatic symbolism by Gary Stephan, Jack Whitten and Stephen Mueller. Cheim & Read, 547 West 25th Street, (212) 242-7727, cheimread.com. (Johnson)
Lucien Samaha: 'The Flight Attendant Years: 1978-1986' (closes next Friday) Lucien Samaha is a founding member of the Arab Image Foundation, a vast photographic repository in Beirut, Lebanon, and the creator of his own one-man database of hundreds of thousands of pictures recording some 30 years of his own life. For his New York solo debut, he has skimmed off pictures from early years of that history when he was a flight attendant for Trans World Airlines. Specimens of social anthropology and period nostalgia, they are relics of an oddly innocent-looking pre-airport-security age. Lombard Freid Projects, 518 West 19th Street, (212) 967-8040, lombard-freid.com. (Cotter)
&#x2605; Rosalind Solomon: 'Portraits in the Time of AIDS, 1988' (closes next Friday) Rosalind Solomon took some critical heat when her exhibition ''Portraits in the Time of AIDS'' opened at New York University's Grey Art Gallery in 1988. Critics viewed her images of people disfigured by Kaposi's sarcoma or wasting away in hospitals as opportunistically negative at a time when groups like ACT UP (AIDS Coalition to Release Power) were trying to alter public perception of the disease by exchanging an image of abjection for one of agency. ACT UP's campaign worked brilliantly. But if you want to know what spurred that activism and see what a lot of people in homes and hospitals saw every day in those years, Ms. Solomon's unflinching pictures are where to look. Bruce Silverstein, 535 West 24th Street, Chelsea, (212) 627-3930, brucesilverstein.com. (Cotter)
Galleries: Other
&#x2605; Simon Dinnerstein: 'The Fulbright Triptych' (ongoing) This little-known masterpiece of 1970s realism was begun by the young Simon Dinnerstein during a Fulbright fellowship in Germany in 1971 and completed in his hometown, Brooklyn, three years later. Incorporating carefully rendered art postcards, children's drawings and personal memorabilia; a formidable worktable laid out with printmaking tools and outdoor views; and the artist and his family, it synthesizes portrait, still life, interior and landscape and rummages through visual culture while sampling a dazzling range of textures and representational styles. It should be seen by anyone interested in the history of recent art and its oversights. German Consulate General, 871 United Nations Plaza, First Avenue, at 49th Street, (212) 610-9700, germany.info/nyevents. (Smith)
Out of Town
&#x2605; Smithsonian American Art Museum: 'Nam June Paik: Global Visionary' (through Aug. 11) Including a large and fascinating trove of material from the Nam June Paik archive, acquired by the Smithsonian from the artist's estate in 2009, this survey of the avant-garde musician, multimedia wizard and video art pioneer (1932-2006) looks startlingly current despite the preponderance of analog televisions and other obsolete hardware. It makes clear that contemporary artists like Christian Marclay, Jon Kessler, Cory Arcangel, Ryan Trecartin and Haroon Mirza owe a great deal to Mr. Paik's tweaked TV sets and frenetic, technically innovative videos. Eighth and F Streets NW, Washington, (202) 633-1000, americanart.si.edu. (Rosenberg)
Last Chance
Jane Alexander: 'Surveys (From the Cape of Good Hope)' (closes on Sunday) The Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine is an occupied zone this summer, with a transient population of unearthly beings camped out in its chapels and aisles. Neither angels nor devils, though suggesting both, the figures in the sculptural tableaus and related photographs were all created by the South African artist Jane Alexander. And while haunted by her country's history of apartheid, the work has no single meaning, no sum-upable content. Instead, painstakingly calibrated ambiguity leaves this strange and wonderful show open to political speculation and spiritual interpretation. Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine, 1047 Amsterdam Avenue, at 112th Street, Morningside Heights, (212) 316-7490, stjohndivine.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; Brooklyn Museum: 'John Singer Sargent Watercolors' (closes on Sunday) Sargent fans and watercolor hobbyists will be in heaven with this exhibition's more than 90 watercolors from the first decade of the 20th century, all from the collections of the Brooklyn Museum and the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, and all representing picturesque scenes in Europe. Sargent pioneered the kind of loosely gestural yet clearly representational watercolor painting that today's popular culture adores. He has his detractors, though, who may profit from re-examining their prejudices in light of this beautiful show. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, Brooklyn, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Johnson)
Lawrence Campbell: 'A 15-Year Memorial Tribute' (closes on Saturday) During his nearly 50-year career, the art critic Lawrence Campbell (1914-98) was known for his ecumenical taste and insider knowledge of the New York art world. On the 15th anniversary of his death, this show brings together examples of his own art: 35 small, finely wrought landscapes in oil and watercolor. They are no less convincing for their debts to Bonnard, Vuillard, Cézanne and others, proving that originality begins in sincerity. Blue Mountain Gallery, 530 West 25th Street, Chelsea, (646) 486-4730, bluemountaingallery.org. (Smith)
'The Cat Show' (closes on Saturday) An exhibition celebrating the most elegant and enigmatic -- and frequently the cutest -- of all domesticated animals includes work by around 100 contemporary artists, many of whom show their soft sides. There are cat collages, abstractions, portraits, assorted (often climbable) sculptures and a program of beguiling videos. The centerpiece is a large, well-appointed cage that is occupied on Fridays and Saturdays by adoptable companions from Social Tees Animal Rescue, which helped the writer and artist Rhonda Lieberman organize this amazing menagerie. White Columns, 320 West 13th Street, with entrance on Horatio Street, West Village, (212) 924-4212, whitecolumns.org. (Smith)
Simon Denny: 'All you need is data: the DLD 2012 Conference REDUX rerun' (closes on Saturday) In his impressive second show at the Petzel Gallery, this young Berlin artist retraces the events schedule of the 2012 DLD (Digital-Life-Design) conference in Munich with a labyrinthine installation of ink print-on-canvas paintings that presents speakers' photographs and sound bites bulletin-board style. The forced intimacy of the installation illuminates the achievements, personalities, possibilities and dangers encompassed by the digital world. The piece is both a new kind of late Conceptual art and a public service. Petzel Gallery, 456 West 18th Street, Chelsea, (212) 680-9467, petzel.com. (Smith)
Laddie John Dill: 'Elementary' (closes on Friday) At the end of the 1960s the West Coast Light and Space artist Laddie John Dill began producing electric-light works out of blown glass tubes in a lush palette of jewel-bright colors. Here nine of these works, all from 1971, are installed in one room at regular intervals, creating a trippy visual chamber music. Elsewhere, glowing constructions of glass panes in geometric arrangements could be models for updates of Stonehenge, monuments for a new cosmic paganism. Nyehaus, 358 West 20th Street, Chelsea, (212) 366-4493, nyehaus.com. (Johnson)
&#x2605; 'Gardening by the Book: Celebrating 100 Years of the Garden Club of America' (closes on Saturday) This wonderful show presents more than 125 illustrated tomes about flowers and gardening from four centuries. Loaded with marvels of acute observation and exacting draftsmanship, it begins with Emanuel Sweert's illustrated catalog of more than 500 bulbs and flowers thought to have ignited the Tulipmania craze and ends with first editions of books by the environmentalist Rachel Carson. It is altogether a terrific treat for minds and eyes. Grolier Club, 47 East 60th Street, Manhattan, (212) 838-6690, grolierclub.org. (Johnson)
'GO-SLOW: Diaries of Personal and Collective Stagnation in Lagos' (closes on Wednesday) No one views Africa more critically than Africans. The young curator Amber Croyle acknowledges this in taking Fela Anikulapo-Kuti's satirical 1978 song ''Go Slow,'' with its propulsive but not-going-anywhere rhythm, as a title for this show of work by 10 contemporary Nigerian photographers who respond to tensions of life in their country, where high energy and restraining impediments meet. Skoto Gallery, 529 West 20th Street, fifth floor, Chelsea, (212) 352-8058, skotogallery.com. (Cotter)
&#x2605; Paul McCarthy: 'Life Cast' (closes on Friday) One of the outstanding shows of the artist's career is best viewed as a single piece. Three fanatically realistic life-size sculptures of naked humans are paired with two video installations that reveal the meticulous casting process behind their ecstatic, mysterious exactitude. The piece is a homage to -- but also perhaps penance for -- Marcel Duchamp's ''Étant Donnés'' and its obsessive focus on the female sex. Hauser & Wirth, 32 East 69th Street, Manhattan, (212) 794-4970, hauserwirth.com. (Smith)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'At War With the Obvious: Photographs by William Eggleston' (closes on Sunday) In 36 transcendentally beautiful photographs shot in the Mississippi Delta region in the 1970s and early '80s, this pioneer of color photography captured those kinds of sacred moments when something you ordinarily would pass by without a thought -- a children's swing set overgrown by weeds, an abandoned gas station, a basket of fake flowers hanging on someone's front door -- suddenly takes your breath away. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)
Takuma Nakahira: 'Circulation: Date, Place, Events' (closes on Friday) Decades ago this Japanese photographer advocated a style known in his native tongue as ''are, bure, boke'' (rough, blurred and out of focus) and put it to use for 1,500 photographs he exhibited in -- and made during -- the Seventh Paris Biennale in 1971. A selection of 78 images from this marathon form his revelatory solo debut in the United States, introducing an artist ahead of his time in his emphasis on chance and of existing images and the determined ''de-skilling'' of his medium. Yossi Milo, 245 10th Avenue, near 24th Street, Chelsea, (212) 414-0370, yossimilo.com. (Smith)
'Old Black' (closes on Friday) This concise but powerful summer show is named for Neil Young's favorite ax (a customized 1953 Gibson Les Paul Goldtop), and finds much beauty in distortion. It includes a few striking large-scale works, foremost among them Banks Violette's untitled sculpture of powder-coated steel, which could be a crushed highway guardrail or, better yet, the neck of a smashed guitar. Team Gallery, 47 Wooster Street, between Broome and Grand Streets, SoHo, (212) 279-9219, teamgal.com. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Victor Pesce: 'Selections: 1978-2010' (closes on Friday) Late bloomers can take heart from Mr. Pesce's career in painting, which is surveyed in this lovely, three-decade retrospective. The still lifes he made in his last 10 years are his most visually absorbing and soulful works. In dusky colors often shot through with opalescence, they picture simple, boxy constructions and ordinary objects on flat surfaces -- a shoe, a bowl, a paper bag -- as if they were sacred relics. Elizabeth Harris Gallery, 529 West 20th Street, Chelsea, (212) 463-9666, elizabethharrisgallery.com. (Johnson)
'Ken Price: Zoo' (closes on Friday) This small, quirky show of works on paper and ceramic cups mostly from the 1960s is the perfect introduction to the splendid survey of Price's radiantly colored ceramic sculpture at the Met and his efforts on paper at the Drawing Center. It zeros in on his keen attention to reptiles and other nonmammals as both subjects and inspiration while highlighting the currents of eroticism, procreation and plain-old sex that, however abstracted, vivify much of Price's work. Franklin Parrasch Gallery, 20 West 57th Street, Manhattan, (212) 246-5360, franklinparrasch.com. (Smith)
'Specific Objects' (closes on Friday) The widely held misconception that Donald Judd's often-quoted 1965 article ''Specific Objects'' is a Minimal art manifesto is undermined by this smart show, but not completely dispersed. Its attempt to demonstrate that Judd had something considerably more robust and physically eccentric in mind than Minimalism is undercut by a lack of substantial and representative loans, as might be expected at a commercial gallery. But, as a result, aspects of art that Judd excluded -- performance, postwar ready-mades and printed matter -- complicate things, which is almost as interesting. Susan Inglett Gallery, 522 West 24th Street, Chelsea, (212) 647-9111, inglettgallery.com. (Smith)
'Work' (closes on Saturday) This group show pushes artistic collaboration toward the factory assembly line. The 14 artists each applied a particular motif, procedure or set of marks to 40 20-by-16-inch canvases, resulting in lively pastiches of 1980s Neo-Expressionism and current bricolage abstraction. But individual sensibilities are increasingly evident, steering the project off the rails in engaging ways and proving that the author is not so dead after all. Klaus Von Nichtssagend Gallery, 54 Ludlow Street, near Grand Street, Lower East Side, (212) 777-7756, klausgallery.com. (Smith)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DeCHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (96%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); VISUAL ARTISTS (79%); CIVIL RIGHTS (52%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTGOMERY, AL, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); ALABAMA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2013



758 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1000 words

HEADLINE: SAC Case Threatens a Wall St. Cash Cow

BYLINE: By PETER EAVIS

 BODY:
Wall Street now has to contemplate life without SAC Capital Advisors, the hedge fund that manages billions of dollars.
In a rare and aggressive action, federal authorities on Thursday indicted the fund on criminal charges. And in doing so, the government may have threatened the life of a big golden goose for Wall Street.
SAC Capital, led by Steven A. Cohen, has been a prodigious, unruly force in the market for years. 
Its whirlwind trading style has helped move stock prices. And the fund consistently pays millions of dollars in commissions and fees to prominent investment banks that handle its trading.
Banks received $9.3 billion from clients in stock trading commissions in the 12 months through the first quarter of this year, according to a study by Greenwich Associates. Brokers said that SAC Capital was one of the largest commission generators for Wall Street.
Not only does Wall Street support the fund's stock and derivatives trades, but the firm is also a reliable client for those further down the food chain, like technology equipment providers. Now, the fund's banks face an uncomfortable choice. Should they keep acting as a broker to SAC Capital? There will be strong temptation to maintain full ties with the fund. The payments from SAC Capital are welcome during these leaner times on Wall Street. And banks may be reluctant to drop a client that has not yet been proved guilty.
But since the financial crisis, banks have to care more about their public reputations and the desires of their regulators. Senior bank executives and their lawyers may therefore decide that the risks of staying loyal to SAC Capital outweigh the financial benefit of having it as a client. ''They really don't need this additional reputational load,'' said Ingo Walter, a professor of finance, corporate governance and ethics at New York University.
Banks write contracts with hedge funds that allow them to drop the funds under certain situations. An indictment might be such a catalyst in the contracts banks have with SAC Capital. But the brokers would have wide discretion over whether to end the relationship.
''It would be highly unusual to have something that is automatically triggered,'' Leigh R. Fraser, a partner at Ropes & Gray, said.
Unlike a bank, SAC Capital isn't wholly reliant on the confidence of others to stay alive. An indicted bank would almost certainly face collapse. The investment bank Drexel Burnham Lambert filed for bankruptcy protection in 1990 after it faced the possibility of an indictment.
''If you have a bank that is charged with criminality, customers will withdraw,'' Charles Geisst, a professor in the economics and finance department of Manhattan College, said. ''But if a customer is charged, I don't think there are too many banks that will turn them down, at least initially.''
Arthur Andersen wasn't a bank, yet it collapsed in 2002 after it was indicted. The accounting firm imploded because its clients fled. But SAC isn't wholly reliant on client money.
The United States attorney's office is seeking a forfeiture of some of the firm's assets, but SAC would likely have considerable resources left even after such an action. In recent months, SAC Capital investors have in effect taken out as much as $5 billion of their money, and the remaining $1 billion to $1.5 billion could well leave after the indictment on Thursday.
But the fund would still have an estimated $9 billion that belongs to Mr. Cohen and other employees. SAC Capital could close down, pay a fine and still move much of that left over money to a new company. Mr. Cohen himself does not face criminal charges, but the Securities and Exchange Commission has accused him of failure to supervise. If found liable, he could be barred from investing money for others but could be allowed to manage his own sizable sum of money.
But any new investment vehicle set up by Mr. Cohen would still need Wall Street. And the banks would have to decide whether they wanted to do business with him.
''His money will be just as green after this indictment as it was before,'' said Jonathan R. Macey, a law professor at Yale.
So far, SAC Capital's problems have not weighed on the wider market. If a large financial firm becomes unstable, regulators often worry that it will dump its assets, setting off a fire sale. Smelling blood, other investment funds may also bet against those shares to make a profit.
But some of SAC Capital's previously disclosed investments were holding up well on Thursday. For instance, recent filings showed that SAC Capital owned a big stake in GNC Holdings, the retailer of vitamins and health products. Its stock was up over 10 percent on Thursday after reporting earnings.
One wild card is whether SAC Capital has been using margin, or borrowed money from its brokers, to make its biggest bets. If a Wall Street bank demanded those loans be paid back immediately, the fund could face trouble.
SAC Capital's assets look relatively small when placed in the context of the wider market. Hedge funds -- which manage money on behalf of college endowments and pension funds as well as the wealthy -- as a whole have $2.4 trillion of assets under management, according to Hedge Fund Research. Mutual funds have $28 trillion of assets, according to the Investment Company Institute.
But SAC Capital's frantic trading made it a much bigger source of earnings for Wall Street than investment companies that were many times its size.
SAC Capital's indictment could serve as a reminder to Wall Street and investors not to grow too dependent on funds that pursue aggressive strategies. Assets at hedge funds have grown even though they have generally underperformed in the market. SAC Capital's high profile problems could do even more to take the gloss off the sector.
''Hedge funds were touted as being smarter than everyone else,'' Mr. Geisst said. ''I think this marks something of an end to that era of hedge funds.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Preet Bharara, top, the United States attorney for Manhattan, announcing the charges against SAC Capital Advisors, the hedge fund run by Steven Cohen, above. At right, the firm's offices in Stamford, Conn. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES
STEVE MARCUS/REUTERS
 MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HEDGE FUNDS (89%); INDICTMENTS (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); LAWYERS (74%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (64%); BUSINESS ETHICS (64%); ETHICS (64%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (64%)

COMPANY: SAC CAPITAL ADVISORS LP (58%); GREENWICH ASSOCIATES (56%); ROPES & GRAY LLP (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (56%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: STEVEN A COHEN (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2013



759 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OPINIONATOR; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: Fast Food, Low Pay

BYLINE: By MARK BITTMAN. 
David Brooks is off today.

 BODY:
Last November, following the Black Friday protests by Walmart employees, 200 workers at 30 New York fast-food restaurants walked off their jobs.
Not much happened immediately. There was press and vocal support from organized labor and the nascent food movement. But the strike didn't spread like wildfire.
Something else didn't happen, however: no one lost his job. And that was a huge deal. 
As far as I can determine, only one worker was permanently terminated as a result of the many actions that have followed nationwide. Usually, the striking fast-food workers are escorted back to work by co-workers, clergy, union leaders and even elected officials, who together insist that there be no retribution. That's worked.
And so a rapidly increasing number of food industry and other retail workers are now fighting for basic rights: halfway decent pay, a real work schedule, the right to organize, health care, paid sick days, vacations and respect. Next week, organizers say, we'll see a walkout of thousands of workers at hundreds of stores in at least seven cities, including New York and Chicago.Something is happening here, though exactly what isn't quite clear. Fast food was never a priority of organized labor -- it's difficult to imagine a traditional union of four million fast-food workers in something like 200,000 locations -- but dozens of organizations are now involved, including, to its credit, the Service Employees International Union, which is providing financing and counsel. The upshot: Workers with nothing to lose are demanding a living wage of $15 an hour, and gaining strength and confidence.
They don't have much else. Those making minimum wage ($7.25) and just above have less buying power than their peers did in the mid-50s. Even business leaders are beginning to recognize that forcing workers onto food stamps is no way to sustain an economy -- or a society. The chief executive of Costco, Craig Jelinek, for example, has endorsed President Obama's efforts to raise the minimum wage.
The movement found an unwitting ally when McDonald's offered its workers a sample personal budget that included such laughable features as the need for a second job and budget lines for ''Heating'' (zero) and ''Health Insurance'' ($20). Per month. (The company, which is worth $100 billion, give or take a few bucks, now says that heat costs $50 a month. But only if you speak English; the Spanish language site budgets heat at $30.) In the old days you could say: ''So what? Those workers are all teenagers. They live at home.'' But the median age of today's fast-food worker is over 29, and many are trying to support families. One estimate claims that a family of four needs nearly $90,000 a year to get by in the nation's capital. That's six minimum-wage jobs. Explain to me, please, how you can be pro-family and anti-living-wage simultaneously? (Many Republicans in Congress seem to manage.)
We can afford to pay these workers: a petition titled ''Economists in Support of a $10.50 U.S. Minimum Wage'' estimates that McDonald's could recoup half the cost of such an increase simply by hiking the price of a Big Mac from $4 to $4.05. One item; 1 percent.
So the only reason this kind of outrage continues is that many ultrarich are denying the needs and suppressing the rights of our lowest-paid workers. These people face huge odds, but equal challenges were overcome in both the 1930s and the 1960s by bold and sometimes ''crazy'' actions. There was mild government support then, and that's weaker now; but perhaps midterm elections will change that.
The recession killed 60 percent of $15- to $20-an-hour jobs, which should be the lowest-paying ones. Around 20 percent have returned, but the rest are being replaced by those paying less than $13 an hour. Thus median income for working-age households fell more than 10 percent from 2000 to 2010.
A vast majority of Americans are much closer in income to McDonald's workers than to corporate C.E.O.'s. Yet we tolerate the fact that one in seven of our fellow Americans live in poverty, with half of those people working tough jobs. Do we want to be part of that? Surely, better scenarios exist. And victory for the lowest-wage workers will have a positive impact on wages for everyone.
Six elements are affected by the way food is produced: taste, nutrition and price; and the impact on the environment, animals and labor. We can argue about taste, but it's clear that our production system -- especially in the fast-food world -- is flunking all the others. And if you think food is ''cheap,'' talk to the people working in the fields, factories and stores who can't afford it. Remember: no food is produced without labor.
Well-intentioned people often ask me what they can do to help improve our food system. Here's an easy one: When you see that picket line next week, don't cross it. In fact, join it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (91%); FAST FOOD (91%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); MINIMUM WAGE (89%); DISMISSALS (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); LIVING WAGE (78%); EXECUTIVES (74%); RETAILERS (68%); HEALTH INSURANCE (67%); RELIGION (55%); SICK LEAVE (53%)

ORGANIZATION: SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (54%)

PERSON: W CRAIG JELINEK (72%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2013



760 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1100 words

HEADLINE: Change at the Top, and in Priorities, For a Cable and Internet Giant

BYLINE: By BRIAN STELTER

 BODY:
When Glenn A. Britt got started in the nascent cable television business in the 1970s, no one knew whether people would pay a monthly fee for something that was already available free through an antenna. Nowadays, most Americans do pay companies like Mr. Britt's Time Warner Cable, not just for television, but for broadband Internet, too.
Keeping Americans paying, though, will soon be someone else's job. Time Warner Cable, the country's second-biggest cable company after Comcast, said on Thursday that Mr. Britt, its chief executive since 2001, would retire at the end of the year, capping several years of succession discussions and months of talk about a departure.
Mr. Britt, 64, will be succeeded by Robert D. Marcus, who at 48 represents a generational change both for the company and the industry. Mr. Marcus has been in line for the top job since 2010, when he was named president and chief operating officer. 
Mr. Marcus will take over a company that has been transformed in the 12 years Mr. Britt has been in charge. Once known just for piping cable television into homes, Time Warner Cable now considers its main product to be broadband, and it is trying hard to sign up businesses to offset the residences that have switched to DirecTV or Verizon FiOS.
In an interview, Mr. Marcus said that his priorities would include residential subscriptions, the corporate culture and overall customer service. ''We've got to develop a level of emotional connection with our customers,'' he said, so that the company is not competing on price alone.
While gaining TV subscribers will be ''challenging,'' as Mr. Marcus put it, because of stiff competition (the company had 12.2 million subscribers at the end of last year, up from 9.2 million when Mr. Britt took over in 2001, but the number has been declining for several years), there is more potential on the broadband side.
Time Warner Cable had 11.4 million broadband subscribers at the end of last year, up sharply from 1.4 million at the beginning of Mr. Britt's tenure. But growth there slowed in the first quarter, and it will be watched closely when the company reports second-quarter earnings Aug. 1.
''We can do better,'' Mr. Marcus said.
Mr. Marcus's words may reverberate on Wall Street, where investors approved of the distributor's 2009 spinoff from the content-oriented Time Warner -- its stock is up more than threefold since -- but want to see subscription figures improve.
Looming over all of this is John C. Malone, whose recent acquisition of a stake in Charter Communications and subsequent talks with Time Warner Cable about a possible merger have bolstered the stocks of both. Time Warner Cable rebuffed the approach by Mr. Malone, partly because Charter has barely four million subscribers.
Given cable's economies of scale, ''smaller companies would benefit from being part of a bigger company,'' Mr. Britt said in an interview. But the benefits for the bigger acquirer ''are harder to figure out,'' he said, ''which is why you haven't seen us be more aggressive.''
Mr. Britt did not bring up Mr. Malone's name directly, and would not describe any conversations they have had. He said his retirement plan had no bearing on the company's reaction to Mr. Malone, who continues to pursue ways to consolidate the cable industry.
Mr. Marcus, similarly, said: ''In the abstract, there is a potential for consolidation to increase value to the total ecosystem, but the key for us is not simply for creating it for the ecosystem, it's about creating it for our shareholders. That's where the decision process often gets more challenging.''
In an interview in his corner office overlooking Central Park, Mr. Britt was humble, talking much more about his company's achievements -- it had total revenue of $21 billion last year; the year Mr. Britt took over, it was $6 billion -- than his own.
He cast his retirement as a normal part of corporate life and an opportunity for him to pursue other interests.
''It's actually not healthy for somebody to stay too, too long,'' he said.
Succession talks involving Mr. Britt and the company's board started even before Mr. Marcus was promoted to chief operating officer in 2010.
Mr. Marcus had been chief financial officer, playing a pivotal role in the Time Warner separation.
''This is the kind of handoff you see on a long relay race -- where it's done gracefully and without anybody losing a beat,'' said N. J. Nicholas Jr., the board's lead director.
Mr. Marcus's ascension was announced as negotiations were extended between Time Warner Cable and the CBS Corporation over a new carriage contract. The deadline, previously Thursday, is now Monday, at which time CBS could be blacked out in three million subscribers' homes.
The two sides have tried to blame each other for the possible blackout using advertisements and social media forums.
Mr. Britt said he would like to see ''more restraint across the board'' on the matter of rising programming costs. He said he did not foresee any immediate existential threats to the cable television bundle, despite occasional calls for à la carte pricing and the growth of on-demand libraries like Netflix.
Of the possibility that Intel, Google or another technology company will come into the marketplace and sell a bundle of cable channels via the Internet, Mr. Britt said, ''It's not clear to me that you could make very much money going that route, and maybe not any money.'' New entrants to the market would not receive better rates for programming than established companies, he said.
Mr. Britt sounded skeptical about the concept that households would drop cable en masse for Internet alternatives, known as cord cutting. But he said: ''I think there is one thing we don't know. That is whether the young generation now, called the millennials, are going to behave differently than all the generations before them.''
That is, will their TV viewership and cable subscriber levels pick up as they age, or not?
The answer may depend on the television industry's willingness to adapt.
One of Mr. Britt's favorite phrases lately is ''four anys,'' a reference to making any video available anytime, anywhere and on any screen, but today it is more theory than reality.
''The technology is available to do all that, and we're trying to get as close to that as we can,'' he said, suggesting that it could happen as fast as channel owners allowed it to happen.
He said he was not disappointed by the pace of change, however: ''I actually think it's moving along probably as fast as these things move along. We'll look back 10 years from now and say, 'Look what's happened.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Robert D. Marcus, left, the chief operating officer, will replace Glenn A. Britt as chief executive. During Mr. Britt's tenure, Time Warner Cable has become more focused on the Internet. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVE KOTINSKY/GETTY IMAGES) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (91%); EXECUTIVES (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (90%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (90%); BROADBAND (89%); SUBSCRIPTION TELEVISION (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (75%); CORPORATE CULTURE (73%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (67%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (64%); MERGERS (63%); COMPANY EARNINGS (60%)

COMPANY: TIME WARNER CABLE INC (58%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (58%); CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS INC (58%)

TICKER: TWC (NYSE) (58%); VZC (LSE) (58%); VZ (NYSE) (58%); CHTR (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (58%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (58%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: JOHN MALONE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2013



761 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 978 words

HEADLINE: How New York, at the Last Minute, Escaped Detroit's Financial Fate

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
One by one, guests on the multi-tiered dais of the annual white-tie Alfred E. Smith Memorial Foundation benefit dinner slipped away for secret negotiations to resolve the city's fiscal crisis. Mayor Abraham D. Beame returned to Gracie Mansion early to confer with fellow formally attired city officials, then slept fitfully, knowing the grave decisions he faced the next morning.
By midday that Friday, Oct. 17, 1975, Mr. Beame had signed a formal petition attesting to municipal default. The police commandeered squad cars, poised to serve legal papers on banks that were the city's leading creditors. A court order was pending to preserve the city government's assets, including cash and durable goods, like garbage trucks. A judge with whom the Beames regularly played pinochle was enlisted to order Comptroller Harrison J. Goldin to pay the salaries of city workers before paying the principal and interest due that afternoon on municipal debt. 
''I have been advised by the comptroller,'' a two-and-a-half-page mayoral news release began, ''that the City of New York has insufficient cash on hand to meet debt obligations due today. This constitutes the default that we have struggled to avoid.'' New York City was about to declare bankruptcy.
But that signed petition was never invoked. Today, it hangs framed in the Fifth Avenue office of Ira P. Millstein, one of the city's private lawyers during the fiscal crisis -- a testament to the New Yorkers who, after meeting for hours in an Upper East Side apartment that October morning, dodged the financial fate that Detroit suffered last week.
They had come this close to declaring that New York had run out of cash and would default on about $100 million in borrowing due that afternoon. As it was, officials had to persuade the comptroller of the currency to keep Manufacturers Hanover, the city's paying agent, open into the night so the debt payments could be processed.
New York avoided what Detroit did not because, literally at the last minute, all parties agreed to share the pain and avoid the prolonged uncertainty that bankruptcy or receivership promised.
At a key moment, everything depended on Albert Shanker, the teachers' union leader, who, worried about his members, was wary about investing about $150 million of their pension funds in city securities. Just how volatile Mr. Shanker could be had been captured by Woody Allen in ''Sleeper,'' his apocalyptic film. Mr. Allen blamed the end of civilization on the fact that ''a man named Albert Shanker got hold of a nuclear device.''
Mr. Shanker agreed to meet privately in the apartment of Richard Ravitch, whom Gov. Hugh L. Carey had recruited to rescue the state's overextended Urban Development Corporation. At the meeting were Mr. Ravitch; Mr. Shanker; Mr. Carey; his counsel, Judah Gribetz; former Mayor Robert F. Wagner; Sandra Feldman, Mr. Shanker's deputy and eventual successor; and Harry Van Arsdale, head of the city's Central Labor Council.
Among the other principals who played crucial roles in resolving the crisis: Victor Gotbaum, the municipal union leader who had already agreed to invest in city securities; Felix G. Rohatyn, whom Mr. Carey enlisted from the private sector as a financial adviser; Peter C. Goldmark Jr., the state budget director; and Stephen Berger, who would become the first director of the Emergency Financial Control Board.
''The one thing that really made a difference was the absolute commitment of a new governor not to put the city into bankruptcy,'' Mr. Rohatyn recalled. ''We were not willing to gamble on something that had never happened before on that scale.'' (Mr. Carey, his biographer, Seymour P. Lachman, said, had been taught by his father long before that bankruptcy was a deceptively easy solution.)
Few people were advocating bankruptcy because it might abrogate agreements with organized labor and leave financial institutions liable for selling securities that were suspect or even fraudulent. New York bonds and notes were widely held by banks and individuals throughout the United States. World leaders feared the repercussions of a New York bankruptcy. And the city depended on credit, which, had bankruptcy been declared, might have been denied for decades.
''New York was broke, but it wasn't bankrupt,'' Mr. Berger recalled. ''It was an enterprise that had been badly mismanaged, whose finances were uncontrolled and had no real financial systems and was basically run by a history of pushcart peddlers. However, it had a substantial core of political and business leadership, which saw the long-term danger to short-term solution.''
''Detroit has none of the inherent characteristics that New York had in its worst financial moments,'' he added. ''In the end, all the stuff we did was to keep the kid from drowning and three years later the economy swept him back on the shore.''
Mr. Millstein remembered: ''Everyone knew that New York, unlike Detroit, was not a dead city. It just needed some mechanism to get out of the mess.''
Municipal bankruptcy was largely untested at the time -- how would a judge balance the needs of city employees, poor people, vendors and other creditors? How would it affect the state's credit?
''The fiscal crisis was misnamed,'' Mr. Rohatyn later recalled. ''It was a bankruptcy crisis. We had a much greater sense of potential doom if we went bankrupt.''
Mr. Goldmark said: ''Hugh Carey lashed the fate of the state to that of the city. Michigan has done nothing of the kind.''
Beyond the financial repercussions, bankruptcy, Mr. Ravitch said, would have been ''a failure of democracy to solve its problems and we didn't want to fail. But on the other hand, it was the threat of bankruptcy that got everybody to do things that in the beginning of this process they swore they wouldn't do.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Hugh L. Carey took a question during New York's fiscal crisis in 1976, as Mayor Abraham D. Beame, right, looked on. Above, a document announcing the city had defaulted on loans. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EDWARD HAUSNER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (93%); CITIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PETITIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); FUNDRAISING (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); TEACHER UNIONS (77%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); CIVIL SERVICES (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); LAWYERS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); DURABLE GOODS (70%); LABOR UNIONS (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2013



762 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 404 words

HEADLINE: Michigan: Union Leaders Seek Government Money for Detroit

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY

 BODY:
Top leaders of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., the nation's main federation of labor unions, on Thursday called on President Obama and the Congress to offer an immediate financial infusion to Detroit, which last week became the largest American city ever to file for bankruptcy. 
The executive council of the A.F.L.-C.I.O, holding meetings at its headquarters in Washington, also called on the state of Michigan to provide a comparable amount of financial support to Detroit, its most populous city.
State and federal authorities have largely set aside suggestions of a bailout in the days since Gov. Rick Snyder and the emergency manager he assigned to solve Detroit's woes announced that the city required bankruptcy protection. But the appeal on Thursday by labor leaders, who were angered by the prospect of cuts to pensions and health benefits to help resolve the city's $18 billion debt, suggests that questions about state and federal support for teetering cities like Detroit are far from over.
''There is no question there's a crisis in Detroit, but impoverishing the city's public service workers and further decimating public services is not the solution,'' said Lee Saunders, the president of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, and chairman of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. Political Committee. ''The whole country is watching how this crisis gets resolved. As the nation emerges from the worst of the Great Recession, it is time for Congress and the White House to make it clear they will not turn their backs on our urban centers.''
Responding to earlier calls for a bailout for Detroit, Mr. Snyder, a Republican in his first term, largely fended off the notion. ''It's not about just putting more money in a situation,'' he said Sunday on ''Face the Nation'' on CBS. ''It's about better services to citizens again. It's about accountable government.''
And White House officials have indicated that solutions to Detroit's insolvency rest with local leaders and creditors. ''While leaders on the ground in Michigan and the city's creditors understand that they must find a solution to Detroit's serious financial challenge, we remain committed to continuing our strong partnership with Detroit as it works to recover and revitalize and maintain its status as one of America's great cities,'' a White House spokeswoman said last week.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); BAILOUTS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); CITIES (77%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); COUNTIES (72%)

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (93%); AMERICAN FEDERATION OF STATE COUNTY & MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (72%); RICK SNYDER (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2013



763 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1066 words

HEADLINE: Iran Is Said to Want Direct Talks With U.S. on Nuclear Program

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki of Iraq told the Obama administration this month that Iran was interested in direct talks with the United States on Iran's nuclear program, and said that Iraq was prepared to facilitate the negotiations, Western officials said Thursday.
In a meeting in early July with the American ambassador in Baghdad, Mr. Maliki suggested that he was relaying a message from Iranian officials and asserted that Hassan Rouhani, Iran's incoming president, would be serious about any discussions with the United States, according to accounts of the meeting. 
Although Mr. Maliki indicated that he had been in touch with confidants of Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, he did not disclose precisely whom he was dealing with on the Iranian side. Some Western officials remain uncertain whether Iran's leaders have sought to use Iraq as a conduit or whether the idea is mainly Mr. Maliki's initiative.
State Department officials declined to comment on Mr. Maliki's move or what steps the United States might have taken in response. American officials have said since the beginning of the Obama administration that they would be open to direct talks with Iran.
''Iraq is a partner of the United States and we are in regular conversations with Iraqi officials about a full range of issues of mutual interest, including Iran,'' said Patrick Ventrell, a State Department spokesman. ''As we have repeatedly said, we are open to direct talks with Iran in order to resolve the international community's concerns about Iran's nuclear program.''
Gary Samore, who served as the senior aide on nonproliferation issues at the National Security Council during President Obama's first term in office, said that it was plausible that Iran would use Iraq to send a message about its willingness to discuss nuclear issues.
''The Iranians see Maliki as somebody they have some trust in,'' said Mr. Samore, who is the director of the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard. ''From Maliki's standpoint, it would serve a number of different purposes. He does not want to be squeezed between Washington and Tehran.''
In a separate move on Thursday, the State and Treasury Departments announced that the United States was expanding the list of medical devices, like dialysis machines, that could be sold to Iran without a license.
In a conference call with reporters, David Cohen, the under secretary for terrorism and financial intelligence, said that the move was intended to ''accelerate trade'' and address humanitarian needs in Iran. The announcement was also seen by many observers as a good-will gesture before Mr. Rouhani prepares to take office in Tehran on Aug. 4.
Direct talks have the potential to ratchet down some of the pressure on President Obama over one of his greatest foreign policy challenges, the buildup of Iran's nuclear program.
Mr. Obama has said that he will not permit Iran to have a nuclear weapon and has asserted that the use of military force is an option. Israeli officials have staked out a far tougher position, asserting that Iran should not be allowed to have the ability to build a weapon -- and that the United States should do more to convince the Iranians that its threat to use force is credible. Israel has not ruled out military action of its own.
International sanctions have taken a serious toll on the Iranian economy and have helped bring Iran to the negotiating table, but have not yet extracted significant concessions from Iran on its nuclear program. For years, the United States and its partners -- Britain, France, Germany, Russia and China -- have met on and off with Iranian officials in a dialogue that has become known as the ''P5 plus 1'' talks.
Nonproliferation experts continue to argue that it is difficult to make major headway in such a committeelike forum, and that if progress is to be made, it will have to happen in private one-on-one discussions between Iranian officials and the Obama administration.
Whether Iran is genuinely interested in such talks, however, has been a subject of debate. In 2009, William J. Burns, then the under secretary of state for political affairs, met with Saeed Jalili, the Iranian nuclear negotiator, on the margins of the ''P5 plus 1'' talks. They agreed in principle that a portion of Iran's enriched uranium could be used to make fuel for Tehran's research center, which would preclude that material from being further enriched to make nuclear weapons.
But that deal fell through after Ayatollah Khamenei objected, and there have been no direct talks since. In a meeting this month with Iran's departing president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, Ayatollah Khamenei was sharply critical of the American stance.
''The Americans are unreliable and illogical, and are not honest in their approach,'' Ayatollah Khamenei said. But he also said that he did not oppose talks ''on certain issues.''
Even if direct talks are agreed to they are almost certain to be tough.
''The establishment of a bilateral channel is a necessary but not sufficient condition for coming to an agreement,'' Mr. Samore said. ''They want a nuclear weapons capability, and we want to deny them a nuclear weapons capability. Finding a compromise between those two objectives is going to be very difficult.''
Mr. Maliki, Western officials said, is not the only Iraqi politician who has encouraged a dialogue between the United States and Iran. Ammar al-Hakim, the leader of a major Shiite party in Iraq, is also said to have made that point.
During the war in Iraq, Iraqi officials also urged direct dealings between the United States and Iran.
Talks were held in Baghdad, but they were focused on the conflict in Iraq and Iran's support for Shiite militias there -- not the nuclear question -- and got nowhere.
Mr. Maliki's government appears to have been aligned with Iran on some issues, like its support for President Bashar al-Assad of Syria. Iranian aircraft have ferried huge quantities of arms through Iraqi airspace. Iraqi officials have asserted that they do not have the means to stop the flights, but Mr. Maliki has also been concerned that Mr. Assad's fall will lead to an escalation of Sunni challenges to his government in Iraq.
American officials have repeatedly said that Mr. Maliki is not a pawn of Iran and that the United States should try to expand its influence in Iraq, including by selling arms.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Secretary of State John Kerry meeting with Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki of Iraq, center, in Baghdad in March. (POOL PHOTO BY JASON REED) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); CONFERENCE CALLS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (67%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (65%); TERRORISM (50%); DIALYSIS (50%)

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (95%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN KERRY (79%); HASSAN ROUHANI (79%); ALI KHAMENEI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (88%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (88%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (97%); IRAQ (94%); IRAN (88%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2013



764 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 348 words

HEADLINE: Business Spending Lifts Orders for Durable Factory Goods

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Orders for long-lasting factory goods rose in June, bolstered by an increase in aircraft demand and more business spending. The increase suggests that American companies are more confident in the economy and could increase economic growth in the second half of the year. 
The Commerce Department said on Thursday that orders for durable goods increased 4.2 percent last month. That followed a 5.2 percent gain in May, which was revised higher.
Most of the gain occurred because aircraft orders, which are volatile month to month, jumped 31.4 percent. Boeing said it received orders for 287 planes in June, up from 232 in May. Excluding autos and airplanes, orders were unchanged.
Orders that signal planned business investment, which exclude volatile transportation and military orders, increased in June for the fourth straight month. The 0.7 percent gain last month was buoyed by more machinery demand. And orders in May were much stronger than previously reported.
Even with the gain, business investment is not likely to help economic growth in the April-June quarter, economists said. That is because the government measures shipments, rather than orders, when calculating business investments' contribution to growth. Shipments fell in June. But the increase in orders this spring suggests shipments will rise in the July-September quarter and add to growth.
Jonathan Basile, an economist at Credit Suisse, said rising orders were a ''recipe for a speedup in manufacturing and business investment'' in the third quarter.
Durable goods are items meant to last at least three years, like computers, industrial machinery and appliances.
In other economic news on Thursday, government data showed that more people filed new claims for unemployment insurance benefits last week.
Initial jobless claims rose to 343,000 in the week ended July 20, an increase of 7,000 from the previous week's revised 336,000 claims, the Labor Department reported.
Last week's increase in claims, an indicator of the pace of layoffs, was larger than the 340,000 reading expected on average by analysts.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Jobless Claims: Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time. (Source: Labor Department, via Bloomberg)
 Durable Goods Orders: Manufacturers' total new orders for durable goods, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FACTORY ORDERS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); AIRCRAFT MFG (90%); DURABLE GOODS (90%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); SHIPMENTS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); LAYOFFS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (68%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (63%)

COMPANY: BOEING CO (58%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%); CSGN (SWX) (56%); CS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2013



765 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; MOVIE REVIEW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 290 words

HEADLINE: Wasteland

BYLINE: By MIRIAM BALE

 BODY:
The English heist movie has a history of being cheeky. From ''The Italian Job'' (1969) through ''Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels'' (1999), a cool, brazen wit and stylized violence mark some of the best examples of complicated robbery scenarios in British cinema. Rowan Athale does not ignore that inheritance with his dense debut feature, ''Wasteland.'' 
Yet Mr. Athale, born and raised in Yorkshire, where the film takes place, also guides viewers on a long tour of hopeless youth and realistic violence in the economically ravaged north of England before the playful payoff. To borrow from a term for the gritty, working-class British dramas that this film also nods to, it's a kitchen-sink caper.
The film begins with an effectively mournful aura as we see the badly beaten up Harvey (Luke Treadaway) under the bright light of police questioning as he explains what led him there in the six weeks since he got out of prison for drug possession. In the flashback scenes that dominate the film, Harvey is reunited with his lifelong best friends, Charlie, Dodd and Dempsey.
The buddies cook up a plan, both for revenge and to start a new life (which is, oddly, the very unglamorous dream of being coffee shop owners in Amsterdam). At times, details of this elaborate crime they've concocted are incomprehensible (as are the thick northern accents, even to someone like me who lived for years in London). But a knotty plot is imperative to Mr. Athale's aims, since, like Robert Bresson's film ''A Man Escaped'' or Wes Anderson's ''Bottle Rocket,'' this is ultimately a story about friendship, about people who would rather follow a delusional pal than logic.
Opens on Friday in Manhattan. Directed by Rowan Athale 1 hour 46 minutes; not rated

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: From left, Iwan Rheon, Matthew Lewis and Luke Treadaway as friends plotting a heist in ''Wasteland,'' directed by Rowan Athale. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OSCILLOSCOPE LABORATORIES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); ROBBERY (78%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (78%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (74%) ENGLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (74%); UNITED KINGDOM (72%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2013



766 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 569 words

HEADLINE: Inching Forward in the Mideast

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

 BODY:
The week that Secretary of State John Kerry said could start the revival of Israeli-Palestinian peace talks is passing without visible progress. The naysayers are chortling, but Mr. Kerry, to his credit, is undeterred. His aides insist that plans to resume the dialogue on a two-state solution that collapsed in 2010 are on track; on Thursday, an Israeli minister said that talks could begin next week. 
Even if they do, the path will never be smooth. The differences are deeply felt, and the two sides have repeatedly squandered chances for peace. After Mr. Kerry announced last Friday that he would bring Israeli and Palestinian negotiators to Washington ''within a week or so,'' both sides poured cold water on the idea. The Palestinians said talks could not begin without an agreement that would be based on the borders that existed before the 1967 war; the Israelis rejected that and said that Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu would not even proceed with talks without approval from his divided cabinet. That could come on Sunday.
While crucial details remain secret, Mr. Kerry has used six trips to the region to pursue a sensible strategy to nudge the two sides to the table. The Arab League has given the Palestinians political cover to enter talks by endorsing Mr. Kerry's efforts and modifying their 2002 Arab Peace Initiative so it is more in line with American and Israeli positions. The international community has promised the Palestinians a $4 billion economic package.
For its part, Israel has said it will release 82 Palestinian prisoners convicted after the 1993 Oslo accords. It has also slowed the expansion of settlements that have shrunk the land available for a Palestinian state. As a concession to Israel, the Palestinians will not ask the United Nations to further upgrade their status while negotiations are under way. The European Union has weighed in: on the one hand pressuring Israel with the threat of reduced aid if it does not negotiate, and on the other putting Hezbollah's military wing on the terror list.
Half-measures will not do. To be fruitful, negotiations must proceed quickly to core issues. Palestinians need to have the borders of their state defined, and Israelis need to know that the new state will not threaten their security. But other critical issues -- Jerusalem's future and the fate of Palestinian refugees -- must also be addressed.
One sign of Mr. Kerry's optimism is his plans to name a full-time envoy to oversee negotiations. It is reported to be Martin Indyk, a former ambassador to Israel in the Clinton administration. While well-versed on the issues and known to regional leaders, Mr. Indyk, a vice president of the Brookings Institution, has a long association with pro-Israel groups. He, or whoever is chosen, will need to be creative and evenhanded in pressing both Mr. Netanyahu and the Palestinian president, Mahmoud Abbas, on a compromise.
The pessimists insist that this is not the time, and these are not the leaders, for a peace deal. Yet the future seems increasingly unpredictable and the consequences of inaction increasingly grave. No good can come if Israel, with its growing Palestinian population, evolves from a Jewish majority state to an Arab majority state; if disenfranchised Palestinians from the West Bank and Gaza remain stateless in an increasingly restive region; and if the long sought dream of a Palestinian state is left to die.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); HEZBOLLAH (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (71%); REFUGEES (69%)

ORGANIZATION: LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (55%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (91%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) ISRAEL (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (96%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORWAY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (53%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2013



767 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WAY OF THE WORLD; Pg. 

LENGTH: 982 words

HEADLINE: Preparing American Children to Dance With Robots

BYLINE: By CHRYSTIA FREELAND | REUTERS

 BODY:
NEW YORK -- In New York, this summer has lived up to its reputation as the silly season with a pageant of political theater comic enough to entertain even the most jaded tabloid sensibility. That made President Barack Obama's wonkish speech this week about how to strengthen the middle class particularly welcome.
Mr. Obama addressed a familiar problem. Indeed, his comments were an intentional echo of a commencement address he delivered at the same place, Knox College, in Galesburg, Illinois, eight years earlier. What was important was not, therefore, their novelty. Instead, it was the reminder that, beyond the froth of personal scandal, politics today is confronted with an existential question -- how to ensure broadly shared middle-class prosperity in the 21st century. 
As he did in his original 2005 speech, Mr. Obama situated the issue in broad, historical terms. The postwar era, he said, had offered the middle class ''a basic bargain.'' ''Whether you owned a company, swept its floors, or worked anywhere in between,'' the president said, the United States was a place where ''your hard work would be rewarded with fair wages and benefits, the chance to buy a home, to save for retirement and, above all, to hand down a better life for your kids.''
That pact held across the entire Western industrialized world, where the postwar era was a time of strong, and widely shared, growth.
In recent decades, however, as the president put it, ''that bargain began to fray.'' He pointed to the most important and most worrying evidence that it had broken down: ''The link between higher productivity and people's wages and salaries was severed -- the income of the top 1 percent nearly quadrupled from 1979 to 2007, while the typical family's barely budged.''
Mr. Obama pointed to some of the familiar political drivers of this shift -- weaker unions and tax cuts at the top. But, to his credit, he also noted the structural factors -- in particular, technological change and globalization -- that have helped hollow out the middle class. These are the heart of the problem, because they are both largely positive and hard to change. We can't stop them, and most of us don't want to -- but we surely do want to reverse their devastating consequences for the middle class.
That is what makes a new paper by Frank Levy, an emeritus professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and a lecturer at Harvard Medical School, and Richard J. Murnane, a professor at the Harvard Graduate School of Education, so timely.
In his speech this week, Mr. Obama pointed to education as one of the central elements of his effort to rebuild the middle class. In one of the best lines in the address, he argued, ''if you think education is expensive, wait until you see how much ignorance costs in the 21st century.''
True enough. The value of Mr. Levy and Mr. Murnane's work is that they delve more deeply into the question of precisely what kind of education we need to prepare middle-class workers for 21st-century jobs.
They start with some surprising observations. The first is that this is not at all a new problem. Mr. Obama referred to his own speech about the hollowed-out middle class in 2005. Mr. Levy and Mr. Murnane point out that nearly half a century ago, prescient advisers sent President Lyndon Johnson a memo warning about the beginnings of the same phenomenon.
''A new era of production has begun. Its principles of organization are as different from those of the industrial revolution as those of the industrial era were different from the agricultural,'' they cautioned. ''This results in a system of almost unlimited productive capacity which requires progressively less human labor.''
The second point Mr. Levy and Mr. Murnane make is even more striking. Just as it is a truism that education is an essential solution to the plight of the middle class, we have gotten used to complaining about how badly schools have declined. It makes sense -- the middle class is in trouble, so schools must have gotten worse, too.
Mr. Levy and Mr. Murnane tell a different story. In their view, the problem isn't that schools aren't as good as they once were, it is that education needs to be transformed to meet the demands of a new age.
''American schools are not worse than they were in a previous generation. Indeed, the evidence is to the contrary,'' they write. ''Today's education problem stems from the increased complexity of foundational skills needed in today's economy.''
So, how can schools meet the challenge of, as Mr. Levy and Mr. Murnane put it, preparing our kids to dance with robots? One of their strongest conclusions is about the importance of preschool education. We have all mocked the helicopter parents who torment their infants with flash cards, but at least directionally, they are right.
As Mr. Levy explained in an e-mail, ''The computerization of work (and off-shoring) increase the need to acquire new information by eliminating repetitive jobs that can be performed by following directions. The jobs that remain and that pay well require much more solving of new problems that require getting new information.''
It turns out that this ability to solve new problems by getting new information is closely correlated with having a strong vocabulary as early as kindergarten. In one way, that is good news -- teaching 3- and 4-year-olds to read and to talk seems a lot less challenging than teaching 16-year-olds calculus and computer programming.
But it is also a reminder of another problem that the president -- and Mr. Levy and Mr. Murnane -- address: The connection between a hollowed-out middle class and declining social mobility. If what you know when you are 4 will shape your future professional success more than ever, being born into the right family may matter more than ever, too.
Chrystia Freeland is managing director and editor, consumer news, Thomson Reuters.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (87%); CHILDREN (87%); POLITICS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); SCANDALS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2013



768 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: Republican Health Care Panic

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Leading Republicans appear to be nerving themselves up for another round of attempted fiscal blackmail. With the end of the fiscal year looming, they aren't offering the kinds of compromises that might produce a deal and avoid a government shutdown; instead, they're drafting extremist legislation -- bills that would, for example, cut clean-water grants by 83 percent -- that has no chance of becoming law. Furthermore, they're threatening, once again, to block any rise in the debt ceiling, a move that would damage the U.S. economy and possibly provoke a world financial crisis.
Yet even as Republican politicians seem ready to go on the offensive, there's a palpable sense of anxiety, even despair, among conservative pundits and analysts. Better-informed people on the right seem, finally, to be facing up to a horrible truth: Health care reform, President Obama's signature policy achievement, is probably going to work. 
And the good news about Obamacare is, I'd argue, what's driving the Republican Party's intensified extremism. Successful health reform wouldn't just be a victory for a president conservatives loathe, it would be an object demonstration of the falseness of right-wing ideology. So Republicans are being driven into a last, desperate effort to head this thing off at the pass.
Some background: Although you'd never know it from all the fulminations, with prominent Republicans routinely comparing Obamacare to slavery, the Affordable Care Act is based on three simple ideas. First, all Americans should have access to affordable insurance, even if they have pre-existing medical problems. Second, people should be induced or required to buy insurance even if they're currently healthy, so that the risk pool remains reasonably favorable. Third, to prevent the insurance ''mandate'' from being too onerous, there should be subsidies to hold premiums down as a share of income.
Is such a system workable? For a while, Republicans convinced themselves that it was doomed to failure, and that they could profit politically from the inevitable ''train wreck.'' But a system along exactly these lines has been operating in Massachusetts since 2006, where it was introduced by a Republican governor. What was his name? Mitt Somethingorother? And no trains have been wrecked so far.
The question is whether the Massachusetts success story can be replicated in other states, especially big states like California and New York with large numbers of uninsured residents. The answer to this question depends, in the first place, on whether insurance companies are willing to offer coverage at reasonable rates. And the answer, so far, is a clear ''yes.'' In California, insurers came in with bids running significantly below expectations; in New York, it appears that premiums will be cut roughly in half.
So is this a case of something for nothing, in which nobody loses? No. In states like California, which have allowed discrimination based on health status, a small number of young, healthy, affluent residents will see their premiums go up. In New York, people who don't think they need insurance and are too rich to receive subsidies -- probably an even smaller group -- will feel put upon by being obliged to buy policies. Mainly, though, those insurance subsidies will cost money, and that money will, to an important extent, be raised through higher taxes on the 1 percent: tax increases that have, by the way, already taken effect.
Over all, then, health reform will help millions of Americans who were previously either too sick or too poor to get the coverage they needed, and also offer a great deal of reassurance to millions more who currently have insurance but fear losing it; it will provide these benefits at the expense of a much smaller number of other Americans, mostly the very well off. It is, if you like, a plan to comfort the afflicted while (slightly) afflicting the comfortable.
And the prospect that such a plan might succeed is anathema to a party whose whole philosophy is built around doing just the opposite, of taking from the ''takers'' and giving to the ''job creators,'' known to the rest of us as the ''rich.'' Hence the brinkmanship.
So will Republicans actually take us to the brink? If they do, it will be crucial to understand why they would do such a thing, when their own leaders have admitted that confrontations over the budget inflict substantial harm on the economy. It won't be because they fear the budget deficit, which is coming down fast. Nor will it be because they sincerely believe that spending cuts produce prosperity.
No, Republicans may be willing to risk economic and financial crisis solely in order to deny essential health care and financial security to millions of their fellow Americans. Let's hear it for their noble cause!

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE (88%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (88%); INSURANCE (86%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); HEALTH CARE LAW (77%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); POLITICS (74%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (73%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (73%); DEBT CEILING (70%); GOVERNORS (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2013



769 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1114 words

HEADLINE: Intersection Of Fraud And Traffic Violations

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and the economy at nytimes.com/economix.

 BODY:
If the chief executive likes to drive too fast, watch out. He may be more likely to commit fraud.
If he lives too high on the hog, worry about whether he is paying enough attention to work to catch fraud being committed by his subordinates. And there may be a greater chance that the company is making mistakes in its accounting, though not fraudulently.
Determining whether fraud was committed at a company is hard enough, but trying to figure out why is much harder. Presumably some chief executives do it to get rich from rising stock prices, but others in similar situations do not give in to such temptations. 
Three academics set out to see whether there were any clear differences between chief executives of companies where fraud was committed and chiefs of similar companies where fraud did not take place -- or at least where it was never detected. And they found evidence that those who are willing to violate other rules are also more willing to violate securities laws.
Their results are reported in a paper, ''Executives' 'Off-the-Job' Behavior, Corporate Culture and Financial Reporting Risk,'' which is to appear in the Journal of Financial Economics. It was written by Robert Davidson, who teaches accounting at Georgetown University, along with Aiyesha Dey of the University of Minnesota and Abbie Smith of the University of Chicago.
Examining fraud cases that the Securities and Exchange Commission filed over the years -- covering frauds that began between 1992 and 2004 -- the researchers looked for other companies that were as similar as possible to the companies that were caught. Those companies were of similar size, had similar balance sheets and similar prefraud stock market performance as the fraudulent companies and were in the same industries.
That gave them 109 companies where fraud was detected and 109 similar ones where it was not.
The academics then hired private investigators to check out the bosses. They looked for past criminal records, including traffic violations, and they searched public records to see which cars, homes and boats the chief executives owned.
The criminal records were the most interesting.
You might think that anyone who rises to the top of a public company would have a clean criminal record. That does not turn out to be the case.
Of the 109 chief executives of companies found to have committed fraud, 12 had previous encounters with the law that were more serious than a speeding ticket. The academics counted eight felony drug charges, four cases of domestic violence and four traffic violations so serious that they were lumped under the heading of reckless endangerment. (Some of the bosses had more than one item on their record.)
Of the other 109 -- the ones whose companies had not been accused of committing fraud -- there was nothing more serious than an ordinary traffic violation.
The idea that companies might want to avoid hiring chief executives with a history of felony drug charges is hardly a surprising one. But it is not as obvious that even simple traffic tickets seem to correlate with fraud.
Of the 109 chief executives from nonfraudulent companies, just five had traffic tickets. Sixteen of the fraud company chief executives had such tickets. Some of them also had more serious violations. Altogether, 22 of the 109 had some previous violation.
''We still have pretty strong results if we use only speeding tickets,'' Mr. Davidson said. ''The implication is you would at least want to consider the things that are often considered relatively minor.''
The statistics are far from conclusive -- 109 is not a large number -- but they may take on a little more weight from the decision of the researchers to investigate an additional 164 chief executives. They came from 94 companies that were forced to restate their financial statements but were not accused of fraud by the S.E.C., and from 70 others chosen at random from the universe of companies that did not have fraud or accounting errors. None of the 164 had serious offenses, and the proportion with minor traffic violations was much lower than it was among the fraudulent companies.
What this could indicate is that people who are willing to violate one set of social norms are more likely to be willing to violate far more serious ones.
The identities of the chief executives with records were not disclosed by the researchers, so we do not know which executive was charged with each crime, or if he or she was convicted. Given the absolute power some chief executives have within their companies, it might be interesting to look at how bosses previously accused of domestic violence treated their subordinates in the office. The researchers also set out to see if what they call unfrugal chief executives run companies that are fundamentally different from those run by bosses who spend less on themselves.
To determine that required decisions on just what constituted unfrugal behavior. They settled on a definition involving ownership of homes, boats and cars, which is available from public records. Chief executives were deemed to be unfrugal if they owned a car that listed for more than $75,000, a boat that was more than 25 feet long or a house worth more than twice the average cost of a home near the company's headquarters.
And what did they find? Unfrugal chief executives are no more likely to commit fraud than their colleagues, but they are more likely to run companies where others commit fraud, and they are more likely to run companies that are forced to restate their financial statements. They are also more likely to change the pay structure for directors by reducing stock-based composition. There is some evidence from other studies that boards with significant equity stakes may be more vigilant in monitoring management.
Those limits on frugality struck me as perhaps a little low, given the ample income of many chief executives. Mr. Davidson said they also used an alternative definition -- requiring a $110,000 car, or a 40-foot-long boat or a home worth five times the area average -- and the trends were generally similar.
I don't think any of this proves that a traffic ticket should disqualify someone from running a public company. And it appears that most fraud is committed by chief executives who have no previous record of criminal behavior, so that is hardly the only thing a board should monitor.
But the evidence may indicate that boards should routinely run background checks on top officers and on those being considered for such positions. If someone does have a bunch of traffic tickets, or worse, that could be an indication that deeper consideration is needed before that person is given control of a public company.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Share of U.S. companies whose chief executives have police records (Source: ''Executives' 'Off-the-job' Behavior, Corporate Culture and Financial Reporting Risk'') (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (91%); ACCOUNTING (90%); VEHICULAR OFFENSES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); SECURITIES LAW (88%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (85%); FELONIES (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); CORPORATE CULTURE (70%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (66%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (62%); DOMESTIC OFFENSES (61%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (54%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%); UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (54%)

PERSON: ROBERT A DAVIDSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2013



770 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 692 words

HEADLINE: Obama, at Florida Port, Vows to Speed Shipping and Transit Projects

BYLINE: By MICHAEL D. SHEAR

 BODY:
JACKSONVILLE, Fla. -- President Obama vowed on Thursday to use his executive powers to bypass bottlenecks in Congress and accelerate infrastructure projects to bolster growth and add jobs.
Speaking inside a cruise ship terminal at Jaxport, a major passenger and cargo port on the East Coast, Mr. Obama hailed two major projects that would accommodate increasing global trade and speed the delivery of goods that arrive here on huge ships and depart by train for destinations across the United States.
''In a couple of years, new supertankers are going to start coming through the Panama Canal,'' Mr. Obama told an enthusiastic crowd that applauded loudly when he suggested new investments that would allow larger ships to dock here. ''We want those supertankers coming here, to Jacksonville.'' 
Mr. Obama's appearance at the port, which included a tour of a $200 million TraPac Container Terminal, is part of a broader effort by the White House to focus Americans' attention on the administration's efforts to inject energy into the economy. It was also a warning that the president is trying to find a way around Congressional Republicans resistant to approving more federal stimulus money for public works.
''Where I can act on my own, I'm going to act on my own,'' Mr. Obama said. ''I won't wait for Congress.''
Last July, Mr. Obama signed an executive order that helped expedite federal review and permitting on seven infrastructure projects, including two at Jaxport. The order accelerated the timing of a study to examine how to dredge the port in Jacksonville so that water depth increases to 47 feet from 40 feet, allowing in bigger ships. It also sped up a rail-yard project at the port to hasten the exchange of shipping containers from ships to trains.
''By streamlining the process, by taking some time off of it, it moves us closer to all the other stuff that we have to do to get it done,'' said Nancy Rubin, a spokeswoman for the port.
The president's remarks here amounted to virtually the same message he delivered March 29, when he traveled to the Port of Miami to talk about the need to invest in infrastructure. They also echo a theme he has sounded many times before. White House officials cast the repetition as steadiness, rather than a dearth of new ideas.
''There seems to be some effort to make hay out of the fact that the president is consistent when he speaks out about what we need to do in our economy,'' Jay Carney, the White House press secretary, told reporters on Air Force One this week.
At the least, White House officials hope that the president's arguments will rope in some Republicans who represent districts with ports in need of improvement. Representative Ander Crenshaw, a Florida Republican who represents part of Jacksonville, has been aggressive in pushing to expand and deepen the port, and administration officials said they wanted other Republicans to join him.
But Republicans in Washington scoffed at that idea. Brendan Buck, a spokesman for Speaker John A. Boehner, accused the president of holding up projects like the Keystone XL pipeline.
''Before the president asks taxpayers to pick up the tab for another round of 'stimulus' spending, he might consider getting out of the way of the private-sector infrastructure projects he continues to block,'' Mr. Buck said in an e-mail.
The Jacksonville port, like others along the United States' coasts, is struggling to keep up with the growth of trade around the world. Shipping companies are vastly increasing the size of their container ships, allowing them to carry bigger loads but also requiring deeper ports because the ships ride lower in the water.
''We already see the bigger ships coming through the Suez Canal,'' Ms. Rubin said. ''They are already calling on us. But if we can't bring them in as fully loaded as the industry wants them to come, then they will bypass us.''
In his remarks here, Mr. Obama cited Abraham Lincoln, saying Lincoln was a Republican president who saw the value of investing in infrastructure, like the first transcontinental railroad. ''All of our competitors know that we have to start taking care of this stuff,'' Mr. Obama said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama touring Jaxport in Jacksonville, Fla., on Thursday. He spoke there about investing in infrastructure. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHER GREGORY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (90%); INFRASTRUCTURE (90%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (90%); CRUISES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (78%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (77%); COASTAL AREAS (77%); TRAINS (77%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); ANDER CRENSHAW (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (94%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); PANAMA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2013



771 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: Samsung's Profit Rises, but So Does the Competition

BYLINE: By ERIC PFANNER

 BODY:
TOKYO -- Samsung Electronics, the world's largest maker of smartphones, said on Friday that it expected competition to increase, even as it reported a 50 percent rise in profit for the second quarter.
Samsung, which is based in Suwon, South Korea, said net income rose to 7.77 trillion won, or $6.9 billion, from 5.19 trillion won a year earlier. Sales rose to 57.46 trillion won, from 47.6 trillion won.
But the report showed a decline in earnings from the first quarter in Samsung's mobile phone business despite the introduction of a new flagship model, the Galaxy S4. 
Though the S4 has been selling at a brisk pace, it has fallen short of some analysts' expectations. Promotional events like an introductory gala for the S4 at Radio City Music Hall have driven up marketing costs, while rivals continue to roll out competing models.
''The strong growth streak for the smartphone market is expected to continue in the third quarter, albeit at a slower pace,'' Samsung said in a statement.
Market reaction to the report from Samsung was muted because the company issued an earnings forecast earlier this month; the results reported Friday were broadly in line with that outlook, though below previous expectations.
The results from Samsung follow the earnings report from the company's chief rival, Apple, which showed similar trends in the smartphone business.
Apple reported earnings that beat Wall Street expectations, but its profit declined from a year earlier and its revenue was flat. While Apple's posted strong iPhone sales in the United States, the company showed weakness in China and in sales of iPads.
In recent months, the shares of Apple and Samsung have been hammered by investors, who worry that even as the companies report continued growth in sales of smartphones, they will struggle to maintain their momentum.
''In a way, Apple and Samsung have become victims of their own success,'' Pete Cunningham of the research firm Canalys said before the Samsung results were released. ''When these companies report many billions of profits every quarter, it's hard to say they are doing anything wrong.''
Many say the high end of the smartphone market, which Samsung and Apple dominate, is looking saturated. Most wealthy consumers in developed markets already own such devices, so growth is increasingly occurring in lower-price brackets in developing markets, where Apple does not compete.
Samsung, with a broader product range, may be better positioned, analysts say, though it faces stiff competition at the low end of the market from Chinese makers.
For expensive phones, the companies face renewed competition from Sony, HTC and Nokia, though analysts say innovations in smartphone design and technology are becoming more incremental.
''If you combine all these players and look at what they are doing, it's hard for Samsung or Apple to keep growing market share,'' said Bryan Wang, an analyst at Forrester Research. ''But the expectations for both companies are still high.''
IDC, a research firm, said Samsung's share of the smartphone market slipped to 30.4 percent in the second quarter, from 32.2 percent a year earlier.
Samsung's smartphone sales rose by 43.9 percent, outpacing Apple, which showed a 20 percent gain. But smaller smartphone makers that focus on lower-cost devices did even better, with Lenovo and LG, for example, more than doubling their sales.
''The smartphone market is still a rising tide that's lifting many ships,'' said Kevin Restivo, senior research analyst at IDC, in a statement. ''Though Samsung and Apple are the dominant players, the market is as fragmented as ever. There is ample opportunity for smartphone vendors with differentiated offerings.''
While Samsung does not break out the number of devices it sells on a quarterly basis, another research firm, Strategy Analytics, estimated that the company shipped 76 million smartphones in the second quarter, 56 percent more than a year earlier and more than double Apple's total of 31.2 million.
With growth picking up in the low end, Strategy Analytics said, the smartphone market over all is expanding faster than it was a year ago. That helps Samsung in another way, because the company also is the world's biggest producer of semiconductors, an important component in smartphones and other electronic devices.
Samsung said operating profit in its semiconductor division rose to 1.76 trillion won from 1.03 trillion won a year earlier, as it experienced strong demand from its own mobile business, as well as from other phone makers to which it supplies chips.
But Samsung said its television business was hurt by sluggish demand in Europe, where an economic recovery has struggled to take hold.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Samsung store at the company's offices in Seoul. The smartphone maker reported second-quarter profit of $6.9 billion. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LEE JAE-WON/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (92%); SMARTPHONES (91%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); SALES FIGURES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (78%); TRENDS (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (77%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (76%); COMPANY LOSSES (72%); EVENT MARKETING (69%); AFFLUENT MARKET (68%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (94%); SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS CO LTD (74%); SAMSUNG GROUP (58%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (94%); SMSN (LSE) (74%); 005930 (KSE) (74%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (94%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (94%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (94%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (94%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (74%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (74%); NAICS335221 HOUSEHOLD COOKING APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325510 PAINT & COATING MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS236220 COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (58%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2013



772 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 494 words

HEADLINE: Siemens Lowers Forecast, Stoking Concern in Europe

BYLINE: By JACK EWING

 BODY:
FRANKFURT -- Siemens, an engineering and electronics giant considered a bellwether for the German economy, said on Thursday that it would not meet its profit goals for the financial year that begins in September, a potentially worrying sign for euro zone exports. 
Siemens, based in Munich, did not give a detailed explanation for the expected shortfall, which it attributed only to ''lower market expectations.'' But concern is growing that demand for German exports to China may no longer be strong enough to compensate for the weak European economy.
Siemens, one of Germany's largest companies, has a broad product range that includes power generation equipment, trains and medical scanners. The company had already reported a 7 percent decline in sales in the first three months of this year, to 18 billion euros, or $24 billion. The statement on Thursday suggests that demand could be flagging further.
A survey of German business sentiment published on Thursday also betrayed some worry among managers about foreign demand. The Ifo Business Climate Index, considered a reliable predictor of German growth trends, indicated that managers were still generally optimistic, but somewhat concerned about exports and the prospects for business during the next six months.
''Weaker expectations for global trade could be a drag on export growth,'' economists at HSBC said in a note, though they added that they still expected the German economy to pick up speed.
The Ifo report and the warning from Siemens served as reminders that any recovery in the euro zone was prone to setbacks. A day earlier, separate business surveys for France, Germany and the euro zone as a whole, conducted by the data provider Markit, raised hopes that a stubborn recession was coming to an end.
China accounts for 25 percent of euro zone exports, and has become a crucial market for German automobiles as well as the high-priced industrial equipment supplied by Germany's many specialized machinery makers. Germany recovered more quickly than the rest of Europe from a sharp economic downturn in 2009 because of orders from China. But the Chinese economy has been cooling and its manufacturing industry has been contracting as Siemens's home market in Europe remains in the doldrums.
The United States is also an important market for Siemens. But the company does not seem to be benefiting from a revival of the American economy, in part because of slack demand for products like wind turbines.
Siemens had planned to earn a profit equal to 12 percent of sales in its main units during the company's next financial year, which begins in September. ''Siemens does not expect to achieve its 2014 margin target,'' the company said in a three-sentence statement.
On Aug. 1, Siemens will report earnings for the quarter that ended June 30, but the warning appeared to apply only to future earnings. The company said it was still on track with plans to streamline the company to make it more profitable.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: At left, Joe Kaeser, the chief financial officer, and Peter Loescher, the chief executive of Siemens, which cut profit goals for 2014. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATTHIAS SCHRADER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (90%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (89%); EURO ZONE (89%); MONETARY UNIONS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); RECESSION (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ELECTRONICS (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); EXPORT PRICES (77%); EURO (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); TRENDS (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MFG (74%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (74%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (73%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT MFG (67%); COMPUTER SCANNERS (54%)

COMPANY: SIEMENS AG (92%)

TICKER: SIN (SWX) (92%); SIE (LSE) (92%); SIE (FRA) (92%); SIE (BIT) (92%); SI (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (92%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (92%)

PERSON: PETER LOESCHER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (92%) GERMANY (99%); EUROPE (97%); CHINA (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2013



773 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 989 words

HEADLINE: Defense Tries to Show Sympathetic Side of Ex-Trader

BYLINE: By SUSANNE CRAIG

 BODY:
Fabrice Tourre has been painted by the Securities and Exchange Commission as one of the great villains of the financial crisis, a smart Goldman trader who duped unsuspecting investors into buying toxic real estate securities he knew were doomed to fail.
At his trial Thursday, the jury saw another side of him as his legal team worked to rehabilitate his image. 
''I am here to tell the truth and clear my name,'' he said to his lawyer Pamela Chepiga after she asked him why he was sitting in a courtroom in Lower Manhattan.
Mr. Tourre then started describing the rags-to-riches story of his life, telling the jury he was born in a suburb just outside of Paris. His mother, now retired, gave pedicures. His father sells office furniture.
He dreamed of coming to the United States and succeeded in 1999 when he landed an internship in Hamilton, Ohio, as a production worker on an assembly line producing heater cores and air-conditioning units for a French company. He then attended Stanford, where he received a master's degree in management science and engineering.
He testified that he had never heard of Goldman Sachs before arriving at Stanford, and decided to interview at the bank only to practice his English in job interviews. Instead he ended up taking a job at the big Wall Street firm. He is now accused of participating in a scheme while at the firm to defraud investors who bought into a trade in 2007 he helped structure.
Goldman was charged along with Mr. Tourre in 2010, but it chose to settle the charges. That left Mr. Tourre to battle the S.E.C. by himself, although the firm is paying his legal fees. The case is one of the few trials to emerge from the fallout of the financial crisis.
If the jury returns an unfavorable verdict in the civil trial, Mr. Tourre faces monetary penalties and a possible ban from the securities industry.
Ms. Chepiga's questioning is aimed at undoing some of the damage inflicted this week by the S.E.C.'s lead lawyer, Matthew T. Martens. On Wednesday and Thursday, Mr. Martens told jurors that Mr. Tourre failed to disclose to investors in the trade that it was designed by the hedge fund Paulson & Company, which made more than $1 billion betting the transaction would fail. Mr. Martens has effectively used e-mails Mr. Tourre wrote to a girlfriend where Mr. Tourre joked about potentially toxic products he was selling, asking Mr. Tourre to read his words to the court. ''Is that a smiley face or a wink?'' Mr. Martens asked Mr. Tourre, drawing grins from some jurors.
''It was a silly, romantic e-mail I sent late at night during a period of market stress,'' Mr. Tourre said. In another potentially damaging message to his girlfriend, he wrote ''I love this website'' and linked to a site that referred to exploding mortgages. He added during the reading of yet another e-mail, where he joked to his girlfriend that he sold toxic real estate bonds to ''widows and orphans'' that he deeply regretted writing it and that was ''in poor taste.''
How Mr. Tourre appears to the jury in this trial, which has been bogged down in financial jargon, will be critical. While jurors have nodded off during technical discussions of structured financial products, they seem engaged by the more human aspects of the case, be it Mr. Tourre's love notes or his humble beginnings.
His thick French accent has been a bit of a stumbling block. The court reporter often asks him to repeat words, but he also comes across as sympathetic.
He looks much younger than his 34 years, and jurors heard he was just one of more than a thousand vice presidents at Goldman Sachs in 2007 when the trade in question was structured.
He did not have an office and could touch the people next to him if he stretched his arms. Still, cubicle life did not seem to stop him. He made $1.7 million in 2007, a nod to the business he was bringing in at Goldman, trading lucrative structured products.
Most of Thursday was dominated by Mr. Martens's examination of Mr. Tourre, who tried to show the jury that Mr. Tourre repeatedly hid from investors Paulson & Company's role in the transaction. Mr. Martens presented the jury with numerous exhibits that showed Mr. Tourre pitched the trade to a number of investors, none of whom were told of the hedge fund's involvement in selecting the components of the trade.
Paulson & Company's involvement in the security became a source of tension, as Mr. Tourre insisted repeatedly that another firm, ACA Management, selected the portfolio, and that is what was disclosed to investors.
Mr. Martens also tried to emphasize to the jury the role that Mr. Tourre had in writing the reams of information about the trade that went to investors. Mr. Martens suggested Mr. Tourre was the point person for what went out, while Mr. Tourre insisted repeatedly he was responsible only for what his team contributed. At one point, Mr. Martens suggested that Mr. Tourre's testimony had contradicted previous testimony he had given to the S.E.C. and Congress, a statement that no doubt signaled to the jury the magnitude of this case.
Ms. Chepiga, the defense's lead counsel, erupted at the suggestion the testimony was contradictory, and read at length from his previous testimony in which he stated he relied on many people to draft the documents, including lawyers. The presiding judge, Katherine Forrest, halted the trial and asked the jury to leave.
Mr. Tourre has not asserted a so-called advice of counsel defense, meaning he is not saying his actions were based on legal advice from his lawyers. As a result, introducing the idea he relied on lawyers is potentially problematic.
''You walked into a buzz saw,'' the judge told the lawyers. On the break the jury asked about the exchange, and Judge Forrest explained to them that Mr. Tourre was not pursuing an advice of counsel defense.
Mr. Tourre's testimony will continue on Friday.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The former Goldman trader Fabrice Tourre is accused of duping investors into buying toxic assets. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EDUARDO MUNOZ/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (77%); LAWYERS (77%); VERDICTS (77%); TESTIMONY (77%); FACTORY WORKERS (76%); ENGINEERING (73%); EMPLOYMENT (73%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (73%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (72%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (71%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (68%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%); FINES & PENALTIES (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (84%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%)

PERSON: FABRICE P TOURRE (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (71%) OHIO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (78%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2013



774 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2013
National

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 711 words

HEADLINE: Economics, And Humanity, Of Abortion Bill

BYLINE: By ROSS RAMSEY. 
rramsey@texastribune.org

 BODY:
Six years ago, a major anti-abortion bill stalled in the Texas House after a $1 billion price tag was attached.
There were major differences in that bill and the one that passed this year. The 2007 legislation was a ''trigger bill'' that would have outlawed abortions in Texas if the United States Supreme Court had overturned its Roe v. Wade ruling.
The Legislative Budget Board estimated that ending abortions would result in the births of nearly 65,000 more babies a year. At the time, about 55 percent of births in Texas were paid for with Medicaid (it rose to 56 percent by 2009, the most recent year available), and the agency's estimate was that the cost to the state and federal governments would start at just over $1 billion in every two-year budget. 
The author of that bill, former Representative Warren Chisum, Republican of Pampa, still thinks that price tag was inflated for political reasons. ''There's more than one way to kill a bill,'' he said. ''Back in those days, a fiscal note was the way to do it.''
Even though Mr. Chisum chaired the House Appropriations Committee and was a member of the budget board, his legislation never made it to the floor for a vote.
And even if the logic of that budget board analysis was correct, this year's legislation, signed this month by Gov. Rick Perry, doesn't ban all abortions in the state. It outlaws most abortions after 20 weeks, requires abortion clinics to meet higher medical standards than current law dictates, requires doctors to be present to administer abortion-inducing drugs and requires doctors performing abortions to have admitting privileges at nearby hospitals.
The 2007 bill would have ended all abortions, and it's relatively easy to put a number to that. In 2011, the most recent year for which figures are available, 70,003 pregnancies were terminated in Texas, according to the Department of State Health Services. The new Texas law will make it more difficult for women in some parts of the state to obtain abortions and might close some of the clinics that now provide abortions, but it is much more difficult to say how many babies might be born that would not have been.
Without that number, it is difficult to estimate a cost to the state -- if there is one, and if people want to talk about it.
''Sometimes, you scratch your head at the logic,'' Senator Glenn Hegar, Republican of Katy, one of the sponsors of this year's legislation, said when asked about that earlier fiscal note and why no cost was attached to his bill.
These debates slide back and forth between economic and human costs -- sometimes about the money, sometimes about the people who would be helped.
And sometimes, as in the back-and-forth this year over Medicaid expansion, both sides invoke money and lives. Opponents argued that the expansion would lock the state into an unaffordable health care plan (there's your money argument) that would result in a dangerous disruption of the state's health care system (the health argument). Proponents said it would be silly to turn down a program that would cover much of the largest uninsured population in the country (the health argument) and pump big bucks into the state's medical economy (the money thing).
The state didn't expand its Medicaid program, and you'll still find legislators across the spectrum talking about the consequences, good or bad.
This summer's debate on abortion restrictions turned entirely on politics. It wasn't about the money.
Close watchers of the Legislature will tell you that all of the testimony, debate, passion and eloquence served only to solidify positions that were already in place. Not a single legislator voted in a way that surprised other legislators. The vote count was never in question, and it never changed.
The fiscal note on the bill did not attempt to estimate the number of babies that will be born -- or that would not have been born, if any, without the bill -- and what it will cost taxpayers to deliver them. It concludes that ''no significant fiscal implication to the state is anticipated.''
The answer will be evident within a year, as public health officials watch changes in the birth and abortion rates in the state. That will be just in time for the next conversation about the budget, and about Medicaid expansion.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ABORTION (93%); BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); MEDICAID (76%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (72%); SUPREME COURTS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (57%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2013



775 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1002 words

HEADLINE: Obama and Vietnam Leader Pledge Deeper Ties, Despite Human Rights Differences

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Bearing a copy of a letter from Ho Chi Minh to Harry S. Truman, the president of Vietnam met President Obama on Thursday and pledged to deepen trade and military ties with the United States even as they tangled over human rights.
It was the first visit of a Vietnamese leader to the White House during the Obama administration, and it took on an even greater strategic resonance, given Mr. Obama's determination to increase the United States' presence in Asia. 
But the visit of Vietnam's president, Truong Tan Sang, follows a difficult period in which Vietnam's Communist government has cracked down at home, imprisoning bloggers, religious leaders and dissidents; curtailing labor laws; and again taking control of what one Vietnam expert called the ''commanding heights'' of the economy.
Mr. Obama referred gently to the abuses, saying: ''All of us have to respect issues like freedom of expression, freedom of religion, freedom of assembly. And we had a very candid conversation about both the progress that Vietnam is making and the challenges that remain.''
Mr. Sang, sitting next to him in the Oval Office, mentioned the legacy of the Vietnam War and said that ''we still have differences'' concerning his country's human rights record.
Human rights advocates and union leaders complained that given Vietnam's deteriorating record, Mr. Sang should not have been rewarded with an Oval Office visit, especially one lasting an hour and 15 minutes and causing Mr. Obama to delay his departure for Jacksonville, Fla., where he spoke about his economic agenda at the city's seaport.
''The administration hoped that opening trade negotiations and a military dialogue would be an incentive for Vietnam to change, to soften its authoritarian edge,'' said John Sifton, the Asia advocacy director of Human Rights Watch. ''It's clear that hope was misplaced. They should ask themselves: Why are they sticking with a strategy that hasn't worked?''
Labor leaders, including James P. Hoffa, the president of the Teamsters union, urged Mr. Obama to suspend negotiations over a regional free trade agreement until Vietnam promised to improve its treatment of workers. And a group of Republican and Democratic lawmakers called on the president to press Vietnam harder on human rights.
Displaying photographs of religious leaders who had been beaten by the Vietnamese authorities, Representative Ed Royce, the California Republican who is chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, said Tuesday, ''In Vietnam, the government continues to round up anyone who continues to speak the word 'democracy' or speak the words 'human rights.' ''
Administration officials said, however, that it made more sense for Mr. Obama to raise the issue of human rights, which they said he did privately and during his comments after the meeting, than to spurn the leader of a country that is central to his policy of re-engaging in Asia.
The administration used a similar argument to justify Mr. Obama's invitation in May to the president of Myanmar, Thein Sein, for a White House visit. Although there is evidence of backsliding on democratic reforms by Myanmar's leaders since the United States normalized relations last year, officials said Mr. Obama prodded the president to do more.
''For the Vietnamese, the idea of their president going to the White House and seeing President Obama is a huge thing,'' said Thomas J. Vallely, the former director of the Vietnam program at the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard. ''Obama has influence in how Vietnam is going to rethink how it's going to be a modern country.''
The administration's engagement with Vietnam has been amplified by Secretary of State John Kerry, a Vietnam veteran who has traveled there repeatedly since the war. On Wednesday, Mr. Kerry was the host of a luncheon for Mr. Sang at the State Department, during which he pointed out that Mr. Sang was a guerrilla leader south of Saigon in 1969, the same time Mr. Kerry was a Navy officer in the Mekong Delta.
For the administration, the looming shadow in all this is China, whose tentacles reach throughout Asia. The White House, seeking to reassert an American role, is negotiating a regional free trade agreement, the Trans-Pacific Partnership, with Vietnam and eight other nations, though not China.
Mr. Obama and Mr. Sang both pledged to complete the pact by the end of this year, a goal that some trade experts say is ambitious given that Japan has just joined the group.
The United States has also waded into increasingly bitter disagreements involving China, Vietnam and others over disputed islands in the South China Sea. The administration has insisted that Beijing and its neighbors resolve their competing claims under international law.
On Thursday, Mr. Sang thanked Mr. Obama for ''the U.S. support for our stance in this matter.''
Mr. Obama's embrace of the Vietnamese leader was important, administration officials said, given the hours the American leader lavished on China's president, Xi Jinping, at an informal summit meeting last month in California. While China remains the fulcrum of America's engagement in Asia, the White House is determined to build relationships elsewhere in the region.
Despite the formality of the Oval Office setting, there were unscripted moments. When the official interpreter said Mr. Obama had accepted Mr. Sang's invitation to visit Vietnam, Mr. Sang corrected him, saying Mr. Obama had pledged to ''try his best'' to get there.
And as reporters shouted questions during a picture-taking session, Mr. Obama was overheard telling Mr. Sang that ''reporters are the same everywhere,'' according to a pool reporter in the Oval Office.
Before the two parted, Mr. Obama referred to the letter that Mr. Sang had shown him. In it, the president said, Ho Chi Minh expressed his hope to President Truman that Vietnam could cooperate with the United States.
''President Sang indicated that even if it's 67 years later, it's good that we're still making progress,'' Mr. Obama said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama and President Truong Tan Sang of Vietnam at the end of their Oval Office meeting on Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLES DHARAPAK/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); VIETNAM WAR (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (77%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (77%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); RELIGION (74%); LABOR UNIONS (74%); FREEDOM OF ASSEMBLY & ASSOCIATION (72%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (72%); HARBORS & PORTS (72%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (54%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (54%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); EDWARD R ROYCE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) VIET NAM (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2013



776 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 544 words

HEADLINE: Another Day of Slight Movement on Wall Street as Investors Weigh Data

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Gains in energy and chemical companies helped nudge the stock market higher on Thursday.
The modest move extends a pattern this week: even with plenty of earnings news from big companies, the broader market has shuffled between minor gains and minor losses.
Cabot Oil and Gas and Range Resources reported revenue and earnings that trumped estimates, sending their stocks up 7 percent. Cabot rose $4.85 to $76.56. Range Resources rose $5.34 to $81.39. 
Facebook soared 30 percent after reporting earnings late on Wednesday that easily beat analysts' forecasts, thanks to higher revenue from advertisements on mobile devices. Facebook's stock gained $7.85 to $34.36.
Nearly halfway through the second-quarter earnings season, the overall trend looks good, but not great, said Tyler Vernon, chief investment officer of Biltmore Capital in Princeton, N.J. ''There have been some big disappointments, like Caterpillar yesterday, but we're seeing better and better numbers coming out.''
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 4.31 points, or 0.3 percent, to close at 1,690.25.
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 13.37 points, or 0.1 percent, to 15,555.61. The Dow was held back by Home Depot and Caterpillar, which warned on Wednesday that its sales could sag.
The Nasdaq composite index gained 25.59 points, or 0.7 percent, to 3,605.19.
Analysts forecast that companies in the S.& P. 500 index would report earnings growth of 4.3 percent over the same period last year, according to S&P Capital IQ. At the beginning of July, the forecast was for growth of 2.8 percent. More than six out of every 10 companies have cleared analysts' earnings targets so far.
Improving profits should help push the S.& P. 500 index above 1,700 in the coming weeks, Mr. Vernon said.
D. R. Horton Inc., the country's largest builder, and PulteGroup said orders for new houses jumped in the second quarter, but their results still fell short of what analysts had expected. PulteGroup also posted a 14 percent decline in profits.
D. R. Horton dropped $1.82, or 9 percent, to $19.38. PulteGroup lost $1.90, or 10 percent, to $16.55, the biggest drop of any stock in the S.& P. 500.
''I think what you're seeing a bit of today is people questioning what higher mortgage rates mean for housing,'' said Joe Kinahan, chief strategist at TD Ameritrade in Chicago.
In the market for United States government bonds, benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose 2/32, to 92 28/32. Its yield was unchanged from late Wednesday at 2.58 percent. Late last week, it was trading at 2.48 percent.
The 10-year yield acts as a benchmark rate for most mortgage loans. A sharp increase in the rate drives up mortgage costs and could slow down sales in the housing market.
It is still very low by historical standards, thanks in large part to the Federal Reserve's bond-buying program. The 10-year Treasury yield hit a recent low of 1.63 percent on May 3. By contrast, it was trading around 4 percent in the summer of 2008, shortly before the worst days of the financial crisis.
The Russell 2000 index of small-company stocks set another record high, gaining 10.35 points, or 1 percent, to 1,054.18. The Russell has done better than other major indexes this year, gaining 24 percent versus 19 percent for the S.& P. 500 and the Dow.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); CHEMICALS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (78%); CHEMICALS MFG (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); TRENDS (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); BONDS (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (70%); EXECUTIVES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); INTEREST RATES (63%); MORTGAGE LOANS (63%); MORTGAGE RATES (63%); TREASURY SECURITIES (62%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (60%)

COMPANY: D R HORTON INC (82%); CABOT OIL & GAS MARKETING CORP (58%); CABOT OIL & GAS CORP (58%); RANGE RESOURCES LTD (58%); FACEBOOK INC (57%); PULTEGROUP INC (52%); TD AMERITRADE HOLDING CORP (51%)

TICKER: DHI (NYSE) (82%); COG (NYSE) (58%); RRS (ASX) (58%); RRL (LSE) (58%); FB (NASDAQ) (57%); PHM (NYSE) (52%); AMTD (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (82%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (82%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (58%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (58%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS236116 NEW MULTIFAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (52%); SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (52%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2013



777 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1720 words

HEADLINE: In Tug of War Over New Fed Leader, Some Gender Undertones

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM and ANNIE LOWREY; Jackie Calmes and Jeremy W. Peters contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama's choice of a replacement for the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, is coming down to a battle between the California girls and the Rubin boys.
Janet L. Yellen, the Fed's vice chairwoman, is one of three female friends, all former or current professors at the University of California, Berkeley, who have broken into the male-dominated business of advising presidents on economic policy. Her career has been intertwined with those of Christina D. Romer, who led Mr. Obama's Council of Economic Advisers at the beginning of his first term, and Laura D'Andrea Tyson, who held the same job under President Clinton and later served as the director of the White House economic policy committee. But no woman has climbed to the very top of the hierarchy to serve as Fed chairwoman or Treasury secretary.
Ms. Yellen's chief rival for Mr. Bernanke's job, Lawrence H. Summers, is a member of a close-knit group of men, protégés of the former Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin, who have dominated economic policy-making in both the Clinton and the Obama administrations. Those men, including the former Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner and Gene B. Sperling, the president's chief economic policy adviser, are said to be quietly pressing Mr. Obama to nominate Mr. Summers. 
The choice of a Fed chair is perhaps the single most important economic policy decision that Mr. Obama will make in his second term. Mr. Bernanke's successor must lead the Fed's fractious policy-making committee in deciding how much longer and how much harder it should push to stimulate growth and seek to drive down the unemployment rate.
Ms. Yellen's selection would be a vote for continuity: she is an architect of the Fed's stimulus campaign and shares with Mr. Bernanke a low-key, collaborative style. Mr. Summers, by contrast, has said that he doubts the effectiveness of some of the Fed's efforts, and his self-assured leadership style has more in common with past chairmen like Alan Greenspan and Paul A. Volcker.
But the choice also is roiling Washington because it is reviving longstanding and sensitive questions about the insularity of the Obama White House and the dearth of women in its top economic policy positions. Even as three different women have served as secretary of state under various presidents and growing numbers have taken other high-ranking government jobs, there has been little diversity among Mr. Obama's top economic advisers.
''Are we moving forward? It's hard to see it,'' said Ms. Romer, herself a late addition to Mr. Obama's original economic team, chosen partly because the president wanted a woman.
She said she viewed the choice of the next leader of the Fed as a test of the administration's commitment to inclusiveness. ''Within the administration there have been many successful women,'' she said. ''There are lots of areas where women are front and center, where women are succeeding and doing very well. Economic policy is one where they're not.''
Supporters of Mr. Summers dismiss the idea that gender is a factor in the decision. They say that they simply regard him as the best person for the job. They point to the fact that he has served in both of the other top economic policy positions -- as Treasury secretary in the Clinton administration and as chief economic policy adviser to Mr. Obama -- which makes him a known quantity who has demonstrated an ability to respond effectively to financial crises.
Ms. Yellen was widely seen as the front-runner to succeed Mr. Bernanke, but that appears to have reflected an absence of information about the views of Mr. Obama and his closest advisers. As word circulated in recent days that the president was seriously considering Mr. Summers, Ms. Yellen's supporters have rushed forward to bolster her candidacy.
''It would be great to have a woman, the first woman chairman of the Fed, no question about it,'' Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the House minority leader, told Bloomberg Television on Thursday. ''She's extremely talented. It's not just that she's a woman.''
Ms. Pelosi said that she also thought Mr. Summers was a qualified candidate.
On Thursday, Senate Democrats were rallying support for Ms. Yellen, with about a third of the 54 members of the caucus signing a letter backing her candidacy.
The letter is being circulated by Senator Sherrod Brown of Ohio and so far has been signed by some of the most senior members of the caucus, including Richard Durbin of Illinois, the No. 2 Senate Democrat, and Dianne Feinstein of California.
Mr. Summers's supporters are making less noise in public, partly because some of his primary advocates are inside the White House, while Ms. Yellen's primary advocates mostly appear to be on the outside looking in.
Ms. Yellen declined to comment through a Fed spokeswoman. Mr. Summers did not respond to a request for comment.
Mr. Summers, 58, returned to his job as an economics professor at Harvard after leaving the Obama administration, but he has visited the White House at least 14 times in the last two years. The logs record only one visit by Ms. Yellen, who is 66. That is not unusual for a top Fed official in Ms. Yellen's position -- her predecessors also spent little time at the White House -- but it is significant for a president who has often placed a premium on nominating people he knows.
It also suggests that the administration has not tried to groom Ms. Yellen for a promotion. Mr. Bernanke, by contrast, was plucked from his job as a Fed governor to work as chairman of President Bush's Council of Economic Advisers before being nominated as Fed chairman.
Women have held a number of top economic policy positions within the administration during Mr. Obama's tenure. In addition to Ms. Romer, Lael Brainard is currently the country's top financial diplomat, and Sylvia Mathews Burwell is the White House budget chief.
Neera Tanden, president of the Center for American Progress and a former administration official, said she saw a general problem, not a particular one. ''I think there should be more women across the board but I wouldn't select out economic policy making,'' she said.
For years, economic policy making has been dominated by a small, close-knit group of men who have known one another since the Clinton administration, if not before. In addition to Mr. Summers, Mr. Geithner and Mr. Sperling, the group includes Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew; Daniel Tarullo, a Fed governor who has taken a leading role on financial regulation; and Jason Furman, currently nominated to be the head of the Council of Economic Advisers.
Numerous current and former administration officials have described the world as cloistered. A series of women who have worked alongside those men have ended their tenures saying that they felt excluded and ignored. Recent examples include Sheila C. Bair, who ran the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation during the financial crisis; Elizabeth Warren, who led the creation of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau but was passed over for nomination as its first director in favor of a deputy, Richard Cordray; and Ms. Romer, who left the administration in 2010.
''I was always officially where I should be,'' Ms. Romer said of her White House experience. ''When there was a quick meeting on the phone, or the side meeting, that's when you felt like maybe business was being done or maybe I was being left out of things.''
Similarly, Ms. Yellen clashed with Mr. Sperling during the Clinton administration, when she ran the Council of Economic Advisers and he the National Economic Council, with the two engaging in turf battles and Ms. Yellen at times feeling pushed out of important decision-making, colleagues at the time said.
Several former administration officials, who spoke about personnel policy only on the condition of anonymity, strongly disputed the idea that the White House was institutionally sexist, that Mr. Obama did not value the promotion of women or that women were excluded because of their gender.
But they acknowledged that women on the economic team had tended to hold advisory roles, rather than policy-making roles. They also said that women tended to be further to the left than the more centrist Rubinites that have generally prevailed in policy debates.
Along with the Rubinite network of men, women in the Democratic economic policy world have created an informal network of their own over the last 20 years. Ms. Tyson, Ms. Romer and Ms. Yellen are especially close, calling one another for advice on navigating the world of White House politics and talking economic shop.
Ms. Tyson recommended Ms. Yellen for an open seat on the Fed's seven-member board of governors, which oversees regulatory policy and sets monetary policy in consultation with the presidents of the 12 regional reserve banks.
She also helped to start the career of Ms. Brainard, now the Treasury under secretary for international affairs, by battling for permission to break the rules by extending Ms. Brainard's White House fellowship into a full-time position with the Council of Economic Advisers.
Ms. Romer, for her part, helped put Janice Eberly up for a post as the Treasury's chief economist.
The debate about the role of gender has spilled out well beyond the White House. In a television interview this year, Richard W. Fisher, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, called Ms. Yellen ''extremely capable,'' but said other candidates were capable as well. ''It's a presidential decision, and we'll see if it is driven by gender or other considerations and so on,'' he said.
Her supporters counter that being a women appears to be hurting her chances.
But concerns about gender would not be determinative in the White House's mind, officials with knowledge of the process said. The president's comfort with the candidate, concerns about how well he or she would manage the Fed's powerful Open Market Committee and deal with the market and Wall Street would be most important. Not to mention the likelihood of a candidate winning Senate confirmation.
''It's an embarrassment of riches,'' said Jared Bernstein, a former Obama administration economist who spoke at length of the brilliance of both candidates. ''He's weighing who would do the best job at a sensitive time, and the differences here are nuanced.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: LAWRENCE H. SUMMERS: Treasury secretary under President Clinton
former director of the National Economic Council under Mr. Obama
Robert E. Rubin: Former Treasury secretary
Sheryl Sandberg: Chief operating officer of Facebook
protégée of Mr. Summers
Timothy F. Geithner: Former Treasury secretary and president of New York Fed
Gene B. Sperling: Top economic adviser to Mr. Clinton and Mr. Obama
JANET L. YELLEN: Vice chairwoman of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
Christina D. Romer: Former head of Council of Economic Advisers, under Mr. Obama
George A. Akerlof: Nobel Prize-winning economist
Ms. Yellen's husband
Laura D'Andrea Tyson: Former head of Council of Economic Advisers, under Mr. Clinton
Nancy Pelosi: Democratic leader of the House of Representatives
Richard J. Durbin: Senator from Illinois (A1)
 The choice of who will replace Ben S. Bernanke, above, as Fed chairman is reviving longstanding questions about the insularity of the Obama administration. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN LAMARQUE/REUTERS) (B4) GRAPHICS: The Battle for the Fed: President Obama is nearing a decision on who should lead the Federal Reserve for the next four years. The top candidates are Lawrence H. Summers, who is close to a number of men who have served in powerful economic policy positions in Democratic administrations, and Janet L. Yellen, whose allies include women who have filled senior advisory posts in the White House. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); WOMEN (90%); RANKINGS (78%); MEN (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (57%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (91%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); BILL CLINTON (90%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (90%); BEN BERNANKE (90%); SHERYL SANDBERG (79%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (73%); RICHARD DURBIN (59%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); NANCY PELOSI (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2013



778 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1059 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Prison Populations Decline, Reflecting New Approach to Crime

BYLINE: By ERICA GOODE

 BODY:
The prison population in the United States dropped in 2012 for the third consecutive year, according to federal statistics released on Thursday, in what criminal justice experts said was the biggest decline in the nation's recent history, signaling a shift away from an almost four-decade policy of mass imprisonment.
The number of inmates in state and federal prisons decreased by 1.7 percent, to an estimated 1,571,013 in 2012 from 1,598,783 in 2011, according to figures released by the Bureau of Justice Statistics, an arm of the Justice Department. Although the percentage decline appeared small, the fact that it followed decreases in 2011 and 2010 offers persuasive evidence of what some experts say is a ''sea change'' in America's approach to criminal punishment. 
''This is the beginning of the end of mass incarceration,'' said Natasha Frost, associate dean of Northeastern University's school of criminology and criminal justice.
About half the 2012 decline -- 15,035 prisoners -- occurred in California, which has decreased its prison population in response to a Supreme Court order to relieve prison overcrowding. But eight other states, including New York, Florida, Virginia and North Carolina, showed substantial decreases, of more than 1,000 inmates, and more than half the states reported some drop in the number of prisoners. (Figures for three states were estimated because they had not submitted data in time for the report.) The population of federal prisons increased slightly, but at a slower rate than in previous years, the report found.
Imprisonment rates in the United States have been on an upward march since the early 1970s. From 1978, when there were 307,276 inmates in state and federal prisons, the population increased annually, reaching a peak of 1,615,487 inmates in 2009.
But in recent years, tightened state budgets, plummeting crime rates, changes in sentencing laws and shifts in public opinion have combined to reverse the trend. Experts on prison policy said that the continuing decline appears to be more than a random fluctuation.
''A year or even two years is a blip and we shouldn't jump to conclusions, but three years starts to look like a trend,'' said Marc Mauer, executive director of the Sentencing Project, a nonprofit research group based in Washington. But he said that the rate of inmates incarcerated in the United States continued to be ''dramatically higher'' than in other countries and that the changes so far were ''relatively modest compared to the scale of the problem.''
Most observers agree that the recession has played a role in shrinking prison populations. In 2011 and 2012, at least 17 states closed or were considering closing prisons partly for budgetary reasons, representing a reduction of 28,525 beds, according to a report by the Sentencing Project published last year.
But Adam Gelb, director of the Pew Charitable Trusts' public safety performance project, said that while fiscal concerns might have led to the turnaround in some states, the need to cut budgets had not been the deciding factor.
''They're not simply pinching pennies,'' Mr. Gelb said. ''Policy makers are not holding their noses and saying we have to scale back prisons to save money. The states that are showing drops are states that are thinking about how they can apply research-based alternatives that work better and cost less.''
Changes in state and federal sentencing laws for lower-level offenses like those involving drugs have played a central role in the shift, he and others said, with many states setting up diversion programs for offenders as an alternative to prison. And some states have softened their policies on parole, no longer automatically sending people back to prison for parole violations.
But changing public attitudes are also a major driver behind the declining prison numbers. Dropping crime rates over the last 20 years have reduced public fears and diminished the interest of politicians in running tough-on-crime campaigns. And public polls consistently show that Americans are now more interested in spending money on education and health care than on building more prisons.
''People don't care so much about crime, and it's less of a political focus,'' said Professor Frost, who is a co-author of a forthcoming book, ''The Punishment Imperative.''
The result has been an unusual bipartisan effort to reduce the nation's reliance on prisons, with groups like Right on Crime, devoted to what it calls the ''conservative case for reform,'' pushing for lower-cost and less punitive solutions than incarceration for nonviolent offenders.
Marc Levin, senior policy adviser for Right on Crime, described the change in conservatives' position on parole violators: It used to be ''Trail 'em, nail 'em and jail 'em,'' he said, ''but there's been a move to say, 'Yes, there's a surveillance function, but we also want them to succeed.' ''
Some of the most substantial prison reductions have taken place in conservative states like Texas, which reduced the number of inmates in its prisons by more than 5,000 in 2012. In 2007, when the state faced a lack of 17,000 beds for inmates, the State Legislature decided to change its approach to parole violations and provide drug treatment for nonviolent offenders instead of building more prisons.
In Arkansas, which reduced its prison population by just over 1,400 inmates in 2012, legislators in 2011 also passed a package of laws softening sentencing guidelines for low-level offenders and steering them to diversion programs.
''It's a great example of a state that made some deliberate policy choices to say we can actually reduce recidivism and cut our prison group at the same time,'' Mr. Gelb said.
Joan Petersilia, a law professor at Stanford and a co-director of the Stanford Criminal Justice Center, said in an interview last year that she thought Americans had ''gotten the message that locking up a lot of people doesn't necessarily bring public safety.'' California's example, she said, has also spurred other states to consider downsizing for fear of facing similar litigation.
But Professor Petersilia added that though the trend may have begun out of a need for belt-tightening, it had grown into a national effort to rethink who should go to prison and for how long.
''I don't think in modern history we've seen anything like this,'' she said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRISONS (96%); STATISTICS (91%); POPULATION DECLINE (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); SENTENCING (89%); CRIMINAL LAW (89%); TRENDS (89%); CRIME RATES (89%); SENTENCING GUIDELINES (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); LITIGATION (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (73%); BUDGET CUTS (67%); BUDGETS (67%); APPEALS (66%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (61%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (57%); BUREAU OF JUSTICE STATISTICS (57%); NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013



779 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ARTSBEAT; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 214 words

HEADLINE: Sicilian Exhibition Won't Head to Cleveland

BYLINE: By PATRICIA COHEN

 BODY:
After Sicily unexpectedly announced this month that it wanted the return of a traveling exhibition of its ancient treasures because their absence was hurting tourism, resulting in the cancellation of the show at the Cleveland Museum of Art, for a moment it seemed that a compromise was possible: the announcement was followed by another saying both sides were in talks to try to reach a settlement and allow the exhibition to go on. The show, which was scheduled to open in Cleveland in September after its current run at the J. Paul Getty Museum in Los Angeles, might go on, Sicilian officials suggested, if Cleveland could help soften the financial loss. As it turns out, they made an offer that Cleveland could refuse. 
On Wednesday the museum said it had declined to pay additional fees for the exhibition, ''Sicily: Art and Invention Between Greece and Rome.'' ''To announce all new economic terms after the exhibition has been organized, cataloged and shipped is unprecedented and negotiations over this development have to date been unsuccessful,'' the museum's director, David Franklin, said in a statement. ''We are very disappointed not to be able to share this exhibition with our visitors, but at this point we must turn our attention to developing new plans for the fall.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL F. McELROY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (92%); EXHIBITIONS (91%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2013



780 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 4915 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
Theater
Approximate running times are in parentheses. Theaters are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of current productions, additional listings, showtimes and ticket information are at nytimes.com/theater. A searchable, critical guide to theater is at nytimes.com/events.
Previews and Openings
'First Date' (in previews; opens on Aug. 8) Zachary Levi, from the NBC spy comedy ''Chuck,'' and Krysta Rodriguez, from ''The Addams Family'' on Broadway and ''Smash'' on television, are the potential soulmates thrown together in an eventful getting-to-know-you evening in this romantic musical that kicks off the new Broadway season. Directed by Bill Berry, who first staged the musical as a co-production of ACT and the 5th Avenue Theater in Seattle, the show has a book by Austin Winsberg, a former writer and producer on ''Gossip Girl,'' with music and lyrics by Alan Zachary and Michael Weiner. Josh Rhodes (''Rodgers & Hammerstein's Cinderella'') is the choreographer. Longacre Theater, 220 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (David Rooney) 
'Harbor' (in previews; opens on Aug. 6) Chad Beguelin's writing credits have fallen on the frothier side of the ledger thus far, including the lyrics and libretto for ''The Wedding Singer'' and lyrics for ''Elf.'' Now Mr. Beguelin trains his sights on a dysfunctional family that does not count among its members Santa Claus or a rapping grandmother. It does, however, include a ne'er-do-well woman who drops in on her brother at his Sag Harbor home with her teenage son in tow. 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200, primarystages.org. (Eric Grode)
'Love's Labour's Lost' (in previews; opens on Aug. 12) Shakespeare in the Park hit it big in 1971 when it set some of its young talent loose on a lesser-known Shakespeare play: ''Two Gentlemen of Verona,'' which was turned into a Tony Award-winning delight by Galt MacDermot and John Guare. Now the Public Theater's summer outpost has deputized the ''Bloody Bloody Andrew Jackson'' team of Michael Friedman (music and lyrics) and Alex Timbers (adaptation and direction) to musicalize this even more obscure comedy. A batch of ''Bloody Bloody'' performers are on board, along with Daniel Breaker and Rachel Dratch. Delacorte Theater, Central Park, enter the park at 81st Street and Central Park West, (212) 539-8750, shakespeareinthepark.org. (Grode)
'Richard III' (previews start on Thursday; opens on Aug. 3) You may recall that a skeleton that had been discovered under a parking lot in Leicester, England, was confirmed this year as having been the real-life Richard III. So what better fit for Shakespeare in the Parking Lot, which is currently skirmishing with the city's Department of Transportation over fees involving city-owned parking spaces? Let's hope the director, Hamilton Clancy, doesn't take his title character up on that climactic offer to swap his kingdom for a horse. What would the Department of Transportation have to say about that? Municipal parking lot at Ludlow and Broome Streets, Lower East Side, (212) 873-9050, shakespeareintheparkinglot.com. (Grode)
'Shida' (in previews; opens on Wednesday) Rupert Holmes and Jason Robert Brown are among those triple threats who have contributed book, music and lyrics to their own musicals. But doing all that and then starring in the thing, too? All by yourself? Now that's the work of a quadruple threat. Enter Jeannette Bayardelle, a Broadway veteran (''Hair,'' ''The Color Purple'') who has written an autobiographical musical about a young girl from the Bronx whose dreams of becoming a writer get derailed, at least temporarily. Ars Nova, 511 West 54th Street, Clinton, (866) 811-4111, shidathemusical.com. (Grode)
'Soul Doctor' (in previews; opens on Aug. 15) This musical odyssey -- after engagements in South Florida and New Orleans, as well as Off Broadway -- examines the life of ''The Singing Rabbi,'' Shlomo Carlebach, a key figure in popular Jewish music, and his friendship with Nina Simone. The show is written and directed by Daniel S. Wise, with choreography by Benoit-Swan Pouffer. Circle in the Square Theater, 1633 Broadway, at 50th Street, (800) 432-7780, telecharge.com. (Grode)
Broadway
'Annie' James Lapine's revival of the singing comic strip from 1977 is merely serviceable. But its smiley-faced mixture of hope and corn scratches an itch in a city recovering from a recession and a hurricane. Theatergoers may occasionally feel the urge both to mist up and throw up, but Lilla Crawford is a nigh irresistible Orphan Annie. With Anthony Warlow and Faith Prince as Miss Hannigan (2:25). Palace Theater, 1564 Broadway, at 47th Street, (877) 250-2929, ticketmaster.com. (Ben Brantley)
&#x2605; 'Kinky Boots' Cyndi Lauper has created a love-and-heat-seeking score that performs like a pop star on Ecstasy. This Harvey Fierstein-scripted tale of lost souls in shoe business, in which a young factory owner (Stark Sands) teams up with a drag queen (Billy Porter), sometimes turns into a sermon. But it's hard to resist the audience-hugging charisma of the songs in this Tony winner for best new musical (2:20). Al Hirschfeld Theater, 302 West 45th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
&#x2605; 'Matilda the Musical' The most satisfying and subversive musical ever to come out of Britain. Directed by Matthew Warchus, with a book by Dennis Kelly and addictive songs by Tim Minchin, this adaptation of Roald Dahl's novel is an exhilarating tale of empowerment, told from the perspective of that most powerless group, little children. Bertie Carvel is priceless as their schoolmistress nemesis (2:35). Shubert Theater, 225 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Motown: The Musical' A dramatically slapdash but musically vibrant joy ride through the glory days of the Detroit music label founded by Berry Gordy. Mr. Gordy's book is sketchy and obvious -- you want to plug your ears whenever the music stops. But the music is, of course, some of the greatest R&B ever recorded, and the performers mostly electric (2:40). Lunt-Fontanne Theater, 205 West 46th Street, (877) 250-2929, ticketmaster.com. (Charles Isherwood)
'The Nance' Playing a gay burlesque performer whose onstage specialty is mincing effeminacy, Nathan Lane combines shiny expertise and dark conviction to sometimes devastating effect, in this strained if heartfelt play by Douglas Carter Beane. Not even Mr. Lane, though, can reconcile all the disparities the script asks him to weave together. Jack O'Brien is the estimable director (2:25). Lyceum Theater, 149 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Pippin' Diane Paulus sends in the acrobats for her exhaustingly energetic (and now Tony-winning) revival of Stephen Schwartz and Roger O. Hirson's 1972 musical. As for the 99-pound story at the center of this muscle-bound spectacle -- the one about the starry-eyed son of Charlemagne (Matthew James Thomas) -- that's there too, if you look hard. With Patina Miller and a delightful Andrea Martin (2:35). Music Box Theater, 239 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Rodgers & Hammerstein's Cinderella' This ultimate and most enduring of makeover stories, via the team who gave us ''Oklahoma!,'' has been restyled by the director Mark Brokaw and the writer Douglas Carter Beane into a glittery patchwork of snark and sincerity, with a whole lot of fancy ball gowns. Laura Osnes and Santino Fontana are the appealing leading lovers (2:20). Broadway Theater, 1681 Broadway, at 53rd Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'The Trip to Bountiful' Michael Wilson's slow-handed staging of Horton Foote's 1953 drama about an old woman's journey into the past is most notable for its remarkable star, Cicely Tyson, who seems thoroughly rejuvenated by her return to Broadway. The attractive supporting cast includes Cuba Gooding Jr., Vanessa Williams and Adepero Oduye (2:10). Stephen Sondheim Theater, 124 West 43rd Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Vanya and Sonia and Masha and Spike' Portraying a woman mired in what appears to be a permanent midlife crisis, the marvelous comic actor Kristine Nielsen provides much of the laughing gas in Christopher Durang's uneven but intermittently delightful riff on Chekhovian themes. David Hyde Pierce and Sigourney Weaver also star in this Tony-winning play directed by Nicholas Martin (2:30). John Golden Theater, 252 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)
Off Broadway
'Around the World in 80 Days' This stage version of the Jules Verne novel is an odd combination of steampunk and vaudeville. The actors' shameless mugging grows annoying after a while, but the pace stays brisk and the energy level high (1:30). New Theater at 45th Street, 354 West 45th Street, Clinton, (866) 811-4111, aroundtheworldinnyc.com. (Neil Genzlinger)
'Bill W. and Dr. Bob' Making the story of the founding of Alcoholics Anonymous 99 percent preachiness-free is quite an accomplishment. Samuel Shem and Janet Surrey's purpose-driven script, which never forgets the humor of the human experience, goes a long way toward making this a satisfying revival (2:15). SoHo Playhouse, 15 Van Dam Street, South Village, (866) 811-4111, billwanddrbob.com. (Anita Gates)
&#x2605; 'Buyer & Cellar' Jonathan Tolins has concocted an irresistible one-man play from the most peculiar of fictitious premises -- an underemployed Los Angeles actor goes to work in Barbra Streisand's Malibu, Calif., basement -- allowing the playwright to ruminate with delicious wit and perspicacity on the solitude of celebrity, the love-hate attraction between gay men and divas, and the melancholy that lurks beneath narcissism. In the capable hands of the director Stephen Brackett and the wickedly charming actor Michael Urie, this seriously funny slice of absurdist whimsy creates the illusion of a stage filled with multiple people, all of them with their own droll point of view (1:30). Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street, at Seventh Avenue South, West Village, (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com. (Rooney)
'The Capables' In this play by Jay Stull, a reality-television film crew swoops down on the home of a hoarder whose piles of junk hide, at least metaphorically, some family secrets. It's a cute idea but overly long and indulgently directed by Stefanie Abel Horowitz (2:30). The Gym at Judson, 243 Thompson Street, at Washington Square South, Greenwich Village, (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com. (Genzlinger)
&#x2605; 'The Castle' Imagine a melding of Bertolt Brecht's political theater of alienation, Tom Stoppard's verbal pyrotechnics and the rampant silliness of Monty Python and you'll have some idea of Howard Barker's hugely entertaining tale of knighthood in fester in the Middle Ages. Richard Romagnoli directs a daredevil cast that includes the magnificent Jan Maxwell as a proto-feminist witch (2:30). Atlantic Stage 2, 330 West 16th Street, Chelsea, (866) 811-4111, ptpnyc.org. (Brantley)
&#x2605; 'Choir Boy' A supremely gifted cast of singing actors breathes vivid life into Tarell Alvin McCraney's appealing but diffuse play about a gay teenager, played with beaming intensity by Jeremy Pope, trying to come to terms with his sexuality at an all-black boys prep school (1:30). City Center Stage II, 131 West 55th Street, (212) 581-1212, nycitycenter.org. (Isherwood)
&#x2605; 'The Civil War' Presented by Theatreworks USA's free summer theater program, this earnest and absorbing musical for families illuminates history through period songs and the perspectives of a handful of well-chosen characters: a girl who disguises herself as a man to join the Confederate army; a struggling Irish immigrant and Union corporal; a plantation owner's son and his former best friend, who was also his father's slave. With a book by Arthur Perlman and musical arrangements and one new Broadway-style number by Jeff Lunden, the production is stronger in its intense, intimate moments than in its bids for comic relief. You sense the weight of the carnage in America's bloodiest war: the Union, fortunately, won, but everybody lost (1:15). Lucille Lortel Theater, 121 Christopher Street, West Village, (212) 352-3101, twusa.org. (Laurel Graeber)
'Cougar the Musical' Three older women find themselves attracted to younger men, two against their better judgment. The concept seems made for bus tours, but imagination, appealing numbers with original melodies and theme-transcending jokes lift this show well above the level of ''Menopause: The Musical'' and its ilk (1:30). Fridays and Saturdays only. St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Gates)
'Cuff Me: The Fifty Shades of Grey Musical Parody' What can I possibly say that isn't said by the title of this production? Here's one thing: It's not exactly great theater, but I'd still rather see ''Cuff Me'' than read the novel upon which it's based (1:30). Actors Temple Theater, 339 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Claudia La Rocco)
&#x2605; 'The Designated Mourner' This revival of Wallace Shawn's anatomy of a survivor in a totalitarian country makes the definitive case for its author as one of the most complex and uncompromising moralists of the American theater. André Gregory, who directed the New York premiere in 2000, returns with the same first-rate cast: Deborah Eisenberg, Larry Pine and Mr. Shawn (3:00). Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, publictheater.org. (Brantley)
'The Explorers Club' Nell Benjamin's intermittently funny but mostly blunt-witted comedy, directed by Marc Bruni, features a lively cast in a farcical story of tweedy members of a British science club fretting over whether to admit a female member, played by Jennifer Westfeldt (1:35). City Center Stage I, 131 West 55th Street, (212) 581-1212, nycitycenter.org. (Isherwood)
'Handbook for an American Revolutionary' Matthew-Lee Erlbach is a genial guide through a version of America in this one-man show, in which he portrays a dozen characters with a kit bag full of accents. But not all of them are especially illuminating. In the end we don't learn much more than we already knew about the United States: it's a land of diversity, disenfranchisement, anger and hope (1:10). The Gym at Judson, 243 Thompson Street, at Washington Square South, Greenwich Village, handbooknyc.com. (Genzlinger)
'It's Just Sex' Jeff Gould's lightweight comedy, a long-running hit in Los Angeles, is about three married couples whose party turns into an evening of spouse-swapping and postcoital navel-gazing (metaphorically). The cast is personable, but the script's only deep thought is that if women were told they could talk only to one person for the rest of their lives, they would understand why sexual fidelity is so stifling for men (1:30). Actors Temple Theater, 339 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Gates)
'My Name Is Asher Lev' Aaron Posner's adaptation of Chaim Potok's novel feels like a well-made play from the era in which the story takes place: the 1950s. Set in a Hasidic neighborhood in Brooklyn, this tale of an artistic prodigy has been directed with an attention to emotional nuance by Gordon Edelstein and features strong performances from its three-person cast: Ari Brand, Mark Nelson and Jenny Bacon (1:30). Westside Theater/Upstairs, 407 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Rachel Saltz)
&#x2605; 'Natasha, Pierre and the Great Comet of 1812' Dave Malloy's transporting pop opera dramatizes an emotionally potent slice of Tolstoy's ''War and Peace.'' Rachel Chavkin directs a superb young cast who bring the loves and losses of 19th-century Russian aristocrats to vibrant, intimate life in a stylish cabaret setting expressly built for the production (2:30). Kazino, West 13th Street, at Washington Street, West Village, (877) 704-2821, thegreatcometof1812.com. (Isherwood)
&#x2605; 'Nobody Loves You' A perky new musical, by Itamar Moses and Gaby Alter, spoofing the seemingly spoof-proof world of reality television. Heath Calvert, as the gorgeous and dumb host, and Rory O'Malley, as a swooning fan boy Tweeting himself into a happy stupor as he watches, highlight the director Michelle Tattenbaum's terrific cast (1:30). Second Stage Theater, 305 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 246-4422, 2st.org. (Isherwood)
&#x2605; 'Peter and the Starcatcher' The most exhilarating and inventive example of story theater since the Royal Shakespeare Company's ''Life and Adventures of Nicholas Nickleby.'' This production, about the boy who became Peter Pan, is an enchanted anatomy of the urge to defy gravity. Roger Rees and Alex Timbers direct (2:10). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
&#x2605; 'Potted Potter' With no new Harry Potter adventures to pore over, what's a Muggle in need of a fix to do? One answer: this gloriously goofy parody by Daniel Clarkson and Jefferson Turner, which compresses a retelling of the seven books into 70 minutes, complete with a game of Quidditch. Clearly the two comics attended Professor Flitwick's charms class, because they cast the perfect spell over the audience: reductio ad absurdum (1:10). Little Shubert Theater, 422 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Daniel M. Gold)
&#x2605; 'rogerandtom' From a conventional start -- Penny waits in her apartment for Roger to arrive so they can go see the new play by their brother Tom -- Julien Schwab's witty absurdist comedy quickly gets surreal, with a subtle plot that twists and folds back on itself. Smartly using meta-theatrical devices like a broken ''fourth wall'' and benefiting from excellent performances, the play reminds us that acting doesn't only take place onstage (1:10). Here, 145 Avenue of the Americas, at Dominick Street, South Village, (212) 352-3101, here.org. (Gold)
&#x2605; 'Serious Money' Caryl Churchill's feral 1987 satire of the money culture and the quest for the big score is revived in a wicked, polished production by the Potomac Theater Project. Matching elements of Restoration comedy and Brechtian theatricality with the clamor of the trading floor, this play maintains a breakneck pace as it diagrams, in clever couplets, a takeover bid and the rapacious investors it attracts. If there's a sharper-edged evening of entertainment in Manhattan, it involves juggling knives (2:20). Atlantic Stage 2, 330 West 16th Street, Chelsea, (212) 279-4200, ptpnyc.org. (Gold)
&#x2605; 'The Two-Character Play' Playing strung-out sibling theater troupers in Tennessee Williams's rarely seen fever dream of an eternal folie à deux, Amanda Plummer and Brad Dourif don't just strike sparks. They're a raging conflagration that keeps changing form and direction. Gene David Kirk directs this revival of a demented, messy and oddly affecting self-portrait from an American master (2:10). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'The Unavoidable Disappearance of Tom Durnin' David Morse gives a precise, chilling performance as the title character, a mini-Madoff, in Steven Levenson's downbeat drama about a man trying to make amends for the damage his crime inflicted on his family (1:40). Laura Pels Theater, Harold and Miriam Steinberg Center for Theater, 111 West 46th Street, (212) 719-1300, roundaboutunderground.org. (Isherwood)
'Unbroken Circle' Eve Plumb, a k a Jan of ''The Brady Bunch,'' demonstrates a flair for grown-up comedy as a born-again Christian with drinking and divorce habits in James Wesley's comic drama. Too bad the production is uncertainly paced and a little unpolished, because this story of a 1970s Texas family dealing with the death of an abusive patriarch has a lot going for it (1:50). St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Gates)
'Unconstitutional' Colin Quinn's entertaining spin through the history of our country translates wonky history into very funny jokes (1:05). Cherry Lane Theater, 38 Commerce Street, West Village, (212) 352-3101, cherrylanetheatre.org. (Jason Zinoman)
&#x2605; 'The Weir' This first-rate revival of Conor McPherson's play gathers a group of friends as they tell ghost stories to drive away a loneliness than can be even more frightening (1:30). Irish Repertory Theater, 132 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 727-2737, irishrep.org. (Ken Jaworowski)
Off Off Broadway
&#x2605; 'Patti Issues' In his funny, tender coming-of-age monologue, Ben Rimalower traces the obsessive Patti LuPone fandom that provided him with an empowering role model. That inspiration proved perhaps most useful to Mr. Rimalower in processing the fallout after his father kicked down the closet door and bailed on the family. While on one hand, this is the story of many young gay men's propensity for diva worship, the tartly observed show goes several steps further by exploring the wide-eyed experiences that result when the acolyte gets to interact with his idol (1:00). Duplex Cabaret Theater, 61 Christopher Street, at Seventh Avenue, Greenwich Village, pattiissues.brownpapertickets.com. (Rooney)
&#x2605; 'Then She Fell' Inspired by Lewis Carroll's ''Alice'' books, this transporting immersive theater work occupies a dreamscape where the judgments and classifications of the waking mind are suspended. A guided tour of Wonderland, created by Third Rail Projects, leads its participants through a series of rooms and an interactive evening of dance, poetry, food and drink (2:00). The Kingsland Ward at St. John's, 195 Maujer Street, near Humboldt Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718) 374-5196, thenshefell.com. (Brantley)
'Wanda's Monster' Making Books Sing, which turns children's books into musicals, has adapted Eileen Spinelli's 2002 picture book about Wanda, a little girl who knows that a monster lives in her closet. Barbara Zinn Krieger, who wrote the script, has transformed Wanda's Granny -- the only adult who acknowledges the truth of Wanda's perception -- from a sensible soul into a kick-out-the-jams rocker. This characterization works beautifully with the show's upbeat score and lyrics by the children's pop star Laurie Berkner. This charming production brings home a point worth considering at any age: embrace what you fear, and you just may find a friend (1:00). Vineyard Theater, 109 East 15th Street, (646) 601-1406, wandasmonster.com. (Graeber)
Long-Running Shows
'Avenue Q' R-rated puppets give lively life lessons (2:15). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'The Berenstain Bears Live! In Family Matters, the Musical' This adaptation of three of Stan and Jan Berenstain's children's books is pleasant enough, but the cubs are showing their age. Saturday and Sunday only (:55). Marjorie S. Deane Little Theater, 5 West 63rd Street, (866) 811-4111, berenstainbearslive.com.
'Black Angels Over Tuskegee' The tear-jerker story of these trailblazing African-American pilots (2:30). Actors Temple Theater, 339 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
Blue Man Group Conceptual art as entertainment (1:45). Astor Place Theater, 434 Lafayette Street, East Village, (800) 258-3626, ticketmaster.com.
'The Book of Mormon' Singing, dancing, R-rated missionaries proselytize for the American musical (2:15). Eugene O'Neill Theater, 230 West 49th Street, (800) 432-7250, telecharge.com.
'Chicago' Jazz Age sex, murder and razzle-dazzle (2:25). Ambassador Theater, 219 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'The Fantasticks' Boy meets girl, forever (2:05). Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.
'Fuerza Bruta: Look Up' A sensory bath aimed at clubgoing college kids in search of cultural diversion (1:05). Daryl Roth Theater, 20 Union Square East, at 15th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Jersey Boys' The biomusical that walks like a man (2:30). August Wilson Theater, 245 West 52nd Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'The Lion King' Disney's call of the wild (2:45). Minskoff Theater, 200 West 45th Street, (800) 870-2717, ticketmaster.com.
'Mamma Mia!' The jukebox musical set to the disco throb of Abba (2:20). Cadillac Winter Garden Theater, 1634 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Newsies' Extra! Extra! enthusiasm (2:20). Nederlander Theater, 208 West 41st Street, (866) 870-2717, newsiesthemusical.com.
'Old Jews Telling Jokes' With old jokes, a few songs and a little schmaltz, this winning revue is simple, effective entertainment executed with obvious affection (1:20). Westside Theater, 407 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Once' Almost love, in a singing Dublin (2:15). Bernard B. Jacobs Theater, 242 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Perfect Crime' The murder mystery that has been investigated since 1987 (1:30). Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.
'The Phantom of the Opera' Who was that masked man anyway? (2:30). Majestic Theater, 247 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Rock of Ages' Big hair, thrashing guitars and inspired humor fuel this jukebox musical (2:25). Helen Hayes Theater, 240 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Sistas: The Musical' Black women reflect on their lives, with songs (1:30). St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Sleep No More' A movable, murderous feast at Hotel Macbeth (2:00). The McKittrick Hotel, 530 West 27th Street, Chelsea, (866) 811-4111, sleepnomorenyc.com.
'Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark' Web surfing with music (2:45). Foxwoods Theater, 213 West 42nd Street, (800) 745-3000, spidermanonbroadway.marvel.com.
'Stomp' And the beat goes on (and on), with percussion unlimited (1:30). Orpheum Theater, 126 Second Avenue, at Eighth Street, East Village, (800) 982-2787, ticketmaster.com.
'Wicked' Oz revisited (2:45). Gershwin Theater, 222 West 51st Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.
Last Chance
&#x2605; 'The Assembled Parties' (closes on Sunday) Richard Greenberg's play about the decline of an affluent family is a throwback to a time when Charm -- with a capital C -- was a cardinal virtue in theater. It is also smart, sad and so impossibly well-spoken you may feel like giving up on conversation. Lynne Meadow directs a fine cast led by a singularly charming Jessica Hecht (2:35). Samuel J. Friedman Theater, 261 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Cymbeline' (closes on Saturday) This chaotic tale of a princess and her banished lover is given a boisterous production as part of the Shakespeare in the Parking Lot series (2:30). The municipal parking lot at Ludlow and Broome Streets, Lower East Side, shakespeareintheparkinglot.com, (212) 873-9050. (Jaworowski)
&#x2605; 'Gibraltar' (closes on Sunday) James Joyce fans will appreciate this ''Adaptation After James Joyce's 'Ulysses,' '' a play that focuses on Leopold and Molly Bloom. Patrick Fitzgerald, who wrote it, and Cara Seymour play a range of characters. True to the book, they also suggest a good deal about the bond between Joyce and Nora Barnacle, his uneducated wife, indispensable muse and model for Molly (1:55). Irish Repertory Theater, 132 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 727-2737, irishrep.org. (Webster)
&#x2605; 'Here Lies Love' (closes on Sunday) An invigorating poperetta, conceived by David Byrne, that sets a new standard for audience participation. Or do I mean coercion? In this heady show about the heady life of Imelda Marcos, staged with infinite inventiveness by Alex Timbers, all the world's a dance floor, and all the men and women (including the audience) merely disco rats (1:30). Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, publictheater.org. (Brantley)
'A Midsummer Night's Dream' (closes on Tuesday) The Classical Theater of Harlem has done wonders with its African-influenced staging of a 400-year-old comedy about lovers drugged by fairies. It's not nearly as polished as what you'll see at that other Shakespeare in the park, but the nuanced performances and high humor are a rare combination. And it's free (1:30). Richard Rodgers Amphitheater, Marcus Garvey Park, 18 Mount Morris Park West, at 122nd Street, Harlem, (347) 688-6304, classicaltheatreofharlem.org. (Gates)
'Monkey: Journey to the West' (closes on Sunday) The Blur frontman Damon Albarn composed the Asian-influenced score for this East-meets-West extravaganza based on a 16th-century Chinese novel. Jamie Hewlett, his partner in the virtual band Gorillaz, provides the designs and animation for a family-friendly tale of a mischievous monkey on a pilgrimage with a monk (1:40). David H. Koch Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500, lincolncenterfestival.org. (Isherwood)
'A Picture of Autumn' (closes on Saturday) Removing an aged parent from a beloved home that's no longer safe or convenient is never easy. Just imagine this scaled up a bit, with the parent clinging to a crumbling, 16th-century, 18-bedroom mansion. Robert tries this thankless task in the revival of this 1951 play by N.C. Hunter. The play feels much too long, drawing out dialogues as if the audience had as much time to kill as the listless manor residents. But the cast (led by George Morfogen) is nonetheless stellar (2:20). Mint Theater, 311 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (866) 811-4111, minttheater.org. (Rampell)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSICAL THEATER (90%); MUSIC (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (85%); THEATER & DRAMA (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (76%); SONG WRITING (74%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (74%); THEATER (74%); CHOREOGRAPHY (74%); WRITERS (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2013



781 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2013
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1165 words

HEADLINE: College Enrollment Falls as Economy Recovers

BYLINE: By RICHARD PÉREZ-PEÑA

 BODY:
The long enrollment boom that swelled American colleges -- and helped drive up their prices -- is over, with grim implications for many schools.
College enrollment fell 2 percent in 2012-13, the first significant decline since the 1990s, but nearly all of that drop hit for-profit and community colleges; now, signs point to 2013-14 being the year when traditional four-year, nonprofit colleges begin a contraction that will last for several years. The college-age population is dropping after more than a decade of sharp growth, and many adults who opted out of a forbidding job market and went back to school during the recession have been drawn back to work by the economic recovery.
Hardest hit are likely to be colleges that do not rank among the wealthiest or most prestigious, and are heavily dependent on tuition revenue, raising questions about their financial health -- even their survival.
''There are many institutions that are on the margin, economically, and are very concerned about keeping their doors open if they can't hit their enrollment numbers,'' said David A. Hawkins, the director of public policy and research at the National Association for College Admission Counseling, which has more than 1,000 member colleges. 
The most competitive colleges remain unaffected, but gaining admission to middle-tier institutions will most likely get easier.
Colleges fear that their high prices and the concern over rising student debt are turning people away, and on Wednesday, President Obama again challenged them to rein in tuition increases. Colleges have resorted to deeper discounts and accelerated degree programs. In all, the four-year residential college experience as a presumed rite of passage for middle-class students is coming under scrutiny.
The most striking signs of change came from Loyola University New Orleans and St. Mary's College of Maryland. After the usual May 1 deadline for applicants to choose a college, Loyola and St. Mary's each found that their admission offers had been accepted by about one-third fewer students than expected. Both institutions were forced to make millions of dollars in budget cuts and a late push for more enrollment.
Loyola made a flurry of calls to people who had been offered admission, but had not accepted it, asking them to take a second look. If those students said they had already made commitments to other colleges, Loyola did not pursue them, administrators said.
Professors and administrators who usually are not involved in the process made calls, along with the admissions officers, ''and we did invite them to see if there was more we could do with aid,'' said Roberta Kaskel, the interim vice president for enrollment management.
Many colleges traditionally round out their classes with a small number of students admitted after May 1, often taken from their waiting lists, and miscalculations as big or as damaging as those by St. Mary's and Loyola are rare. But consultants hired by families to help with the admissions process say that this spring and summer, they have seen more colleges actively hunting for students, reaching out to those who had turned them down, or even to students who had never applied.
''After May 1, I got e-mails from three or four colleges saying, 'We've still got spots, and we're looking for people to fill them,' and I don't remember getting any in the past,'' said Lisa Bleich, an admissions consultant in Westfield, N.J.
''I had a client who had committed to one school, and then changed her mind and said she wanted to go to the University of Pittsburgh, where she had also been accepted,'' she said. ''They weren't actively looking for more, but they agreed to take her, when a few years ago, they would have said, 'No, we don't have any space.' ''
This summer, Randolph College in Virginia sent letters to students who had not applied but had strong academic credentials, saying that they had ''been selected for admission'' in the fall, and offering them financial aid. Randolph's case is unusual, in that it is expanding, but it shows the lengths colleges will go to, to meet their enrollment targets.
''This is the first time we've tried this particular approach,'' said Mike Quinn, the vice president for enrollment management. ''Sometimes offering these qualified students a more generous grant will prompt them to start a conversation with us.''
Don McMillan, an admissions consultant in Boston, said his office fielded calls this week from families in Saudi Arabia and Italy, hoping to find their children places for a school year that, in some cases, is just a month away.
''We called about 15 colleges, and we found that about half still had openings for this fall and were willing to consider them, which really surprised me,'' he said. ''These are not Tufts, M.I.T., Harvard, schools like that, that will never have trouble filling up.''
College attendance grew slowly for more than two decades, until it began a steep climb from 15.2 million in 1999 to 20.4 million in 2011, according to census figures.
Several factors drove that boom: a population bulge increased the number of college-age Americans by about 20 percent; high school graduation rates climbed after years of stagnation; the percentage of recent high school graduates going to college continued an increase that started in the 1980s; and colleges drew a growing number of students from abroad.
The recession that began in 2007 steered still more people into college, especially adults who were past traditional college age and who enrolled in community colleges.
But the number of Americans turning 18 hit its recent peak in 2009, and will continue to decline through 2016. High school graduation rates appear to have leveled off, and job prospects have improved, making school a less attractive option.
Managing a college's enrollment has become more complicated in recent years as the number of applications submitted by the average student has soared. The advent of online applications, and the Common Application now used by about 500 colleges, has made it much easier to add to a student's list without much thought. And colleges have encouraged the increase, barraging promising students with appeals, knowing that more applications means a lower percentage of students accepted, which moves a college up in the popular ranking systems.
''It's become really hard for colleges to tell which applicants are actually serious about them, and will accept their offers,'' said Janet Rosier, an admissions consultant in Woodbridge, Conn.
That is what happened to St. Mary's, a state college, and Loyola, a Jesuit school where administrators say some visitors might have been dissuaded by extensive construction on campus.
While Loyola made a renewed appeal to people it had already accepted, St. Mary's simply reopened admissions, and put out word through counselors and community groups. Both colleges have been able to draw more students since May, but their fall classes will still be far short of what they had hoped.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 3, 2013

 CORRECTION:
An article on July 26 about a significant decline in college enrollments referred incompletely to efforts by Loyola University New Orleans to recruit new students after the deadline for accepting admissions offers. After the article had been published, Loyola said that it did not knowingly pursue people who had already made commitments to other colleges; while some of the students the university called had made such commitments, the university said that upon learning that, it ceased contact with them.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Christopher Sauer and Cassidy Eymard, student workers, move beds at Loyola University New Orleans, which was forced to make large budget cuts. (A11)
 Carissa Marston and Kavin Keller prepare dorms for an incoming class comprising one-third fewer students than expected. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY WILLIAM WIDMER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (89%); TUITION FEES (78%); STUDENT EXPENSES (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%); POPULATION DECLINE (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); BUDGETS (75%); ACADEMIC COUNSELING (73%); EMPLOYMENT (69%); PUBLIC POLICY (69%); PERSONAL DEBT (64%); BUDGET CUTS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%) LOUISIANA, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2013



782 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 376 words

HEADLINE: Profit at Nomura Surges on Rally in Japanese Markets

BYLINE: NEIL GOUGH


HIGHLIGHT: Japan&#8217;s biggest brokerage said Friday its net income for the most recent quarter was nearly 35 times higher than a year ago. 

 BODY:
HONG KONG -Nomura is riding high on Abenomics. 
Nomura, Japan's biggest brokerage firm, said on Friday that net income for the April-to- June quarter soared to 65.9 billion yen ($667 million). That was nearly 35 times greater than the 1.9 billion yen it earned in the same quarter last year, a dramatic increase driven by a renewed surge in trading of Japanese stocks. 
Trading volumes in Japanese stocks have had a huge increase since late 2012, when Prime Minister Shinzo Abe took office and set to work introducing forceful monetary, fiscal and economic overhauls. The Nikkei 225-share index rallied about 80 percent in the six months ended in May before it retreated on concerns the U.S. Federal Reserve may begin to wind down its bond purchases. Despite whipsaw trading in the past two months, the Nikkei is still up 36 percent so far this year and 67 percent from 12 months ago. 
That has translated into blockbuster business for Nomura. Net revenue from its retail business more than doubled in the quarter ended in June, rising 101 percent from a year earlier to 166.3 billion yen. Net pretax income from retail was 81.1 billion yen, nearly seven times higher than a year ago. The revenue and profit figures both marked the best quarterly performance for Nomura's retail brokerage in a decade. 
Nomura also had a brisk underwriting business in the quarter. That included acting as one of the lead underwriters on Suntory Beverage and Food's 388 billion yen ($3.9 billion) initial public offering in June - the biggest new listing in Asia this year. 
The results, while in line with analysts' expectations, highlighted just how far Nomura has come since last summer, when its chief executive and chief operating officer quit following an insider trading scandal. Also, in September of last year, the bank began a $1 billion cost cutting program, following $1.2 billion in cost cuts announced in 2011. 
''We continue to lower our cost base and build up a stable earnings platform to contribute to economic growth,'' Nomura's chief executive, Koji Nagai, said in a statement accompanying the earnings release. 

        
Nomura Earnings Rise 13%, but Miss Analysts' Estimates
        
Suntory Unit's $4 Billion I.P.O. Rises in Tokyo Trading Debut

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SECURITIES TRADING (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); INSIDER TRADING (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); SECURITIES BROKERS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); LAYOFFS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); EMERGING MARKETS (68%); EXECUTIVES (67%); RETAILERS (67%); PRIME MINISTERS (55%); SCANDALS (50%) Abe, Shinzo; Company Reports; Japan; Nagai, Koji; Nikkei Stock Average; Nomura Group; Nomura Holdings Inc; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Wall Street Earnings

COMPANY: NOMURA HOLDINGS INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Nomura Group; Nomura Holdings Inc

TICKER: NMR (NYSE) (92%); N33 (SGX) (92%); 8604 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: SHINZO ABE (93%) Abe, Shinzo; Nagai, Koji

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (79%) JAPAN (95%); HONG KONG (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%) Japan

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2013



783 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1904 words

HEADLINE: Morning Agenda: Criminal Charges Against SAC

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Federal authorities delivered a crippling blow to SAC Capital Advisors. | Activision Blizzard has a reached an $8.2 billion deal to separate from Vivendi. | The indictment of a hacking ring rekindles fears that the financial system is vulnerable to rogue programmers. | Fabrice P. Tourre&#8217;s lawyer tried to show the sympathetic side of the former trader. 

 BODY:
SAC IS CALLED A MAGNET FOR CHEATING | Federal authorities delivered a crippling blow to SAC Capital Advisors on Thursday, announcing criminal charges against the hedge fund that could threaten its survival, DealBook's Peter Lattman and Ben Protess report. Calling SAC "a veritable magnet of market cheaters," the authorities argued that the firm and its units permitted a "systematic" insider trading scheme to unfold from 1999 to 2010, generating hundreds of millions of dollars in profit for the firm, owned by the billionaire Steven A. Cohen.
The indictment offers a detailed account of SAC's inner workings, citing e-mails indicating Mr. Cohen and other executives failed to prevent possible insider trading. Federal prosecutors on Thursday portrayed the "rampant insider trading" at SAC as having no equal. Preet Bharara, the United States attorney for the Southern District of New York, said the scheme at SAC was "substantial, pervasive and on a scale without known precedent in the history of hedge funds."
In response to Thursday's developments, a spokesman for SAC said, "SAC has never encouraged, promoted or tolerated insider trading." The spokesman added, "The handful of men who admit they broke the law does not reflect the honesty, integrity and character of the thousands of men and women who have worked at SAC over the past 21 years." 
For Mr. Bharara, this may be the case of his career, some legal and political experts say. A victory could propel Mr. Bharara onto a bigger platform, Julie Creswell writes in DealBook. "While Mr. Bharara's march on Wall Street has not quite turned him into a household name, it has landed him television interviews with the likes of Charlie Rose and an appearance on the cover of Time Magazine," Ms. Creswell writes. "Already, many political analysts are drawing comparisons between Mr. Bharara and another former United States attorney who rode convictions against Wall Street into the New York mayor's office, Rudolph W. Giuliani."
Wall Street now must contemplate life without SAC, DealBook's Peter Eavis writes. "Not only does Wall Street support the fund's stock and derivatives trades, but the firm is also a reliable client for those further down the food chain, like technology equipment providers. Now, the fund's banks face an uncomfortable choice. Should they keep acting as a broker to SAC Capital? There will be strong temptation to maintain full ties with the fund."
As for SAC's possible defense, there are few options, Peter J. Henning writes in the White Collar Watch column. "Although SAC has denied engaging in any misconduct, the criminal liability of an organization is very broad in the United States, and there are no effective defenses once the government proves one of its agents engaged in criminal conduct on its behalf."
ACTIVISION IN $8.2 BILLION DEAL TO BUY BACK STAKE FROM VIVENDI | Activision Blizzard, the world's biggest video game publisher, has a reached an $8.2 billion deal to separate from Vivendi and become an independent company. Under a deal that was announced early Friday, Activision Blizzard and a group of investors led by the company's management will buy back shares owned by Vivendi, the French conglomerate that controls the video game maker, leaving a majority of Activision Blizzard's shares held by the investing public.
Activision Blizzard will buy about 429 million of its shares and certain tax attributes from Vivendi for roughly $5.83 billion in cash, or $13.60 a share, the company said. In addition, Robert A. Kotick, 50, the chief executive, and Brian Kelly, the co-chairman, are leading a group in buying about 172 million shares of the company from Vivendi for about $2.34 billion. Vivendi will retain a stake of about 12 percent, or 83 million shares, in Activision Blizzard, the company said.
WALL STREET'S EXPOSURE TO HACKING | "The indictment on Thursday of a long-running hacking ring is kindling fears that rogue programmers are going beyond theft and developing the capacity to wreak havoc on the broader financial system," Nathaniel Popper writes in DealBook. "Five Eastern European computer programmers were charged by the United States attorney in New Jersey with hacking into the servers of more than a dozen large American companies and stealing 160 million credit card numbers in what the authorities called the largest hacking and data breach case ever."
"But one company had nothing to do with credit cards or bank accounts: Nasdaq. In a separate indictment unsealed in federal court in New York, one of the men, Aleksandr Kalinin of Russia, was charged with having gained access for two years to the servers of the Nasdaq stock exchange."
ON THE AGENDA | Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Company reports earnings before the market opens. The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan consumer sentiment index for July is out at 9:55 a.m. Mario Gabelli is on Bloomberg TV at 8:15 a.m.
DEFENSE TRIES TO SHOW TOURRE'S SYMPATHETIC SIDE | "I am here to tell the truth and clear my name," Fabrice P. Tourre said to his lawyer Pamela Chepiga after she asked him why he was sitting in a courtroom in Lower Manhattan. Mr. Tourre has been accused by the Securities and Exchange Commission of duping unsuspecting investors into buying toxic real estate securities he knew were doomed to fail.
Ms. Chepiga's questioning is aimed at undoing some of the damage inflicted this week by the S.E.C.'s lead lawyer, Matthew T. Martens, DealBook's Susanne Craig writes. Mr. Martens has used e-mails Mr. Tourre wrote to a girlfriend where the former trader joked about potentially toxic products he was selling. "It was a silly, romantic e-mail I sent late at night during a period of market stress," Mr. Tourre said.
 | Contact: @williamalden | E-mail
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions »
Glenn Britt to Step Down as Time Warner Cable Chief | Time Warner Cable said on Thursday that Mr. Britt would retire at the end of the year, to be succeeded by Robert D. Marcus, the chief operating officer, The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
Lazard Quarterly Profit Rises 81% | The investment bank Lazard defied a weak merger market in the second quarter, reporting that adjusted profit rose to $60 million from $33 million in the period a year earlier.
DealBook »
M.&A. Tables Don't Give Full Score | Lazard, for example, ended this year's first half with a 10 percent share of completed deals, leaving it in ninth place, Antony Currie of Reuters Breakingviews writes. Yet by revenue, the Wall Street firm was in the top five. 
REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS
Google's Deals So Far This Year | Google spent $1.3 billion on acquisitions this year, mostly on the social mapping start-up Waze, AllThingsD reports.
ALLTHINGSD
Airlines Said to Offer Concessions in Merger | As US Airways and the parent of American Airlines begin a series of meetings with United States regulators, the airlines have offered to divest a pair of slots at London's Heathrow Airport to secure support for the deal in Europe, The Wall Street Journal reports.

WALL STREET JOURNAL
INVESTMENT BANKING »
Profit at Nomura Surges on Rally in Japanese Markets | Japan's biggest brokerage said Friday its net income for the most recent quarter was nearly 35 times higher than a year ago.
DealBook »
A Note of Caution From Blankfein on the Economy | The United States "feels like it is recovering but I wouldn't say that it is quite healthy yet," Lloyd C. Blankfein, the chief executive of Goldman Sachs, told a business group in Sydney, according to Bloomberg News. "It is a very poor time to take risk and without risk taking there is less growth."
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Barclays Expected to Report Gain in Profit | Analysts polled by Bloomberg expect Barclays to report a 19 percent gain in second-quarter profit, Bloomberg News writes. The bank reports results on July 30.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
PRIVATE EQUITY »
Oaktree Said to Hire Goldman to Sell Packaging Firm | The Oaktree Capital Group is said to be seeking a buyer for Tekni-Plex, a packaging company that could sell for around $800 million, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
In TXU Deal, a Focus on Junior Bonds | "KKR & Co. and TPG Capital's best chance for salvaging their failing $48 billion purchase of Energy Future Holdings Corp. in the biggest leveraged buyout ever may hinge on $1.48 billion of junior bonds," Bloomberg News reports. "The odds are rising that the group of private-equity firms will try to buy the 11.25 percent debt due December 2018 and linked to the company's regulated business, according to debt research firm CreditSights Inc."
BLOOMBERG NEWS
HEDGE FUNDS »
Elliott Management to Retain Stake in BMC After Buyout | The hedge fund Elliott Management is rolling over about $137 million of its shares in BMC Software into a new stake once the company goes private, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
I.P.O./OFFERINGS »
Facebook's Stock Levitates Amid Rosy Expectations | Shares of the social network rose nearly 30 percent on Thursday to $34.36 a share after a surprisingly strong second-quarter earnings report. "Even the bears were impressed with the company's second-quarter performance," Vindu Goel writes on the Bits blog of The New York Times.
NEW YORK TIMES
VENTURE CAPITAL »
Revolution Fund Invests $40 Million in E-Commerce Start-Up | A fund started by Stephen M. Case and two former AOL colleagues has invested in Bigcommerce, a start-up whose software helps companies create and manage online stores.
DealBook »
Steve Jobs's Widow Backs Media Site | Laurene Powell Jobs has joined with other prominent figures in Silicon Valley to back a journalism Web site called Ozy Media, Fortune reports.
FORTUNE
Code Would Require Apps to Disclose Collection of Data | 
NEW YORK TIMES
LEGAL/REGULATORY »
Gender Undertones in Tug of War Over New Fed Leader | "President Obama's choice of a replacement for the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, is coming down to a battle between the California girls and the Rubin boys," The New York Times writes.
NEW YORK TIMES
UBS to Pay $885 Million to Settle U.S. Claims Over Bonds | The Federal Housing Finance Agency, which oversees Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, announced the settlement on Thursday.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
U.S. Said to Push for Big Payments Over Mortgage Securities | With UBS having settled, "Bank of America, JPMorgan Chase and Royal Bank of Scotland are being pressed for multibillion-dollar payments to the US government over toxic mortgage-backed securities, according to people familiar with negotiations," The Financial Times reports.
FINANCIAL TIMES
When Fraud and Traffic Violations Intersect | "Three academics set out to see whether there were any clear differences between chief executives of companies where fraud was committed and chiefs of similar companies where fraud did not take place - or at least where it was never detected. And they found evidence that those who are willing to violate other rules are also more willing to violate securities laws," Floyd Norris, a columnist for The New York Times, writes.
NEW YORK TIMES
Glaxo Replaces Chief of China Unit in Bribery Inquiry | Hervé Gisserot, who was co-head of GlaxoSmithKline's pharmaceutical business in Europe, is succeeding Mark Reilly as general manager in China, Agence France-Presse reports.
AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INSIDER TRADING (91%); INDICTMENTS (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); HEDGE FUNDS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); MISCONDUCT (73%); MAYORS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); POLITICS (64%); INTERVIEWS (63%) Morning Agenda

COMPANY: SAC CAPITAL ADVISORS LP (58%); ACTIVISION BLIZZARD INC (50%)

TICKER: ATVI (NASDAQ) (50%); AIY (FRA) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%)

PERSON: STEVEN A COHEN (73%); FABRICE P TOURRE (54%); RUDY GIULIANI (53%); CHARLIE ROSE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2013



784 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Latitude)

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 773 words

HEADLINE: Urban Apartheid in Vietnam

BYLINE: LIEN HOANG


HIGHLIGHT: The Vietnamese government&#8217;s residence-registration system has created, in a country that professes classlessness, a group of second-class citizens. 

 BODY:
HO CHI MINH CITY - When I returned to this city from the United States last year, I paid $25 a month to live in a single room among several that lined a fetid, often flooded alley. The row of low-slung rentals with their squat toilets and rotting walls lay on the industrial outskirts of town. But I put up with it to live near a relative who'd come down from central Vietnam. I joined his circle of friends in the alley, most of whom had bonded together over their shared status as out-of-towners looking for jobs.
What I didn't realize at the time was that some of them had entered the city illegally, in violation of a policy left over from the days before economic liberalization in the 1980s. 
Vietnam is one of the few countries in the world whose citizens must live where they're registered or ask the government's permission to relocate. This ho khau system borrows heavily from China's hukou, which was developed in the years after the Communists took power in 1949. Similarly, starting in the 1950s the Communist rulers in Vietnam required people to list members of their households in their ho khau booklets, including age, occupation and ethnic group, in order to track people's movements.
At first the main objective of the policy was to control "counter revolutionaries and criminals," writes Andrew Hardy in the academic journal Sojourn. Restricting movement was especially important to the authorities in Vietnam after the 1954 Communist victory against France in the north triggered an exodus of anti-Communists toward the south.
After the war, once Vietnam was reunified in 1975, ho khau laws were expanded to cover the entire country. Many citizens stayed put during the postwar period, from 1975 to 1986. It was a planned economy then, and the state doled out food and allocated jobs on the basis of ho khau.
Although the country no longer rations food, it has kept ho khau in place, in the hopes of staving off a population explosion in the cities. Not only has the policy failed to accomplish that, but it has created, in a country that professes classlessness, a group of second-class citizens.
In the controlled free market that has now largely supplanted the subsidy system, Vietnamese rely less on the state for basic goods and services and so have much more incentive to go where the jobs are. Many private businesses don't ask for ho khau when hiring.
There are no statistics on the number of undocumented migrants, according to Nguyen Thi Hong-Xoan, dean of sociology at the University of Social Sciences and Humanities in Ho Chi Minh City. But Hong-Xoan, who wrote her doctoral thesis on ho khau, told me that most people don't change their paperwork when they move. And according to the 2009 census net migration from the countryside to the cities was 1.4 million people between 2004 and 2008. The figure was 770,000 people for the five years leading up to the 1999 census.
This demographic shift is especially affecting Hanoi. Some 6.5 million people lived in the capital in 2009, compared with just 2.7 million a decade earlier - a 140 percent increase. During the same period, the total population of Vietnam rose by 12 percent.
But many migrants find more challenges in the cities than they'd expected. While the cities' recognized residents have property rights and access to public schools and health services, newcomers don't. Outsiders pay double the cost for water and electricity because they're excluded from the few government subsidies that remain, which require ho khau. They face discrimination, and local officials often blame them for rising crime rates and worsening sanitation.
To help close this growing gap, a 2010 U.N. report recommended "decoupling access to services from residency status." But policy makers have interpreted the continuing rural exodus to mean that they must clamp down harder on migrants and reinforce ho khau. From this month on, Hanoi's residents will be allowed permanent residence status only if they have lived there for three years, have state jobs, buy property or move in with relatives who have permanent residence.
In the rest of the country, for now, migrants need to prove they have lived somewhere for just one year in order to apply for permanent residency. But some fear that the crackdown in the capital could inspire Ho Chi Minh City and others to follow suit.
Critics say that the registry system won't curb mobility any more than it has in the past. Meanwhile, the system is separating insiders from outsiders and creating a form of urban apartheid.

        
What a Difference a Massacre Makes
        
From Paddy to Patty
        
A River Runs Over With It
        
The Ultimate Conversion
        
Fatal Jabs

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (86%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); RELOCATIONS (72%); ETHNICITY (70%); SOCIOLOGY (70%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (70%); ETHNIC GROUPS (65%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (65%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (50%) discrimination; Population; urban areas; Vietnam; Discrimination; Urban Areas; Asia

GEOGRAPHIC: HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (93%) VIET NAM (98%); VIETNAM (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%); ASIA (79%); FRANCE (79%) Vietnam

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2013



785 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Taking Note)

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 554 words

HEADLINE: North Carolina: First in Voter Suppression

BYLINE: DAVID FIRESTONE


HIGHLIGHT: The state legislature passed a bill combining every idea for suppressing voter turnout that Republicans have advanced elsewhere. 

 BODY:
Gov. Pat McCrory of North Carolina didn't like our recent editorial that criticized the state for abandoning its traditions of racial equality, strong public schools, and economic fairness. He wrote a letter to the editor saying he was leading the state to a "powerful comeback."
That's demonstrably untrue when it comes to the economy and the schools. But as yesterday's events in the state capital showed, one thing is making a comeback: an old habit of suppressing the votes of minorities, young people and the poor, all in the hopes of preserving Republican power. 
Freed of federal election supervision by the Supreme Court, the North Carolina legislature passed a bill that combines every idea for suppressing voter turnout that Republicans have advanced in other states. Rick Hasen, an election-law expert at the University of California, Irvine, called it "the most sweeping anti-voter law in at least decades."

The law requires a government-issued photo ID card to vote, but doesn't allow student IDs, public-employee IDs, or photo IDs issued by public assistance agencies. It shortens the early voting window, bans same-day registration during early voting and prohibits paid voter registration drives. Counties will not be able to extend voting hours in cases of long lines, or allow provisional voting if someone arrives at the wrong precinct. Poll "observers" are encouraged to challenge people who show up to vote, and are given new powers to do so.
None of this has anything to do with fraud. Out of 7 million ballots cast in the state in 2012, there were 121 allegations of voter fraud, a rate of .00174 percent. Republicans aren't even claiming the measure will reduce fraud - only that it will provide reassurance to those who worry about it. It "would make nearly three-fourths of the population more comfortable and more confident when they go to the polls," House Speaker Thom Tillis explained to NBC News.
In pursuit of that comfort, 319,000 people who lack a photo ID will have a hard time voting, a disproportionate number of whom are black or poor. (No back-up IDs or sworn statements are allowed.) Eliminating same-day registration during early voting - two provisions that have been popular among Democratic-leaning voters - would have eliminated 4,766 votes in Durham County alone, according to one estimate. And as all Republican lawmakers know, President Obama won North Carolina by about 14,000 votes in 2008.
Mr. McCrory said today he will sign the bill into law, along with another that will drastically limit the number of abortion clinics in the state. Both measures are signs of the hard-right ideology that has gripped the state capital and led to weekly protests in Raleigh. But as Mr. Hasen warns, the further Republicans go in their demolition spree, the more likely they are to awaken the anger of the very voters they are trying to suppress, many of whom have not participated in state elections.
"North Carolina Republicans are blazing their own path, and not just on voting," he wrote Wednesday in The Daily Beast. "The question is whether their blaze comes back to burn them later on, handing the swing state back to Democrats."

        
Yeah, Voter ID Hurts Democrats
        
The Decline of North Carolina, Continued
        
Time for National Voting Standards?
        
The Election: 'Vibrant,' 'Complex'
        
Problems at the Polls

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (93%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ELECTION LAW (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); RACIAL DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (90%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); EVIDENCE (75%); LEGISLATION (75%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (74%); ELECTION FRAUD (74%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (73%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (71%); SUPREME COURTS (69%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (50%); ABORTION (50%) McCrory, Pat; North Carolina; Voter Registration and Requirements; Featured Posts

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (63%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (63%)

PERSON: PAT MCCRORY (90%); BARACK OBAMA (55%) McCrory, Pat

GEOGRAPHIC: RALEIGH, NC, USA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) North Carolina

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2013



786 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 869 words

HEADLINE: Growth From the Middle Out, and How It Works

BYLINE: JARED BERNSTEIN


HIGHLIGHT: President Obama is right to assert that reducing income inequality will help spur growth, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Jared Bernstein is a senior fellow at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities in Washington and a former chief economist to Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. 
At the core of President Obama's economics speech on Wednesday was the notion that as rising inequality diverts income growth from the many Americans in the broad middle class, their diminished buying power leads to slower growth.
It's an intuitive idea with solid theoretical backing, but is it true? 
The theory is simple enough and has its roots in basic microeconomics, specifically the decline in the marginal propensity to consume as incomes rise. That may sound tricky but it's just common sense: an extra dollar that finds its way to an "income-constrained" (or "poor," or these days even "middle-class") person is more likely to be spent than saved.
Bureau of Labor Statistics statistics show, for example, that in 2012, households with income of $40,000 to $50,000 spent 92 percent of their after-tax income. Those with incomes above $150,000 spent 53 percent of their income.
Couple that fact with the fact that consumer spending as a share of gross domestic product in the United States is about 70 percent and you see both the problem and the motivation for the president's framing. It's interesting to note that Europe, where the consumption share of G.D.P. is 55 percent, is somewhat less vulnerable to this dynamic. 
Another germane point is that back in the late 1970s, before inequality starting climbing, the United States spending share of G.D.P. was 62 percent. So we've become more unequal, and the part of G.D.P. that depends on spending has grown. That certainly seems like a recipe for slower growth.

And in the current moment, I agree with the president that it is. The fact that economic growth over this recovery has pretty solidly eluded the poor and middle class is one reason the United States is slogging along at subpar growth rates.
But what about the last recovery? Inequality grew sharply in the 2000s and did so at the expense of the middle class. Using the highly regarded household income series from the Congressional Budget Office, which factors in capital gains (very important when you're measuring inequality), taxes and the value of government transfers, real middle-class incomes were up 13 percent, 2000-7, while top 1 percent incomes rose 31 percent.
Yet consumer spending wasn't notably slow in those years. And if you include home-buying, spending was of course through the (overleveraged) roof.
And here's where things get a lot more interesting. In this interpretation of recent events, higher inequality actually lifts middle-class spending, but it does so based on loose credit leading to the inflation of debt bubbles that ultimately damage growth even more than sluggish consumer spending. 
With inequality squeezing paychecks, the only way for middle-class families to get ahead was to borrow. At the same time - and I'd assert this is also a dangerous symptom of wealth concentration and its impact on American politics - bank regulators and credit raters were asleep at the switch, paving the way for financial engineering that artificially depressed the price of risk. Put those toxic factors together and you get the economic shampoo cycle - bubble, bust, repeat - that's by now all too familiar.
Is there any evidence for this chain of events? There is, from an interesting recent paper by the economists Barry Cynamon and Steven Fazzari. It's by no means bulletproof; there are lots of moving parts to these arguments, and the fact that we've had debt bubbles in periods of low inequality is a substantive challenge to their hypothesis. But I find their circumstantial evidence convincing. 
Mr. Cynamon and Professor Fazzari find that as the income shares of the top 5 percent soared relative to the bottom 95 percent, both the debt burden and the spending of the lower-income group grew quickly relative to that of the wealthiest households. The savings rates of the very wealthy increased over the 2000s expansion, while that of the bottom 95 percent fell sharply. 
These dynamics drove much stronger consumer spending than one would have expected looking only at median income growth, inflated a huge housing bubble and ensured that once the bubble burst and the deleveraging cycle began, the United States was in for a deep and protracted recession.
My point is that the inequality affects growth through many channels. In demand-constrained periods like the present, it weakens consumer spending and growth because the small share of beneficiaries of what growth there is have lower consumption propensities than everybody else. But in debt-driven expansions, inequality appears to play an integral role in terribly damaging bubbles inflated by stagnant incomes, underpriced risk and leveraged consumption.
So I'm with the president. Let's get back to broadly shared growth. It's better for the economy and for most of the people in it. How to do that, especially with this Congress, is a very big problem for another day.

        
Consumer Spending and Growth: A Rejoinder
        
A Budget Focus on Inequality
        
Buffett vs. Mankiw on Taxes
        
A Spurned Offer on Corporate Taxes
        
The Complex Story of Race and Upward Mobility

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); STATISTICS (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); TAX LAW (72%) Congressional Budget Office; Income Inequality; Obama, Barack; Today's Economist

ORGANIZATION: Congressional Budget Office

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JARED BERNSTEIN (74%); JOE BIDEN (73%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2013



787 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 231 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Confidence Revisits High Set in 2007

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Americans are more confident about the economy than at any time since July 2007, a survey found, suggesting consumers will spend more and accelerate growth in the months ahead. 
The University of Michigan said on Friday that its final reading of consumer sentiment in July was 85.1. That's up one point from June and nearly 13 points higher than a year ago.
Rising home prices and steady job gains are bolstering household wealth and income. The proportion of Americans who expect their inflation-adjusted incomes to rise in the coming year is greater than at any time since late 2007, the survey found. And the percentage of Americans who say their home values have risen is also at a six-year high.
Consumer confidence is closely watched because spending by Americans accounts for 70 percent of the economy's growth.
The University of Michigan polls roughly 500 people throughout the month and issues two readings. Americans' expectations for future growth dipped, while their assessment of current conditions improved.
Consumers have been resilient despite paying higher taxes this year. Their spending growth most likely slowed in the April-June quarter after rising at the fastest pace in two years in the first quarter.
But with hiring solid and confidence rising, most economists forecast that consumers will step up spending and help propel economic growth later this year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); REAL ESTATE (88%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); INFLATION (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (76%); HOME PRICES (71%); PRICE INCREASES (71%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2013



788 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1222 words

HEADLINE: Quiet Rivalry Over the Next Fed Leader Comes Out of the Shadows

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM; Annie Lowrey, Jeremy W. Peters and Michael D. Shear contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Three times in the last 35 years, a president has quietly picked a new chairman for the Federal Reserve and then quickly obtained the Senate's confirmation. The choice of the nation's most powerful technocrat has far-reaching consequences, but it has rarely generated much public anticipation or political debate.
This time is different.
As President Obama considers potential successors to the current Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, a debate about the merits of the chief contenders has exploded into public view, with supporters of Janet Yellen, the Fed's vice-chairwoman, seeking to mobilize support in her favor and against her chief rival, Lawrence H. Summers, formerly the president's chief economic policy adviser. 
The White House sought to lower the temperature on Friday by putting out word that the president was unlikely to announce a choice before the autumn. But a combination of circumstances seems likely to fuel continuing debate.
Mr. Summers, 58, is a provocative figure among key Democratic constituencies. He was a chief architect of financial deregulation during the Clinton administration and later resigned the presidency of Harvard University after making remarks about women that set off a storm of controversy. Ms. Yellen, 66, would become the first woman to lead the Fed, or indeed any major central bank.
Beneath those political currents, there are also indications that Mr. Summers, now a professor at Harvard, and Ms. Yellen disagree about the central issue confronting the central bank: how much longer and how much harder to push for economic growth.
Ms. Yellen is an architect of the Fed's efforts to reduce unemployment while Mr. Summers and some of his key supporters have said the Fed's latest round of bond-buying is doing little good and may even be doing considerable harm.
A group of mostly liberal Senate Democrats, including Richard Durbin of Illinois, the No. 2 leader, and Patty Murray of Washington, another member of the leadership, signed a letter to Mr. Obama this week calling for Ms. Yellen's nomination in part because of her commitment to seek faster job growth. It is highly unusual for a group of senators to publicly endorse a specific candidate for such a high-level position.
''Janet Yellen has impressed a lot of us in the Senate with her experience and her focus on getting workers back on the job,'' said Ms. Murray, the Senate budget committee chairwoman. ''She would certainly be a great and historic choice.''
The letter did not mention Mr. Summers, and it is not clear how many of those senators would oppose his nomination. The White House declined to comment, but officials said at least some of those senators had indicated they would ultimately support Mr. Obama's choice.
''The key here isn't that people would vote against Summers, rather it's that at a time when every confirmation can be long and painful, hers would be smooth -- at least on the Democratic side,'' said one senior Democratic aide.
Republicans cautioned that Ms. Yellen might struggle to win their support.
''We do hope that the president will nominate someone to the Fed that will exercise modesty in regard to what they feel the central bank's role is,'' said Senator Bob Corker, a Tennessee Republican. ''I'd like to see someone who is not dovish. Someone who is more towards the center as it relates to monetary policy.''
Mr. Summers questioned the benefits of the Fed's efforts to stimulate the economy in a 2012 paper written with Brad DeLong, an economics professor at the University of California, Berkeley. The paper, presented at a Brookings Institution conference, also noted potential costs including, ''distortions in the composition of investment, impacts on the health of the financial sector, and impacts on the distribution of income, and the historically clear tendency of low-interest rate environments to give rise to asset market bubbles.''
He made similar remarks at a private investment conference in April, according to a summary obtained by The Financial Times, declaring that the Fed's bond purchasing ''in my view is less efficacious for the real economy than most people suppose.''
Robert Rubin, the former Treasury secretary who has served as a mentor to Mr. Summers in his political career and is among those pressing for his nomination as Fed chairman, criticized the Fed's policies even more sharply on a panel at the Aspen Institute last month. His remarks suggested that the challenge confronting the next leader of the Federal Reserve was not to direct an attack, but instead to manage a retreat.
''The big risk, the important risk, and the one that could affect all of us is, 'How are they going to get out of this thing?' '' Mr. Rubin said. ''I think that creates enormous uncertainties and creates a very, very difficult challenge for the Fed and a set of risks that I've just articulated that I at least find quite troubling.''
Similar concerns are shared by many economists, and indeed by some Fed officials. But they are not the views of Mr. Bernanke and his allies, including Ms. Yellen, who have described what they see as clear evidence that the Fed's extraordinary efforts to inject extra money into the economy, known as quantitative easing, are benefiting the broader economy. And while acknowledging the potential for negative consequences, they say that they see no sign of damage as yet.
Ms. Yellen said in April speech that the policies had ''on net, provided meaningful support to the recovery.'' She added, ''I don't see pervasive evidence of rapid credit growth, a marked buildup in leverage, or significant asset bubbles that would threaten financial stability.''
Alan S. Blinder, a professor of economics at Princeton who served as the Fed's vice chairman in the 1990s, said that Ms. Yellen and Mr. Summers still stood relatively close to each other on the ideological spectrum. He said a more intriguing question was whether Mr. Summers agreed with changes in the way that the Fed pursues its goals, particularly its emphasis on speaking to markets more clearly.
''Janet's probably a bit more dovish than Larry, but it's not a huge difference,'' Professor Blinder said. ''Where there might be a bigger difference is on the Fed's new openness and communicativeness. Janet's been a driving force behind that, but I don't know that Larry has opined on that.''
Ms. Yellen's supporters also emphasize what they see as her greater commitment to financial regulation. They note that Mr. Summers, as an official in the Clinton administration, played a central role in deregulating financial markets, including preventing federal regulators from overseeing the trade in financial derivatives. He has since described some of those policies as mistakes.
Supporters of Mr. Summers, in turn, tend to emphasize his track record as a crisis manager.
''Political savviness is, unfortunately, these days of central importance to the Fed,'' Tyler Cowen, an economics professor at George Mason University, said in an e-mail. ''Can a Fed chair convince a future Republican president that the Fed should be listened to on some urgent matter of the future? Can a Fed chair line up Obama, the Treasury secretary and key members of Congress on an approach or proposal over the next few years?''
Mr. Summers, he wrote, simply has more ''right-wing street cred'' than Ms. Yellen.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Lawrence Summers, a former Treasury secretary, and Janet Yellen, vice chairwoman of the Federal Reserve and his rival to lead the Fed. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY J. SCOTT APPLEWHITE/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 ROBERT GALBRAITH/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); WOMEN (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); POLITICAL DEBATES (76%); LIBERALISM (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); BUDGETS (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); DEREGULATION (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (82%)

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (89%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); PATTY MURRAY (59%); RICHARD DURBIN (59%); BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2013



789 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1153 words

HEADLINE: Japanese Minister Proposes More Active Military Presence in Region

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER

 BODY:
TOKYO -- Japan is considering the acquisition of offensive weapons and surveillance drones and will assume a more active role in regional security, the country's defense minister said Friday, providing an early glimpse of ways the new conservative government could lead the nation farther than ever from its postwar pacifism.
The minister, Itsunori Onodera, said Japan was considering taking such steps to counter the growing military capabilities of North Korea and of China, which has been extending its influence in the region and is embroiled in a territorial dispute with Japan over islands in the East China Sea. The drones would be used to monitor Japan's vast territorial waters, presumably including the area around the islands.
Mr. Onodera spoke after his ministry released an interim report on an overhaul of Japanese defense strategy ordered up by the cabinet of the country's hawkish prime minister, Shinzo Abe, whose Liberal Democratic Party won a decisive election victory on Sunday. The interim report is meant to start debate on the issues before decisions on changes to defense policy that are expected to be announced by the end of the year. 
Mr. Abe has vowed to reverse the long decline of his nation, which was Asia's dominant local power during much of the last century but is being eclipsed by China. In addition to his economic revitalization strategy known as Abenomics, the prime minister has said he wants to change Japan's antiwar Constitution, written by American occupiers after World War II, to allow its forces to become a full-fledged military.
Such a fundamental shift would require parliamentary approval and a referendum. But analysts said acquiring an offensive weapon, like a cruise missile, would be an important symbolic step away from the current constitution's limitations.
''It would be a big deal, a fundamental change in our defense philosophy,'' said Narushige Michishita, director of security studies at the National Graduate Institute for Policy Studies in Tokyo. ''For Abe, this would be an important step toward normalizing Japan and its military.''
The changes in the defense report would continue a broader shift in military strategy begun under an opposition government three years ago that ended Japan's cold-war-era focus on fending off a Russian invasion from the north in favor of developing a more dynamic air-sea capability to defend its far-flung islands to the south. Even before then, Japan had been slowly strengthening its ability to respond to threats from North Korea's increasingly sophisticated missile and nuclear programs, and to China's growing assertiveness.
Since taking office in December, Mr. Abe has nudged Japan even farther toward a more robust military. This year, his government passed the first increase in Japan's defense budget in a decade, though the size of the gain was tiny compared with China's growth in military spending.
Friday's report also contained repeated calls for finding ways to deepen cooperation with the United States, which has 50,000 soldiers and sailors in Japan. Mr. Abe has made close ties with Washington a centerpiece of his defense strategy, saying Japan must increase its military capabilities to share more of the security burden that the United States now bears in the region.
Some in Mr. Abe's party have already been calling for strengthening Japan's military capabilities by developing or buying from the United States cruise missiles or other weapons that could be used to launch a strike on a North Korean missile before it was launched. However, on Friday, Mr. Onodera stressed that any such weapons, if acquired, would be used only if Japan was attacked first and thus did not represent a shift from the purely defensive nature of the Japanese military, called the Self-Defense Forces.
The caution reflects the challenge that Mr. Abe faces as he seeks to raise Japan's military profile in a region where memories of Japan's wartime aggression remain raw. During visits to Southeast Asian nations, Mr. Abe has tried to cast Japan as a reliable partner that can help offset the growing influence of China, which has been embroiled in heated territorial disputes with many nations in the region. On Friday, Mr. Abe invited China's leader, Xi Jinping, to an immediate summit meeting aimed at lowering tensions.
Still, analysts and politicians say Mr. Abe's message of a more robust military has struck a chord among a Japanese public that feels increasingly anxious as China has appeared to challenge the long-held military dominance of the United States in Asia. This has fed growing calls for Japan to build up its own ability to defend itself, while also trying to keep the United States engaged in the region at a time when the Pentagon faces deep budget cuts.
''Over the last few years, the Japanese people's feelings about the national security environment, and also about the Ministry of Defense and the Self-Defense Forces, have changed,'' Mr. Onodera told reporters. ''This has led to the current revision'' that the Liberal Democrats have under way.
The anxiety over China has also led to a growing public acceptance of the Japanese military, which was long blamed for leading Japan into catastrophic defeat in World War II. In one symbolically important change, the report on Friday called for creating a single, unified command for Japan's army, the Ground Self-Defense Forces, to improve its coordination and efficiency. That would reverse a decision made after Japan's postwar armed forces were created in 1954 to break the ground forces into several smaller regional commands so they would be too weak and divided to hijack the civilian government, as the Imperial Army did during World War II.
In another significant step, the report called for increasing Japan's military presence in Southeast Asia by helping those nations build their own defense capacities to respond to possible Chinese provocations. The report also called for closer military cooperation with Australia and South Korea, two other former targets of Japan's early-20th-century aggression.
In addition, the report called for building up the country's ability to help Japanese citizens during a terrorism or hostage crisis like the one in Algeria earlier this year, in which nearly 40 gas plant workers were killed, 10 of them Japanese.
Many of the changes were stated only vaguely in the report and had to be elaborated upon by Mr. Onodera. He said Japan was considering the acquisition of drones like the American-made Global Hawk, though he refused to name China as a possible target of surveillance. He also said Japan was considering the purchase of tilt-rotor aircraft like the United States military's Osprey as part of an established plan to build an amphibious infantry unit similar to the Marines that could defend outlying islands.
''Japan has 6,800 islands,'' Mr. Onodera said. ''Any country should be able to defend itself.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (90%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); UNMANNED MILITARY AIRCRAFT (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); SURVEILLANCE & RECONNAISSANCE AIRCRAFT (78%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); COLD WAR (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); DEFENSE SPENDING (73%); CONSERVATISM (72%); REFERENDUMS (72%); WORLD WAR II (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); BUDGETS (68%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (63%)

PERSON: SHINZO ABE (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (89%) PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); EAST CHINA SEA (79%) JAPAN (99%); CHINA (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2013



790 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: North Korean Leader Backs Nuclear Talks, State Media Says

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN and CHRIS BUCKLEY; Choe Sang-Hun reported from Seoul, and Chris Buckley from Hong Kong.

 BODY:
SEOUL, South Korea -- The North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, used his meeting with the visiting vice president of China this week to stress a ''blood'' alliance with Beijing, and expressed his support for reconvening six-nation talks on ending the North's nuclear weapons program, the official news media of the two allies reported on Friday.
The Chinese vice president, Li Yuanchao, arrived in Pyongyang, the North Korean capital, on Thursday to attend ceremonies observing the 60th anniversary of the end of the Korean War, whose battles were halted with an armistice signed on July 27, 1953. China fought for North Korea during the war, which ended in a deadlock against the American-led United Nations forces on South Korea's side. 
Reporting on Mr. Kim's Thursday meeting with Mr. Li, the North Korean and Chinese news media said on Friday that the two sides stressed the importance of increasing bilateral ties. But they also highlighted the different priorities China and the North appeared to place on their relations, as the allies tried to mend their strained ties after the North's recent nuclear test and other provocations angered many Chinese.
Mr. Li delivered a personal message from President Xi Jinping to Mr. Kim. In his published comments, Mr. Li -- the highest-ranking Chinese official to visit North Korea since Mr. Kim took over after the death of his father, Kim Jong-il, in late 2011 -- appeared to nudge North Korea to rein in its confrontational approach.
He reiterated Beijing's call for denuclearization and dialogue, the state-run Chinese news agency Xinhua reported. Xinhua quoted Mr. Kim as saying that North Korea ''supports China's efforts to restart the six-party talks, and is willing to work together with all sides to maintain the peace and stability of the Korean Peninsula.'' Mr. Kim was also quoted as saying that his country needed ''a stable external environment'' so it could focus on developing its economy.
Reporting on the same meeting, however, the North's state-run Korean Central News Agency made no direct mention of denuclearization or supporting China's efforts to reconvene six-nation talks. The absence of such wording was noticeable, even though North Korea has recently made overtures toward the United States and South Korea after the prodding from China.
Instead, North Korea highlighted its shared history with China during the war.
Its news media quoted Mr. Kim as saying that the North Korean military and people ''will never forget'' the sacrifices of Chinese soldiers who fought and died during the Korean War. For his part, Mr. Li affirmed the Chinese Communist Party's and government's ''unshakable will to ceaselessly strengthen the traditional ties of friendship,'' and said he was visiting North Korea to reaffirm bilateral relations ''forged in blood'' and develop them ''for generation after generation,'' the Korean news agency reported.
The People's Daily, the official newspaper of the Chinese Communist Party, also quoted Mr. Li as saying that the anniversary of the armistice was a time to ''recall with deep fondness the outstanding sons and daughters of China and North Korea who heroically sacrificed themselves to defend their homes and countries.''
Such references indicated that China and the North were once again falling back on their old battlefield ties to manage their increasingly complicated relationship through a period of deep anxiety.
China is the most important among the few remaining allies of North Korea. On Wednesday, Mr. Kim met a delegation from Syria, which visited Pyongyang for the armistice anniversary, according to North Korean media.
Syria and North Korea have maintained long-running military and other cooperative ties. Washington has cited Syria as a major client for North Korean missile parts and technologies, a major source of financing for the Pyongyang regime and its nuclear weapons program.
Yet China has grown increasingly frustrated with the North. In 2009, North Korea walked away from the six-party nuclear disarmament talks that Beijing has been playing host to since 2003, and it now insists on being recognized as a nuclear power.
Beijing considers that an affront to its interests in regional stability, but it has little leverage over the North other than the North's growing dependence on China for aid and trade. After the North conducted its third nuclear test in February, Beijing showed its displeasure by joining the United States in tightening sanctions against the North. Some Chinese banks cut off dealings with North Korea's Foreign Trade Bank. But China also feared that pressing North Korea too far would make the regime more reckless and further harm regional stability.
Mr. Li's visit as vice president of state, rather than as a representative of the Chinese Communist Party, implies that ''China will define relations with North Korea as a normal relationship between states, and not as an alliance in blood,'' Ji Mingkui, a teacher at the People's Liberation Army's National Defense University in Beijing, said in a commentary published on Friday in The Global Times, a popular Chinese tabloid newspaper.
The Global Times is not a mouthpiece for the Chinese government, but its commentaries sometimes lay out Chinese views more bluntly than other state-run news media do.
''Establishing normal state relations with North Korea will cast aside the reactiveness that has come with the blood alliance relationship,'' the commentary said, accusing North Korea of abusing the treaty of friendship with China. ''Cutting the fetters can help advance the denuclearization of the peninsula and the security and stability of the Korean Peninsula.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: KOREAN WAR (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); NEWS REPORTING (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (77%); ANNIVERSARIES (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); ARMED FORCES (60%); POLITICAL PARTIES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%)

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (79%); XI JINPING (79%); KIM JONG UN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (88%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (74%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%) CHINA (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (98%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2013



791 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: Fed Chairman's Departure Casts a New Light on the Bush Legacy

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- George W. Bush hopes historians will judge his presidency more kindly than his contemporaries have, but a transition coming later this year -- the departure of Chairman Ben S. Bernanke of the Federal Reserve after an eight-year tenure -- already casts a different light on the 43rd president's economic record.
Although President Obama has been Mr. Bernanke's partner in an effort to steer the economy through a financial crisis, deep recession and recovery, so was the man who put Mr. Bernanke in the job in the first place: Mr. Bush. 
''Ben Bernanke, along with George Bush and Barack Obama, saved us from another Great Depression,'' said Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, echoing the views of others in his party. ''Twenty years from now, that's what history will say about all three of them.''
That's the same Mr. Schumer who in 2008 ripped Mr. Bush's ''disastrous course.''
It is a reminder that the administrations of all presidents, sometimes unpredictably, have tails that extend long past their terms in office. And it provides some encouragement for Mr. Obama as he seeks to leave a mark on the 21st century economic debate -- even if he cannot fulfill his agenda before leaving office.
The catalog of Mr. Bush's economic sins has long been an article of faith among Democrats: tax cuts for the rich that turned budget surpluses into deficits, widening income inequality, slow wage growth, a hands-off approach to regulation that ended with the crash of the housing market and Wall Street. And not just among Democrats: Mr. Bush limped out of office with only about one-third of Americans approving of his performance.
But the momentary snapshot that political rhetoric encapsulates is only part of any president's story. Because of the Fed's vast influence over the economy -- rivaling or exceeding that of presidents -- selecting a chairman may be the single most consequential economic decision a chief executive can make.
On the day in 2005 that he appointed Mr. Bernanke, an academic expert on the Depression, Mr. Bush noted the Fed chairman's responsibility ''for containing the risk that can arise in financial markets.''
Today, few question Mr. Bernanke's success in helping contain the risks he confronted.
''On economic issues, Bush was not an ideologue,'' said Mr. Schumer, who in 2006 led Senate Democrats to recapture the majority and roadblock the Republican president's domestic agenda. ''On his most important economic appointment, he showed who he was.''
Henry Paulson, Mr. Bush's last Treasury secretary, praised Mr. Bernanke -- reappointed by Mr. Obama in 2009 -- for helping produce the ''enormous accomplishment'' of slow but steady economic growth for the last few years even as American consumers were ''de-levering'' themselves of debt. As the country nears the fifth anniversary of the financial crisis, Mr. Paulson said that Mr. Bush's critics ignored the reality that the underlying causes of the crisis were decades in the making. He said that Mr. Bush deserved more credit than he has received for Mr. Bernanke and for resisting the partisan and ideological polarization of Washington when the two stared into the economic abyss.
''It's a big part of his legacy,'' Mr. Paulson said.
Over conservative resistance, Mr. Bush backed the bailout mechanisms for Wall Street and the auto industry that Mr. Obama later would put into effect. ''He put the political considerations aside and approved taking actions that he knew would be very unpopular with his base,'' Mr. Paulson said.
Still, there is no guarantee that Mr. Bush's appointment of Mr. Bernanke will burnish the former president's historical reputation, as veterans of President Jimmy Carter's administration can ruefully attest. The former domestic policy adviser Stuart E. Eizenstat recalls that Mr. Carter appointed Paul A. Volcker as chairman of the Fed in 1979, knowing full well that the interest rate increases he planned to tame inflation would harm Mr. Carter's re-election bid.
The Volcker Fed eventually succeeded in taming inflation -- during the presidency of Ronald Reagan, who had thrashed Mr. Carter in the 1980 election. ''President Carter gets no credit for this,'' Mr. Eizenstat said.
Grading any administration's economic legacy is ''extraordinarily difficult,'' said Claudia Goldin, an economic historian at Harvard. That's because of the elusive ''counterfactual'' of what another president might have done.
Similarly confounding is disentangling the economic results of a president's tenure from cyclical swings and long-term trends. The truest test, said Austan Goolsbee, the former chairman of Mr. Obama's Council of Economic Advisers, lies in the underlying economic forces a president manages to retard or accelerate.
Mr. Obama has three more years to shape an economic legacy beyond his management of the financial crisis and recovery. He is expected soon to appoint a new Fed chairman, aiming to match Mr. Bernanke's crisis-management skills and uphold the Fed's ''dual mandate'' to reduce unemployment as well as restrain inflation.
And in a series of economic speeches beginning this week, the president is trying to tilt the current stalemate between competing Democratic and Republican visions of the path to prosperity.
''Should we invest in middle-class people and their skills and count on that to drive the economy, or should we cut high-income taxes and regulations and count on that to do the driving?'' Mr. Goolsbee said. ''That's the religious conflict'' the president seeks to influence.
Ms. Goldin, the economic historian, is skeptical. ''I don't think presidents are very good at teaching the citizens of America EC 10,'' she said, referring to basic economics.
But Mr. Goolsbee sees hope in the success that Mr. Reagan achieved in imprinting calls for reduced government spending on the American brain -- even if spending rose during Mr. Reagan's term. In the same way, Mr. Obama might shape the thinking of a future president and Congress on the need to spend more on infrastructure, education and job training, even if he cannot convince lawmakers now.
''Realistically, it's obvious none of these things will pass this year,'' Mr. Schumer said. ''He's laying the groundwork for the future. It's important to set the table.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ben S. Bernanke with President George W. Bush during the 2008 financial crisis, and with President Obama in 2009 when he was nominated for a second term as Federal Reserve chairman. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PABLO MARTINEZ MONSIVAIS/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 STEPHAN SAVOIA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); HISTORY (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); BUDGETS (76%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (76%); RECESSION (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (71%); HOUSING MARKET (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); TAX LAW (64%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); BEN BERNANKE (91%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); CHARLES SCHUMER (73%); HENRY PAULSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2013



792 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1690 words

HEADLINE: A Turbulent Journey For Sailing's Elite Race

BYLINE: By JOHN BRANCH and MALIA WOLLAN

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO -- The race was scheduled to begin at 12:15 p.m., and fans were expected to pour into the well-manicured America's Cup Park and line themselves all around the waterfront of San Francisco Bay to watch. Years of planning, promise and promotion were built toward what organizers called ''America's Cup Summer of Racing.''
But this race, like most of the others so far, featured one boat, albeit an impressively majestic and fast one, sailing back and forth across the water. Even the competitors found it a bit laughable -- the world's most prestigious sailing race reduced to a glorified scrimmage.
''Halfway through race 1,'' Emirates Team New Zealand posted on Twitter during the event's first race, on July 7. ''No surprises to be leading in a race with ourselves.'' 
Others were more critical. The San Francisco Chronicle called it ''perhaps the worst nautical launch since the Titanic set off across the North Atlantic.''
In its first month, the America's Cup, returning to the United States for the first time since 1995, has been viewed as a flotsam of broken promises and undelivered spectacle, stained by the May death of a sailor.
Little has gone as planned. Initial hopes were that 15 teams would compete with 72-foot catamarans, but there are only four. Oracle Team USA, the defending champion owned by the billionaire Larry Ellison, has a free pass to September's finals. Another team, Sweden's Artemis Racing, returned to the water this week for the first time since its boat capsized on May 9, killing the sailor Andrew Simpson. Artemis hopes to begin racing in August, joining what is formally called the Louis Vuitton Cup to determine which challenger will meet Oracle Team USA in September.
An exciting, vigorous competition was expected by now. Instead, teams are sniping, sponsors are groaning, people are suing, city officials are worrying and fans are not sure what to make of the entire enterprise.
Organizers are asking for patience.
''We've had lots of issues thrown at us over the course of the last three years,'' Stephen Barclay, chief executive of America's Cup Event Authority, said in an interview Thursday. ''It's been difficult for us to sell a promise or sell a vision. But now, in the last week or so, couple of weeks, we've been starting to see the reality. And it's far easier to sell a reality.''
Before this weekend, there have been 11 races, eight of which had one boat and three featured two boats. Emirates Team New Zealand has handily won all three over Italy's Luna Rossa, once despite a sail clip coming undone in the middle of the race, which stands as the most exciting moment of competition so far. Two races are scheduled this weekend.
In the end, organizers believe, the headlines will be different.
''Coolest venue, ever,'' Tom Ehman, director of external affairs for the America's Cup, predicted for the event's ultimate legacy. ''Reliable wind. Iconically beautiful. Closest match ever.''
Criticism Rolls In
So far, however, criticism has come like a surging tide, and race officials are doing all they can to corral the unflattering reviews. Last week, a blog and newsletter called Scuttlebutt Sailing News, widely read in sailing circles, published an online article that was critical of officials and their handling of a lawsuit aimed at the host Golden Gate Yacht Club.
The lawsuit involves an African-American sailing syndicate, which said that its rejected application to compete against Oracle Team USA for the right to represent the United States was not reviewed in good faith in 2011. A New York appellate court gave the once-dismissed suit life a few weeks ago, and now the group hopes for an injunction to delay the September finals. A court hearing is scheduled for Aug. 23.
Ehman fired back. In e-mail exchanges with the Scuttlebutt editor and publisher Craig Leweck, exchanges that Ehman also sent to others and were obtained by The New York Times, Ehman pressured Leweck to remove the post about the lawsuit. ''Responsible journos'' who have looked into the lawsuit, Ehman wrote, have ''long since dismissed it as an attempted shakedown or worse of GGYC/ACEA/LJE'' -- referring, presumably, to Golden Gate Yacht Club, the America's Cup Event Authority and Lawrence J. Ellison, the chief executive officer of Oracle Corporation.
''Are you the responsible voice of American sailing like Scuttlebutt used to be, or vying to be the latest and greatest sailing tabloid?'' Ehman wrote.
Leweck, who declined to comment for this article, is a one-person operation based in San Diego. He received further pressure to delete the story from his Web site, including phone calls from high-level America's Cup officials. The e-mails show that, after an adamant stand, Leweck eventually sent a proposed draft of an editor's note explaining the disappearance of the article to Ehman and several other high-ranking America's Cup officials. The published version included more remorseful language.
''Upon review,'' the note to readers said, in part, ''Scuttlebutt disavows that article and regrets promoting this legal matter of, at best, dubious merit, and will now focus on the competition of the 34th America's Cup, which is where our attention should be for this historic event.''
Ehman did not respond to requests for comment.
Organizers said they believe the return of Artemis will restart the momentum lost since Simpson's death.
''The world changed for us on May 9,'' Barclay said. ''That wasn't in the script.''
The same thing that organizers hope will attract fans -- 130-foot sails, speeds close to 50 miles per hour and the threat of disaster, not unlike that in auto racing -- threatens to mar the race's legacy. In a bit of foreshadowing, Oracle Team America had a boat capsize last fall. No one was seriously hurt, but the boat was pulled under the Golden Gate Bridge and had to be rescued before drifting to open sea.
Many sailors, including some still in the race and others who dropped out, have said that the choice of the boat, called the AC72, was misconceived and should not be used again. ''Seeing what those boats were capable of, speeds of up to 40 knots, frightened the life out of me,'' Keith Mills, a British team owner, told The Telegraph of London after the death of Simpson, who was originally part of Mills's team that folded in 2011. ''The class rules looked like they were dangerous boats to sail. At 40 knots, the control is minimal. Hit a big wave and that is it.''
After Artemis's accident, there was discussion over canceling July's races. Instead, the decision was to refund the tickets that some fans had bought and proceed as best as possible.
In lieu of races, much of the focus has been on the scrutiny of safety protocols, bickering over arcane rules, making threats to boycott the races (Luna Rossa snubbed an opening gala and the first race) and -- in a grand America's Cup tradition -- calling one another names. Russell Coutts, who won the America's Cup with his native New Zealand before leading Oracle to a victory in 2010, called the protesting Italians ''a bunch of spoiled little rich kids dressed in Prada gear.''
New Rules, More Worries
The America's Cup, dating to 1851, might be both the oldest and quirkiest trophy competition in international sports. The winner of the trophy gets to set the parameters for the next competition -- when, where and what kind of boats. There is no governing body to guide regularity. Each event starts from scratch.
Ellison won in Valencia, Spain, in 2010, on his third attempt, after a protracted court battle turned the event into a two-boat competition. He proposed bringing the next competition to the natural amphitheater of San Francisco Bay. Event organizers predicted 15 teams and $1.4 billion in economic activity, including 8,800 new jobs and 2.7 million spectators, according to the Bay Area Council Economic Institute, whose research was commissioned by the America's Cup Organizing Committee.
''Who the heck needs the Olympics and the Super Bowl when you've got the America's Cup?'' said then-Mayor Gavin Newsom at a 2010 event at City Hall where the mayor presented Ellison with a key to the city.
But many teams that were expected to compete stayed away, leery of Ellison's rules and the cost -- an estimated $100 million to field a boat and a full staff of designers, builders and sailors. Teams from France and South Korea folded in the past year or so like poker players unwilling to keep up with the ante. Economic forecasts generally fell by a third, to a $900 million boost and 6,000 jobs. Worries escalated that taxpayers would be left to clean up a billionaire's party.
The city will spend roughly $22 million for upgrades and services like police, but event organizers have said they will reimburse those costs through fund-raising and have so far collected $15 million. Barclay said Thursday that he was certain that the city would be left with no bills to pay.
Still, by signing the contract to host the America's Cup, politicians were ''bamboozled by a billionaire,'' said Aaron Peskin, a former member of the city's board of supervisors and former chairman of the city's Democratic Party, adding that event organizers made ''outlandish promises.''
But subsequent changes to the contract took back many perks.
''This could have been much worse for San Francisco,'' Peskin said. ''At this point it's just a stupid business decision.''
Perhaps feelings will be different in two months. On Tuesday, Emirates Team New Zealand and Luna Rossa had a midday race. A crowd assembled at the America's Cup Park, a temporary theme park of a village that includes shops, bars and an outdoor concert venue.
Most fans could not be sure what they were watching, as the boats sailed out of view around the bend toward the Golden Gate Bridge. But then the boat from New Zealand reappeared, passed Alcatraz, turned hard past a buoy and sailed toward the spectators.
For about 30 seconds, several hundred fans crowded against the water's edge, cameras held high to capture the winning catamaran as it passed so close that people could make out the faces of the sailors. All eyes were on the boats. No one was looking back.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Of the 11 Louis Vuitton Cup races in July, eight featured one boat and three had two. Emirates Team New Zealand defeated Italy's Luna Rossa in the three races. Luna Rossa boycotted the first race because of rule changes. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NOAH BERGER/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (D1)
 Organizers predicted there would be 15 teams and $1.4 billion in economic activity in San Francisco. But teams have dropped out, and forecasts have fallen. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC RISBERG/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (D4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SAILING (90%); BOAT RACING (90%); SPONSORSHIP (77%); MARINE VESSELS (75%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (69%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (64%); INTERVIEWS (64%); EXECUTIVES (50%); CITIES (50%); SUITS & CLAIMS (50%); CITY GOVERNMENT (50%)

PERSON: LAWRENCE J ELLISON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); ITALY (64%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2013



793 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1044 words

HEADLINE: Smartphone Rivals Gain On Samsung And Apple

BYLINE: By ERIC PFANNER

 BODY:
TOKYO -- As Samsung Electronics and Apple continue to slug it out across the globe for domination of the smartphone market, the South Korean maker continues to edge out the California company.
Samsung is now more profitable than Apple, according to second-quarter financial results released by Samsung on Friday in Seoul. But while the two rivals have successively one-upped each other with ever sleeker, more technologically sophisticated phones, new competition is stirring.
Already, the combined share of the worldwide smartphone market controlled by Apple and Samsung slipped to 43 percent in the second quarter from 49 percent a year earlier, IDC, a research firm, reported on Friday. 
Some of the companies that are chipping away at the leaders are familiar names trying comebacks, like Sony, Nokia and HTC. Others are relative newcomers, like LG of South Korea and Lenovo, ZTE and Huawei of China.
''The story is no longer Apple versus Samsung,'' said Bryan Wang, an analyst at Forrester Research. ''Going forward, they will both face similar challenges.''
Analysts say buyers are more willing to look at alternatives to Apple or Samsung because the differences among smartphones are becoming less pronounced.
The proportion of phones running Google's Android operating system keeps growing, and technical specifications are converging. Like Samsung's Galaxy S4, a number of other phones, including Sony's Xperia Z, also include high-definition 5-inch screens.
That makes price, where the Chinese smartphone makers have an edge, an increasingly important selling point.
Those challenges were evident in the latest earnings report from Samsung on Friday, when the company said it expected competition in the smartphone business to stiffen in the third quarter, with new models pending from LG and other rivals. ''The strong growth streak for the smartphone market is expected to continue in the third quarter, albeit at a slower pace,'' the company said in a statement.
Samsung remains a powerhouse, reporting big gains on Friday in sales and earnings for its latest quarter. Net income rose 50 percent, to 7.77 trillion won, or $6.96 billion, from 5.19 trillion won a year earlier. Revenue rose to 57.46 trillion won, or $51.6 billion, from 47.6 trillion won.
On Tuesday, Apple posted quarterly net income of $6.9 billion on revenue of $35.3 billion.
Strategy Analytics, a research firm, said Samsung had passed Apple for the first time to become the world's most profitable maker of mobile handsets. Samsung, which does not break out results for its handset-making business, generated $5.2 billion in quarterly operating profit from the unit, Strategy Analytics estimated, compared with $4.6 billion for Apple.
Samsung previously pulled ahead of Apple in market share, and its gains continued in the second quarter, when it controlled 30.4 percent of global smartphone shipments, compared with 13.1 percent for Apple, according to IDC.
Samsung has had to work harder than Apple to achieve those gains. Ubiquitous TV ads around the world and big-ticket promotional events like an introductory party for its flagship model, the Galaxy S4, at Radio City Music Hall, have driven up marketing costs. And while the S4 has been selling at a brisk pace, it has fallen short of some analysts' expectations. Investors have grown accustomed to bigger gains, and the share price of Samsung, like Apple shares, has taken a beating this year.
''In a way, Apple and Samsung have become victims of their own success,'' said Pete Cunningham, an analyst at the research firm Canalys. ''When these companies report many billions of profits every quarter, it's hard to say they are doing anything wrong.''
While the old generation of phone makers -- Nokia, Motorola, BlackBerry -- struggle, together Samsung and Apple still collect more than 90 percent of the profit in smartphones, analysts say. Yet that success has emboldened more companies to try to challenge them.
Individually, none of these companies pose a threat to the top two. Collectively, however, the next three top players showed strong growth over the last year. No. 3 LG's share of worldwide smartphone sales increased to 5.3 percent from 3.7 percent in the second quarter, according to Strategy Analytics. No. 4 ZTE rose to 5 percent from 3.7 percent and No. 5 Huawei went to 4.8 percent from 4.2 percent.
IDC had a slightly different ranking, with Lenovo replacing Huawei in the top five and also showing solid growth, to 4.7 percent from 3.1 percent.
As recently as the first quarter of 2011, three Western companies -- Apple, Nokia and BlackBerry -- topped the IDC list.
The eastward shift reflects the growth of sales in China, which has surpassed the United States to become the biggest smartphone market, and other developing economies. Analysts say much of the growth in coming years will occur among lower-priced smartphones, an area in which Chinese makers are strong and Apple is notably absent.
But both Apple and Samsung face new challenges at the high end of the market, where their dominance has been most pronounced. Sony, for example, has shown renewed strength in Japan, where its Xperia Z has been outselling the iPhone, and Europe, where IDC showed Sony's market share rising to 10 percent in the first quarter from 6 percent a year earlier.
LG, which said in the last week that its smartphone shipments had more than doubled in the second quarter from a year earlier, to 12.1 million from 5.7 million, clearly has bigger ambitions in the United States. For the introduction of a new flagship model, the company has planned a splashy event along the lines of Samsung's Radio City extravaganza, sending out a ''save the date'' notice to journalists for Aug. 7.
Why are rivals to Samsung and Apple so optimistic? Despite the slowdown in growth that the market leaders have signaled, the business continues to expand. Smartphone shipments worldwide rose 52 percent in the second quarter, to 238 million phones, according to IDC.
''The smartphone market is still a rising tide that's lifting many ships,'' said Kevin Restivo, an analyst at IDC. ''Though Samsung and Apple are the dominant players, the market is as fragmented as ever. There is ample opportunity for smartphone vendors with differentiated offerings.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ads for the Galaxy S4 by Samsung. In its earnings statement, the company said it expected smartphone competition to grow. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LEE JIN-MAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
PHOTOS (B2) CHART: Cellphone Rivals: Apple and Samsung are locked in a global struggle for dominance of the smartphone market. Samsung, though a bigger company, is only now deriving more profit from smartphones than Apple does. (Sources: Samsung Electronics
Apple
IDC
 Strategy Analytics) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMARTPHONES (93%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (93%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); COMPANY STRATEGY (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); MARKET SHARE (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%)

COMPANY: SAMSUNG GROUP (94%); APPLE INC (92%); LG CORP (92%); SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS CO LTD (58%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (55%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (92%); 003550 (KSE) (92%); SMSN (LSE) (58%); 005930 (KSE) (58%); FORR (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335221 HOUSEHOLD COOKING APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS325510 PAINT & COATING MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS236220 COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (94%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (92%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (92%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (92%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (92%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS334419 OTHER ELECTRONIC COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (92%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (92%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (88%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2013



794 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 653 words

HEADLINE: The War Over Health Care Exchanges

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

 BODY:
Federal and state governments are entering the home stretch in the race to carry out the most important health care reform in more than four decades. The most pressing task is to establish new health care exchanges, the electronic marketplaces in which consumers will be able to compare and buy insurance plans just as they buy airplane tickets or rent cars on the Internet.
The exchanges are scheduled to start enrolling people on Oct. 1 in policies that will become effective in January 2014. It is a challenging task but not an impossible one, as long as Americans have a chance to learn how they can benefit from the coverage and from sliding-scale subsidies provided by the federal government under the Affordable Care Act. 
To their shame and discredit, Republicans are trying to block efforts to inform people about the law and are using scare tactics to keep them from enrolling. The Republican mantra is that the nation will face economic and medical catastrophe -- a ''train wreck,'' they say -- unless health care reform is stopped in its tracks.
Their tactics are despicable. When Kathleen Sebelius, the secretary of health and human services, revealed that she was talking with the National Football League and other athletic organizations about ways to inform their fans about insurance on the exchanges, the two highest-ranking Republican senators wrote a threatening letter that caused the league to back off.
Crossroads GPS, a conservative group co-founded by the Republican strategist Karl Rove, has been running a video comparing the law to a tornado that will produce ''a rising tide of health care costs'' and leave ''nobody safe from its wrath.''
Top officials in Ohio and Indiana who oppose the law have issued dire, misleading forecasts -- roundly debunked by analysts -- that the law will raise premiums to astronomical levels. And the House Republican Conference is advising its members on how to organize ''emergency health care'' town hall meetings during the August recess to denounce the law. The goal is to ignite passionate opposition to the measure, like that stirred up by Tea Party activists at town hall meetings in the past.
In virtually no case do Republicans ever mention that millions of people who lack health insurance or have lousy policies could obtain comprehensive coverage on the exchanges and that most of them would qualify for federal subsidies to lower the cost.
Many states, mostly governed by Republicans, have refused to set up their own exchanges and have left the job to the federal government. (Many states also have refused to expand their Medicaid programs to cover more of the uninsured, but that is a separate issue.)
The exchanges will need to enroll millions of people so that insurers have a large enough pool to drive down premiums, and they will need enough young, healthy people to help offset the cost of insuring older and sicker people. The Congressional Budget Office has predicted that some seven million Americans will gain coverage through the exchanges in 2014.
In a report last month on exchanges being set up by the federal government, the Government Accountability Office judged that ''much progress has been made'' but that ''much remains to be accomplished.''
The administration is mounting a fierce campaign to publicize the law and spur enrollment by working with community clinics and other groups, as well as by providing grants to train workers to help people fill out the forms.
In the meantime, Republicans in the Senate are threatening to oppose any spending bill that provides a single cent toward health care reform, a threat that could shut down the government this fall. House Republicans are planning their own draconian cuts in funding to carry out the law. The Republicans' determination to destroy health care reform has become an obsession that, if successful, will deprive millions of Americans of health insurance they need and want.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (91%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (87%); CONSERVATISM (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (78%); MEDICAID (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (77%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (77%); INSURANCE (77%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (74%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (74%); TRAVEL TICKETS (71%); RANKINGS (65%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (55%)

PERSON: KATHLEEN SEBELIUS (79%); KARL ROVE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2013



795 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; KEEPING SCORE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 849 words

HEADLINE: Seeking Truth In Soccer With Statistics

BYLINE: By JACK BELL

 BODY:
Soccer is not a sport seduced by numbers, unless that number is three -- as in the points awarded for a win.
Bill James and his sabermetric disciples long ago altered the statistical equations in baseball, but soccer is being dragged, kicking and screaming, into the age of Big Data. For years, soccer -- a sport in which the words ''that's the way it's always been done'' are regularly used -- has been notoriously stubborn in acknowledging the importance of statistical analysis and the use of technology to decipher what many have called the simplest game. But it is a game not easily reduced to a stream of numbers, though that certainly will not keep people from trying.
Now comes a book, ''The Numbers Game,'' with the brassy subtitle ''Why Everything You Know About Soccer Is Wrong.'' It will be published in the United States next week, and it is the work of Chris Anderson, a former goalkeeper turned Ivy League professor and statistical guru, and David Sally, a behavioral economist. They analyzed more than 8,000 matches from 2005 to 2011 in four top European leagues (England, Germany, Spain and Italy). 
The application of advanced statistical analysis to the diamond might have started in earnest with ''Moneyball,'' but the global obsession with soccer means a game where randomness rules is still subject to analytics. Another huge difference between the sports is that in baseball much of the information is already available, in box scores published in newspapers for more than 100 years. By contrast, data collection in soccer remains the province of the high priests of analytics. There is little sharing, especially among clubs and their data collectors.
Just as Billy Beane of the Oakland A's labored to overcome the biases of a stable of grizzled and skeptical scouts, Anderson and Sally went to work to try to debunk the myths and conventional wisdom that have defined soccer for the last century. Among their conclusions:
â- Corner kicks into the goal mouth do not increase a team's chances of scoring as much as people think. When he first arrived in England with Chelsea, Manager JosÃ© Mourinho said: ''How many countries can you think of where a corner kick is treated with the same applause as a goal? One. It only happens in England.'' Perhaps an overstatement -- it also happens in the United States. But the numbers tell the real story: according to figures from Major League Soccer through last weekend, 45 of 485 goals over all have been scored this season from 1,894 corners, or only 9 percent.
â- The authors' data showed that the accepted wisdom that teams are most vulnerable to allowing a goal immediately after scoring simply is not true. Instead, they assert, the converse is true, no matter what an army of TV commentators have to say.
â- Possession has become the stat of the millennium, but in the opinion of the authors, it is abused and misused. From Spain to Barcelona to the local under-10 team, they say, the more important metric is managing turnovers. And the most damaging turnovers occur in a team's defensive third of the field.
â- Based on the research of others, the authors say players from countries with civil strife are more likely to have discipline problems on the field, receiving an inordinate number of yellow and red cards.
â- While the biggest transfer fees in the world continue to be paid for strikers (Paris St.-Germain spent $71 million to acquire Edinson Cavani this month), Anderson and Sally assert that championships are won by the lunch-bucket guys on defense, who are often undervalued and misunderstood. The glamour boys garner all the attention for what they make happen, but it is defenders who keep things from happening. Sally said soccer ''is not a game of superstars, it's a game of galoots and a game of mistakes.''
â- The pregame favorites in soccer are the least likely among major sports to win. Favorites in the N.B.A. and N.F.L. win nearly 70 percent of the time. Favored teams win 60 percent of baseball games, but only a little more than half of soccer matches.
â- Not all goals are created equal. Anderson and Sally devised a stat they call marginal points in which players who score key goals (the first or second for their teams) are worth more. Looking at goal-scoring stats from the Premier League seasons in England in 2009-10 and 2010-11, they found that Chelsea should have paid Sunderland $39 million for Darren Bent rather than sending Liverpool $77 million for Fernando Torres, because Bent's goals led to more points over those two seasons than any player's.
â- Stoke City, a modest Premier League club, helps itself avoid relegation by using (wasting?) time during set pieces. When it has a throw-in deep in the opposition's defensive zone, the long-throw specialist Rory Delap trots forward, waiting for the ball to be tossed to him, toweling it off and running time off the clock. The long throws create goal-scoring chances but also deny the ball to the opposition. Stoke's players might not beat you, but you can lose to them.
For the proponents of Big Data, the message is clear: adapt or die.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Corner kicks do not lead to as many goals as fans think, a study in a new book suggests. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEXANDER HASSENSTEIN/BONGARTS, VIA GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCCER (90%); STATISTICAL METHOD (90%); BASEBALL (89%); ATHLETES (79%); BIG DATA (77%); STATISTICS (77%); WRITERS (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ENGLAND (93%); GERMANY (79%); SPAIN (75%); UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2013



796 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SHORTCUTS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1169 words

HEADLINE: Unemployed and Older, and Facing a Jobless Future

BYLINE: By ALINA TUGEND

 BODY:
I WAS recently talking to a friend at a party whose husband -- in his 60s -- has been unemployed for more than two years. While there are many challenges, she said, one of the hardest things is trying to balance hope with reality.
She wonders how to support him in his continued quest to find a job in his field of marketing and financial services while at the same time encouraging him to think about what his life would be like if he never worked in that field or had a full-time job again.
''I wanted to move to what I thought was a healthier place. I wanted to turn the page,'' said my friend, who asked to be identified by her middle name, Shelley, since she didn't want to publicize her family's situation. ''He saw it as vote of no confidence.''
For those over 50 and unemployed, the statistics are grim. While unemployment rates for Americans nearing retirement are lower than for young people who are recently out of school, once out of a job, older workers have a much harder time finding work. Over the last year, according to the Labor Department, the average duration of unemployment for older people was 53 weeks, compared with 19 weeks for teenagers. 
There are numerous reasons -- older workers have been hit both by the recession and globalization. They're more likely to have been laid off from industries that are downsizing, and since their salaries tend to be higher than those of younger workers, they're attractive targets if layoffs are needed.
Even as they do all the things they're told to do -- network, improve those computer skills, find a new passion and turn it into a job -- many struggle with the question of whether their working life as they once knew it is essentially over.
This is something professionals who work with and research the older unemployed say needs to be addressed better than it is now. Helping people figure out how to cope with a future that may not include work, while at the same time encouraging them in their job searches, is a difficult balance, said Nadya Fouad, a professor of educational psychology at the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee.
Psychologists and others who counsel this cohort need to help them face the grief of losing a job, and also to understand that jobs and job-hunting are far different now from how they used to be.
''The contract used to be, 'I am a loyal employee and you are a loyal employer. I promise to work for you my entire career and you train, promote, give benefits and a pension when I retire.' Now you can't count on any of that,'' she said. ''The onus is all on the employee to have a portfolio of skills that can be transferable.''
People in their 20s and 30s know that they need to market themselves and always be on the lookout for better opportunities, she said, something that may seem foreign to those in their 50s and 60s.
If a counselor or psychologist ''doesn't understand how the world of work has changed, they're not helping at all,'' she said. ''You can't just talk about how it feels.''
In response to this concern, Professor Fouad and her colleagues have drawn up guidelines for the American Psychological Association to help psychotherapists better assist their clients with workplace issues and unemployment. It is wending its way through the association's committees.
Of course, not everyone who is unemployed and over 50 is equal. For some, the reality is that they need to find another job -- any job -- to survive. Others have resources that can allow them to spend more time looking for a job that might have the salary or status of their former position.
In the first case, Professor Fouad said, ''You need to decide what is the minimum amount of money you can make and how to go about finding it.'' In the second case, she said, it's necessary to examine what work means to you and how that may have to change.
Is it the high social status? The identity? The relationship with co-workers? It is important to examine these areas, perhaps with the help of a professional counselor, Professor Fouad said, to discover how to find such meaning or relationships in other areas of life.
Sometimes simply changing the way you look at your situation can help. My friend Shelley's husband, Neal, who also asked that I use his middle name, said the best advice he received from a friend was ''don't tell people you're unemployed. Tell them you're semiretired. It changed my self-identity. I still look for jobs, but I feel better about myself.''
He also has friends facing the same issues, who understand his situation. Such support groups, whether formal or informal, are very helpful, said Jane Goodman, past president of the American Counseling Association and professor emerita of counseling at Oakland University in Rochester, Mich.
''Legitimizing the fact that this stinks also helps,'' she said. ''I find that when I say this, clients are so relieved. They thought I was going to say, 'buck up.' ''
And even more, ''they should know the problem is not with them but with a system that has treated them like a commodity that can be discarded,'' said David L. Blustein, a professor of counseling, developmental and educational psychology at the Lynch School of Education at Boston College, who works with the older unemployed in suburb of Boston. ''I try to help clients get in touch with their anger about that. They shouldn't blame themselves.''
Which, of course, is easy to say and hard to do.
''I know not to take it personally,'' Neal said, ''but sure, I wonder at times, what's wrong with me? Is there something I should be doing differently?''
It is too easy to sink into endless rumination, to wonder if he is somehow standing in his own way, like a cancer patient who is told that her attitude is her problem, he said.
Susan Sipprelle, producer of the Web site overfiftyandoutofwork.com and the documentary ''Set for Life'' about the older jobless, said she stopped posting articles like ''Five Easy Steps to get a New Job.''
''People are so frustrated,'' she said. ''They don't want to hear, 'Get a new wardrobe, get on LinkedIn.' ''
As one commenter on the Facebook page for Over Fifty and Out of Work said, ''I've been told to redo my résumé twice now. The first 'expert' tells me to do it one way, the next 'expert' tells me to put it back the way I had it.''
Some do land a coveted position in their old fields or turn a hobby into a business. Neal, although he believes he'll never make as much money as in the past, recently has reason to be optimistic about some consulting jobs.
But the reality is that the problem of the older unemployed ''was acute during the Great Recession, and is now chronic,'' Ms. Sipprelle said. ''People's lives have been upended by the great forces of history in a way that's never happened before, and there's no other example for older workers to look at. Some can't recoup, though not through their own fault. They're the wrong age at the wrong time. It's cold comfort, but better than suggesting that if you just dye your hair, you'll get that job.''
E-mail: shortcuts@nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Applicants waiting to meet prospective employers at a job fair in New York City. Those over 50 who lose their jobs confront the possibility of never working again. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN MOORE/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLDER WORKERS (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); DISMISSALS (76%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); ADOLESCENTS (72%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%); SENIOR CITIZENS (67%); PSYCHOLOGY (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2013



797 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: What's On Saturday

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
10 P.M. (Sundance) THE VIRGIN SUICIDES (2000) In this first movie from Sofia Coppola, based on Jeffrey Eugenides's first novel, four sisters in affluent 1970s Michigan dance toward their deaths after being sequestered in their home by their authoritarian parents (James Woods and Kathleen Turner) following the suicide of a fifth sister, Cecilia (Hanna Hall), and a broken curfew on prom night by the Lolita-esque Lux (Kirsten Dunst, right). Giovanni Ribisi is the narrator, a grown version of one of the adoring boys with whom the sisters communicate in their isolation by means of light signals and songs over the phone. ''Ms. Coppola has carefully preserved the spirit of her source and, for the most part, succeeded in her efforts to find a visual idiom appropriate to the lush melancholy of the novel's language,'' A. O. Scott wrote in The New York Times. The book, ''a hazy linguistic daydream,'' he added, required, ''Ms. Coppola to create a feature film essentially without characters or a story, and to hold the viewer's interest through moods, associations and resonant images. That she has done so is impressive.'' 
10:30 A.M. (13) RELIGION & ETHICS NEWSWEEKLY Kim Lawton interviews Sikh leaders a year after the shooting of worshipers in Oak Creek, Wis. Bob Faw visits the artist Tobi Kahn, whose works have spiritual overtones, at his studio in Long Island City, Queens. And Bob Abernethy speaks with the Rev. Thomas J. Reese, senior analyst for the National Catholic Reporter, about Pope Francis's trip to Brazil for World Youth Day.
NOON (13) RICHARD HEFFNER'S OPEN MIND Susan Dunn, a professor of arts and humanities at Williams College, discusses her new book, ''1940: FDR, Willkie, Lindbergh, Hitler -- The Election Amid the Storm.''
8 P.M. (Hallmark) CEDAR COVE A developer plans to demolish the town's lighthouse, forcing Judge Olivia Lockhart (Andie MacDowell) to find a way to save the landmark while keeping the peace.
8 P.M. (HBO) SAVAGES (2012) Two Southern California marijuana dealers -- Chon (Taylor Kitsch, left, with Aaron Johnson), a cynical combat veteran; and Ben (Mr. Johnson), a soulful Berkeley graduate -- and their gorgeous significant other, O (Blake Lively), take on Mexican traffickers in what A. O. Scott, writing in The Times, called ''Oliver Stone's feverish, fully baked, half-great adaptation of Don Winslow's ferocious and funny drug-war novel of the same name.'' The film, he added, ''is a daylight noir, a western, a stoner buddy movie and a love story, which is to say that it is a bit of a mess. But also a lot of fun, especially as its pulp elements rub up against some gritty geopolitical and economic themes.''
8 P.M. (TCM) THE ESSENTIALS: 1982 COMEDIES Robert Osborne and Drew Barrymore tell why Sydney Pollack's ''Tootsie,'' in which Dustin Hoffman transforms himself from a struggling male actor into a female soap opera star through the use of heels, high-neck blouses and heavy makeup -- the better to cover his five o'clock shadow -- is required viewing. The role earned Mr. Hoffman the fifth of his seven Academy Award nominations. In Richard Benjamin's ''My Favorite Year,'' at 10, Peter O'Toole portrays a swashbuckling 1950s movie star, and unpredictable alcoholic, set to make his first television appearance. Mark Linn-Baker is the new writer who is assigned to get him to the show on time and sober. And in Barry Levinson's ''Diner,'' at midnight, a group of Baltimore friends (played by Steve Guttenberg, Mickey Rourke, Daniel Stern and Kevin Bacon, among others) struggle with growing up.
9 P.M. (ABC) NORBIT (2007) Eddie Murphy, below, with the help of the makeup artist Rick Baker, summons some alternate personalities -- Norbit, a henpecked husband; Rasputia, his monstrous wife; Mr. Wong, a Chinese man whose restaurant doubles as an orphanage -- in this comedy directed by Brian Robbins. ''To play Rasputia, Mr. Murphy appears to have been encased in foam rubber and dressed in Dolce & Gabbana for Elephants,'' A. O. Scott wrote in The Times. ''It is when Rasputia goes out in a bikini (and, later, for a bikini wax) that the full extent of Mr. Baker's virtuosity becomes evident.''
9 P.M. (13) THE THOMAS CROWN AFFAIR (1968) Steve McQueen plays a cunning Boston millionaire who pulls off the perfect heist in this crime caper from Norman Jewison. Faye Dunaway is the insurance investigator who applies the heat. In ''The Accidental Death of Joey by Sue'' (2010), at 10:50, a couple (Steve Talley and Mercedes LeAnza) ponder their future on the Day of the Dead. KATHRYN SHATTUCK

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY UNIVERSAL PICTURES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); FILM (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (86%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); RELIGION (70%); ETHICS (70%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (70%); SIKHS & SIKHISM (65%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (64%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%); CANNABIS (60%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (60%); DRUG POLICY (60%)

PERSON: POPE FRANCIS I (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2013



798 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1481 words

HEADLINE: On Rooftops, a Rival for Utilities

BYLINE: By DIANE CARDWELL

 BODY:
For years, power companies have watched warily as solar panels have sprouted across the nation's rooftops. Now, in almost panicked tones, they are fighting hard to slow the spread.
Alarmed by what they say has become an existential threat to their business, utility companies are moving to roll back government incentives aimed at promoting solar energy and other renewable sources of power. At stake, the companies say, is nothing less than the future of the American electricity industry.
According to the Energy Information Administration, rooftop solar electricity -- the economics of which often depend on government incentives and mandates -- accounts for less than a quarter of 1 percent of the nation's power generation.
And yet, to hear executives tell it, such power sources could ultimately threaten traditional utilities' ability to maintain the nation's grid. 
''We did not get in front of this disruption,'' Clark Gellings, a fellow at the Electric Power Research Institute, a nonprofit arm of the industry, said during a panel discussion at the annual utility convention last month. ''It may be too late.''
Advocates of renewable energy -- not least solar industry executives who stand to get rich from the transformation -- say such statements are wildly overblown. For now, they say, the government needs to help make the economics of renewable power work for ordinary Americans. Without incentives, the young industry might wither -- and with it, their own potential profits.
The battle is playing out among energy executives, lawmakers and regulators across the country.
In Arizona, for example, the country's second-largest solar market, the state's largest utility is pressuring the Arizona Corporation Commission, which sets utility rates, to reconsider a generous residential credit and impose new fees on customers, months after the agency eliminated a commercial solar incentive. In North Carolina, Duke Energy is pushing to institute a new set of charges for solar customers as well.
Nowhere, though, is the battle more heated than in California, home to the nation's largest solar market and some of the most aggressive subsidies. The outcome has the potential to set the course for solar and other renewable energies for decades to come.
At the heart of the fight is a credit system called net metering, which pays residential and commercial customers for excess renewable energy they sell back to utilities. Currently, 43 states, the District of Columbia and 4 territories offer a form of the incentive, according to the Energy Department.
Some keep the credit in line with the wholesale prices that utilities pay large power producers, which can be a few cents a kilowatt-hour. But in California, those payments are among the most generous because they are tied to the daytime retail rates customers pay for electricity, which include utility costs for maintaining the grid.
California's three major utilities estimate that by the time the subsidy program fills up under its current limits, they could have to make up almost $1.4 billion a year in revenue lost to solar customers, and shift that burden to roughly $7.6 million nonsolar customers -- an extra $185 a year if evenly spread. Some studies cited by solar advocates have shown, though, that the credit system can result in a net savings for the utilities.
Utilities in California have appealed to lawmakers and regulators to reduce the credits and limit the number of people who can participate. It has been an uphill fight.
About a year ago, the utilities pushed regulators to keep the amount of rooftop solar that would qualify for the net metering program at a low level; instead, regulators effectively raised it. Still, the utilities won a concession from the Legislature, which ordered the California Public Utilities Commission to conduct a study to determine the costs and benefits of rooftop solar to both customers and the power grid with an eye toward retooling the policy.
Edward Randolph, director of the commission's energy division, said that the study, due in the fall, was a step toward figuring out how to make the economics work for customers who want to install solar systems as well as for the nonsolar customers and the utilities. The commission wants to ensure, he said, that, ''we aren't creating a system that 15 years from now has the utility going, 'We don't have customers anymore but we still have an obligation to provide a distribution system -- how do we do that?' ''
The struggle over the California incentives is only the most recent and visible dust-up as many utilities cling to their established business, and its centralized distribution of energy, until they can figure out a new way to make money. It is a question the Obama administration is grappling with as well as it promotes the integration of more renewable energy into the grid.
Utility executives have watched disruptive technologies cause businesses in other industries to founder -- just as cellphones upended the traditional land-based telephone business, producing many a management shake-up -- and they want to stay ahead of a fundamental shift in the way electricity is bought, sold and delivered.
''I see an opportunity for us to recreate ourselves, just like the telecommunications industry did,'' Michael W. Yackira, chief executive of NV Energy, a Nevada utility, and chairman of the industry group the Edison Electric Institute, said at the group's convention.
The fight in California has become increasingly public, with the two sides releasing reports and counter-reports. A group of fast-growing young companies that install rooftop systems, including SolarCity, Sungevity, Sunrun and Verengo, recently formed their own lobbying group, the Alliance for Solar Choice, to battle efforts to weaken the subsidies and credit systems.
They have good reason. In California, as intended, net metering has proved a strong draw for customers. From 2010 to 2012, the amount of solar installed each year has increased by 160 percent, almost doubling the amount of electricity that rooftop systems can make, according to the Solar Energy Industries Association. With federal tax credits and a rebate program for installation costs under the California Solar Initiative phasing out, determining how much to pay customers has become even more critical.
''Net metering right now is the only way for customers to get value for their rooftop solar systems,'' said Adam Browning, executive director of the advocacy group Vote Solar.
Mr. Browning and other proponents say that solar customers deserve fair payment not only for the electricity they transmit but for the value that smaller, more dispersed power generators give to utilities. Making more power closer to where it is used, advocates say, can reduce stress on the grid and make it more reliable, as well as save utilities from having to build and maintain more infrastructure and large, centralized generators.
But utility executives say that when solar customers no longer pay for electricity, they also stop paying for the grid, shifting those costs to other customers. Utilities generally make their profits by making investments in infrastructure and designing customer rates to earn that money back with a guaranteed return, set on average at about 10 percent.
''If the costs to maintain the grid are not being borne by some customers, then other customers have to bear a bigger and bigger portion,'' said Steve Malnight, a vice president at Pacific Gas and Electric. ''As those costs get shifted, that leads to higher and higher rates for customers who don't take advantage of solar.''
Utility executives call this a ''death spiral.'' As utilities put a heavier burden on fewer customers, it increases the appeal for them to turn their roofs over to solar panels.
A handful of utilities have taken a different approach and are instead getting into the business of developing rooftop systems themselves. Dominion, for example, is running a pilot program in Virginia in which it leases roof space from commercial customers and installs its own panels to study the benefits of a decentralized generation.
Last month, Clean Power Finance, a San Francisco-based start-up that provides financial services and software to the rooftop solar industry, announced that it had backing from Duke Energy and other utilities, including Edison International. And in May, NextEra Energy Resources bought Smart Energy Capital, a commercial solar developer.
But those are exceptions.
''The next six to 12 months are the watershed moment for distributed energy in this country,'' said Edward Fenster, a chief executive of Sunrun, adding that if their side prevailed in California and Arizona, it would dissuade utilities with net metering programs elsewhere from undoing them. ''If we don't succeed, the opposite will be the case and in two years we'll be fighting 41 of these battles.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Solar panels north of Los Angeles. Power companies say such systems are draining away their customers and profits. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
 Panels in the Deer Valley section of Phoenix. Utilities say the subsidies given to solar-minded homeowners are too generous. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOLAR ENERGY (92%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (91%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (91%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); INDEPENDENT POWER PRODUCERS (88%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); UTILITY RATES (78%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); WHOLESALE PRICES (74%); ENERGY RESEARCH (73%); EXECUTIVES (69%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (67%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (53%)

COMPANY: DUKE ENERGY CORP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (57%); ELECTRIC POWER RESEARCH INSTITUTE (56%)

TICKER: DUK (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (53%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (54%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2013



799 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; THE SATURDAY PROFILE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1579 words

HEADLINE: President-Elect Stirs Optimism in Iran and West

BYLINE: By THOMAS ERDBRINK

 BODY:
TEHRAN -- Bogged down in faltering nuclear talks with the European powers nearly 10 years ago, Hassan Rouhani did something that no Iranian diplomat before or since has managed to do.
He took out his cellphone, say Western diplomats who were there, dialed up his longtime friend and associate, Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, and convinced him that Iran needed to suspend nuclear enrichment. The call by Mr. Rouhani, who was elected president in June and will take office next week, resulted in an agreement in October 2003, the only nuclear deal between Iran and the West in the past 11 years.
''Rouhani showed that he is a central player in Iran's political establishment,'' said Stanislas de Laboulaye, a retired director general of the French Foreign Ministry, who was a member of the European delegation during the talks between 2003 and 2005. ''He was the only one able to sell something deeply unpopular to the other leaders.'' 
There is growing optimism in Iran and in the West that Mr. Rouhani, 64, is ready to restart serious talks on the nuclear issue; Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki of Iraq told the United States this month that Mr. Rouhani was ready to start direct talks, and the Obama administration has indicated a willingness to engage in head-to-head dialogue after years of inclusive multiparty negotiations.
In his campaign for president and again in recent weeks, Mr. Rouhani has made it clear that he is deeply concerned about his country's growing economic troubles and is determined to soften the harsh tone and intransigent tactics of his predecessor, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, which have stalled nuclear negotiations and cut off relations with most of the developed world. But the question, as always in Iran, is the extent to which a President Rouhani can accomplish these goals.
''It is clear that numerous challenges await him,'' said Mirza Agha Motaharinejad, a communications professor who campaigned for Mr. Rouhani in his home province of Semnan. ''His political survival starts with who he will pick as cabinet members. The more representatives from different factions, the more support he will have.''
Mr. Rouhani rarely gives one-on-one interviews to reporters.Any Iranian president has to answer to the supreme leader. But that is not the only limitation on his power in the treacherous and complex politics of the Islamic republic. The rise and precipitous fall of Mr. Ahmadinejad stands as a warning of the fleeting nature of a president's power in Iran.
Mr. Ahmadinejad came to power and was re-elected -- fraudulently, most observers said -- as the candidate of the traditionalist faction of ultraconservative clerics and Revolutionary Guards commanders. For years he rode high, taking particular pleasure in sticking the West in the eye, denying the Holocaust and challenging Israel. But by the end of his tenure he was locked in bitter infighting with his former patrons and widely unpopular with the public, which blamed him for the country's economic woes.
Mr. Rouhani was defeated by the traditionalists after the nuclear deal fell apart in 2005 and left, politically speaking, for dead. He was a ''sellout'' in his critics' eyes who had committed the unpardonable sin of showing weakness -- though his supporters would call it reasonableness -- in the negotiations with the Europeans.
In one of the most startling turnarounds in the history of the Islamic republic, he has managed to resurrect his career from that low point, drawing on connections that trace back to the earliest days of the clerical resistance to the shah. If he is to realize his ambitions of redirecting the country to the moderate course he has laid out -- stressing greater individual rights, a relaxation of tensions with the West and the repair of Iran's flagging economy -- he will have to contend with precisely those forces that defeated him and Mr. Ahmadinejad.
Mr. Rouhani was born Hassan Fereydoon during the reign of the pro-Western shah, Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, into a family of bazaar businessmen and clerics in a small desert town. A precocious boy, he was only 13 when he began studies at a seminary in the theological center of Qum, where he would befriend many of the men who would later become central figures in the Islamic republic.
''From an early age I would overhear my father telling family members that I would become a cleric,'' Mr. Rouhani writes in his memoir, one of six books he has published. ''It was my destiny.''
Qum was a hotbed of resistance against the shah, and young Hassan fit right in. ''We, the students, were ready to be killed, imprisoned or tortured,'' Mr. Rouhani wrote in that same memoir, of the 1963 arrest of Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, who would later lead the 1979 Islamic Revolution. ''We had sticks in our room, and when we heard a car pull up in our alley we were sure we would be arrested.'' He was all of 14 at the time.
He later studied law at Tehran University and performed his compulsory military service in Mashhad, where he struck up a friendship with Mr. Khamenei.
In 1978 Mr. Rouhani moved to Britain, taught Islamic jurisprudence at Lancaster University and was set to attend Harvard as a graduate student when the revolution broke out. Instead of Cambridge, Mass., he headed off to Paris to join the exiled Ayatollah Khomeini.
Long known as fiercely intelligent, he became renowned after the revolution for his ability to navigate a system dominated by ideologues, building consensus among many opposing forces. Those close to him describe Mr. Rouhani as the golden boy of the Islamic republic's close-knit group of leaders and a deal maker who has had a direct hand in most of Iran's major foreign policy decisions over the past three decades.
He was one of three Iranian officials to meet with the former national security adviser Robert McFarlane when he secretly visited Tehran in 1986 to arrange the arms-for-hostages deal that would later erupt into the Iran-contra scandal. But they caution that he is, above all, a Shiite Muslim cleric who has dedicated his life to the Islamic Revolution, which he will never betray.
''Our opponents are wrong to expect compromises from Rouhani; the sanctions and other pressures will not make us change our stances,'' said one of his former closest associates during an interview in Tehran. He requested anonymity because Mr. Rouhani has asked that no one speak in his name. ''Rouhani is interested in a dialogue, not a monologue, with the West. He is prepared to reach common ground, but only if the other side is ready to reach common ground.''
In his books on foreign policy, Mr. Rouhani writes that modernity has failed, and that Christians in the West gave in to secularism without a fight. According to him, the United States and the Islamic republic are in permanent conflict. Israel, he writes, is the ''axis of all anti-Iranian activities.'' Yet he also raises issues like Iran's massive brain drain and high unemployment figures in a book on the economy, and proposes membership in the World Trade Organization. ''We need to keep a good relation with the people; only with them we can continue to resist and confront the U.S.A.,'' he wrote in one of his two books on ''foreign policy and Islamic thought.''
Nevertheless, diplomats who have faced him in negotiations praised his skills and flexibility. ''He is perfectly placed in Iran's system of power,'' said Paul von Maltzahn, a former German ambassador to Iran who met Mr. Rouhani several times. ''He is not easily manipulated and assertive.''
The last time they met was during a private visit by the former German foreign minister, Joschka Fischer. Mr. von Maltzahn recalled: ''We all had dinner. Mr. Rouhani spoke about Glasgow, where he had studied in the 1990s. He cracked jokes. He's straightforward, no double dealer.''
During his 16 years as the secretary of Iran's most important decision organ, the National Security Council, Mr. Rouhani prevented hard-liners from forming an alliance with Saddam Hussein after Iraq invaded Kuwait in 1990, his associates said. Instead, Iran remained neutral. He directed Iran's unexpectedly respectful reaction to the 9/11 terrorist attacks, and he was instrumental in helping the United States coordinate with opposition forces in Afghanistan and Iraq when the United States invaded those countries.
It was his toughest negotiation -- the one that led to the 2003 agreement -- that led to his public fall from grace. Is he willing to try again? Analysts say he might well be. ''He is a proactive soldier of this system since his youth,'' said Nader Karimi Joni, a columnist for reformist papers. ''It's his brainchild, and he feels responsible. Any solutions he will come up with will be within the limits of the system of the Islamic republic.''
Some European diplomats say they fear that Mr. Rouhani was too optimistic in 2003, perhaps getting ahead of most of the leadership. ''After a while we started to worry whether he or his team had fully briefed the other leaders,'' said one European negotiator, who requested anonymity, not wanting to hurt the chances of success for any coming talks.
But Mr. Rouhani's associate, who has full knowledge of the talks, disagreed. ''Our mistake was that we gave the Europeans too much credit, but they were on the phone with the Americans all the time,'' he said. ''What matters now is that with Mr. Rouhani's election a new window of opportunity has opened up for the West. I suggest they seize the moment.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Rouhani (A1)
 Hassan Rouhani, Iran's next president, negotiated the only nuclear deal between Iran and the West in the last 11 years, and he seems determined to ease the harsh tactics of his predecessor. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NEWSHA TAVAKOLIAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); CONSERVATISM (74%); RELIGION (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (57%)

PERSON: HASSAN ROUHANI (94%); NOURI AL-MALIKI (84%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (78%); ALI KHAMENEI (56%); BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (74%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); IRAQ (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); IRAN (74%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013



800 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1207 words

HEADLINE: George Mitchell, 94, a Pioneer in Hydraulic Fracturing

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
George P. Mitchell, the son of a Greek goatherd who capped a career as one of the most prominent independent oilmen in the United States by unlocking immense natural gas and petroleum resources trapped in shale rock formations, died on Friday in Galveston, Tex. He was 94.
His family confirmed the death.
Mr. Mitchell's role in championing new drilling and production techniques like hydraulic fracturing, or ''fracking,'' is credited with creating an unexpected natural gas boom in the United States. In a letter to President Obama last year, Daniel Yergin, the energy scholar and author, proposed that Mr. Mitchell be awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom.
''It is because of him that we can talk seriously about 'energy independence,' '' he said. (Mr. Mitchell did not receive the award.) 
Mr. Mitchell combined academic training as a petroleum engineer and geologist with a gambler's cunning to become an influential businessman worth $2 billion. He was a petroleum industry spokesman, then a persistent voice for ''sustainable,'' or environmentally responsible, economic growth. On 27,000 piney acres north of Houston, he built a town called The Woodlands partly to demonstrate his ideas.
The most significant chapter in his life came last. In the 1980s and '90s, when many energy analysts foresaw only irreversible declines in hydrocarbon supplies, Mr. Mitchell got busy poking holes in Texas dirt on the hunch that they were wrong. Marshaling mostly existing technologies, he began fracturing shale rock formations in fields where he had long pumped oil and gas at shallower depths.
After 17 years of trying, Mr. Mitchell finally hit pay dirt with gushers of gas in 1998. The flow was so prodigious that a competitor thought that the announcement was a practical joke. The $6 million that Mr. Mitchell had put into the project was ''surely the best development money in the history of gas,'' The Economist magazine said.
The success enabled him to sell his company, the Mitchell Energy and Development Corporation, to the Devon Energy Corporation for $3.5 billion in 2001. Included in the sale were the results of years of drilling more than 10,000 wells, many of which still yielded hydrocarbons.
Fracking uses water and chemical injections to force more oil from reservoirs. Both the Gas Technology Institute, a nonprofit research organization, and the federal Energy Department worked with Mr. Mitchell, giving him technical help and some financing. He also received federal tax credits.
Techniques for hydraulic fracturing vary, but Mr. Mitchell's involved drilling straight down, then making a 90-degree turn thousands of feet underground to penetrate shale formations horizontally. A high-pressure mix of chemical- and sand-laced water was then injected, releasing trapped gas.
Fracking and other unconventional techniques have doubled North American natural gas reserves to three quadrillion cubic feet -- the rough equivalent of 500 billion barrels of oil, or almost double Saudi Arabia's crude inventory. The increase came after four decades of declines. Gas is also being economically produced in northern states like New York, which had been considered barren of commercial hydrocarbons.
The same techniques worked for oil extraction. The Oil and Gas Journal reported this April that a well that would have produced 70 barrels a day using conventional drilling can produce 700 with fracking. North Dakota's oil boom is one result.
Environmentalists and landowners worry that the new techniques will pollute groundwater and cause other environmental problems, particularly as they are deployed in virgin territories. Industry promises that good engineering practices will curb abuses, and some independent studies support that view.
''We can frack safely if we frack sensibly,'' Mr. Mitchell and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York wrote last year in an op-ed column in The Wall Street Journal.
Mr. Mitchell's roots reached back to Greece, where his father, Savvas Paraskevopoulos, tended goats before immigrating to the United States in 1901, arriving at Ellis Island at the age of 20. He worked for railroads, and gradually moved west. When a paymaster got tired of writing his long name and threatened to fire him, Mr. Paraskevopoulos took the paymaster's name, Mike Mitchell.
Mike Mitchell settled in Galveston, where he ran a succession of shoe-shining and pressing shops. When he saw the picture of a beautiful woman in a local Greek newspaper, he headed for Florida, where she had settled, according to family lore. He persuaded her to abandon her fiancé and marry him. They lived above the shoeshine shop.
George Phydias Mitchell was born in Galveston on May 21, 1919. His mother died when he was 13, and he finished high school at 16. No college would accept him at that age so he went to another high school for a year and brushed up on math. At Texas A&M University, he scrambled for tuition money until he started selling gold-embossed stationery to students lonesome for sweethearts back home. He finished first in his class in petroleum engineering and was captain of the tennis team.
He worked for Amoco in the oil fields of Texas and Louisiana, before joining the Army Corps of Engineers and overseeing construction projects. After his discharge, he started an oil company with partners, including his brother Johnny, who strolled Houston in jungle shorts and a pith helmet. The brothers did many of their early deals at a drugstore counter.
When a Chicago bookie offered the fledgling company a deal for an area north of Fort Worth known as ''the wildcatters' graveyard,'' they bit. They quickly drilled 13 successful wells, and bet everything they had to expand their holdings in the area to 300,000 acres. That became the backbone of a company that hit oil or gas on 35 to 40 percent of the 10,000 wells it drilled.
In the 1960s, Mr. Mitchell, looking to diversify, bought 66,000 acres of mostly undeveloped real estate within a 50-mile radius of Houston. In 1974 he created The Woodlands, a 27,000-acre forested development 27 miles north of Houston, helped by a $50 million loan from the Department of Housing and Urban Development. More than 100,000 people live there today. The Exxon Mobil corporation is building a 385-acre campus for 10,000 employees there.
Partly motivated by a desire to solve urban problems, Mr. Mitchell visited the Bedford Stuyvesant section of Brooklyn and the Watts section of Los Angeles when planning the project. In 1997, he sold Mitchell Energy's stake in The Woodlands for $543 million. He said in 2001 that it had not achieved the ethnic mix for which he hoped, but recommended that it be annexed by Houston to increase diversity.
In his early 20s, Mr. Mitchell met two twin sisters, Cynthia and Pamela Woods. He first dated Pamela but married Cynthia, with whom he created the Cynthia and George Mitchell Foundation. It has given more than $400 million to a variety of causes. Mrs. Mitchell died in 2009.
Mr. Mitchell is survived by his sister, Maria Mitchell Ballantyne; three daughters, Pamela Maguire, Meredith Dreiss and Sheridan Lorenz; seven sons, Scott, Mark, Kent, Greg, Kirk, Todd and Grant; 23 grandchildren; and five great-grandchildren. His wife's twin sister also survives him.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: On a hunch, Mr. Mitchell began drilling shale rock formations in the Texas dirt fields where he had long pumped oil and gas. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (91%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (91%); HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (91%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (90%); NATURAL GAS (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ENGINEERING (77%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (72%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); TAX LAW (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); WRITERS (70%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (67%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (66%)

COMPANY: MITCHELL ENERGY & DEVELOPMENT CORP (63%); DEVON ENERGY CORP (63%)

TICKER: DVN (NYSE) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (63%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (63%)

PERSON: GEORGE J MITCHELL (92%); BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); GALVESTON, TX, USA (73%) TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2013

 
