

601 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 398 words

HEADLINE: Emerging markets take brunt of Fed tapering fears

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
LONDON -- Shares around the world, particularly those in emerging economies, fell Tuesday as investors braced for the phasing out of an American central bank stimulus program that has shored up markets for the past few years. 
Stock benchmarks and currencies in developing countries like India and Indonesia have been hammered as funds flowed out of their markets in anticipation of a reduction in stimulus from the Federal Reserve.
Indonesia's benchmark index, which dived 5 percent on Monday, suffered another 3.2 percent drop Tuesday. India's Sensex was down 0.3 percent after sliding 5.6 percent in the previous two sessions. India's currency, the rupee, fell to a record low of 64.11 rupees to the dollar.
Emerging markets have been hit by expectations that the Fed would reduce the amount of financial assets it buys in the markets -- currently $85 billion a month -- amid signs of improvement in the American economy. The stimulus was intended to spur borrowing and investment through easy access to liquidity. Many investors used the cheap money to buy stocks, particularly in fast-growing developing economies.
''The shift in sentiment and capital flows back towards developed markets is being keenly felt, leading to a major pickup in volatility,'' said Michael Every, an analyst at Rabobank International.
Financial assets in emerging economies weren't the only ones taking a hit on the expectation that the Fed would begin tapering its stimulus next month. Stocks on Wall Street have recorded a four-day losing streak for the first time in 2013 as borrowing rates in the markets have edged up to their highest levels since 2011.
The Fed is likely to remain the focus of attention in markets over the rest of the week, especially on Wednesday, when the minutes to the Fed's July policy meeting are published. Investors will be looking for any hints of when the bank might begin cutting back on its stimulus.
In Asia, it wasn't just the emerging markets suffering. Japan's Nikkei 225 index, the regional heavyweight, tumbled 2.6 percent to finish at 13,396.38, its lowest close since June 27. Hong Kong's Hang Seng dropped 2.2 percent to 21,970.29 while Australia's S&P/ASX 200 lost 0.7 percent to 5,078.20. South Korea's Kospi fell 1.6 percent to 1,887.85.
Trading in the currency markets was choppy, with the euro 0.7 percent higher at $1.3427 and the dollar 0.3 percent lower at 97.30 yen.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMERGING MARKETS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%)

COMPANY: COOPERATIEVE CENTRALE RAIFFEISEN-BOERENLEENBANK BA (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (54%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDONESIA (94%); INDIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%); AUSTRALIA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2013



602 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1374 words

HEADLINE: New York Hotels Decide It's Time for a Makeover

BYLINE: By JANE L. LEVERE

 BODY:
New York hotels are at the forefront of a boom in complete makeovers, after years of lower capital spending caused by the steep economic downturn.
For hotels that had become rundown and were sold or shuttered for a while, like the Milford NYC near Times Square, or establishments like the New York Palace hotel, where the former Le Cirque restaurant space is being overhauled and a French market added, scaffolding has become as commonplace as the city's traffic noise.
New research by Bjorn Hanson, the divisional dean of the Preston Robert Tisch Center for Hospitality, Tourism and Sports Management at New York University, confirms the upswing in modernizing travel accommodations on everything from linens to new facades. Nationwide, the United States hotel industry is expected to spend $5.6 billion on capital expenditures this year, exceeding the most recent record of $5.5 billion set in 2008. He estimated that one-fifth of hotels would receive such improvements this year -- up from 15 percent in a typical year. In New York alone, about a quarter of the city's hotels are expected to be upgraded. 
Spurring the extensive remodeling is a mix of factors. For one, Mr. Hanson said, investors and management companies that waived spending to offset lower profits in a weak economy are now looking at projections showing a much healthier outlook over all. Industrywide, occupancy this year is expected to be at its highest level since 2007, while the average daily rate is expected to rise to what Mr. Hanson estimates will be a record $111. He predicted industry profits would be a record $46 billion.
In addition, he said hotel management companies and franchisers wanted to ensure that their brands were associated with quality, not slippage either in service or appearances, now that Americans are traveling again.
And for the first time since he first measured capital expenditures in the 1990s, Mr. Hanson said he saw evidence that the myriad travel review sites on the Web, as well as on Facebook or through other social media, were influencing companies' decisions to approve rather lavish outlays of capital for enhancements. He said hotel owners' decisions to upgrade could be motivated by anticipation of critical reviews that ''don't go away.'' He also said owners were proactively seeking positive reviews about recent renovations and innovations, as well as ''wow comments'' on things like refitted lobbies and fitness centers and unusual food and beverage services.
To help hotels that have undergone major renovations, the travel review site TripAdvisor.com said it would delete old negative reviews, to allow them to ''start with a clean slate.''
Ryan Meliker, managing director of real estate investment trusts and lodging at MLV & Company, an investment bank, said that although he generally agreed with Mr. Hanson's findings, public companies ''with access to capital and stronger balance sheets than private companies were able to invest more in the downturn than private companies.''
He said real estate investment trusts like Host Hotels & Resorts took advantage of lower construction costs during the downturn to invest in their holdings; in fact, he estimated Host's capital expenditures would decline this year to $450 million from $541 million in 2011.
Mr. Meliker also said refurbishment of New York hotels was, in many cases, ''not just refreshing the rooms,'' but rather ''major renovations to reposition the asset going forward.''
A prime example of this is the Milford New York hotel, on Eighth Avenue between 44th and 45th Streets, which was previously owned and operated as the Milford Plaza by the Milstein family, which shut it in 2009. Its new owners, Highgate Holdings and the Rockpoint Group, are putting more than $140 million into capital improvements.
Vann Avedisian, a principal of Highgate Holdings, said Highgate and Rockpoint's intention -- once they purchased the Milford for $250 million in 2010 and reopened it -- was to convert ''a two-star, tour-and-travel hotel with no amenities into a three-and-a-half-star lifestyle hotel.''
To that end, the Milford's refurbishment includes a new glass facade, reconfigured lobby and check-in area, and a new restaurant. Guest rooms -- increased in number by 62, to 1,331 -- have been fully upgraded.
Other additions will include a 4,900-square-foot spin studio and fitness center and a 4,000-square-foot food hall run by UrbanSpace, set to open by mid-2014 in the space once occupied by Mama Leone's restaurant.
The firms Gabellini Sheppard Associates and Gensler are doing the Milford's new design.
Northwood Hospitality, which purchased the New York Palace from the Brunei Investment Authority for over $400 million in 2011, has opted to ''redo everything,'' said its president, David McCaslin, because the hotel, which is behind St. Patrick's Cathedral at 455 Madison Avenue, has not had any major renovations since 2006.
In addition to the redecorating of the restaurant once occupied by Le Cirque, the 27,000 square feet of retail space in the north wing of the historic Villard Mansion has also been renovated, though it has not yet been rented.
Furniture, lighting and televisions in all 909 guest rooms are being replaced, and upgrades in the hotel's towers section -- occupying the top 14 floors -- will include a new private reception area near the hotel's 50th Street entrance and complete renovation of three of the largest suites. The work is expected to cost about $140 million.
Chef Michel Richard will operate the hotel's restaurants, while interior design is by BAMO, BBG-BBGM, Champalimaud and Jeffrey Beers.
The only Novotel in the United States, the Novotel New York Times Square, which was sold by Accor to Chartres Lodging Group, Apollo Global Management and Lubert-Adler Partners for a reported $90 million in 2012, is undergoing a transformation that its owners hope will lift it from a three-star hotel to one that can compete with four and four-and-a-half-star hotels and charge commensurately higher rates, said Maki Nakamura Bara, president and co-founder of Chartres Lodging Group.
Renovations at the hotel, at 226 West 52nd Street, include a redesigned lobby with an expanded lounge area that offers better views of Times Square, and a new restaurant, called Supernova, that Ms. Bara said would serve ''comfort foods with a modern twist.'' All 480 guest rooms are being redecorated according to Accor's Novotel brand standards, and will have new bathrooms, flat-screen TVs and soundproof windows.
Most of these projects are scheduled to be completed this fall. In addition, the 50-year-old Loews Regency Hotel has been shut since January for a $100 million refurbishment, scheduled for completion in January 2014. The project, the first significant overhaul of the hotel in 15 years, includes a redesigned lobby with a new lounge; an increase in the number of guest rooms, to 380 from 350, achieved by reducing the number of suites; and refurnished guest rooms with modernized bathrooms.
Sant Ambroeus Hospitality Group will manage the hotel's restaurant, famous for its power breakfasts; the adjacent bar area; and the new lobby lounge. Loews also has leased 10,000 square feet, previously occupied by second-floor offices, boardrooms and guest rooms, to the hairstylist Julian Farel for a new salon and spa.
Rottet Studio and Meyer Davis Studio are designing the hotel's new décor.
Jonathan M. Tisch, chairman of Loews Hotels and Resorts, a co-owner of the New York Giants and co-chairman of the host committee for the 2014 Super Bowl, said the refurbished Regency would reopen next January, in time ''to work out any bugs prior to the Super Bowl.''
Industry experts expect major renovations at New York hotels to continue well beyond this year, as new hotels open and create even more competition for the incumbents: NYC & Company, the city's marketing and tourism organization, estimates that 16,000 new rooms will be added by 2016, raising total inventory in all five boroughs to 110,000 rooms.
John A. Fox, senior vice president of PKF Consulting, which studies the tourism industry, said there were ''many more'' new hotels being built in New York than in other markets; to compete with them, he said, established hotels will require upgrades.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A new bar at the Novotel Hotel at 226 West 52nd Street, which hopes to lift its three-star rating.
 The Milford New York on Eighth Avenue is getting more than $140 million in improvements, including fully upgraded rooms. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (92%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); AVERAGE DAILY ROOM RATES (78%); FRANCHISING (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (78%); LODGING (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); RESTAURANTS (73%); FRANCHISORS (73%); REAL ESTATE (73%); SPORTS BUSINESS (73%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (71%); APPROVALS (69%); SOCIAL MEDIA (66%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (66%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (66%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (66%); SPORTS (55%); SPORTS & RECREATION (55%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (52%); TRIPADVISOR INC (51%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (52%); TRIP (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%); NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2013



603 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 689 words

HEADLINE: Iran Hints Nuclear Talks Could Include New Official

BYLINE: By RICK GLADSTONE

 BODY:
Iran sent strong signals on Tuesday that its new foreign minister, an American-educated diplomat with a deep understanding of the United States, would assume the additional role of leading the Iranian delegation in talks with the major powers over Iran's disputed nuclear program.
Such a change under the new president, Hassan Rouhani, would be a significant departure for Iran in the nuclear talks. Mr. Rouhani, a moderate cleric who won the presidency in June over his more conservative rivals, has pledged to reduce tensions with the West over the nuclear issue, which has left Iran increasingly isolated and economically troubled by punitive sanctions. 
Mr. Rouhani's choice for foreign minister, Mohammad Javad Zarif, was confirmed by Parliament last week. The signals that Mr. Zarif would lead the nuclear negotiations were conveyed on Tuesday at a regular weekly news conference in Tehran by the Foreign Ministry spokesman, which was broadcast by Iran's Press TV Web site.
''Over the past 10 to 12 years, the negotiator has been the secretary of the Supreme National Security Council. This may change,'' said the spokesman, Abbas Araqchi. ''Rouhani may decide to appoint somebody else. Maybe the foreign minister, or anyone else that he deems fit.''
For the spokesman to even make such a speculative statement suggested that Mr. Rouhani had already decided that his foreign minister would be doing the negotiating henceforth and that Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, who has the final word on the nuclear issue, had agreed, despite his own deep mistrust of the West.
The previous nuclear negotiator, Saeed Jalili, was a personal emissary of the ayatollah's and was among the conservative presidential candidates defeated by Mr. Rouhani in the June 14 election. Mr. Jalili made no progress in the talks with the so-called P-5-plus-1, the five permanent members of the United Nations Security Council -- Britain, China, France, Russia and the United States -- plus Germany.
Mr. Zarif, 53, is widely considered the most important new face in Mr. Rouhani's cabinet because of his background in the United States. He is known for having sought to improve relations with the West and the United States in particular, preferring to refer to it as a rival nation and not the enemy, the name commonly used by Iranian hard-line conservatives.
He was Iran's ambassador to the United Nations from 2002 to 2007. He was sidelined and eventually replaced after the 2005 election of President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, a hard-liner who escalated Iran's nuclear activities and often inveighed against the West.
The Foreign Ministry spokesman's statement on Tuesday was the second time in five days that personnel changes under Mr. Rouhani have suggested that a shake-up in strategy on the nuclear issue may be under way.
On Friday, Iranian state news media announced that Fereydoon Abassi, a hard-line nuclear scientist who narrowly escaped assassination nearly three years ago in a bombing that Iran attributed to Israeli agents, had been removed as the head of Iran's Atomic Energy Organization, which operates nuclear facilities.
Mr. Abassi's replacement was the former foreign minister, Ali Akbar Salehi, widely considered the most practical member of Mr. Ahmadinejad's cabinet. Mr. Abassi, by contrast, was regarded as uncompromising.
''You have to read the fig leaves from all these pronouncements -- they're talking about diplomacy,'' said Mehrzad Boroujerdi, a political science professor who specializes in Iran at the Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs at Syracuse University. ''I think in this case they're hoping some wise politicians here in the United States will put two and two together -- that these are all signs they want to reach an agreement.''
It remains unclear when the nuclear talks will resume. But many Iran political experts have been saying they expect a less bombastic tone in the talks under Mr. Rouhani, even if Iran insists on its right to enrich uranium, a major obstacle to an agreement.
Iran says its nuclear program is peaceful, rejecting Western suspicions that it aspires to build nuclear weapons.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (69%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (55%)

PERSON: HASSAN ROUHANI (92%); SAEED JALILI (78%); ALI KHAMENEI (59%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); IRAN (79%); CHINA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2013



604 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 489 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street Closes Mixed on Retailers' Results

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Stocks on Wall Street, snapping the year's longest losing streak, closed mostly higher on Tuesday on gains by Best Buy, J.C. Penney and other retailers.
By the end of trading, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 0.4 percent, the Dow Jones industrial average was flat and the Nasdaq composite was 0.7 percent higher. 
Gains accelerated in the afternoon led by large-cap technology stocks, including Intel and Cisco Systems, which briefly lifted the Nasdaq composite index more than 1 percent.
But United States Treasury bond yields, although down from Monday, were still at two-year highs, encouraging investors to dump riskier assets like stocks and buy government debt. The yield on the benchmark 10-year note dipped to 2.83 percent on Tuesday from 2.88 percent on Monday.
Investors are now awaiting minutes of the most recent meeting of the Federal Reserve's policy makers. Those minutes, to be released on Wednesday, could help investors better understand the mind-set of policy makers as they consider weaning the world's biggest economy off the Fed's so-called quantitative easing program.
''Stocks are rebounding today but we are seeing a lot of market swings because of the concerns on Fed tapering, so I wouldn't be surprised if we ended flat or lower by the end of the day,'' said Randy Frederick, managing director of active trading and derivatives at the Schwab Center for Financial Research in Austin, Tex.
Best Buy, Home Depot and J.C. Penney led a string of retailers posting results, sending their shares up in early trading. Consumer-focused shares had recently been battered as many earlier reports on retailers' sales failed to impress investors.
Shares of Best Buy, the world's largest consumer electronics chain, rallied more than 9.1 percent after it reported a higher quarterly profit.
Shares in Home Depot, the world's largest home improvement chain, opened higher before losing 1.2 percent by the market close. It raised its yearly outlook after posting a profit that beat analysts' expectations.
The apparel retailer Urban Outfitters announced a quarterly profit that exceeded market estimates, and its shares gained 8 percent.
Shares in J.C. Penney, the beleaguered department store chain, gained 6 percent after it reported same-store sales fell 11.9 percent in the second quarter, during which it reverted to a promotions-heavy strategy to try to halt a sharp sales decline.
Intel shares were up 2 percent, while Cisco Systems rose .3 percent.
Europe's main stock markets ended the day lower, mirroring concerns in other markets as expectations increased that the Federal Reserve would soon start tapering its stimulative bond purchases. London's FTSE closed the trading session off 0.2 percent, the DAX in Frankfurt was 0.8 percent lower and the CAC 40 in Paris was down 1.4 percent.
The S.&P. closed below its 50-day moving average for a second straight session on Monday and at its lowest level since July 8.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BONDS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); HOME CENTERS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (86%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (78%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); DEPARTMENT STORES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (75%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (72%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (72%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); PUBLIC DEBT (70%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%)

COMPANY: J C PENNEY CO INC (95%); INTEL CORP (57%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (57%); URBAN OUTFITTERS INC (52%)

TICKER: JCP (NYSE) (95%); INTC (NASDAQ) (57%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (57%); URBN (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (95%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (95%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (95%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (95%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (57%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (77%) TEXAS, USA (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (76%) EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (76%); FRANCE (70%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2013



605 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1222 words

HEADLINE: Cairo Military Firmly Hooked To U.S. Lifeline

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The money seems like a pittance for Egypt, which has a $256 billion economy. But the $1.3 billion in military aid that the United States gives the country every year is its main access to the kind of big-ticket, sophisticated weaponry that the Egyptian military loves.
In fact, Egypt is so enamored of Apache attack helicopters, M1A1 battle tanks and F-16 fighter jets that exasperated American military officials have been telling generals there for years that they need to expand beyond the hardware of bygone wars and spend more American money on border security, as well as counterterrorism and surveillance equipment and training that a truly modern military needs.
Either way, a close look at the details of American military aid to Egypt shows why the relatively modest $1.3 billion may give the United States more leverage over the Egyptian military than it may seem, although still not as much as it wants. 
Even if Saudi Arabia and other Persian Gulf monarchies make up for any aid the United States may suspend, Washington would block Egypt from buying American weaponry with that money -- a serious long-term problem for a military that is already viewed as sclerotic and has neglected pilot training so badly that the Egyptian air force has one of the worst crash rates of any F-16 fleet in the world.
What Egypt's generals fear most is the cutoff of hundreds of millions of dollars in mundane but essential maintenance contracts that keep the tanks, fighter jets and helicopters running, American officials and lawmakers said. In the past, maintenance costs have represented roughly 15 percent of total American military aid to Egypt, according to the Government Accountability Office.
''The spare parts and maintenance of this military equipment that we've given the Egyptians is important to their capabilities,'' Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, told CNN on Sunday.
Or as Robert Springborg, a professor at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, Calif., and an expert on the Egyptian military, put it this week, ''Without that sustainment money, planes won't fly and tanks won't drive.''
Of course, if American aid for spares and maintenance was suspended, Egypt could cannibalize parts from its existing fleets of tanks, planes and helicopters -- probably for some months or even a few years, procurement experts said. With no external threat on Egypt's borders, the Cairo government would not jeopardize protection to the country.
Similarly, canceling helicopters and tank kits would be a symbolic blow -- American military aid covers as much as 80 percent of Egypt's weapons purchases, according to a recent Congressional Research Service report -- but would not immediately decrease the capability of Egypt's armed forces.
At the same time, cutting off American military aid presents its own complications for the United States and could ensnarl the Obama administration in a knotty contractual battle with American military contractors, said military procurement specialists and Congressional aides.
Under current procedures, Egypt can submit large orders in advance for weaponry and equipment that takes years to produce and deliver, under the assumption that Congress will continue to allocate the same $1.3 billion in military aid year after year. Some Egyptian orders now extend to 2018 under this arrangement, called cash-flow financing. In effect, officials said, the United States has handed Egypt a credit card with a maximum limit of billions of dollars -- a perquisite extended only to Egypt and Israel.
The administration has told Congress in recent days that canceling weapons and maintenance contracts could force the government to incur as much as $2 billion in penalties. Under the terms of the tank program, for example, most components are produced in the United States -- Ohio, Michigan, Alabama, Florida and Pennsylvania -- and shipped to a facility outside of Cairo for assembly.
Obama administration officials insisted on Tuesday that all aspects of the relationship with Egypt were under review, including the military aid, even as a White House spokesman dodged questions on whether aid had been held up pending the review.
''Providing foreign assistance is not like a spigot,'' Josh Earnest, the spokesman, told reporters. ''You don't turn it off and on or turn it up and down like a faucet. Assistance is provided episodically.''
Military aid has served as a foundation of the American relationship with Egypt for more than three decades. In basic terms, the aid acts as an annual incentive payment to Cairo for abiding by the 1979 peace treaty with Israel. The arrangement initially also sought to wean Egypt off its longtime arms supplier, the Soviet Union.
''The aid's primary purpose has been to obtain access for U.S. officials to their Egyptian counterparts, and that's worked,'' Mr. Springborg said. ''But we buy access; we don't buy influence. Often our advice is something they need but don't necessarily take.''
The declining effectiveness of Egypt's military comes as no surprise to American diplomats and officers, who have been warning superiors in Washington for years.
A secret embassy cable obtained by WikiLeaks in 2010 warned Gen. David H. Petraeus, then the head of the United States Central Command, in December 2008 that under the leadership of Field Marshal Mohamed Tantawi, the country's defense minister at the time, ''The tactical and operational readiness of the Egyptian Armed Forces has decayed.''
More recently, the northern Sinai Peninsula, long a relatively lawless zone, has become a dark reminder of the failure of Egypt's military and security services to address a new generation of threats, different from any posed by Israeli forces before the 1979 peace accords.
In the seven weeks since Egypt's military ousted the Islamist president, Mohamed Morsi, the endemic Sinai violence has grown into something like an insurgency, with mysterious gunmen attacking military and police facilities every night.
Some United States lawmakers have sought to restructure the way Egypt uses its military aid. Although the Pentagon has tried unsuccessfully for years to persuade the Egyptian military to shift its purchasing toward counterterrorism and counterinsurgency equipment and training, the breakdown in security in Egypt has brought new attention to the issue.
''The United States should re-evaluate and recalibrate the nature of our assistance relationship with Egypt, taking into account the genuine security threats faced by the country, including terrorism in the region, unrest in the Sinai and protection of the Suez Canal,'' said Senator Bob Casey, a Pennsylvania Democrat on the Foreign Relations Committee who visited Egypt and Israel in April and who supports suspending aid to Egypt.
Exasperated American military officials have also watched in dismay as Egypt has failed to invest in its own mechanics and logistics networks, as was originally envisioned, as well as in F-16 pilot training.
Egyptian F-16 pilots receive only a quarter of the flight training hours of American pilots, Mr. Springborg said. Maintenance programs have been left to American contractors.
''It was originally intended that Egypt would develop its own sustainment capability,'' Mr. Springborg said. ''One of the sad parts of the program is that this didn't happen.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Apache attack helicopters are among the weaponry supplied to Egypt by the United States. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MOHAMED ABD EL GHANY/REUTERS) (A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); HELICOPTERS (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (89%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); MILITARY TRAINING (78%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (76%); BORDER CONTROL (75%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (73%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (72%); TERRORISM (71%); COUNTERTERRORISM (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (55%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (88%) ARIZONA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (70%) EGYPT (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); GULF STATES (55%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2013



606 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: Obama to Offer Plans to Ease Burden of Paying for College

BYLINE: By MICHAEL D. SHEAR

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama will offer a series of proposals this week aimed at making college more affordable by reshaping the way Americans pay for higher education, he said in an e-mail to supporters on Tuesday.
In the message, Mr. Obama promised to take action to confront the financial challenges facing an increasing number of students and their families. The average tuition at four-year colleges has tripled over the past three decades, and students who take out loans are left, on average, with $26,000 in debt, he said.
''To create a better bargain for the middle class, we have to fundamentally rethink about how higher education is paid for in this country,'' Mr. Obama said. ''We've got to shake up the current system.'' 
The president did not reveal his proposals in the e-mail, and aides at the White House declined to provide details before Mr. Obama embarks this week on a two-day bus tour through upstate New York and Pennsylvania. They said Mr. Obama would talk about his plans in a series of speeches and town hall-style meetings at universities.
''The proposals that the president is going to lay out are not going to be popular with everybody, but they are going to be in the best interests of middle-class families,'' said Josh Earnest, a spokesman for Mr. Obama. ''The president has some ideas about how we can better align federal assistance with a commitment on behalf of colleges to keep costs low for students.''
Aides pointed to proposals that Mr. Obama made about college affordability in his 2012 State of the Union address. In that speech and in others since then, Mr. Obama has called for legislation to shift aid away from colleges that fail to keep costs down and to provide an online ''scorecard'' with information for college students and their parents about the real costs of education.
But Mr. Earnest said that ''proposals beyond what the president rolled out'' in the State of the Union address would be unveiled during his road trip this week.
''The president believes that what we need to do is we need to fundamentally rethink and reshape the higher education system and we need to find a way to build on innovation,'' he said.
Those comments puzzled some experts on higher education. Several said they were hard-pressed to think of fundamental ways that the president could reshape the college financial aid system without the cooperation of Congress, which has been fleeting during his tenure. Student loan rates have been a particular source of political friction.
''It seems very unlikely that he's going to be able to do anything to change the underlying fundamentals that are driving the costs of college,'' said Judy Scott-Clayton, a professor of economics and education at Teachers College at Columbia University. ''I'm very curious to see what they will do.''
Sandy Baum, an economist at the George Washington University Graduate School of Education and Human Development, said Mr. Obama's influence was limited unless he won cooperation from lawmakers.
''When you think about what the federal government can do, much of that would involve Congress,'' she said. ''That's problematic at this point.''
Both economists said the statistics in Mr. Obama's e-mail were somewhat misleading. For most students, the overall price of going to college has increased much more slowly when financial aid is taken into account, they said. And increases in tuition are often driven more by financial problems affecting states than by a lack of cost controls at universities, they added.
''The average student, including those who get nothing, are getting $5,000 to $6,000 in aid,'' Dr. Scott-Clayton said. ''That's getting close to covering tuition.''
Mr. Earnest's mention of incentives may hint that Mr. Obama will expand on his idea to provide more aid for students to attend colleges that hold down tuition. But the economists said it was not clear how that would work.
A small amount of government money that the administration could identify without Congressional approval would be unlikely to change college policies, they said. And if large amounts of federal student aid were held back from high-cost colleges, students at those colleges could feel penalized.
''If it's a small amount, how likely is it to affect anything?'' Dr. Scott-Clayton said. ''If it's a big amount, then we worry that students will be punished for something that the schools control.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENT EXPENSES (89%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); FAMILY (89%); TUITION FEES (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); STUDENT LOANS (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (70%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2013



607 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; PARIS JOURNAL; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1071 words

HEADLINE: A Quest to Make Gruff Service in France More Gracious

BYLINE: By LIZ ALDERMAN

 BODY:
PARIS -- On a recent afternoon near the Place de la Bastille, Alberto Riberio, a tourist from Spain, stopped with his family at a quaint cafe and asked a waiter if they could sit down. ''Look around!'' he recalled the waiter replying abruptly. ''You see empty tables, don't you?''
When the family tried to order food in halting French, the waiter rolled his eyes, Mr. Riberio said. Later, when a wrong dish was served, an argument ensued over whether it would be changed.
''In general, the French can be quite friendly and helpful,'' said Mr. Riberio, whose family went on to have a pleasant stay. But the encounter ''was a reminder of why they can also have a reputation for being rude,'' he said. 
In the City of Light, an eternal question is once again spurring debate: Is the stereotype of the brusque Frenchman justified, or do visitors just not understand the French?
The soul-searching is coming from an unlikely place: the Paris tourism board. It is ramping up a charm offensive to burnish the image of France -- and Paris in particular -- as a kinder place for tourists. Officials have been deluging cafes, hotels, shops and taxi ranks with 20,000 more pamphlets titled ''Do You Speak Touriste?'', a manual on how to make travelers feel more welcome, after 35,000 copies handed out in July ran out.
The British, it advises, want to be called by their first names. The Japanese need to feel reassured. The Spanish mainly want people to be nice. (''I would agree with that,'' Mr. Riberio said.) As for Americans, the guide notes, they are glued to their personal devices and want to eat as early as 6 p.m. -- a frightful thought to a typical Parisien.
''The goal is to fight against a bad reputation, and improve the quality of the welcome in Paris,'' said François Navarro, the communication director for the tourism board, the Comité Régional du Tourisme Paris Île-de-France. With 30 million tourists a year, Paris is one of the most visited cities in the world, he said. ''But we can do more.''
How much more remains to be seen. Paul Kappe, an owner of the renowned Brasserie de l'Isle Saint-Louis, perched behind the Cathedral of Notre-Dame, gave a Gallic shrug when he saw the brochure.
''It starts with the assumption that the French are disagreeable,'' said Mr. Kappe, a contemplative man who kept a watchful eye on the restaurant's sunny terrace, full of waiters and patrons crammed behind tiny tables. ''Well, that does have the ring of truth,'' he said. ''But it won't stop a waiter from being unpleasant.''
He added, ''Their mentality is, 'Don't bother me when I'm working.' ''
The campaign holds special importance as France begins to overcome an economic malaise that has deepened a sense of moroseness in the country. This month, the French federation of hotels and restaurants reported a 10 percent fall in tourism this year compared with a year ago.
Perhaps more challenging is the growing competition that Paris faces, not only from rivals like London, New York and Barcelona, but also from upstart tourist destinations in the Asia-Pacific region. Last year, more than 20 percent of the world's vacationers visited an Asian city; the region earned $324 billion in international tourism receipts -- a full 30 percent of the global total, according to a United Nations World Tourism Organization report. By contrast, the United States earned $126 billion from tourism, while France earned $54 billion, less than China and Spain, the report said.
''There's a huge economic battle going on between the world's tourism capitals,'' Mr. Navarro said. Just 15 years ago, he said, there were about 60 major destinations; today, there are about 600. ''If we don't improve our service, we will lose money.''
But is the effort really necessary? After all, countless visitors leave the French capital enchanted by their experience, having never lived the legend of snooty service.
''I can't think of any time when I've been treated rudely,'' said Paul Sanger, 74, an Atlanta native who said he had visited Paris more than 100 times over five decades. ''A lot of Americans think the French are being rude because they can't understand them. But a lot of it is a cultural thing.''
To many foreigners, Paris is easier to navigate than ever. Today, English has become the new French for an army of young Parisien waiters who switch between the languages with ease, and even pride, when they hear a foreign accent. And many of the 600,000 Parisiens employed in the tourism industry place a premium on politesse.
Still, ''snobisme'' is hardly a relic of the past, and even the French complain about a perceived lack of civility among some of their big-city brethren. A spate of mocking television ads by the newspaper Le Parisien a few years ago, showing Parisiens cutting in line and leaving poodle droppings on the sidewalk, provoked knowing laughs. And this is by no means the first time the government has encouraged a more polished image: in 1995, a ''Bonjour'' campaign urged people to be pleasant to tourists, echoing several similar efforts since World War II.
Of course, tourists can be uncouth, too. ''A lot of Americans shout, or don't say hello, and then they say the French treated them rudely,'' said Karen Fawcett, the president of BonjourParis, a Web site that dispenses travel and cultural insights. ''If you don't have some cultural sensitivity, you are probably not going to be well received.''
Ms. Fawcett said her main tips for visitors were to be polite, keep their voices down and not assume they will be served immediately. ''A simple 'bonjour' or a 's'il vous plaît' will go a long way,'' she said.
Mr. Kappe at the Brasserie de l'Isle Saint-Louis said waiters appreciated engaging with clients. But he scoffed at a recommendation in the pamphlet that waiters show more warmth by using their first name with Americans. ''That's just not done,'' he said.
All of the brasserie's servers were longtime professionals, dressed impeccably in white shirts and long black aprons. Their smiles were hardly effusive, but they poured wine with an expert turn of the wrist and counseled diners on the ''plat du jour.'' On the other hand, some deftly ignored patrons clamoring for a bill.
''In the United States,'' Mr. Kappe observed, ''waiters can be fired at any time and must work for tips, so they have to be nice. In France, you can't just fire somebody if they're not doing a good job. If you could, everyone would be friendly.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An effort is under way to make France, especially Paris, a kinder place for tourists. Above, the Brasserie de l'Isle Saint-Louis. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AGNES DHERBEYS FOR THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (89%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (89%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (95%) FRANCE (95%); SPAIN (88%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2013



608 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1288 words

HEADLINE: Coming Full Circle In Energy, To Nuclear

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER. 
E-mail: eporter@nytimes.com; Twitter: @portereduardo

 BODY:
NORTH ANTELOPE
ROCHELLE MINE, Wyo.
I'm staring over the edge of a cliff into a seam of coal some 80 feet thick running along a chasm cut deep into the earth. A gargantuan claw rips a massive bite from the slab and swings it into the bed of a preposterously large dump truck.
Scott Durgin, who manages the mine for Peabody Energy, tries hard to communicate its enormous scale.
In a typical day, Mr. Durgin tells me, 21 trains depart the mine, pulling 135 cars each. Each car bears 120 tons of coal. At this pace, he says, there is more than 20 years' worth of coal ready to mine under my feet. 
North Antelope Rochelle is among the biggest coal mines in the world. It produced 108 million tons last year -- about 10 percent of all the coal burned by the nation's power plants.
Standing at the precipice, staring into the thick black mineral vein, I find it difficult to envisage how an enterprise of this magnitude could be stopped, and what could take its place.
North Antelope Rochelle is only 30 years old. It wasn't around during the first oil shock of 1973 or during the Iranian revolution of 1979, which led to a second oil shock. It hadn't opened for business when a nuclear reactor at Three Mile Island in Pennsylvania melted down, when 200,000 people gathered in New York City's Battery Park to hear Ralph Nader demand the end of atomic power and Carly Simon sing yearningly about the ''comforting glow of a wood fire.''
Those events set the nation on a hurried quest for alternative sources of energy.
Coal was the big winner. In April 1977, President Jimmy Carter call ed Americans to arms, urging a vast increase in coal production to ''protect ourselves from uncertain supplies'' of oil. North Antelope Rochelle and the other vast strip mines cutting through the plains of Wyoming's Powder River Basin -- whose low-sulfur carbon met standards imposed by the Clean Air Act -- were the result. Since then, coal production west of the Mississippi has multiplied by four times, to about 640 million tons a year.
While nuclear power also ranked high in President Carter's speech, it proved no match against cheap coal and gas -- especially after the force of American public opinion, scarred by visions of Three Mile Island and Ukraine's Chernobyl disaster, contributed to delays and regulatory hurdles that made building a new nuclear power plant prohibitively more expensive.
Today, the world is staring at a similar inflection point in energy policy. Glowing wood fires are now understood to be a problem, spewing heat-trapping carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. Most scientists see coal -- what James Schlesinger, the nation's first energy secretary, called America's ''black hope'' -- as one of the biggest threats to the world's climate.
But even as the consensus among experts builds that coal and other fossil fuels must be sharply reduced and eventually removed from the energy matrix, there is no agreement on what sources of energy could feasibly take their place, and how to get from here to there.
As in the 1970s, environmental activists remain enthralled by the sun and the wind. But three decades' worth of renewable energy dreams have yielded too little to entrust them with the job of replacing fossil fuels.
Today renewable energy supplies only about 6 percent of American demand. And most of that comes from water flowing through dams. Solar energy contributes next to nothing.
Averting climate change is likely to require much less eco-friendly sources of power. This includes natural gas, of course, which emits about half the carbon dioxide of coal. But over the long term it is likely to require much more investment in a big bugaboo of the environmental movement: nuclear power.
The arithmetic is merciless. To make it likely that the world's temperature will rise no more than 2 degrees Celsius above the average of the preindustrial era -- a target agreed to by the world's governments in 2010 -- humanity must spew no more than 900 billion more tons of carbon dioxide into the air from now through 2050 and only 75 billion tons after that, according to an authoritative new study in Britain.
The question is how to square that both with the energy that we need and the energy that we have.
The United States Energy Information Administration forecasts that global energy consumption will grow 56 percent between now and 2040. Almost 80 percent of that energy demand will be satisfied by fossil fuels. Under this assumption, carbon emissions would rise to 45 billion tons a year in 2040, from 32 billion in 2011, and the world would blow past its carbon ceiling in fewer than 25 years.
''We have trillions of tons of coal resources in the world,'' Vic Svec, spokesman for Peabody Energy, told me. ''You can expect the world to use them all.''
The only way around this is to put something in coal's place, at a reasonably competitive price. Neither the warm glow of the sun nor the restless power of the wind is going to do the trick, at least not soon enough to make a difference in the battle to prevent climate change.
An analysis of power generation in 21 countries by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development and the International Energy Agency projected that even if the world were to impose a tax of $30 per metric ton of carbon dioxide, neither wind nor solar could outcompete gas and coal.
A new generation of nuclear power, by contrast, is potentially the cheapest energy source of all.
The study projected that the typical nuclear generator in North America could produce power at $50 to $75 per megawatt/hour, depending on assumptions about construction costs and interest rates, against $70 to $80 for coal-fueled power. Wind-powered electricity would cost from $60 to $90, but there are limits to how much it can be scaled up. A megawatt/hour of solar power still costs in the hundreds.
The study concluded that nuclear power would prove even more competitive in Asia and Europe.
It is easy to despair about the climate's prospects. Sure, President Obama's new energy policy calls for tight limits on coal-fired power plants. But nuclear power barely merited a mention in his speech at Georgetown University. The odds that Congress will pass a tax on carbon emissions seem as low as ever. Without one, any alternative energy source will have a hard time competing against fossil fuels.
Public opinion around the world has become vehemently against nuclear energy after the tsunami damage to the power reactor in Fukushima, Japan, in 2011. Germany, one of the most committed nations in the combat against climate change, has turned its back on nuclear power and, intentionally or not, increased its dependence on carbon-heavy coal. China, the world's fastest-growing energy hog, is building reactors at speed, but it is building coal-fired power plants even faster.
Robert Stone, a documentary filmmaker who directed ''Pandora's Promise,'' about the environmental case for nuclear power, argues that atomic energy's time is coming. Younger environmentalists don't associate nuclear power with Chernobyl and the cold war. Studies have revealed it to be safer than other fuels.
In the movie, Michael Shellenberger, an environmental activist whom Time magazine once named a Hero of the Environment, argues that beliefs that solar and wind power can displace fossil fuels amount to ''hallucinatory delusions.''
Still, the hurdles are substantial. There are fewer nuclear generators in the United States than in 1987. Just maintaining nuclear energy's share of 19 percent of the nation's electricity generation will require adding several dozen new ones. Each will take some 10 years and $5 billion to construct. If nuclear power is to play a leading role combating climate change, it should start now.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Peabody Energy's North Antelope Rochelle Mine in Wyoming, which has a huge coal reserve. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EDUARDO PORTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Economic Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COAL INDUSTRY (90%); COAL MINING (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (89%); MAMMALS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); COAL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (89%); MINING OUTPUT (89%); NUCLEAR ACCIDENTS (86%); SURFACE MINING (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); CHERNOBYL NUCLEAR DISASTER (70%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (66%); US PRESIDENTS (63%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (61%); RIVERS (50%)

COMPANY: PEABODY ENERGY CORP (91%)

TICKER: BTU (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS213113 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR COAL MINING (91%); NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (91%); NAICS212111 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (91%)

PERSON: RALPH NADER (79%); JIMMY CARTER (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) WYOMING, USA (91%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); UKRAINE (86%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2013



609 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1082 words

HEADLINE: Currency Volatility Unnerving Investors

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL POPPER; Jen Swanson contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Lawmakers and central bankers in India, Indonesia, Turkey and several emerging-market economies are scrambling to contain the damage from falling currencies and to keep foreign investors from heading for the exits.
Money has poured out of those economies over the last few weeks, pushing down the prices of a wide array of assets, including stocks, bonds and currencies. On Tuesday, the Indian rupee fell to a record low against the dollar, while the Indonesian rupiah dropped to its lowest level against the dollar since 2009.
In an effort to slow the exodus of foreign money from Turkey, the country's central bank raised a key interest rate on Tuesday. That came as the Reserve Bank of India announced that it would start buying Indian government bonds later this week to ''address the risks to macroeconomic stability.'' 
''At this point in time I personally see the current government is completely in panic,'' said Arvind Singhal, the chairman of Technopak Advisors, a consulting firm in Delhi. The strengthening of the American economy appears to be one of the catalysts for the problems in the emerging economies. A booming United States stock market has been a magnet for investors who might have otherwise invested in overseas stocks.
More important, the American economic recovery is causing the Federal Reserve to reconsider the need for the stimulus measures that have fueled the boom in places like India and Turkey.
Many of these nations fueled their economic growth with an unprecedented flow of money from foreign investors. Those investors, in turn, were encouraged by the low-interest-rate policies of the Fed, which made it easy to borrow money and send it abroad.
Last year, $1.2 trillion poured into emerging economies from around the world, nearly six times the amount going in just a decade ago, according to a report out Tuesday from HSBC.
As the Fed is taking the first steps toward letting rates rise in the United States, investors are pulling back their money. As they do, the local economies worsen, setting off a self-perpetuating cycle of market drops. Mutual funds that hold emerging market bonds, for example, have seen investors pull out money every single week since May, according to the data firm EPFR.
The sell-offs have recalled some of the emerging market crises of previous decades.
Many analysts say they believe that even the most troubled countries are insulated from that sort of economic collapse, but the optimism that was common a few years ago has largely dried up.
''I don't see any near-term positive indicators out there for investors to start piling back into emerging markets,'' said Kevin Daly, who invests in emerging markets debt for Aberdeen Asset Management in London.
The experiences in many emerging markets are the flip side of the economic situation in the United States, where the economic data has been improving.
In the United States, the stock markets closed Tuesday with little change. Both the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index and the Nasdaq composite index rose modestly, while the Dow Jones industrial average slipped slightly. The S.& P. 500 gained 6.29 points, or 0.4 percent, to close at 1,652.35. The Nasdaq picked up 24.50 points, or 0.7 percent, to close at 3,613.59. The Dow fell 7.75 points, to 15,002.99.
The most acute problems in the emerging markets began in May, when Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed chairman, gave the first signals that the Fed might begin trimming back the bond purchases it had been making to support the economy. Since then, a wide array of global assets have moved in tandem with forecasts of how soon the Fed might slow the bond purchases.
The changes at the Fed, though, have not hit evenly across the developing world. Initially, the hardest hit countries were those that were also exposed to an economic slowdown in China. Australia, which relies heavily on exports of commodities to China, fell sharply earlier in the summer.
The fear that Indonesia may not be able to continue attracting that money helped push the main stock index in Jakarta down 3.2 percent on Tuesday. Over the last month, the index has dropped 11.6 percent.
The most urgent fears have centered around India, where the economy is more than twice as large as Indonesia's, and where the current account deficit is projected to be more than twice as big this year.
Investors have sold 24 percent of the money they had in Indian bonds since May, according to a Credit Suisse analysis of Indian government figures. All of that money leaving the country makes the national currency, the rupee, worth less.
For ordinary Indians, the falling value of the rupee has quickly made foreign goods more expensive, fanning inflation.
Indian lawmakers have taken a number of steps aimed at stemming the tide of money rushing out of the country. The government has tried to limit the amount of investments Indian companies can make overseas, and has also tried to curtail purchases of gold and silver from abroad. All of these measures, though, have appeared to make the problems worse.
''Initially the government just tried to talk their way through by saying everything is all fine, but it did not work,'' Mr. Singhal, the consultant, said. ''Then they get into active intervention in the market, but that hasn't worked either''
Central bankers are in a somewhat difficult position because in order to keep more money in the country and tame inflation, interest rates need to rise. But higher interest rates make it harder for local companies to borrow, potentially limiting economic growth. That is leading to unusual measures like the bond-buying program that the Indian central bank announced Tuesday.
Some Indians are pinning their hopes on the arrival of Raghuram Rajan, a highly regarded University of Chicago economics professor who is set to take over the helm of the Reserve Bank of India in September.
But many economists say they believe that the problems are unlikely to significantly improve before the national elections bring in a new government next year.
''As a patriot, I'd definitely say they should be able to'' stabilize the currency, said Ajay Chaturvedi, the founder of a HarVa, an Indian outsourcing firm. ''But I don't think as a finance guy that they'll be able to.''
In the bond market in the United States on Tuesday, the price of the Treasury's 10-year note rose 17/32, to 97 8/32. Its yield dropped to 2.82 percent, from 2.88 percent late Monday.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A fishmonger counting rupees in Varanasi, India. On Tuesday, the Indian rupee fell to a record low against the dollar. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RAJESH KUMAR SINGH/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B2) CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (93%); EMERGING MARKETS (91%); CENTRAL BANKS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); EXCHANGE RATES (90%); BONDS (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (74%); INTEREST RATES (74%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (67%)

COMPANY: RESERVE BANK OF INDIA (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (56%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (76%); DELHI, INDIA (73%) INDIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); INDONESIA (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2013



610 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1322 words

HEADLINE: Nonprofits Are Balking at Law On Disclosing Political Donors

BYLINE: By THOMAS KAPLAN

 BODY:
In an era of enormous, and often secretive, political spending, an ethics law championed by Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo was billed as a major breakthrough: tax-exempt groups that lobby New York State government would finally be required to reveal where they got their money.
But two years after the law passed, a growing number of nonprofit organizations, spanning the ideological spectrum, are seeking exemptions, arguing that their donors could be endangered if their names were released to the public.
The debate in Albany over which groups should be excluded from the disclosure law is quickly intensifying, echoing disputes over transparency versus privacy in California, Maine, Minnesota and other states.
It comes as national political spending by nonprofit groups has increased in the wake of the Supreme Court's Citizens United decision on campaign finance. 
In Albany, where even transparency is discussed in secret, the state ethics commission voted behind closed doors to grant an exemption to Naral Pro-Choice New York, a prominent abortion rights group. That lone exemption has prompted Republicans to accuse ethics regulators of favoring liberal organizations.
The application by Naral was followed by requests from at least four other groups -- two more supporting abortion rights, a group opposing abortion and same-sex marriage, and the New York Civil Liberties Union.
Some government watchdogs are hoping that the ethics commission takes a tough stance by limiting exemptions.
''It can quickly become a slippery slope,'' said Dick Dadey, the executive director of Citizens Union, a good-government group. Mr. Dadey said exemptions should be granted ''only in rare circumstances,'' like ''evidence of an actual threat.''
''Once you start pulling out one thread and creating an exemption,'' he added, ''you risk having the whole network of reporting be undermined.''
But the groups seeking exemptions say the potential cost of disclosure is too high.
Andrea Miller, the president of Naral Pro-Choice New York, said, ''Even here in New York, where there's such extraordinary public support for a woman's right to choose, our organization has been targeted.''
Ms. Miller said the group regularly received disturbing handwritten letters, and once had a menacing video posted on its Facebook page by a man who was later convicted of assisting in what he thought was a plot to bomb an abortion clinic.
Other groups around the nation have also sought to shield their donors from public scrutiny. In recent years, the National Organization for Marriage, which opposes same-sex marriage, has sued in several states to challenge laws requiring the disclosure of donors.
And this spring, the Federal Election Commission agreed to continue exempting the Socialist Workers Party, citing the ''long history of threats, violence and harassment'' against it.
But New York has emerged as a central battleground for efforts to mandate greater disclosure.
In addition to the requirement for nonprofit groups to disclose donors to lobbying efforts, the state attorney general, Eric T. Schneiderman, in June began requiring them to also reveal donations they use to pay for election spending. And last year, the New York City Campaign Finance Board adopted similar rules for independent expenditures in city races.
The new lobbying regulations in New York are notable because they apply to groups organized under Section 501(c)(4) of the federal tax code -- groups that have not been required to disclose their donors. Such groups are intended to promote ''social welfare,'' but they have become a political force: on the federal level, they reported spending of more than $256 million in the 2012 election cycle, according to the Center for Responsive Politics in Washington, which tracks political spending.
In New York, they have been big players, too. One group, the Committee to Save New York, spent more than $13 million on advertising supporting Mr. Cuomo's agenda in 2011 and 2012; the group went dormant as soon as the state started requiring disclosure of donors.
''It's a period of tremendous evolution right now in these laws about disclosure,'' said Kelly Williams, the corporate general counsel for the Brennan Center for Justice, a research and advocacy group at the New York University School of Law.
Ms. Williams said organizations should be exempted from disclosure when there was credible evidence their donors could face threats or harassment, but not when they feared the prospect of economic harm to their donors, -- from a boycott, for example.
New York's definition of lobbying goes beyond back-room arm-twisting at the Capitol. It also includes spending on television advertisements that have become a common means for outside groups to rally public support of or opposition against legislation.
The new measure requires groups that devote substantial resources to lobbying to disclose all of their donors who contribute more than $5,000.
Mr. Cuomo's office included in the legislation an exception for lobbying groups whose donors might face ''harm, threats, harassment, or reprisals,'' like civil rights groups.
A spokeswoman for Mr. Cuomo, a Democrat, said the exemptions were legally necessary but did not undermine the law.
''For far too long, the world of tax-exempt groups, operating unregulated as lobbying entities, has been in need of sunshine and reform,'' the spokeswoman, Melissa DeRosa, said. ''Under Governor Cuomo's leadership, New York is the most progressive state in the nation in that pursuit, while abiding by federal case law considering safety exemptions.''
So far, about 80 groups, many of them trade associations, have disclosed their sources of financing.
The Naral exemption was approved by the state ethics commission in June.
Since then, the exemption has attracted notice because Naral has been so politically active: waging a campaign last year to help Democrats take control of the State Senate; spending $425,000 on lobbying this year, pushing an abortion rights measure put forth by Mr. Cuomo; and vowing to go after incumbent Republican senators next year.
David A. Renzi, a Republican appointee to the ethics commission from Watertown, said at the panel's last meeting that he was concerned about the process by which the commission was considering exclusions.
''Really, what we're talking about is potentially tens of millions of dollars to be exempted from review,'' he said. ''We should have that debate publicly.''
After Mr. Renzi's complaint, the commission decided to table other exemption applications while it considered whether the process should be less opaque.
The State Senate Republican leader, Dean G. Skelos of Long Island, has asked the commission to withdraw Naral's exemption, saying the panel ''acted rashly.''
The ethics commission would not name groups seeking exemptions, but several have identified themselves publicly, among them Family Planning Advocates of New York State, which cited the 1998 murder in suburban Buffalo of an obstetrician who performed abortions, and New Yorkers for Constitutional Freedoms, which cited attacks against supporters of Proposition 8, the California ballot measure that banned same-sex marriage.
''We have no intention of releasing those donors,'' said the Rev. Jason J. McGuire, the executive director of New Yorkers for Constitutional Freedoms.
The New York Civil Liberties Union, which said that Supreme Court precedent required the state to provide an exemption for groups whose work is deeply controversial, is also worried about ramifications for donors.
''People say nasty things about us or call us up all the time, and we can take that,'' said Arthur Eisenberg, the group's legal director. ''It's the individual donors who shouldn't need to take that, and the price of their association with us, and their participation in the First Amendment activity of lobbying, should not be at the cost of their feeling secure and free from threats and retaliation.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: At the State Capitol in Albany. A law on disclosing donors had been hailed as a breakthrough. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Andrea Miller, the president of Naral Pro-Choice New York, said the abortion rights group regularly got disturbing letters. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT CAPLIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ETHICS (92%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (91%); ABORTION (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); LOBBYING (90%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (77%); LITIGATION (74%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (73%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (73%); GAYS & LESBIANS (72%); MARRIAGE (71%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (71%); SUITS & CLAIMS (69%); SUPREME COURTS (69%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (67%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (67%); EXECUTIVES (64%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (62%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: NARAL PRO-CHOICE (83%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2013



611 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 524 words

HEADLINE: Republicans Retreat From a Shutdown

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

 BODY:
Whether out of pure self-preservation or a sudden attack of common sense, a growing group of Republicans is saying no to the strident extremists who want to shut down the government this fall if health care reform is allowed to proceed. ''I think it's the dumbest idea I've ever heard of,'' Senator Richard Burr, a Republican of North Carolina, said recently. 
He and others in his party are pushing back hard against the idea -- promulgated by Senators Ted Cruz, Marco Rubio and Mike Lee, as well as others in the Tea Party camp -- that Republicans should not agree to any legislation that keeps the government going after Sept. 30 if it also pays for the new health care system. So far, only 13 reckless senators have signed on to this movement; most of the others recognize that the attempt would not only be futile but also ruinous to what little remains of their party's reputation for governing. Adam Kinzinger, a Republican congressman from Illinois, said that once voters realized the damage that could be caused by a shutdown, they might push his party out of control of the House. ''Potentially there will be a collapse of will to keep the government shut down because soldiers are not getting paid, and all this other stuff's happening, and we turn around and lose 10-20 seats in 2014,'' he said.
That doesn't mean, however, that Republicans are out of foolish ideas. Virtually every one of the party's elected officials takes it as an article of faith that health care reform must be stopped, and many are still looking for other ways besides a shutdown to make sure the uninsured remain that way. As National Review recently reported, several lawmakers who consider a government shutdown a political liability -- including the leadership of the House -- are still willing to threaten a government default later this year if health care reform isn't stopped or delayed.
In other words, they would refuse to raise the debt ceiling if their demands aren't met, just as they did during a similar debacle in 2011 that damaged the nation's credit rating and led to the sequester. That would be far worse than a brief shutdown, inflicting much greater damage on credit markets and the overall economy. But the prospect doesn't seem to bother Republican leaders -- like Speaker John Boehner who are still raising expectations in the party's base that the debt ceiling remains a useful tool for extracting significant concessions from Democrats. If the leadership can send out signals that a shutdown is unacceptable, it is irresponsible for them not to do the same on a government default.
It is not clear, however, that Mr. Boehner has enough control over his rowdy caucus to prevent either kind of disaster. Even if health care is removed from the table, House Republicans are still demanding spending cuts in the upcoming fiscal year that are significantly below the levels of the sequester, which has already inflicted severe pain. They have refused to sit at a conference table with Senate Democrats. When Congress returns from recess in September, moderate Republicans who care about their party's reputation may be waging a losing battle.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); HEALTH CARE (77%); CLOSINGS (77%); POLITICS (76%); DEBT CEILING (75%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (73%)

PERSON: TED CRUZ (79%); MIKE LEE (58%); MARCO RUBIO (58%); ADAM KINZINGER (58%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%); RICHARD BURR (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2013



612 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 894 words

HEADLINE: Wanted: A Boring Leader for the Fed

BYLINE: By AMAR BHIDÉ. 
Amar Bhidé, a professor at the Fletcher School at Tufts, is the author, most recently, of ''A Call for Judgment: Sensible Finance for a Dynamic Economy.''

 BODY:
MEDFORD, Mass. -- THE debate over who should succeed Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, has been exceptionally personality-driven. Supporters and opponents of the two leading contenders -- Lawrence H. Summers, a former Treasury secretary and adviser to President Obama, and Janet L. Yellen, a Clinton administration veteran like Mr. Summers, and now the Fed's vice chairwoman -- have been feuding in public. Mr. Obama has called the decision, which is expected soon, one of the most important of his presidency.
What all sides seem to misunderstand, however, is the proper nature of the central bank's role in the economy. Instead of casting about for a new maestro, we need to return the Fed to dullness and its chairman to obscurity. 
The Fed has become anything but boring. Under Mr. Bernanke and his predecessor, Alan Greenspan, it didn't foresee the housing bubble, much less try to pop it. Even if the Fed could identify bubbles, Mr. Bernanke once said, ''monetary policy is too blunt a tool for effective use against them.''
Yet for more than four years, the Fed has used this blunt instrument on an unprecedented scale. It is currently buying $85 billion in Treasury and mortgage-backed securities every month, the third round of a strategy, known as quantitative easing, that aims to stimulate the economy by keeping interest rates low.
Mr. Bernanke's supporters say he has done his best with monetary policy while a do-nothing Congress has offered no help through fiscal policy. But quantitative easing has amounted to an audacious experiment in trickle-down economics. Among other things, it has artificially boosted the stock market in the hope that enriching a few -- the top 1 percent of American households owned 42 percent of the nation's financial assets in 2010 -- will help the many. Meanwhile, retirees who don't dare buy stocks have seen their modest bank deposits stagnate with interest rates near zero (despite a recent significant increase in Treasury yields).
Economists hate to admit it, but the profession is as much faith as science. ''If we speak frankly,'' John Maynard Keynes once wrote, ''we have to admit that our basis of knowledge for estimating the yield 10 years hence of a railway, a copper mine, a textile factory, the goodwill of a patent medicine, an Atlantic liner, a building in the City of London amounts to little and sometimes to nothing; or even five years hence.'' Even in medicine, where double-blind experiments with control groups are de rigueur, the evidence of efficacy is far from ironclad; for economic policy, it is even less so.
Supporters say Mr. Bernanke has made up for his lack of prescience before the Great Recession through his bold emergency rescue actions, coordinated with President George W. Bush and then President Obama, and his willingness to do ''whatever it takes'' to get the economy moving, despite the potential risks of inflation down the road.
But wittingly or not, the mild-mannered Mr. Bernanke has made his job even more prominent than it was under Mr. Greenspan's 19-year tenure. Such concentration of power within the Federal Reserve Board in Washington is precisely what Congress did not intend when it created the central bank in 1913.
The Fed's chairmen in recent decades have been eminently qualified individuals of undisputed probity. But they are humans, too, whose blind spots, egos and potential conflicts of interest -- Mr. Greenspan has had a lucrative post-Fed career giving speeches and advice -- raise real concerns about hubris, even bias. The solution is not to subject the Fed to the whims of a dysfunctional Congress but rather to scale back what we can expect of it.
Counting on monetary policy to secure full employment is like attempting vascular surgery with a dull ax. Diversity and dynamism are vital features of our economy. As home building in Nevada collapsed, fracking in North Dakota boomed. Facebook and Apple surged while AOL and Yahoo stumbled. Across-the-board interest-rate suppression is just as likely to pump up already surging sectors as it is to revive slumping ones. Property prices have soared in Manhattan, while Detroit is in a death spiral.
Commanding the Fed to eliminate price fluctuations is also asking too much. The prices of bananas can fluctuate even across neighboring supermarkets. Each of us has our own consumption basket and inflation rate. The overall inflation rate is important -- as Mr. Greenspan's predecessor, Paul A. Volcker, demonstrated in the early 1980s when he crushed inflation at the cost of painful, back-to-back recessions -- but only at the extremes.
Where the Fed must be held more accountable is for its oversight of banks. It is banks, not the government, that effectively create most of the money we use, by extending credit where it is most needed. As we've painfully learned, banks can over-lend and even set off an economic collapse.
Before the crisis the Fed seemingly lost all capacity for the painstaking, boots-on-the-ground supervision of the banks under its purview. And, effective or not, top-down monetary interventions remain attractive to the Fed's top brass. Running what amounts to a hedge fund on steroids is more glamorous and exciting than managing a regulatory bureaucracy. Perhaps the most important qualification for the next Fed leader is one all too rare in Washington: humility.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); RECESSION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); DRUG EFFICACY (73%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (71%); INTEREST RATES (70%); SECURITIES TRADING (70%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (69%); HOUSING MARKET (69%); HOUSING BUBBLE (69%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (68%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (65%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (62%); COPPER MINING (50%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (90%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (88%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (51%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2013



613 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 476 words

HEADLINE: Robotic-Task Economics

BYLINE: CASEY B. MULLIGAN


HIGHLIGHT: The machines likely to provide the highest return on investment are those that help people to be more productive in their jobs, not replace them, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Casey B. Mulligan is an economics professor at the University of Chicago. He is the author of "The Redistribution Recession: How Labor Market Distortions Contracted the Economy." 
The forces of supply and demand suggest that the machines of the future will continue to be significantly different from people.
Anthropomorphic robots are prominent in science fiction. Novels like Mary Shelley's "Frankenstein," and films like "E.T.," "Star Wars" and "The Terminator" feature machines with one head, two eyes and many other features of humans. But those robots were created by authors to entertain audiences, and not by investors to produce some other kind of economic value.
At first glance, it would seem that the state of technological progress is all that limits the creation of machines closely resembling humans. Especially after the recent recession, people are concerned that technological progress is moving at a pace that will soon permit machines to put wide swaths of the human population out of work, and not just displace workers from one industry to another. 
I disagree. Powerful economic forces will push the machines of the future to be different from people, and to complement workers rather than mimic what they do. 
Machines are expensive to design and manufacture, and most of the people directing the creation of machines have an eye on the rate of return: the economic value of a finished machine as compared to the costs of creating it. The more profitable investments will, by definition, be in machines with a higher rate of return. 
The earth is already occupied by quite a number of people, and a machine like Frankenstein or C-3PO might find itself with seven billion competitors.
Take my example last week of baby-sitter robots. A baby-sitting machine with a high rate of return might, as one commenter suggested, be one designed to help children during fires and other disasters. Or a machine to care for children at night. These are examples of child care tasks with less competition from people than the ordinary baby-sitting tasks.
Human help is, of course, not free, and economizing on the cost of a baby sitter or an automobile driver is a reward for creating a machine to do those tasks. But the amount of the reward is commensurate with the amount of wages that people earn in the task.
Machines that drive human workers into unemployment, rather than into another industry where the human workers will be productive, will serve only to drive down workers' wages and thereby drive down the machine's value. Machines that, instead, help people to be more productive will find it much harder to saturate their own market.
Rather than finding an intelligent and tireless robot in your office chair, expect the machines of the future to help workers, not harm them.

        
Baby-Sitter Robots and Population Growth
        
The Future of Driving

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ROBOTICS (90%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); SCIENCE FICTION LITERATURE (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); INDUSTRIAL AUTOMATION (70%); CHILD CARE (67%) Robots and Robotics; Today's Economist

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2013



614 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2013

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: New York Today: Another Chance to Debate

BYLINE: SARAH NIR


HIGHLIGHT: What you need to know for Wednesday: The mayoral candidates debate, a community party on the High Line and remembering a historic march and speech 50 years later. 

 BODY:
Updated, 8:40 a.m. | The first televised general topic debate for the Democratic nomination that features all seven main mayoral candidates can be seen tonight at 7 p.m. on NY1.
Among the panelists asking questions will be David W. Chen, the City Hall bureau chief of The New York Times.
How do you get ready for a debate? 
First, Mr. Chen said, his daughters decide what outfit he should wear.
Next, there's huddling with other panelists and combing through "archives and collective memories."
The challenge: to find a question that hasn't been asked in one of the dozens if not hundreds of forums this year.
With the Sept. 10 primary nearing, what happens tonight could be pivotal, Mr. Chen told us.
"The stakes are higher because they know that more people are going to be watching," he said. "So late in the campaign, any gaffe can be magnified through 1,000 tweets."
Recent polls have tightened, with some showing Bill de Blasio pulling ahead of Christine C. Quinn.
But candidates who try to stand out with sharp attacks run the risk of alienating some voters, Mr. Chen said.
"Support is soft and can easily change," he said.
Here's what you need to know for your Wednesday. 
 WEATHER 
Our first day of hot weather in a while. It will be nearly 90 degrees. This is how August in New York is supposed to feel. We can cope.
 TRANSIT & TRAFFIC 
 Mass Transit [8:40] F trains are running on the E tracks from Roosevelt Ave-Jackson Heights to 5th Ave-53rd St. The southbound E, M and R trains are delayed.
Allow additional travel time. Click for latest M.T.A. status.
 Roads [8:40] Over an hour-and-a-half delay at the Tappan Zee Bridge because of an accident in the northbound lanes.Click for traffic map or radio report on the 1s.
Alternate-side parking is in effect.
 COMING UP TODAY 
 Find love at a free four-day qualifying tournament for the United States Open at the Billie Jean King National Tennis Center at 10 a.m. [Free]
 Get your DeLorean tuned up for "Back to the Future," at the South Street Seaport. [Free]
 Or grab your bow and arrow - actually, don't under any circumstances - for "The Hunger Games" in Hudson River Parkat sundown. [Free]
 There's a free screening of "Beacons in Jazz" as part of the Charlie Parker Jazz Festival at 6:30 p.m. in the New School Jazz Performance Space, 55 West 13th Street, 5th Floor. [Free]
It's the last summer Latin community dance party on the High Line at 7 p.m. ¡Arriba! [Free]
 Learn about the role New York played in the Revolutionary War (an important one) in the Battle of Brooklyn history tour led by an urban park ranger at 6:30 p.m. in Brooklyn Bridge Park. [Free]
 IN THE NEWS 
 A growing number of New York nonprofits are seeking exemptions for a rule requiring that they reveal donors, saying it would risk their supporters' safety. [New York Times]
 Your neighbor's phone conversation on the subway will be brought to you by Verizon. [BusinessWire]
 A man suspected of setting fires around Queens - including to a former elected official's car - has been arrested. [CBS]
 Willets Point residents were offered large subsidies if they vacate the blighted area by a fall deadline to make way for a proposed mall near Citi Field. [CBS]
 A huge fire enveloped a Jersey City recycling plant. No one was injured. [ABC]
 A champion cliff diver dove 75 feet into the Hudson River from a helicopter. [Time Out]
 West Nile virus has been found in mosquitoes this year in all five boroughs of New York City. The health department has suggestions on how to protect yourself. [NYC.gov]
 Bill de Blasio appeared in court over an earlier civil disobedience charge stemming from an arrest at a protest against hospital closings. [Huffington Post]
 The is officially hip: there are now photo booths. [Gothamist]
 It's obviously a lie by some fool who doesn't know how exceptionally perfect we are, but New York was voted the rudest and most arrogant state. [New York Magazine]
 AND FINALLY... 
Next week is the 50th anniversary of the March on Washington, the civil rights rally led by the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
Tonight at 6:30, outside the State Office building on 125th Street in Harlem, a veritable who's who of the city's minority leaders will come together to commemorate that moment and reiterate its calls, albeit retooled for modern times.
American inequality today manifests itself economically, said Eric T. Schneiderman, the New York attorney general, who will be addressing the crowd.
"Dr. King called on people to decry the twin evils of discrimination and economic deprivation," Mr. Schneiderman said in an interview. "Dr. King was about much more than ending segregation."
Nicole Higgins DeSmet contributed reporting. 
 We're testing New York Today, a morning roundup that stays live from 6 a.m. till about noon. 
 What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, e-mail Sarah Maslin Nir or reach us via Twitter at @nytmetro using #NYToday. Thanks! 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MAYORS (91%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); TOURNAMENTS (70%); TRAINS (69%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (69%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (65%); TENNIS (65%); SPORTS (65%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (62%); JAZZ & BLUES (62%); FESTIVALS (60%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (60%) New York Today

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2013



615 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2013

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 278 words

HEADLINE: Another Euro Teaser From VW: The Golf R

BYLINE: BENJAMIN PRESTON


HIGHLIGHT: The new Golf R gets a significant jolt of horsepower, but VW says it also boasts improved fuel economy. 

 BODY:
So far this year, Volkswagen has released the Golf GTI, Golf GTD, Golf Variant and Golf TDI BlueMotion. The automaker announced the latest weapon in its Golf arsenal on Tuesday: the Golf R, which it said would be the nameplate's flagship. 
Golf R gets VW's updated EA888 turbocharged 2-liter 4-cylinder gasoline engine. Compared with the 227-horsepower GTI, the R's engine will crank out 296 horsepower at 5,500 r.p.m., delivering 280 pound-feet of torque. Cars equipped with the 6-speed manual transmission reach 62 miles per hour in 5.3 seconds - 4.9 seconds with the 6-speed dual-clutch automatic - on the way to an electronically limited top speed of 155 m.p.h.
The Golf R will be equipped with a computer-controlled all-wheel-drive system and a sport suspension system that makes the car sit - on 18-inch wheels - nearly an inch lower than the standard Golf. Volkswagen said in a news release on Tuesday that the manual-transmission model would get 33 miles per gallon and the automatic 34.
Passengers up front will sit in sport seats, and the dash will be set with light blue tachometer and speedometer gauge faces; gauge needles will light up when the driver's door is opened. The infotainment center screen will be available in 5-, 5.8- and 8-inch sizes.
No word on if or when the Golf R will appear in the United States, but Volkswagen said it would go on sale in Europe later this year. VW said the price in Germany would be about $51,000.

        
Wheelies: The FARC Tungsten Edition
        
Insurance Group Rates Small Cars in Offset Crash Test
        
Volkswagen Reveals Cleaner, More Powerful Diesel Engine
        
Wheelies: The Next NSX Edition
        
World War II Tanks Roll in Western France ... Again

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); VEHICLE CRASH TESTING (78%); WORLD WAR II (50%) automobiles; Europe; Volkswagen AG; Automobiles; Volkswagen AG|VLKAY|Other OTC

COMPANY: VOLKSWAGEN FINANCIAL SERVICES AG (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Volkswagen AG

TICKER: Volkswagen AG; VLKAY; Other OTC

INDUSTRY: NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (75%); CENTRAL EUROPE (70%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2013



616 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Ross Douthat)

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1022 words

HEADLINE: On Taking Sides in the Middle East

BYLINE: ROSS DOUTHAT


HIGHLIGHT: Some thoughts on whether it behooves a superpower to always pick a side in civil wars. 

 BODY:
As a counterpoint to my recent commentary suggesting that we should disentangle ourselves from Egypt's military, here's the Wall Street Journal's Bret Stephens making the case that we need to double down on our support for them instead:
What's realistic and desirable is for the military to succeed in its confrontation with the Brotherhood as quickly and convincingly as possible. Victory permits magnanimity. It gives ordinary Egyptians the opportunity to return to normal life. It deters potential political and military challenges. It allows the appointed civilian government to assume a prominent political role. It settles the diplomatic landscape. It lets the neighbors know what's what. 
... Of course there's the argument that brute repression by the military energizes the Brotherhood. Maybe. Also possible is that a policy of restraint emboldens the Brotherhood. The military judged the second possibility more likely. That might be mistaken, but at least it's based on a keener understanding of the way Egyptians think than the usual Western clichés about violence always begetting violence.
There's also an argument that since our $1.3 billion in military aid hasn't gotten Gen. Sisi to take our advice, we may as well withdraw it. But why should we expect him to take bad advice? Politics in Egypt today is a zero-sum game: Either the military wins, or the Brotherhood does. If the U.S. wants influence, it needs to hold its nose and take a side.
As it is, the people who now are most convinced that Mr. Obama is a secret Muslim aren't tea party mama grizzlies. They're Egyptian secularists. To persuade them otherwise, the president might consider taking steps to help a government the secularists rightly consider an instrument of their salvation. Gen. Sisi may not need shiny new F-16s, but riot gear, tear gas, rubber bullets and Taser guns could help, especially to prevent the kind of bloodbaths the world witnessed last week.
Since Stephens and I fairly reliably disagree on issues foreign and domestic, I went back and read what he wrote the last time a Middle Eastern/North African government was putting down its opposition by force of arms. And sure enough, back when I was urging the United States not to intervene militarily in Libya's civil war, he was waxing eloquent about neoconservatism and democracy promotion and arguing that "bedrock American values" required us to take the opposition's side against Qaddafi.
Now one could accuse Stephens of self-contradiction for pivoting, in the space of two years, from demanding a Wilsonian-inflected military intervention against one dictatorship (whose fall, predictably enough, empowered Islamist groups across North Africa) to urging a Kissingerian cold-bloodedness in support of another military junta as it seeks to consolidate the power it has recently reclaimed. But then again one could also accuse me of self-contradiction for pivoting in the opposite direction, from an indifference to "responsibility to protect" arguments where the fate of a Libyan city was concerned to a sudden tendermindedness about how the Egyptian military deals with a group that - it might be argued - poses a much more significant threat to U.S. interests in the region than any of Libya or Mali's ragged Islamists ever could.
The real difference that explains these mirror-image pivots, I think, is our respective senses of whether it's always in the United States's interest to go all-in for one side or another in the Arab Spring's various upheavals. For Stephens, at least as I read his analysis, picking a side is just what an effective superpower does, and once we've chosen that side we need to see them through to victory or else our credibility and effectiveness alike will be permanently compromised. Seen in this light, there isn't any necessary contradiction between demanding intervention on behalf of Libya's rebels and demanding that we double down in support of Egypt's military two years later: The two internal conflicts are obviously different, and if you absolutely have to pick a side, you can make a reasonable case for Stephens' choices. The Libyan opposition was (and, as a government, remains) potentially pro-Western in ways that Egypt's Muslim Brotherhood isn't, Qaddafi was guilty of worse crimes (and was threatening still darker atrocities) than the Egyptian military is ever likely to commit, we have a stronger interest in stability in Cairo than in Tripoli, and so on.
But what if being the greatest of the world's great powers means that we don't actually have to always throw our weight fully behind whichever competing evil seems least bad? What if our reservoir of power means that we don't need to rush to embrace the cascade of risks involved in regime-change efforts in a strategically-unimportant state like Libya? What if our military and economic preponderance means that we can be assured of continued influence in a capital like Cairo even if we don't care to directly fund the Egyptian military's murder of civilians? What if it means that we don't always need to be gambling on dubious regimes and dubious rebellions, when keeping a little more distance might serve our interests just as well?
These are the doubts that separate my vision of America's role in the Middle East from the kind of interventions that Stephens tends to urge on our leaders. Given the problematic nature of just about every significant faction in the region's politics, I think there's a case for a deep agnosticism about which political outcomes in the Muslim world are actually better for U.S. interests in the long run. That agnosticism doesn't require disengagement; indeed, mostly it inclines me toward a realist-inflected preference for stability and continuity over revolutionary change, on devil-we-know grounds. But in moments of upheaval and chaos, it does make a case for a cool watchfulness rather a rush to choose a side, and a greater distance, material and moral, from potentials devils old and new.

        
Our Egyptian Unrealpolitik
        
Egypt and Islamic Democracy
        
The Obama Synthesis Under Siege
        
Meanwhile, in Libya ...
        
In Search of a Middle Eastern Strategy

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CIVIL WAR (89%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); POLITICS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (75%); DEFENSE SPENDING (73%); RIOTS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (66%) Egypt; International Relations; Libya; Mali; Middle East; Muslim Brotherhood (Egypt); Muslims and Islam; Stephens, Bret (1973- )

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Muslim Brotherhood (Egypt)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%) Stephens, Bret (1973- )

GEOGRAPHIC: EGYPT (99%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); AFRICA (92%); MALI (92%); NORTHERN AFRICA (92%) Egypt; Libya; Mali; Middle East

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2013



617 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Motherlode)

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2013

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: Why the Nest Isn't So Empty Anymore

BYLINE: RANDYE HODER


HIGHLIGHT: Economic troubles aren&#8217;t the only thing pulling millennials back home. The emotional bond between them and their parents is simply different from what many of us experienced with our own mothers and fathers. 

 BODY:
My husband and I recently ended a child-free month. Our 15-year-old son was away at camp, and our 21-year-old daughter - who attends a nearby college and often comes home during the school year - had a summer internship in New York. The time with just the two of us was blissful.
For four weeks, we ate when and where we wanted, and I hardly cooked at all. We hiked in the Los Angeles canyons and took long evening walks. On weekend mornings, we read the newspapers and sipped coffee at our leisure; there were no club basketball games to rush off to. And I never once stepped into the shower to discover that my razor had been stolen or accidentally started to brush my teeth with someone else's toothbrush. 
Still, a big part of what made it so great was that we knew they were coming home. In other words, this was an ersatz empty nest, not the real thing. Then again, according to a new Pew Research Center study, we may not get the chance to experience an actual empty nest - at least not for a very long time. The study, released this month, found that a record-breaking 21.6 million millennials lived at home in 2012. That's 36 percent of those aged 18 to 31, the highest number in four decades.
The trend has been attributed to various economic and demographic factors, including a lack of good employment opportunities for young people and a tendency among millennials to delay marriage.
But there is clearly something else pulling young adults back home. The emotional bond between millennials and their parents is simply different from what many of us experienced with our own mothers and fathers - even those of us who have close and caring relationships with our parents.
Many parents of millennials - we boomers - grew up in the 1960s and '70s, when the "generation gap," reflected in politics, culture, fashion and music, was the norm. Today, there is no such gap, or at least it's a lot narrower than it was. In many cases, millennials and their parents share similar tastes in fashion and music (O.K., maybe not hip-hop), and our politics are often aligned.
My daughter and I shop together and sometimes share clothing. My husband has gone to concerts with both of our children, and I've worked on political campaigns with them. We share book recommendations, hike together and all enjoy going to the gym. The truth is, our kids seem to like hanging out with us, and we enjoy hanging out with them. We help to make them feel safe in a turbulent world; they keep us connected and make us feel alive and young.
Of course, technology plays a role, too. Even when they do leave, we are never out of one another's daily lives. I spoke, e-mailed or texted with Emma every single day she was away this summer - sometimes several times a day - and so did my husband. Sometimes she would call just to chat, other times to share a funny story, and still others to seek our advice. Most of Emma's friends have similar relationships with their parents.
There is no doubt that this tough job market makes living at home a practical, if not necessary, choice for many millennials (something I've addressed before). But being home is also undoubtedly made easier because millennials and their parents are close in a way that all of us should learn to embrace and celebrate.
Of course, I hope that when Emma graduates next year, she finds a fulfilling job where she can earn enough to live on her own. But if that's not the case, I'll truly be happy to have her under my roof for a while more. I only hope she will at least make enough to buy her own razor and leave mine alone.

        
I Don't Love My Second Child the Way I Love My First
        
The Price of Urban Family Living
        
It's Easy to Be Happy on a Day Like This
        
$55 Billion: The Cost of Summer 2013
        
5 Secrets of Happy Family Vacations

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FAMILY (90%); HIKING (89%); BABY BOOMERS (86%); MARRIAGE (78%); CHILDREN (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (74%); PARENTS (72%); TRENDS (72%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (72%); RESEARCH REPORTS (70%); BASKETBALL (69%); ORAL HYGIENE (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%); PARENTING (66%); POLITICS (66%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (64%); HIP HOP CULTURE (61%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (61%); RAP MUSIC (61%); EMPLOYMENT (51%) Baby Boomers; Families and Family Life; Parenting; Youth

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2013



618 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2013

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 635 words

HEADLINE: Wheelies: The Chim Chim Cher-ee Edition

BYLINE: BENJAMIN PRESTON


HIGHLIGHT: The actor Dick Van Dyke escaped unhurt from a burning car, and G.M.&#8217;s pickup trucks get a five-star safety rating from N.H.T.S.A. 

 BODY:
In which we bring you motoring news from around the Web:
 When he sang "A sweep is as lucky, as lucky can be" in the 1964 film "Mary Poppins," Dick Van Dyke had no idea how lucky he'd one day be where soot and ash were concerned. Passers-by on Highway 101 just north of Los Angeles saw Mr. Van Dyke, the 87-year-old actor, slumped over behind the wheel of his Jaguar, which was on fire on the side of the road. Luckily, someone pulled him to safety. His wife, Arlene, said, "He's fine thank God!!" on Twitter, and posted a short video clip of her husband talking with officials. He later sent a Twitter message advertising his scorched Jag for sale, "real cheap." (ABC News) 
https://twitter.com/iammrvandy/status/369668471212105728

 Although Ferrari unveiled the hybrid LaFerrari at the Geneva auto show this year, it might still be too early for many people to associate the prancing black stallion with alternative-fuel vehicles. But according to a report from Bloomberg, Maranello has plans to build more hybrid cars. In a Bloomberg television interview, Luca Cordero di Montezemolo, Ferrari's chairman, said that although he did not believe in electric cars, hybrids had a place at Ferrari. Particularly in light of the sold-out 963-horsepower hybrid LaFerrari, which sells for $1.3 million. (Automotive News)
 With sales already booming, pickup trucks get another lift: high safety ratings from the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. According to a report from The Detroit Free Press, N.H.T.S.A. gave the 2014 Chevrolet Silverado and GMC Sierra five-star safety ratings. The Ford F-150 and Ram 1500 half-ton pickups received four-star ratings from the safety agency. (The Detroit Free Press)
 The car market in India appears to be suffering, says The Wall Street Journal, but that has spurred automakers there to increase their output of new models. Maruti Suzuki India introduced the Stingray, a sleek $6,400 econobox that is worlds away from the American Corvette Stingray in price, build and performance. Volkswagen unveiled a 1.2-liter diesel-power mini crossover, the Cross Polo. Audi also introduced the Q3 this week and Rolls-Royce the Wraith. Other automakers including Nissan, BMW and Hyundai also released new models, in hopes, says The Journal, of increasing sales through India's Diwali holiday season. (The Wall Street Journal)
 In an effort to entice creative university students into the automotive industry, Steve Cropley, Autocar's editor in chief, is again offering them an opportunity to compete for a five-month paid internship with several automakers. The writer of the best 500-word essay describing "an idea, innovation or change to corporate policy that would improve the U.K. automotive business" will win a cash prize worth nearly $12,000 and five paid monthlong internships with Toyota, Peugeot, Skoda, Jaguar Land Rover and McLaren. Roberto Antonio Pace, who won last year's Autocar-Courland Next Generation Award, proposed a cylindrical braking system. (The Telegraph)
 There is stealth weaponry like jets and submarines, but how about stealth snowmobiles? That's most definitely a Canadian thing. According to The Ottawa Citizen, the Canadian military is testing a $600,000 prototype of a hybrid-electric snowmobile aimed at serving in the country's Arctic region. Although The Citizen says development of the silent snowmobile is kept under tight wraps, a report uncovered by the paper says the Canadian military is looking for something as reliable as conventional gas-powered snowmobiles. (The Ottawa Citizen)

        
Wheelies: The Next NSX Edition
        
Honda Expands Fit Recall; Honda, Yamaha, G.M. Announce Recalls
        
Wheelies: The Land of the Rising Datsun Edition
        
N.H.T.S.A. Again Challenges Adequacy of G.M. Recall
        
Formula One's Tire Fiasco Recalls the Sport's Sometimes Lethal Past

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (90%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); PICKUP TRUCKS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); NEW CAR MODELS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOBILE RATINGS (89%); AUTOMAKERS (88%); NEW PRODUCTS (88%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (87%); MOVIE REVIEWS (78%); FILM (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY STANDARDS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); PRODUCT SAFETY (75%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (72%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (72%); RESCUE OPERATIONS (71%); DIWALI (61%); WRITERS (60%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (60%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (60%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (50%) Automobile Safety Features and Defects; automobiles; Chevrolet Division of General Motors Corp; Ferrari SpA; Great Britain; India; Los Angeles (Calif); Mary Poppins (Movie); Montezemolo, Luca Cordero di; National Highway Traffic Safety Administration; van Dyke, Dick; Automobiles

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (55%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (52%); MARUTI SUZUKI INDIA LTD (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Chevrolet Division of General Motors Corp; Ferrari SpA; National Highway Traffic Safety Administration

TICKER: MARUTI (NSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (52%)

PERSON: Montezemolo, Luca Cordero di; van Dyke, Dick

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (74%) Great Britain; India; Los Angeles (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2013



619 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(ArtsBeat)

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2013

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 371 words

HEADLINE: New York Fringe Festival Report: 'Kemble's Riot'

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: Adrian Bunting&#8217;s play recalls the 1809 protests over ticket prices at the Covent Garden Theater in London. 

 BODY:
 Reviews of shows from the New York International Fringe Festival will appear on ArtsBeat through the festival's close on Aug. 25. For more information, go to fringenyc.org. 
Long before there was Occupy, there was the O.P.
In 1808, the Covent Garden Theater, one of two theaters in London authorized to perform Shakespeare and other spoken drama, burned down, and the theater management hadn't bought any insurance. After a new, more sumptuous structure was built and opened in 1809, ticket prices rose sharply to cover the construction costs. This resulted in one of modern history's early consumer protests, known as the "Old Price Riots" or "O.P." for short. Crowds sang, danced and jeered for 66 consecutive nights, displaying histrionics that rivaled even Lady Macbeth's.
"Kemble's Riot" recreates the ruckus in a compact, interactive history lesson, not unlike the sort of setup that might travel to high schools blessed with money to burn on arts programming. 
Adrian Bunting's play alternately shows two 19th-century thespians (Guy Masterson and Beth Fitzgerald) onstage fretting magniloquently about the underappreciated worth of their talents, their new playhouse and their roles as custodians of public taste, and two front-row audience plants (Matt Baetz and Marla Schultz, both stand-up comics) riffing in somewhat lower diction about the history and motivations of the O.P. movement. These paid peanut-gallerians, employing megaphones and other props, rally the audience to join them in chanting and chucking things at the stage. 
The embedded actors deliver some rather forced comparisons to the recent financial crisis and bank bailouts. But for theatergoers attending a festival devoted to dirt-cheap dramatics, it's still gratifying to learn of a magical age when hoi polloi thought affordable theater was worth fighting for. 
 "Kemble's Riot" continues through Saturday at Players Theater
115 Macdougal Street, Greenwich Village. 

        
New York Fringe Festival Report: 'The Unfortunates'
        
Joan Baez, Jack White and Marcus Mumford to Headline 'Inside Llewyn Davis' Concert
        
New York Fringe Festival Report: 'The Spider'
        
New York Fringe Festival Report: 'The Nightmare Dream'
        
New York Fringe Festival Report: 'Carol and Cotton'

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FESTIVALS (91%); THEATER (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); TICKET SALES (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (75%); RIOTS (74%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); HISTORY (70%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (70%); BAILOUTS (68%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (68%); BANK FAILURES (63%); HIGH SCHOOLS (53%) Greenwich Village (Manhattan, NY); New York International Fringe Festival; New York City; Theater

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); LONDON, ENGLAND (58%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) Greenwich Village (Manhattan, NY)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2013



620 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 463 words

HEADLINE: Gen Y and Boomers, Suffering the Most

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: A new report finds that incomes are down since the recovery began, especially for the young and those nearing retirement. These groups have suffered from the recession in other ways, too. 

 BODY:
As my colleague Robert Pear reports, a new study from Sentier Research finds that four years after the start of the economic recovery, the median American household income is still down 4.4 percent. Incomes have risen a little since their recent trough in August 2011, but not enough to make up for the losses sustained earlier. 
The declines were not distributed evenly. One of the more striking findings from the report was the variation in changes in median income by age group:
Those in the 65- to 74-year-old group are the only demographic in the entire study - which also included breakdowns by race, family status, gender, education and work status - to have incomes rise by a statistically significant amount in inflation-adjusted terms. (Householders 75 and older also reported higher incomes, but the change was not statistically different from zero.) On the other hand, those under age 25 and between the ages of 55 and 64 (roughly the baby boomer demographic) suffered the biggest hits.
As I've written before, these changes in income are not the only ways that different age groups have been disparately affected by economic turmoil. 
Older Americans may not only have higher incomes, but may also might enjoy higher life expectancies as a result of the recession and continually poor job market. One study found that death rates for people over 65 have historically fallen during recessions. The researchers theorized that weak job markets push more workers into taking relatively low-paying and undesirable work at nursing homes, leading to better care there. 
By contrast, another study found that people who lost their jobs in the few years before becoming eligible for Social Security (in today's case, that baby boomer cohort) lost up to three years from their life expectancy, largely because they no longer had access to affordable health care. 
The young, meanwhile, sustain long-term declines in their incomes as a result of entering the job market during a recession. Two separate studies based on past recessions found large, negative effects on wages for people who graduated from college in a bad economy, which persist for as long as two decades. A Hamilton Project analysis based on one of those studies extrapolated that the expected loss in earnings over the next decade for the typical person who graduated around 2010 would be about $70,000.
In the wake of this recent recession, young people have also ended up moving back into (or never leaving) their parents' homes in large numbers, and have suffered major wealth lossesas well. 

        
Millennials, in Their Parents' Basements
        
Median Household Income Down 7.3% Since Start of Recession
        
Household Income Stagnates, Again
        
Big Income Losses for Those Near Retirement
        
Where Wealth Declined Most (and an Income Riddle)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); RECESSION (92%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (91%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (91%); BABY BOOMERS (91%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); STATISTICAL METHOD (89%); GENERATION Y (89%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (89%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); INFLATION (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); STATISTICS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); LAYOFFS (77%); SENIOR CITIZENS (75%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (72%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (69%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (69%); DISMISSALS (65%); NURSING HOMES (64%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (50%) Baby Boomers; Income; Recession and Depression; Sentier Research; Youth

ORGANIZATION: Sentier Research

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2013



621 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(India Ink)

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2013

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 595 words

HEADLINE: Hazare Embarks on His Next Movement

BYLINE: SHREEYA SINHA


HIGHLIGHT: Anna Hazare, the anticorruption campaigner who rattled India&#8217;s political establishment two years ago, is hoping for a comeback. Can he reinvigorate the public, or has his time come and gone? 

 BODY:
Two years ago, public disgust over the depth of corruption in India boiled over into huge protests led by the longtime social activist Anna Hazare. His nearly two-week hunger strike brought out hundreds of thousands of people and forced lawmakers to support his legislative proposal to create an independent anticorruption agency, known as Lokpal.
Today, Mr. Hazare's disciple, Arvind Kejriwal, has risen to fame, shattering an alliance with "Team Anna" and eclipsing his mentor's movement with his own Aam Aadmi Party. Battles over the strength and shape of the Lokpal bill ended in January 2012, when the bill reached the upper house of Parliament but was tabled for the year amid an ugly political spectacle. 
Now, Mr. Hazare is trying to reinvigorate the public in time for national elections in 2014, by persuading voters to support candidates, not political parties. He is making rounds across India and currently in the United States to try to build an international network of support, with stops including marching in India's Independence Day parade in New York over the weekend with the Bollywood actress Vidya Balan. 
On Tuesday, Mr. Hazare, 76, wearing traditional white cotton clothes and his signature Gandhian cap, spoke to The New York Times about his future plans.
He said he had received a letter from Prime Minister Manmohan Singh 10 days ago assuring him that a draft of the Lokpal bill would be reintroduced in Parliament this year - one that would satisfy Mr. Hazare's demands. 
Mr Hazare's main complaint was that under the government's version of the bill, India's top investigation agency, the Central Bureau of Investigation, would be out of the purview of the independent Lokpal. 
He issued an ultimatum: "If the government doesn't bring the Lokpal again in the next Parliamentary session on Day 1 - if there is a betrayal again - we will go back to agitation at Ramlila Maidan."
"I have done 16 fastings in my life," he quipped. "That's why I'm confident that I can do it for two more days this time around."
The question is whether Mr. Hazare can gain the same public backing and news media attention that he did two years ago at the public grounds in New Delhi, given the new competition from Mr. Kejriwal, a media magnet feared by the political establishment, who will make his debut in local politics this November.
"On a personal level, we are friends, but I have nothing to do with his political party," Mr. Hazare said of his former confidant. 
Mr. Hazare says he does not believe that current political parties can make a difference in India, a country that has been lurching from one crisis to another, not least an economic one. When asked to name a few candidates that exemplify his message, he did not name one. 
Mr. Hazare, who was born in rural Maharashtra and served 15 years in the military, has been a social activist for more than two decades. Skeptics say his time in the spotlight has come and gone, but for Mr. Hazare and his supporters, his message speaks to ordinary people whose lives are being affected by corruption throughout the world. 
"On Sept. 16, 2011, when I was fasting," he recalled, "there were revolutions in several places around the world. I expect that when my agitation starts, people around the world will stand up again."

        
India's 'Common Man' Activist on Tireless Publicity Campaign
        
Activists Against Corruption Claim Police Harassment
        
Ahead of Elections, India's Cabinet Approves Food Security Program
        
Indian Politicians Scramble for Electoral Benefits From Flood Relief Work
        
Are India and Italy on a Collision Course?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CORRUPTION (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (88%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); PARADES & MARCHES (67%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (63%); NEWS BRIEFS (60%) Corruption (Institutional); Hazare, Anna; India; Indian National Congress; Top News

ORGANIZATION: Indian National Congress

PERSON: MANMOHAN SINGH (58%) Hazare, Anna

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) INDIA (97%); ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) India

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2013



622 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 933 words

HEADLINE: Fed Appeals Rejection of Rule on Debit Card Fees

BYLINE: PETER EAVIS


HIGHLIGHT: The appeal will test the courts&#8217; power to overturn the financial regulations that stemmed from the banking overhaul after the financial crisis. 

 BODY:
A fierce legal battle that pits financial firms against the retailing industry took a new turn on Wednesday when the Federal Reserve said it would appeal a recent decision involving debit card transaction fees.
Judge Richard J. Leon of Federal District Court for the District of Columbia shocked banks and companies like Visa and MasterCard last month when he struck down a Fed regulation that governs how much retailers must pay to lenders and other companies when customers swipe their debit cards. The retailers applauded the decision because it could force the Fed, a major banking regulator, to rewrite the rule in such a way that they would pay far less to the banks in debit card fees. Lower fees, in theory, could indirectly benefit consumers, although retailers have no obligation to pass along the savings on debit card fees to customers.
 But at a hearing in the court on Wednesday, the Fed's top lawyer, Scott G. Alvarez, told the judge the central bank would appeal his decision. 
The Fed's move raises a spate of important issues five years after the financial crisis of 2008.
The appeal will be a crucial test of the courts' power to overturn the financial regulations that stemmed from the sweeping banking overhaul after the crisis. In most instances, the courts have sought to change the new rules in ways that favor banks. But in this case, Judge Leon's decision could diminish a lucrative revenue stream for banks and others. The Fed's appeal could also stoke criticism that the central bank makes unnecessary concessions to the banking industry.
"We are very disappointed to see the Fed giving in to the banks," J. Craig Shearman, an official with the National Retail Federation, an industry group, said in a statement. "The Fed has taken a position that will drag this out while retailers and their customers continue to pay billions of dollars in inflated fees."
The banks said they supported the Fed's decision to fight the decision by Judge Leon, who was appointed to the district court by President George W. Bush.
"The Federal Reserve's decision to appeal is the right thing to do for consumers who value debit cards and the financial institutions that serve them," Frank Keating, the president of the American Bankers Association, an industry group, said in a statement.
The case stems from the Dodd-Frank Act, which Congress passed in 2010 to overhaul the financial industry. The act contained a section whose intent was to cap the fees retailers pay when customers use debit cards. The Fed was given the task of writing specific regulations based on language in the act.
But in his July 31 opinion, which threw out the Fed's debit card rule, Judge Leon said the Fed had seen ambiguity in Dodd-Frank where none existed. When setting the fee cap, the Fed made an interpretation of Dodd Frank that was "irreconcilable with the statute," he wrote.
The judge has suspended his decision to throw out the Fed's rule while the parties involved decide what to do next.
On Wednesday, Judge Leon suggested that one option for him was to direct the Fed to write a replacement, or interim, rule to satisfy his objections while the appeal continues.
Shannen W. Coffin, a partner at the law firm Steptoe & Johnson who represented the retailers in the case on Wednesday, said there was precedent for a district judge to instruct a federal agency to write a new rule in a situation like this.
Mr. Alvarez, the Fed lawyer, said the agency opposed installing an interim rule during an appeal. Doing so might undermine the Fed's position during the appeal, Mr. Alvarez said. He also said such a rule might create uncertainty for banks and others.
"The industry would not be aware of what to do," Mr. Alvarez said. "Nor would the merchants."
Retailers now pay roughly 21 cents a transaction on debit card purchases. When the Fed introduced its rule that set the fee around that level, it was considered a blow to the banks, because debit fees had been around 48 cents a transaction. The rule reduced debit fee revenue at banks, though it is not clear how much profit from this business has been dented.
Still, the retailers opposed the Fed's cap because they felt the language in the Dodd-Frank Act should have produced even lower fees.
When the Fed proposed its rules, it made an interpretation that would have capped the fee at 12 cents. In increasing the cap to 21 cents in the final rule, the Fed considered some costs related to debit cards.
Judge Leon objected to the inclusion of these costs. He said the bill did not permit the Fed's approach.
On Wednesday, it became clear that there was a potential outcome from the case that retailers would particularly want to avoid. If the Fed's current rule ceases to have effect because of Judge Leon's actions and the Fed puts nothing in its place, the banks would theoretically be free to increase fees above 21 cents a transaction. Representatives for both the banks and retailers said they favored a continuation of the 21-cent status quo while the case plays out.
Still, Judge Leon seemed concerned that the appeals process could take too long. He asked Mr. Alvarez to file briefs by Aug. 28 that would include arguments why the district court did not have the authority to direct the Fed to write a replacement debit fee rule.
Investors in credit card processors seemed to view the Fed's move favorably. Visa's share price rose 3 percent to close at $178.39 on a day when the broader markets were lower. MasterCard, however, closed down 0.5 percent at $619.31.

        
Judge Rejects Fed's Cap on Debit Card Fees
        
Debit Card Rules Save Banks $3.5 Billion, Moody's Says

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (94%); DEBIT CARDS (92%); RETAILERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); US DODD FRANK ACT (89%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); JUDGES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); BANKING LAW (77%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (76%); CONSUMER LAW (76%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); LAWYERS (75%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); INVESTMENT BANKING (72%); US PRESIDENTS (60%) American Bankers Assn; Debit Cards; Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (2010); Federal Reserve System; Leon, Richard J; MasterCard Inc; National Retail Federation; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Visa Inc; MasterCard Inc|MA|NYSE; Visa Inc|V|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 1

ORGANIZATION: American Bankers Assn; Federal Reserve System; MasterCard Inc; National Retail Federation; Visa Inc

TICKER: MasterCard Inc; MA; NYSE; MasterCard Inc; MA; NYSE; Visa Inc; V; NYSE

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%) Leon, Richard J

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2013



623 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1883 words

HEADLINE: Hard Times, For Some

BYLINE: THOMAS B. EDSALL


HIGHLIGHT: What can President Obama do to push back against a rising tide of inequality? 

 BODY:
On July 24, President Obama returned to Galesburg, Ill., to reiterate a promise he made in 2005 as a freshman Senator: to create new opportunities for the nation's beleaguered middle class.
I'm here to tell you today that we're not there yet. We all know that. We're not there yet. We've got more work to do. Even though our businesses are creating new jobs and have broken record profits, nearly all the income gains of the past 10 years have continued to flow to the top 1 percent. The average C.E.O. has gotten a raise of nearly 40 percent since 2009. The average American earns less than he or she did in 1999. And companies continue to hold back on hiring those who've been out of work for some time.
We all wish him luck, but he is battling long odds.
Cesar Suarez, Galesburg's director of economic development, puts the best face on Galesburg's five-decade-long downward trajectory. "Given the two challenges, the Great Recession and globalization, we have been doing pretty well," Suarez told me in a phone interview. The city's population has continued to fall, although less sharply than in the past. "Relatively speaking, that's good," Suarez said. "But it is a loss." 
In a June 2005 speech to the graduating class at Galesburg's Knox College, Obama said:
America is a land of big dreamers and big hopes. So let's dream. Let's imagine what we can do to give every American a fighting chance in the 21st century.
That fighting chance has yet to materialize in Galesburg. The city was once a manufacturing center with major facilities operated by Maytag, Butler Manufacturing and the Outboard Motors Corporation. Now, of the 4,915 men and women working for the city's top 10 employers, 1,707 work for the government, and 1,241 are in health care. The ninth largest employer in Galesburg is Walmart, whose employees earn on average $11.75 an hour.
If completing college is crucial to getting a good job, Galesburg is behind the eight ball: 17.52 percent of its residents have a college or advanced degree, compared with 29.28 percent for all of Illinois and 27.36 percent for the entire United States.
Galesburg is a hard case, and so too are the other cities Obama is touring this week in an effort to prod Congressional Republicans to compromise on upcoming budget negotiations: Scranton, Pa., Syracuse, Buffalo and Binghamton, N.Y. Once vibrant manufacturing centers, they are now disproportionately dependent on service jobs and employment in hospitals, government and social assistance.
In Scranton, a stunning 41.3 percent of those over 18 have withdrawn altogether from the work force; the poverty rate is 20.4 percent, much higher than the statewide level of 12.6 percent. In Syracuse an even higher percentage, 42.4 percent, have withdrawn from the work force. The poverty rate there is 32.3 percent, compared with 14.5 percent statewide. Median household income in Scranton is $36,968, compared with $51,651 across all Pennsylvania; that figure is $31,689 in Syracuse, compared with $56,951 in all of New York State.
What about the other end of the income distribution? If labor is stagnating, how are the owners of capital doing? Walmart offers a clear example. While its employees in Galesburg earn $11.75 an hour, six members of the Walton family are listed by Forbes among the 400 richest Americans. The Waltons' total assets: $115.3 billion.
In Syracuse, while workers are crawling along the bottom, Bloomberg Businessweek identified Robert J. Congel as the richest man in Syracuse. He is the head of the privately held Pyramid Management Group, developer of malls and entertainment complexes. The Syracuse Post-Standard has reported that Congel is building an "opulent new $2.7-million-plus mansion" in addition to his "$3.6 million mansion in Skaneateles and a 500-acre hunting preserve/lodge known as Savannah Dhu in Wayne County."
If any city on Obama's tour has had it rough, it's Buffalo. Median household income is $30,230, just over half the state's $56,951 median. The city has a 29.1 percent poverty rate, twice the statewide rate. In 1960, Buffalo had a population of 532,759; 261,310 people live there now.
How about people who amassed fortunes in the city, like Robert Rich Jr., son of Robert Rich Sr., the founder of Buffalo-based Rich Foods? While Buffalo's fortunes have gone down, Rich's have gone up. In 2009, Forbes estimated his wealth at $1.9 billion; by 2012, his net worth had grown by half a billion dollars.
Or take Ralph Wilson Jr., who bought and established the Buffalo Bills football franchise in 1959 for $25,000. The most recent estimate puts the 2013 value of the Bills at $870 million.
Obama wants to raise living standards while powerful headwinds are pushing back. It's not only Republican opposition. National and global trends are forcing wages and salaries down and holding them there.
The devaluation of wage and salary work can be seen in Figure 1. The chart illustrates the marked shift over the past three decades in the distribution of national income in the United States from labor (in the form of wages, salaries and fringe benefits) to capital (in the form of interest, capital gains and other returns on investment).
Figure 2 from the Bureau of Labor Statistics provides additional evidence of this shift. The graph shows that what was once a pattern of American workers' pay rising in proportion to productivity gains is no longer the case: the rate of wage increase is now far below the rate of productivity growth.
The decline in labor's share of income is not restricted to the United States. It is a worldwide phenomenon, as Loukas Karabarbounis and Brent Neiman of the University of Chicago's Booth School of Business show in their June 2013 paper, "The Global Decline of the Labor Share." Their work shows, surprisingly, that the shift away from labor in pro-union Nordic countries is stronger than it is in the United States. Figure 3 reveals the pattern, with the eight largest economies marked in red.
Karabarbounis and Neiman argue that the negative consequences (the loss of wages for those workers who bear the brunt of the declining share of income going to labor) are outweighed by the positive results (the drop in the price of consumer goods resulting from lower production costs), culminating in a net gain to the general welfare:
Measurements of welfare gains or losses are essentially economists' quantitative answer to the question, "So what?" Because the declining price of investment goods in our model allows the economy to produce and consume more with a given amount of labor, people in the model economy are better off. The welfare gains are a measure of how much better off they are from this (in terms of increased consumption).
Though in the real world there clearly are some workers that do worse as labor share declines, we use our model to note that the decline in labor share in response to the investment price change is overall a positive thing - the world is generally better off due to the cheaper computers, etc. If, on the other hand, the same labor share decline were hypothetically caused by higher profits that would on average make people in our model economy worse off.
The idea of an overall net gain is not likely to provide comfort to Obama as he tries to improve the lot of those in the bottom-to-middle of the income distribution. David Autor, an economist at M.I.T., argues that the welfare gains cited by Karabarbounis and Neiman will flow to the affluent, those who need no help:
It's likely that a rising capital share disproportionately benefits the owners of capital (these are people, of course) and disproportionately displaces relatively middle and low skill workers who are likely to be relatively substitutable with machines -particularly workers performing routine clerical, production and monitoring tasks. This means that the reduction in labor demand generally lowers earnings opportunities for less educated and lower wage workers. Conversely, rising capital productivity enhances the incomes of those who own capital or intellectual property, and those who are complemented by the new capital (e.g., software engineers, financiers, doctors, researchers). In short, the process of capital biased technical change (if that's what it is) likely contributes to our inequality problem even as it raises aggregate wealth.
Autor adds that "the bulk of the costs are often borne by those least able to afford them, and the bulk of the benefits often accrue to those who least need them. "
Daron Acemoglu, who is also an economist at M.I.T., argues that the welfare gains claimed by Karabarbounis and Neiman are "not a bygone conclusion":
There have been important changes in labor market institutions in many O.E.C.D. economies, the U.S. and the U.K. first among them, but also in Germany and Scandinavia. In this case, the welfare implications are more complex. If we started from a neutral position and capital gets stronger, this would be a bad thing. If, on the other hand, somehow labor was excessively strong, reducing the return to capital and thus thwarting job creation, redressing this imbalance might be good.
Economic analysts more to the left take this critique a step further. Leo Pantich and Sam Gindin, political scientists at York University in Canada, are co-authors of the recently published book "The Making of Global Capitalism." In an e-mailed response to a Times inquiry, Gindin wrote:
The economist-speak of "net welfare gains" needs to be unpacked. The net gains are to the economy as a whole but this says nothing about the main issue being addressed - the distribution of such "net benefits." Nor does it really speak to whether those potentials for growth can be realized in a sustained way if domestic demand is simultaneously repressed by the stagnation of working class incomes. The point about the especially large decline in labour share in the Nordic countries relates, in our analysis, to the fact of their increasing integration into global capitalism and the consequent intensified competition among corporations and states anxious to attract or retain capital. States with a more egalitarian income chose, or were compelled - given those pressures and their commitment to globalization - to move more rapidly towards the international "norms."
The essential political question emerging from this debate is whether the forces driving down labor's share of income, exacerbating inequality and vastly increasing the wealth of those at the top can be redirected to produce more equitable and beneficial results while fostering continued growth.
"What do we do," Noah Smith, an economist at Stony Brook University, asks in the Atlantic, "if the 'endowment of human capital' with which people are born gets less and less valuable?"
Has the train left the station? Has the momentum behind the hollowing out of middle class jobs and the increasing replacement of human beings by machines gained so much strength that it cannot be reversed? Obama has put the goal of a revived middle class at the top of his agenda, but he has not publicly voiced an understanding of the size and scope of the problem he seeks to address.

        
Checking Out
        
Are the Good Jobs Gone?
        
Less Innovation, More Inequality
        
The Rise of the Permanent Temp Economy
        
Rising Inequality, Even Among College Presidents

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); JOB CREATION (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); HEALTH CARE (76%); WOMEN WORKERS (76%); LABOR FORCE (76%); BUDGETS (75%); POPULATION SIZE (75%); RECESSION (75%); POOR POPULATION (75%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); CITIES (71%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); POVERTY RATES (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (66%); CITY LIFE (66%) Acemoglu, Daron; Autor, David; Binghamton (NY); Buffalo (NY); Congel, Robert J; Labor and Jobs; Obama, Barack; Scranton (Pa); Wages and Salaries; Wilson, Ralph Jr; Thomas B. Edsall

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%) Acemoglu, Daron; Autor, David; Congel, Robert J; Obama, Barack; Wilson, Ralph Jr

GEOGRAPHIC: SCRANTON, PA, USA (94%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (93%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (50%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Binghamton (NY); Buffalo (NY); Scranton (Pa)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2013



624 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 

LENGTH: 943 words

HEADLINE: The Common Core and the Common Good

BYLINE: By CHARLES M. BLOW

 BODY:
America, we have a problem.
Our educational system is not keeping up with that of many other industrialized countries, even as the job market becomes more global and international competition for jobs becomes steeper.
We have gone from the leader to a laggard.
According to the Broad Foundation, an educational reform group, ''American students rank 25th in math, 17th in science and 14th in reading compared to students in 27 industrialized countries.'' 
And we have gone from No. 1 in high school graduation to 22nd among industrialized countries, according to a report last year by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.
That same report found that fewer than half of our students finished college. This ranked us 14th among O.E.C.D. countries, below the O.E.C.D. average. In 1995 we were among the Top 5.
Some rightly point to the high levels of poverty in our public schools to adjust for our lagging performance, but poverty -- and affluence -- can't explain all the results away.
As Amanda Ripley, an investigative journalist, explains in her new book, ''The Smartest Kids in the World and How They Got That Way,'' American students are not performing at the same level of their peers internationally.
She writes: ''American kids are better off, on average, than the typical child in Japan, New Zealand, or South Korea, yet they knew far less math than those children. Our most privileged teenagers had highly educated parents and attended the richest school in the world, yet they ranked 18th in math compared to their privileged peers around the world, scoring well below affluent kinds in New Zealand, Belgium, France and Korea, among other places. The typical child in Beverly Hills performed below average, compared to all kids in Canada.''
A report this month by the company that administers ACT, the college admissions test, found that only a fourth of those tested were ready for college. And that was among motivated students who want to go to college, from all sorts of schools, not just public school students.
Any way you slice it, we're not where we want or need to be.
One strategy of changing our direction as a nation is the adoption of Common Core State Standards, meant to teach children the skills they need to be successful in college and careers -- skills like critical thinking and deep analysis.
These are things that Americans recognize that our schools need to teach. According to a Phi Delta Kappa/Gallup poll released Wednesday, 80 percent of Americans strongly agree that schools should teach critical thinking skills, 78 percent agree that they should teach communication skills, 57 percent agree that they should teach students how to collaborate and 51 percent believe that they should help build student's character.
The Obama administration strongly supports the Common Core, and the American Federation of Teachers endorses it. The president of the United Federation of Teachers says that most teachers agree it should be implemented. And, according to CoreStandands.org, ''45 states, the District of Columbia, four territories and the Department of Defense Education Activities have adopted the Common Core State Standards.''
This seemed like a sure thing. The problem is that, in some states, Common Core testing has been implemented before teachers, or the public for that matter, have been instructed in how to teach students using the new standards.
This means that, when students score poorly on the more rigorous Common Core-based tests, it threatens to cause a backlash among parents, who increasingly see testing as the problem, not the solution.
That Phi Delta Kappa/Gallup poll also found that most Americans had not heard of the Common Core. Only 22 percent thought increased testing helped school performance, and most rejected the use of student test scores to evaluate teachers.
Because we insist on prioritizing testing over teaching -- punishments over preparation -- we run the risk of turning Americans off one of the few educational strategies in recent memory that most people say we need.
That's so American.
We have to decide as a country -- politicians and parents, corporations and communities -- that high-performance education is not only valuable to our sense of self, but essential to our future prosperity. Today's students are tomorrow's workers and leaders and innovators and entrepreneurs.
In all the discussions I have with educational leaders and reformers on improving our educational outcomes, there seems to be some level of agreement -- though obviously not full agreement -- on strategies that work: attracting, supporting and keeping the best teachers and investing in their development; providing ''wrap-around'' services for poor and struggling students; making schools safe, welcoming, fun places with recess and art and music and nutritious food; and strongly promoting parental engagement.
And we need a national standard for what the kind of education that we want our children to receive. Our educational system has become so tangled in experiments and exams and excuses that we've drifted away from the basis of what makes education great: learning to think critically and solve problems.
We have drifted away from the fundamentals of what makes a great teacher: the ability to light a fire in a child, to develop in him or her a level of intellectual curiosity, the grit to persevere and the capacity to expand. Great teachers help to activate a small thing that breeds great minds: thirst.
The Common Core is meant to help bolster those forms of learning and teaching.
The Common Core is for the common good, if only we can get our act together and properly implement it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); RANKINGS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); CHILDREN (89%); EDUCATION REFORM (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (77%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (74%); POVERTY RATES (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (68%); WRITERS (66%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (56%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW ZEALAND (92%); CANADA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%); FRANCE (57%); BELGIUM (53%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2013



625 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; CRITICAL SHOPPER; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 882 words

HEADLINE: The Next Branding of Detroit

BYLINE: By JON CARAMANICA

 BODY:
YOU BEGIN TO SHOP Shinola not at its new TriBeCa flagship, but somewhere back in your teenage years, when social causes were first stamped into your consciousness, when you were first taught that your dollar has not just purchasing power, but also ideological power.
Shinola, which takes its name from the resurrected shoe polish brand, is a relatively young company that specializes in bicycles, watches and leather goods, many of which are made in Detroit, or at least assembled in Detroit. If you want to know just how Detroit Shinola is, turn to its Web site, with its loving portraits of workers in its new factory, and its flowery odes to local artisanship. 
Buying something made in Detroit, in this calculus, is not much different than buying a fair trade Andean sweater. You're buying a small piece of the revival of a great American manufacturing city gone to seed. Or at least, you're buying into the liberal idea of what supporting a distressed economy means.
Shinola's New York store opened just a few days after Detroit filed for bankruptcy, and a couple of days before the company declared, on its Twitter feed: ''Bankruptcy, shmankruptcy. We have a lot of job openings here in #Detroit. Come join our team!''
Shmankruptcy, indeed. Would it cramp your ideals to know that the company behind Shinola, Bedrock Brands, was started by a founder of the Fossil brand of watches, Tom Kartsotis, and also invests in Steven Alan, among other retail brands? In essence, that makes Mr. Kartsotis a midprice watch mogul looking to go luxury under the cover of charitable business practices.
Last year, Crain's Detroit Business reported that Mr. Kartsotis commissioned a study in which people were asked if they preferred pens made in China that cost $5, the United States at $10 or Detroit at $15, and when offered the Detroit option, they chose it regardless of the higher price. And so a luxury brand was born.
There isn't anything scrappy about Shinola, but you couldn't possibly know from walking into its impressively spacious storefront that the building was purchased by Bedrock for $14.5 million in 2011. For a new company, it is a splashy way to launch. For a new company that preaches the modest values of local craftsmanship, it is a bit of a bait and switch.
The bikes are pretty, though. There are two styles: the Bixby ($1,950), which looks meant for riding quietly in the bike lane, and the Runwell ($2,950), which looks more likely to be used cutting off cars in traffic. They're available for test rides, provided you sign a waiver, and think these are great prices for bikes. In a video on the Shinola Web site, you can watch the frames being made in Wisconsin at a company owned by a member of the Schwinn family, an act that's more nourishing and also cheaper.
AND THEN THERE ARE the watches, which are assembled in Detroit; again, videos on the site tell a love story about the technicians who trained the Detroit locals who now do the assembly work. The watches themselves (which mainly run between $500 and $700) have a stoic, mournful grace to them, suggesting timepieces of six decades ago, or public school wall clocks.
It is perhaps unfair to note that some of the less attractive ones, with square faces, or with outsize numbers on the face, are reminiscent of Fossil. They look like watches made by a manufacturing company, not watches made by a design company. As if to drive home the point, the store is also selling an extremely handsome vintage Rolex ($5,900), which is probably giving the Shinola watches in nearby cases an inferiority complex.
Off in a corner, near some Dan Flavin and Sol LeWitt books, is a selection of sturdy-looking Shinola writing journals, and sprinkled throughout the store are Shinola's leather products: MacBook sleeves, totes, purses, etc., each branded with a unique serial number, even the small items, which is aesthetically jarring. (And yes, there is Shinola shoe polish, at $15.)
But maybe only half the store is stocked with Shinola product -- the company's ambition outstrips its production for now. The rest of the space is at least partly filled out in partnership with Hickoree's, the nouveau-Americana store in Williamsburg. There are Hickoree's napkins and picnic blankets, small bags by Kletterwerks, oxford shirts by Gitman Bros. and more, all of which make the store more diverse than the brand. In the front of the store is a cafe and newsstand run by the Smile; the guy behind the counter looked lonely.
In the front window was a bike, standing proud. As I left, a woman was taking a picture with her phone of her woven purse sitting on a bench outside the window. She was probably planning to post it to Instagram, and hashtag it #MadeInDetroit. Doing her part, I suppose.
Shinola
177 Franklin Street, (917) 728-3000; shinola.com.
Carpetbagging Shinola is a self-described luxury brand animated by do-gooder impulses, taking the conceit of ''Made in Detroit'' and squeezing every last retail penny from it.
Manufacturing Shinola aspires to make only a handful of products, and well. The goods are utilitarian in design, and mostly in categories where engineering matters.
Indoctrination The space is high-ceilinged and approachable, with friendly staff members offering history lessons on the brand or test rides of the bicycles.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ELIZABETH LIPPMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (78%); CLOTHING LABELS (77%); LUXURY GOODS (76%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (75%); LIBERALISM (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (70%); WEB SITES (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2013



626 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 909 words

HEADLINE: Welcome to the Age of Denial

BYLINE: By ADAM FRANK. 
Adam Frank, a professor of physics and astronomy at the University of Rochester, is the author of ''About Time: Cosmology and Culture at the Twilight of the Big Bang'' and a founder of NPR's 13.7 Cosmos and Culture blog.

 BODY:
ROCHESTER -- IN 1982, polls showed that 44 percent of Americans believed God had created human beings in their present form. Thirty years later, the fraction of the population who are creationists is 46 percent.
In 1989, when ''climate change'' had just entered the public lexicon, 63 percent of Americans understood it was a problem. Almost 25 years later, that proportion is actually a bit lower, at 58 percent.
The timeline of these polls defines my career in science. In 1982 I was an undergraduate physics major. In 1989 I was a graduate student. My dream was that, in a quarter-century, I would be a professor of astrophysics, introducing a new generation of students to the powerful yet delicate craft of scientific research. 
Much of that dream has come true. Yet instead of sending my students into a world that celebrates the latest science has to offer, I am delivering them into a society ambivalent, even skeptical, about the fruits of science.
This is not a world the scientists I trained with would recognize. Many of them served on the Manhattan Project. Afterward, they helped create the technologies that drove America's postwar prosperity. In that era of the mid-20th century, politicians were expected to support science financially but otherwise leave it alone. The disaster of Lysenkoism, in which Communist ideology distorted scientific truth and all but destroyed Russian biological science, was still a fresh memory.
The triumph of Western science led most of my professors to believe that progress was inevitable. While the bargain between science and political culture was at times challenged -- the nuclear power debate of the 1970s, for example -- the battles were fought using scientific evidence. Manufacturing doubt remained firmly off-limits.
Today, however, it is politically effective, and socially acceptable, to deny scientific fact. Narrowly defined, ''creationism'' was a minor current in American thinking for much of the 20th century. But in the years since I was a student, a well-funded effort has skillfully rebranded that ideology as ''creation science'' and pushed it into classrooms across the country. Though transparently unscientific, denying evolution has become a litmus test for some conservative politicians, even at the highest levels.
Meanwhile, climate deniers, taking pages from the creationists' PR playbook, have manufactured doubt about fundamental issues in climate science that were decided scientifically decades ago. And anti-vaccine campaigners brandish a few long-discredited studies to make unproven claims about links between autism and vaccination.
The list goes on. North Carolina has banned state planners from using climate data in their projections of future sea levels. So many Oregon parents have refused vaccination that the state is revising its school entry policies. And all of this is happening in a culture that is less engaged with science and technology as intellectual pursuits than at any point I can remember.
Thus, even as our day-to-day experiences have become dependent on technological progress, many of our leaders have abandoned the postwar bargain in favor of what the scientist Michael Mann calls the ''scientization of politics.''
What do I tell my students? From one end of their educational trajectory to the other, our society told these kids science was important. How confusing is it for them now, when scientists receive death threats for simply doing honest research on our planet's climate history?
Americans always expected their children to face a brighter economic future, and we scientists expected our students to inherit a world where science was embraced by an ever-larger fraction of the population. This never implied turning science into a religion or demanding slavish acceptance of this year's hot research trends. We face many daunting challenges as a society, and they won't all be solved with more science and math education. But what has been lost is an understanding that science's open-ended, evidence-based processes -- rather than just its results -- are essential to meeting those challenges.
My professors' generation could respond to silliness like creationism with head-scratching bemusement. My students cannot afford that luxury. Instead they must become fierce champions of science in the marketplace of ideas.
During my undergraduate studies I was shocked at the low opinion some of my professors had of the astronomer Carl Sagan. For me his efforts to popularize science were an inspiration, but for them such ''outreach'' was a diversion. That view makes no sense today.
The enthusiasm and generous spirit that Mr. Sagan used to advocate for science now must inspire all of us. There are science Twitter feeds and blogs to run, citywide science festivals and high school science fairs that need input. For the civic-minded nonscientists there are school board curriculum meetings and long-term climate response plans that cry out for the participation of informed citizens. And for every parent and grandparent there is the opportunity to make a few more trips to the science museum with your children.
Behind the giant particle accelerators and space observatories, science is a way of behaving in the world. It is, simply put, a tradition. And as we know from history's darkest moments, even the most enlightened traditions can be broken and lost. Perhaps that is the most important lesson all lifelong students of science must learn now.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHLOÉ POIZAT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); CREATIONISM (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); POLITICS (87%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (77%); CLIMATE CHANGE (77%); PHYSICS (75%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (75%); SCIENCE FUNDING (75%); RELIGION (73%); ASTROPHYSICS (70%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (70%); CONSERVATISM (67%); AUTISM (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2013



627 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; NOTED; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 638 words

HEADLINE: Like Face-Lifts, Facials to Turn Back the Clock

BYLINE: By ALIX STRAUSS

 BODY:
The last time Lisa Marcus was at the Fifth Avenue office of her dermatologist, Dr. Debra Jaliman, she ran into someone she went to high school with.
''She asked if I'd had a face-lift,'' said Ms. Marcus, 55, a recent retiree who had instead opted for a nonsurgical office procedure that some are calling a ''facial face-lift'': a package of treatments that may include not just extractions but injections of neurotoxins like Botox and hyaluronic acid filler, as well as red light therapy.
''No one in New York can come back and forth for different treatments when you can do them all in one day and still find it result-oriented,'' said Dr. Jaliman, who has been offering such a multistep procedure, called ''facial rejuvenation,'' for about a year, at a cost of $3,000. ''This is a step-down face-lift,'' Dr. Jaliman said, adding that a surgical lift only pulls skin away from the face and lessens the appearance of wrinkles but doesn't add volume or contour. 
Dr. Julius Few, owner of the Few Institute for Aesthetic Plastic Surgery in Chicago who also has an office in Manhattan, is offering another version of the facial face-lift, featuring ''stackable'' treatments including ultrasound and lasers, for $5,000. ''You're not doing a massive overhaul like you would with a true face-lift, but rather strategic, controlled intervention that has been tailor-made for you,'' he said. ''The facial is no longer just a facial.''
The development of such packages might seem prescient considering the release of a study published earlier this month in the Journal of the American Medical Association showing that perceived attractiveness was only minimally increased after cosmetic surgery.
The field has suffered in recent years. According to the American Society for Aesthetic Plastic Surgery, cosmetic minimally invasive procedures increased more than 10 percent in 2012 from 2011, compared with 3 percent for cosmetic surgical procedures. ''In the depths of the recession people were putting off plastic surgery, which aside from technology advancements is probably why these facials have become popular,'' said Dr. Edwin F. Williams, the medical director and founder of the Williams Center for Plastic Surgery in Albany, with an office in Manhattan.
Technological advancements have also enabled amped-up facials in nonmedical settings like Dangene's Institute of Skinovation, in the Core Club on East 55th Street, which offers a ''skin rejuvenation treatment'' involving 90 minutes of wet and dry microdermabrasion, ultrasound with serum, oxygen and LED light (it does not include injections, though the spa also offers them). The price: $2,500. ''Facials that are face-lift-like are what our first cellphones were,'' said Dangene Enterprise, the institute's founder and owner and an aesthetician. ''They're extremely pricey because the equipment is expensive. If they lower the cost of the equipment, we would lower the price of a facial.''
Since their results can last as long as three to four years, ''stackable'' treatments like Dr. Few's might seem a better value than multiple facials from a high-end spa. But though Dr. Williams's practice offers a nonsurgical ''liquid face-lift'' that involves multiple fillers customized to the individual patient, he doesn't consider them a sound investment, relatively speaking. ''If you see marginal results and you've spent $10,000 on it, it's not a good value when a brow, neck and jawline face-lift can cost $25,000 to $50,000 and last 7 to 10 or more years,'' he said.
One person's ''marginal'' is another's ''subtle.''
''I don't have to spend $30,000 or go into hiding for weeks,'' said Ms. Marcus, the patient who was pleased with her facial face-lift. ''You can have the work done in the office, go home, look better and your husband or boyfriend will never know you've done anything.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dr. Debra Jaliman, standing, with a patient in her office. Dr. Jaliman offers a multistep procedure called ''facial rejuvenation.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY DEIDRE SCHOO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (90%); DERMATOLOGY (90%); NONSURGICAL COSMETIC PROCEDURES (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (89%); COSMETIC SURGERY & TREATMENTS (78%); LIGHT EMITTING DIODES (70%); MINIMALLY INVASIVE SURGERY (67%); RECESSION (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); ALBANY, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2013



628 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1108 words

HEADLINE: Shifting Tech Scene Unsettles Big Players

BYLINE: By QUENTIN HARDY

 BODY:
Outsiders often think of Silicon Valley as a constantly changing landscape, a place where fortunes rise and fall with the next great idea. Now some of the technology industry's biggest names are finding out that once you fall behind, it is pretty hard to catch up.
On Wednesday, Hewlett-Packard announced several significant personnel changes, along with sharply lower revenue and narrower operating profit margins. It was the latest in a string of disappointing earnings news from big technology companies that has some asking if the industry, after at least five years of growth, is finally slowing down.
''We're doing a turnaround in not the greatest economic environment,'' said Meg Whitman, H.P.'s chief executive, in an interview. ''Everyone is trying to position themselves for the new style of information technology. The fittest will survive.''
But the bad earnings news from older, big tech companies does not -- so far -- appear to be spreading to more youthful Internet companies like Google or Salesforce.com, which provide their software as a service over the Internet. 
H.P.'s news, for example, comes on the heels of surprising plans announced last week to cut about 5 percent of the work force at the network computing company Cisco Systems and continuing issues at giant tech companies like Oracle, Intel and even Microsoft.
If there is a common thread among these older outfits, long considered bellwethers for their industry, it is that they are all struggling to adapt to a computing world where people use the Internet on mobile devices like smartphones and tablets. Likewise, the information they retrieve is stored in a cloud of network computers that are used by many companies at the same time.
In some cases, they are big makers of things like personal computers, which people are not buying as quickly as they once did. In other cases, they are making costly corporate computing equipment like routers, which direct traffic on Internet networks. Those routers are still in demand, but they don't typically attract the prices they once did.
''All the traditional enterprises are in a pickle,'' said Krish Ramakrishnan, a former general manager at Cisco who now runs Blue Jeans Network, a cloud-based videoconferencing service. ''They want to have cloud businesses, but each of their divisions will have to transform differently.''
For H.P., a leader in personal computers, printers and computer servers, as well as data storage and networking, sales were down in almost every business. Total revenue was $27.2 billion, down 8 percent from a year earlier. Net earnings were $1.4 billion and, excluding special charges, were about 15 percent below their year-ago level. H.P. stock, which fell 1.8 percent in regular trading on Wednesday, dropped 6 percent more in after-hours trading.
Ms. Whitman also announced several executive changes, replacing the head of products and sales for business, and consolidating marketing and communications. Earlier this year she also replaced the head of her PC division.
''Revenue growth across the company has been very weak,'' said Toni Sacconaghi, an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein. He noted that H.P. now had one of the worst share valuations among all major American companies, which he said ''appears to reflect a permanently declining business.''
If it is any consolation, Ms. Whitman has plenty of company. Michael S. Dell, the chief executive of the computer maker Dell, is fighting to take his company private, a move that will almost certainly mean layoffs as the company moves away from selling personal computers, a once-good business that has gone bad thanks to the shift to tablet computing devices.
And at Cisco, sales are still strong, but John T. Chambers, the company's chief executive, signaled trouble ahead with his job cuts, which he said were necessary because of economic ''uncertainty.''
While there is no doubt there are broader economic issues affecting big-ticket tech sales -- particularly in Asia, where Cisco's sales were off 3 percent from the same quarter last year -- analysts believe Mr. Chambers' economic discussion fails to address the technology changes with which Cisco is trying to cope. In recent years, the company has faced a series of cheaper competitors, many of which rely more on software and off-the-shelf components, as compared with Cisco's custom-made equipment.
''They have to generate revenue from what they have always done, while they invest in a future that's very different, and change around their organization,'' said Mr. Ramakrishnan. ''They have to move from selling mostly hardware, to selling software, while all the sharks are feeding off them.''
That Intel is challenged in this new, more mobile environment is perhaps even more remarkable. Intel, after all, is often cited as one of the rare tech companies that saw a major change coming -- in this case, it was wide adoption of PCs more than two decades ago -- and adapted its business to take advantage. But those same executives acknowledged they have not moved quickly enough to build chips for mobile devices, and now they are working hard to catch up.
As these big companies try to adapt, they are even picking on each other. Cisco's gross margins were 70 percent in 2003, but are now 59 percent, in part because H.P. entered the market for Internet routers. H.P.'s computer server business has been pressed by Cisco's entry into the market. Dell has offered customers steep discounts on personal computers, Ms. Whitman has said, which hurt her PC business.
Just a few years ago, an alliance of Microsoft's Windows operating system and Intel chips dominated PCs, counting H.P. and Dell as important customers. Last year, Microsoft entered the hardware business with its Surface tablet, which came in versions using chips from both Intel and other companies. While sales have been poor, Microsoft is continuing to push the product. H.P., for its part, has announced tablets and laptops using Google's operating system.
On a very personal level for employees of these companies, it's an odd time. Many, particularly early employees, were there when their innovations and more-affordable products displaced the last generation of big tech companies. Now they're on the downside of that cycle.
''Every emotion imaginable plays out,'' said Patrick Gelsinger, who worked at Intel for 30 years and is now the chief executive of VMware, a company that makes software used in cloud computing.
''Some folks are hoping to retire and their 401(k) is big enough,'' Mr. Gelsinger said. ''Some are disheartened because they couldn't figure out how to adapt. Some are still putting their heads down.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Workers on a Hewlett-Packard assembly line. The company's sales are down sharply as consumers move away from the machines that made it a market leader. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GILLES SABRIE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Meg Whitman, chief of H.P., announced several significant executive changes on Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICK WILKING/REUTERS) (B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (89%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (87%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); SOFTWARE AS A SERVICE (72%); CLOUD COMPUTING (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (71%); TABLET COMPUTERS (66%); VIDEO CONFERENCING (65%); NETWORK SERVERS (65%); SMARTPHONES (64%); SECURITIES TRADING (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (90%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (74%); INTEL CORP (58%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (58%); SALESFORCE.COM INC (55%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (90%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (74%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); HPQ (NYSE) (58%); CRM (NYSE) (55%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (90%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (74%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (74%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%)

PERSON: MARGARET C WHITMAN (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2013



629 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1210 words

HEADLINE: Obama's Plan Aims to Lower Cost of College

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN

 BODY:
President Obama plans to announce a set of ambitious proposals on Thursday aimed at making colleges more accountable and affordable by rating them and ultimately linking those ratings to financial aid.
A draft of the proposal, obtained by The New York Times and likely to cause some consternation among colleges, shows a plan to rate colleges before the 2015 school year based on measures like tuition, graduation rates, debt and earnings of graduates, and the percentage of lower-income students who attend. The ratings would compare colleges against their peer institutions. If the plan can win Congressional approval, the idea is to base federal financial aid to students attending the colleges partly on those rankings.
''All the things we're measuring are important for students choosing a college,'' a senior administration official said. ''It's important to us that colleges offer good value for their tuition dollars, and that higher education offer families a degree of security so students aren't left with debt they can't pay back.''
Mr. Obama hopes that starting in 2018, the ratings would be tied to financial aid, so that students at highly rated colleges might get larger federal grants and more affordable loans. But that would require new legislation. 
''I think there is bipartisan support for some of these ideas, as we've seen in states where the governors have been working on them,'' said the administration official, who spoke on condition of anonymity in order to disclose information not yet made public.
Ohio, Tennessee and Indiana have made moves toward linking aid to educational outcomes. But in the divisive Congressional atmosphere, it is not clear how much backing there would be for such proposals.
In February, the administration introduced an online college scorecard, making public some of the information to be included in the ratings, to help families evaluate different colleges. Graduates' earnings, however, will be a new data point, and one that experts say is especially tricky to make meaningful.
''There are all kinds of issues, like deciding how far down the road you are looking, and which institutions are comparable,'' said Terry W. Hartle, senior vice president of the American Council on Education, a group representing colleges and universities. ''Ultimately, the concern is that the Department of Education will develop a formula and impose it without adequate consultation, and that's what drives campus administrators nuts.''
Almost all of the federal government's $150 billion in annual student aid is distributed based on the number of students a college enrolls, regardless of how many graduate or how much debt they incur. Under the new proposal, students could still attend whatever college they chose, public or private, but taxpayer support would shift to higher-ranked schools.
With rising tuition and declining state financing, students and families are assuming a growing share of college costs. Tuition revenues now make up about half of public university revenues, up from a quarter 25 years ago. And with colleges facing larger pensions, health care and technology costs, the pressure to keep raising tuition is intense.
The average borrower now graduates with more than $26,000 of debt. Loan default rates are rising, and only about half of those who start college graduate within six years.
Mr. Obama has focused on these concerns for some time, exhorting colleges and universities, and state legislators, to make higher education more affordable.
In his 2012 State of the Union address, he said he was putting colleges on notice that if tuition did not stop rising faster than inflation, financing from taxpayers would drop. And in this year's State of the Union speech, he urged Congress to consider affordability and value in awarding federal aid, and followed up with a policy plan recommending that those measures be incorporated into the accreditation system.
Mr. Obama's proposal urges colleges to experiment with approaches that reduce costs. The plan mentions so-called competency-based degrees, in which college credits are based not on the hours students spend in classrooms, but on how much they can show they know.
Another approach mentioned in the plan is online education through what have become known as ''massive open online courses,'' or MOOCs, which are mostly free. Mr. Obama will also urge consideration of three-year degree programs and dual enrollment programs in which high school students can begin to earn college credits.
''This isn't something that's going to be fully driven by the federal government, but the president can tell colleges that there's people out there doing good things, you should look at them, try them and try to do better -- and here's where we can help,'' the official said.
There is some money available for such efforts, including $500 million for community colleges, and the administration is seeking more. So far, though, it has failed to persuade Congress to pay for Race to the Top competition for higher education, under which grants would go to those colleges with promising approaches.
With or without more financing, the president plans to offer regulatory waivers to colleges that serve as experimental sites promoting high-quality, low-cost innovations in higher education, especially those that make it possible for students to get financial aid based on how much they learn, rather than how much time they spend in class. He also wants to let colleges offer Pell Grants, federal aid based on need, to high school students taking college courses.
In a letter to supporters this week, Mr. Obama said that tinkering around the edges would not be enough, and that the changes he was proposing in his two-state, three-campus tour beginning Thursday, ''won't be popular with everyone -- including some who've made higher education their business -- but it's past time that more of our colleges work better for the students they exist to serve.''
Mr. Obama will champion his ideas on a two-day bus tour, at town hall-style meetings on college campuses across upstate New York and Pennsylvania.
In the proposal, the president plans to change aid practices to make sure those receiving financial aid are moving toward a degree by, among other things, stretching out the disbursement of Pell Grant money over the semester, rather than giving it out in a lump sum at the start. While ''satisfactory academic progress'' is required by the current law, it is left to each institution to define such progress, and students who fail out of one college can simply transfer to another and receive more aid.
''That doesn't make sense,'' said Sandra Baum, an economist who is a senior fellow at the George Washington University Graduate School of Education and Human Development. ''Students need a structure that will help them make progress.''
Mr. Obama would also like to expand his existing pay-as-you-earn program for student borrowers so that borrowers could cap their payments at 10 percent of their discretionary monthly income. That expansion would require Congressional approval.
But even without it, the administration next year will direct the Education Department to call all debtors behind in their payments to make sure they understand repayment options.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (92%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (91%); STUDENT EXPENSES (90%); TUITION FEES (90%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); DISTANCE LEARNING (78%); GRADUATION RATES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (72%); APPROVALS (72%); GRANTS & GIFTS (70%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2013



630 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 932 words

HEADLINE: Fed Appeals Rejection of Rule on Debit Card Fees

BYLINE: By PETER EAVIS

 BODY:
A fierce legal battle that pits financial firms against the retailing industry took a new turn on Wednesday when the Federal Reserve said it would appeal a recent decision involving debit card transaction fees.
Judge Richard J. Leon of Federal District Court for the District of Columbia shocked banks and companies like Visa and MasterCard last month when he struck down a Fed regulation that governs how much retailers must pay to lenders and other companies when customers swipe their debit cards. The retailers applauded the decision because it could force the Fed, a major banking regulator, to rewrite the rule in such a way that they would pay far less to the banks in debit card fees. Lower fees, in theory, could indirectly benefit consumers, although retailers have no obligation to pass along the savings on debit card fees to customers.
But at a hearing in the court on Wednesday, the Fed's top lawyer, Scott G. Alvarez, told the judge the central bank would appeal his decision. 
The Fed's move raises a spate of important issues five years after the financial crisis of 2008.
The appeal will be a crucial test of the courts' power to overturn the financial regulations that stemmed from the sweeping banking overhaul after the crisis. In most instances, the courts have sought to change the new rules in ways that favor banks. But in this case, Judge Leon's decision could diminish a lucrative revenue stream for banks and others. The Fed's appeal could also stoke criticism that the central bank makes unnecessary concessions to the banking industry.
''We are very disappointed to see the Fed giving in to the banks,'' J. Craig Shearman, an official with the National Retail Federation, an industry group, said in a statement. ''The Fed has taken a position that will drag this out while retailers and their customers continue to pay billions of dollars in inflated fees.''
The banks said they supported the Fed's decision to fight the decision by Judge Leon, who was appointed to the district court by President George W. Bush.
''The Federal Reserve's decision to appeal is the right thing to do for consumers who value debit cards and the financial institutions that serve them,'' Frank Keating, the president of the American Bankers Association, an industry group, said in a statement.
The case stems from the Dodd-Frank Act, which Congress passed in 2010 to overhaul the financial industry. The act contained a section whose intent was to cap the fees retailers pay when customers use debit cards. The Fed was given the task of writing specific regulations based on language in the act.
But in his July 31 opinion, which threw out the Fed's debit card rule, Judge Leon said the Fed had seen ambiguity in Dodd-Frank where none existed. When setting the fee cap, the Fed made an interpretation of Dodd Frank that was ''irreconcilable with the statute,'' he wrote.
The judge has suspended his decision to throw out the Fed's rule while the parties involved decide what to do next.
On Wednesday, Judge Leon suggested that one option for him was to direct the Fed to write a replacement, or interim, rule to satisfy his objections while the appeal continues.
Shannen W. Coffin, a partner at the law firm Steptoe & Johnson who represented the retailers in the case on Wednesday, said there was precedent for a district judge to instruct a federal agency to write a new rule in a situation like this.
Mr. Alvarez, the Fed lawyer, said the agency opposed installing an interim rule during an appeal. Doing so might undermine the Fed's position during the appeal, Mr. Alvarez said. He also said such a rule might create uncertainty for banks and others.
''The industry would not be aware of what to do,'' Mr. Alvarez said. ''Nor would the merchants.''
Retailers now pay roughly 21 cents a transaction on debit card purchases. When the Fed introduced its rule that set the fee around that level, it was considered a blow to the banks, because debit fees had been around 48 cents a transaction. The rule reduced debit fee revenue at banks, though it is not clear how much profit from this business has been dented.
Still, the retailers opposed the Fed's cap because they felt the language in the Dodd-Frank Act should have produced even lower fees.
When the Fed proposed its rules, it made an interpretation that would have capped the fee at 12 cents. In increasing the cap to 21 cents in the final rule, the Fed considered some costs related to debit cards.
Judge Leon objected to the inclusion of these costs. He said the bill did not permit the Fed's approach.
On Wednesday, it became clear that there was a potential outcome from the case that retailers would particularly want to avoid. If the Fed's current rule ceases to have effect because of Judge Leon's actions and the Fed puts nothing in its place, the banks would theoretically be free to increase fees above 21 cents a transaction. Representatives for both the banks and retailers said they favored a continuation of the 21-cent status quo while the case plays out.
Still, Judge Leon seemed concerned that the appeals process could take too long. He asked Mr. Alvarez to file briefs by Aug. 28 that would include arguments why the district court did not have the authority to direct the Fed to write a replacement debit fee rule.
Investors in credit card processors seemed to view the Fed's move favorably. Visa's share price rose 3 percent to close at $178.39 on a day when the broader markets were lower. MasterCard, however, closed down 0.5 percent at $619.31.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: On Wednesday, Scott G. Alvarez, general counsel for the Federal Reserve, said the Fed opposed installing an interim rule because doing so might undermine its position in the appeal. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CAROLYN KASTER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); DEBIT CARDS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); RETAILERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); US DODD FRANK ACT (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); JUDGES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); BANKING LAW (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); LAWYERS (75%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (60%)

COMPANY: VISA INC (84%)

TICKER: V (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (84%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2013



631 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 422 words

HEADLINE: Rising Rates Did Little To Curb July Home Sales

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Sales of existing homes jumped in July to the highest level in more than three years, suggesting rising interest rates on mortgages were having only a limited impact so far on the housing market's recovery. 
The National Association of Realtors said on Wednesday that existing-home sales rose 6.5 percent to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 5.39 million units.
The increase in home sales exceeded Wall Street's expectations and could make the Federal Reserve more comfortable with its plans to start winding down its economic stimulus program. Mortgage rates have been climbing in anticipation that the Fed will soon taper its stimulus.
While some of July's surge in home resales may reflect buyers rushing to lock in mortgage rates before they rise further, the data inspired some confidence that the housing recovery was strong enough to withstand higher borrowing costs.
''The basic take-away is that the rise in mortgage rates has been manageable,'' said Ryan Sweet, an economist with Moody's Analytics.
After being devastated by a financial crisis and the 2007-9 recession, the home market appeared to turn a corner early last year, helped by steady job creation and extremely low interest rates.
July's increase was the fastest pace of sales since November 2009, when a home buyer tax credit was expiring. Such a strong rate of growth could prove temporary, however.
Applications for mortgages to buy homes rose slightly last week, but they have fallen sharply since the spring and remain near a seven-month low, a separate report from the Mortgage Bankers Association showed.
''We expect to see some moderation in activity in the coming months, as higher mortgage rates take some of the air from the recovery,'' said Millan Mulraine, an economist at TD Securities.
Since early May, interest rates for 30-year mortgages have risen more than a percentage point. Last week, the average rate for a 30-year mortgage climbed 12 basis points, or hundredths of a percent, to 4.68 percent while refinancing activity slumped, the Mortgage Banker Association said.
The Fed is currently buying $85 billion a month in Treasury and mortgage-backed bonds, but it is expected to scale back purchases as early as September.
Economists polled by Reuters had expected home resales to increase to an annual rate of 5.15 million units in July.
The median price for a previously owned home rose 13.7 percent in July from a year earlier to $213,500. The inventory of unsold homes on the market rose 5.6 percent, for an unchanged 5.1-month supply.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Existing-Home Sales: Annual pace of existing singlefamily homes sold during the month, seasonally adjusted
 Home Prices: Median price for existing homes, not seasonally adjusted. (Source: National Association of Realtors) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); EXISTING HOME SALES (92%); MORTGAGE RATES (92%); REAL ESTATE (92%); HOUSING MARKET (91%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); STATISTICS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (89%); BONDS (78%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (78%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (75%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); JOB CREATION (70%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2013



632 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1118 words

HEADLINE: No Clarity From Fed on Stimulus, Upsetting Wall St.

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ

 BODY:
Will they move in September or won't they?
The confusion over exactly when the Federal Reserve will begin scaling back its huge economic stimulus efforts only deepened Wednesday, with the release of a summary of the deliberations at the central bank's last meeting in late July.
There were hints that some members of the divided committee are comfortable with beginning to ease the Fed's program of buying $85 billion a month in government bonds and mortgage securities as soon as their next meeting in mid-September. But there were also indications that another camp within the policy-setting group favors waiting until December, or even later.
The only thing that was clear is that the Fed intends to keep Wall Street -- and the rest of the world -- guessing. 
For one thing, a number of participants at the Federal Open Market Committee raised concerns that economic growth in the second half of the year would prove disappointing, which would tend to encourage them to delay any changes in their current policy,
In June, the Fed's chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, indicated the stimulus program could be scaled back this year if economic data continued to be relatively positive. But he avoided setting any target dates to begin what many investors refer to as the Fed's coming ''taper.''
The minutes of the meeting did little to clarify the issue. While ''a few members emphasized the importance of being patient and evaluating additional information before deciding on any changes to the pace of asset purchases,'' a few others ''suggested that it might soon be time to slow somewhat the pace of purchases,'' the summary of the July 30-31 meeting said.
As a result, longtime Fed watchers came up with analyses so different from one another that it seemed as if they might be reading different documents.
In a report issued shortly before the stock market closed, IHS Global Insight concluded that ''the Fed is unlikely to taper at the mid-September meeting,'' and predicted a move in December instead.
One minute later, experts at Barclays offered their view that the minutes of the July meeting ''do not alter our outlook for a tapering of purchases in September.''
Other institutions, like Goldman Sachs, hedged their bets. ''Over all, we think this information is consistent with September tapering, but this is by no means certain,'' the firm said.
With Mr. Bernanke all but certain to step down as Fed chairman early next year, most analysts expect the Fed to initiate the tapering process before he leaves office, and to do so at one of the meetings remaining this year -- either September or December -- where Mr. Bernanke is scheduled to conduct a news conference after the session. The committee will also meet in October, but Mr. Bernanke is not scheduled to address the media then.
On Wall Street, investors were just as uncertain as economists. After selling off immediately after the minutes were released at 2 p.m., stocks briefly rallied, only to fall back more deeply into negative territory by the end of the trading day. The most widely followed measure of the stock market among professionals, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, fell 9.55 points, or 0.58 percent, to 1,642.80. The Dow Jones industrial average lost 105.44 points, or 0.7 percent, to 14,897.55. The Nasdaq composite index declined 13.80 points, or 0.38 percent, to 3,599.79.
Bond prices also dropped after the release of the Fed's minutes, sending interest rates higher. The price of the Treasury's 10-year note fell 20/32, to 96 20/32, while its yield rose to 2.89 percent, its highest level since July 2011. It was at 2.82 percent late Tuesday. While the difference between a start to the tapering on bond purchases in September vs. December might not seem very significant to most people, the Fed's decision-making is already affecting such things as the value of 401(k) retirement accounts, mortgage rates for home buyers and currency values in many emerging markets of the world.
By pumping $85 billion a month into the economy through the bond purchases, the Fed has helped push up prices for many kinds of assets, especially stocks. The indications that the infusions might soon come to an end has generated increased volatility both on Wall Street and in stock exchanges around the world.
The bond purchases also have helped push long-term interest rates sharply lower, forcing mortgage rates to record lows. Since Mr. Bernanke first started signaling in the spring that tapering was on the horizon, those rates have increased significantly.
But some economists argue that the sooner the Fed pulls back on its extra efforts to revive the economy, the sooner the underlying economy will improve.
Whatever the timing of the taper, Fed policy makers made it clear in the minutes that the short-term rates set by the Fed would remain close to zero for considerably longer.
One notable source of strength identified by the Fed policy makers is the housing sector, which helped lead the economy down before the Great Recession, but has led the way during a fitful recovery. Even if mortgages become slightly more costly, they said, the housing market should continue to improve.
''While recent mortgage rate increases might serve to restrain housing activity, several participants expressed confidence that the housing recovery would be resilient in the face of the higher rates,'' the minutes said.
Despite upbeat signs like the housing market, Ethan Harris, co-head of global economics at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, said the minutes left him less convinced that the Fed would reverse course in September.
''To me, the minutes nudge you away from an immediate tapering,'' he said. ''It sounds like they are still in the middle of the debate.''
Besides a lack of urgency in the tone of the meeting, Mr. Harris noted there was almost no discussion of the precise mechanics of how a tapering would proceed.
''If you are about to taper, you have to decide exactly what you're going to do,'' he said. ''I think the September meeting will probably be more of a cementing of their views than an actual step forward.''
At Barclays, the chief United States economist, Dean Maki, stuck to his position that the tapering would indeed begin next month.
In particular, he cited language that said ''a number of participants'' in the meeting were comfortable that market expectations for monetary policy ''appeared well aligned with their own expectations.''
''These minutes were fully consistent with September tapering and nothing here interferes with that idea,'' he said.
To Mr. Maki, ''it seems like the committee is unified behind Chairman Bernanke's plans. That wasn't obvious after the June meeting but by July there appears to be a broad consensus.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed chief, is expected to begin scaling back the economic stimulus before he steps down next year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL REYNOLDS/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (B1)
 Maurice Dolan, a real estate agent, placing an open house sign in San Francisco. Mortgage rates began climbing after the Fed said the tapering was on the horizon. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES) (B9) CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) (B9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); BONDS (76%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); MONETARY POLICY (73%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (71%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (71%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (70%); STOCK INDEXES (61%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (59%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2013



633 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTSBEAT; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 337 words

HEADLINE: Kemble's Riot

BYLINE: By CATHERINE RAMPELL

 BODY:
Reviews of shows from the New York International Fringe Festival will appear on ArtsBeat through the festival's close on Aug. 25. For more information, go to fringenyc.org. 
Long before there was Occupy, there was the O.P.
In 1808, the Covent Garden Theater, one of two theaters in London authorized to perform Shakespeare and other spoken drama, burned down, and the theater management hadn't bought any insurance. After a new, more sumptuous structure was built and opened in 1809, ticket prices rose sharply to cover the construction costs. This resulted in one of modern history's early consumer protests, known as the ''Old Price Riots'' or ''O.P.'' for short. Crowds sang, danced and jeered for 66 consecutive nights, displaying histrionics that rivaled even Lady Macbeth's.
''Kemble's Riot'' recreates the ruckus in a compact, interactive history lesson, not unlike the sort of setup that might travel to high schools blessed with money to burn on arts programming.
Adrian Bunting's play alternately shows two 19th-century thespians (Guy Masterson and Beth Fitzgerald) onstage fretting magniloquently about the underappreciated worth of their talents, their new playhouse and their roles as custodians of public taste, and two front-row audience plants (Matt Baetz and Marla Schultz, both stand-up comics) riffing in somewhat lower diction about the history and motivations of the O.P. movement. These paid peanut-gallerians, employing megaphones and other props, rally the audience to join them in chanting and chucking things at the stage.
The embedded actors deliver some rather forced comparisons to the recent financial crisis and bank bailouts. But for theatergoers attending a festival devoted to dirt-cheap dramatics, it's still gratifying to learn of a magical age when hoi polloi thought affordable theater was worth fighting for.
''Kemble's Riot'' continues through Saturday at Players Theater115 Macdougal Street, Greenwich Village.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (75%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); RIOTS (74%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); HISTORY (70%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (70%); TICKET SALES (70%); BAILOUTS (68%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (68%); BANK FAILURES (63%); HIGH SCHOOLS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (57%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2013



634 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: The Drive to Blame Russia

BYLINE: By THOMAS GRAHAM

 BODY:
NEW YORK -- President Obama's decision to cancel his September meeting with President Vladimir Putin was heartily welcomed by a broad swath of the American political class. In the view of many American critics of Putin and the Kremlin, it was about time to punish Russia. Were it not for Russia, their argument goes, not only would Edward Snowden now be facing justice in the United States, but President Bashar al-Assad of Syria would have been removed and the civil war ended, Iran would have forsworn its nuclear weapons program, and Ukraine and Georgia would be flourishing democracies solidly anchored in the West.
Why is Russia always at fault? Why the persistent calls to punish it? 
To be sure, Russia often takes positions contrary to those of the United States, and the Kremlin is an easy target for criticism. Putin's pugnacious style, his evident glee at poking the United States in the eye, along with his mounting appeals to xenophobic, baser sentiments to shore up his domestic position, all rub Americans the wrong way.
Yet the vehemence of calls for punishment is divorced from the real challenge Russia poses on the world stage. The truth is that the country is now less of a threat than at any time since World War II, and its potential to shape global affairs pales in comparison with that of the United States.
Russia is not the Soviet Union; it offers no compelling ideological alternative, nor is it about to invent one. And even though Putin harbors dreams of restoring Russia's pre-eminence throughout the former Soviet space, China, various Islamic movements and Europe are all contesting Moscow's influence along its periphery and, at times, within Russia itself.
Cold War reflexes still play a big role in the current tensions with Moscow, even if the Russian menace is not what it used to be. The generation that sits atop America's national security apparatus, occupies leadership positions in Congress and heads its editorial boards came of age in the later stages of the Cold War and remembers how the Soviet threat concentrated minds.
Ironically, the decreased menace of a onetime superpower also encourages the temptation to blame Russia, for few believe it can impose any serious costs on the United States. No robust commercial relationship or delicately balanced economic interdependence is at risk, as it would with China. There is no threat of military confrontation, given Russia's diminished conventional capabilities. And even if Russia remains the only country that could annihilate the United States in 30 minutes, who fears intemperate words will cancel the logic of mutually assured destruction?
A deeper, unacknowledged psychological reason also drives Americans to blame Russia. Simply put, it has denied them the final, morally satisfying victory in the Cold War by refusing to take the path to free-market democracy they prescribed as the endpoint of the exit from totalitarian communism. Victory is complete only when your enemies decide to emulate you. That is what Germany and Japan did after World War II, and that is why Americans look back at that war as the ''good'' war and at those two countries as their closest of allies today.
Putin's Russia has refused to take that path and every day takes a step toward a different destination guided by Russia's undemocratic political tradition. And so Americans lash out at Russia.
This lashing out, however emotionally satisfying, comes at a significant cost. Most damaging, it obscures the extent to which Americans create their own problems and shifts attention from what they can and should do to overcome them -- whether it's protecting national secrets from the likes of a Edward Snowden or developing and executing a consistent, intelligible policy toward Syria and Iran.
Moreover, Americans seem to lash out at Russia with increasing vitriol as their frustration grows with the political dysfunction in Washington and ineptitude of U.S. foreign policy. In other words, the intensity of the criticism has less to do with Russia's behavior than with the state of America's progress in overcoming its own deficiencies.
None of this means that the United States should not criticize Russia. But it should do so only when the link between Russia and whatever issue arises is clear and significant -- and when American steps are likely to induce changes in Russia's behavior that advance concrete goals. Canceling the summit meeting in Moscow fails on both counts.
The other ways of punishing Russia that have been bruited -- boycotting the Olympics, admitting Georgia into NATO, accelerating the U.S. missile defense program -- are also unlikely to have much positive effect. Rather, if the United States really wanted to stand up and send a message to Putin, it would put its own house in order and demonstrate that it has the creativity and wisdom to craft, and the will and skill to execute, policies to advance its interests.
Thomas Graham was the senior director for Russia on the U.S. National Security Council staff from 2004 to 2007.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COLD WAR (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ARMS RACE (75%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (70%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); WORLD WAR II (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (56%); RELIGION (50%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (90%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); EDWARD SNOWDEN (72%); BASHAR AL-ASSAD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); GEORGIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); SYRIA (79%); UKRAINE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2013



635 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; LETTER FROM CHINA; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1038 words

HEADLINE: Seeking Suffrage, Hong Kong Activists Plan 'Occupy' Movement

BYLINE: By DIDI KIRSTEN TATLOW

 BODY:
For about a decade, Chinese Communist Party officials and scholars regularly visited Chan Kin-man, an expert on civil society in China and advocate of democracy in Hong Kong, for advice on this former British colony that returned to Chinese rule in 1997.
''I told them, 60 percent of people want democracy in Hong Kong; 80 percent of young people want democracy. The tide is coming in. There is something coming,'' said Mr. Chan, sitting amid towering bookshelves and desks overflowing with papers in his office at the Chinese University of Hong Kong, a lushly green campus near the border that separates Hong Kong and the Communist-run Chinese mainland.
''I told them why Hong Kong needs democracy, and how there was no evidence that the pro-democracy camps are controlled by the British and United States governments,'' he said, a nod to suspicions he faces today from Beijing that he and others are attempting a democratic ''color revolution'' in Hong Kong.
About four weeks ago, the visitors brought ''a very clear signal,'' said Mr. Chan, gesturing at two green-upholstered, rococo-style armchairs where he said they sat. ''They came here to advise me not to support Occupy Central.'' 
Occupy Central is a civil disobedience campaign he heads along with two other men (another professor and a Christian minister) to push for universal suffrage to choose the city's leader in elections due in 2017. Hong Kong's leader is now selected by an elite committee of about 1,200 people, many of them tycoons and others that Beijing considers friendly. ''Occupy Central with Love and Peace,'' to use the movement's entire name, plans to organize thousands of people to occupy the Central district of Hong Kong or another part of the city, probably in July next year. Mr. Chan says he believes he could go to jail for staging such a major obstruction of the business heart of the city.
Are they launching a color revolution?
''Of course not. We don't want to overthrow the government. We just want a democratic system in Hong Kong. We are not interested in ending Communist rule in China,'' he said. ''To me, Hong Kong is mature enough to have democracy. But in China we need to build a civil society first,'' said Mr. Chan.
Hong Kong, once broadly derided as an apolitical, money-obsessed ''cultural desert,'' is today riven with political passions as the forces for and against democracy seem headed for collision -- sparked, ironically, by Beijing's own promises to introduce universal suffrage in 2017.
Positions are being staked out. At political rallies tempers have flared and small-scale street brawls have broken out, incidents that some commentators have likened to the thuggery that accompanied the Nazis' rise to power in Germany. The democracy camp says people sent by the powerful local triads have begun attacking demonstrators in an effort to support the unpopular administration of Hong Kong's chief executive, Leung Chun-ying, who is widely seen as unwilling to push for greater democracy.
Mr. Chan believes the triads are involved. ''Yes. For sure,'' he said. ''I have checked with friends who know.''
Democracy for Hong Kong, he said, is his ''vocation.'' But the struggle is taking a toll.
Mainland universities and, recently, a major newspaper in the southern province of Guangdong have withdrawn speaking invitations, the newspaper citing an ''act of God.'' This, Mr. Chan said, refers to political pressure that cannot be withstood. He has resigned as director of his university's Chinese studies center and will soon give up another post as director of its Center for Civil Society Studies, he said.
''The university didn't give me any pressure,'' he said. ''They want me to stay. But I knew it wasn't for the benefit of the centers.'' If he remained director, he feared, fellow academics and students would be frozen out of research activities in China.
The man who long prided himself on his moderation has become a persona non grata in most of his own country.
Why do it? Hong Kong, a sophisticated city, is becoming ungovernable, he said. Frustrations run high; people are unable to vote for representatives who can actually make policy and reflect their demands -- the legislature is partly chosen by direct election, but partly through professions-based constituencies, and lacks real power. Issues like land use, housing, education and the environment are pressing, but power is concentrated in the person of the chief executive, who is chosen by the election committee with the tacit approval of Beijing and therefore is not seen as representative, he said.
Beijing is interested in good governance in Hong Kong and in preserving stability, said Mr. Chan, but he doesn't believe it will allow its leaders to be elected by the public at large, whatever its promises.
''I am very pessimistic that they will give Hong Kong universal suffrage in 2017 unless we do something, such as Occupy Central,'' he said.
So the true puzzle is perhaps this: Firmly opposed to democracy at home, why did Beijing excite these expectations in Hong Kong? Article 45 of the Basic Law, Hong Kong's constitution adopted in 1997, says the ''ultimate aim'' is to choose a chief executive ''by universal suffrage.'' In 2007, the National People's Congress announced the chief executive ''may'' be chosen by universal suffrage in 2017, and Hong Kong legislature ''may'' be fully directly elected in 2020.
From years of meeting with officials, Mr. Chan believes Beijing's bureaucrats, who think in terms of quotas and plans, estimated China would be economically developed enough around 2020 to consider greater democracy there, too.
''They believed that by 2020 China would be a 'xiaokang shehui''' -- a moderately prosperous society, said Mr. Chan. ''And then we can talk political reform in China, too.''
''They treat 2017 as a starting point. But to us, it's an end point,'' he said. ''Free speech, an independent judiciary, a free press, for China, I can wait. But in Hong Kong we are in deep trouble if we wait.''
''So to me, they should take the first step'' and grant the democracy many here crave, he said. ''It's very bold, yes. They have to get used to that. To two political parties in China!''
As I left, he called out: ''Visit me in jail!''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICS (89%); ELECTIONS (73%); COUPS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); CIVIL DISOBEDIENCE (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (88%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%) HONG KONG (99%); CHINA (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2013



636 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 963 words

HEADLINE: Median Income Rises, but Is Still 6% Below Level at Start of Recession in '07

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

 BODY:
Median household income has begun to recover over the last two years, but households still have not come close to regaining the purchasing power they had before the financial crisis began, a new study says.
The study, issued on Wednesday by two former Census Bureau officials, suggests why many people remain glum even though the economy is growing and unemployment has declined.
Although median annual household income rose to $52,100 in June, from its recent inflation-adjusted trough of $50,700 in August 2011, it remained $2,400 lower -- a 4.4 percent decline -- than in June 2009, when the recession ended. This drop, combined with the 1.8 percent decline that occurred during the recession, leaves median household income 6.1 percent -- or $3,400 -- below its level in December 2007, when the economic slump began. 
Since the end of the recession, the study said, household income has declined for all but a few population groups. Some of the largest percentage declines occurred for groups whose income was already well below the median, like African-Americans, Southerners, people who did not attend college, and households headed by people under age 25.
''Groups with low incomes tended to have steeper declines in income,'' said Gordon W. Green Jr., who wrote the report with John F. Coder, a colleague at Sentier Research, which specializes in analyzing household economic data.
Households headed by people ages 65 to 74 were the only group in the study that experienced a statistically significant increase in post-recession income, helped perhaps by the decision of some older workers to remain in the work force or re-enter it.
The figures, adjusted for changes in the cost of living over time, include income before taxes and exclude capital gains. The number of households with income above the median is the same as the number below it.
The data offers a potential preview of the official Census Bureau statistics on income and poverty for 2012, scheduled to be released next month. The Sentier data is based on the Current Population Survey, a monthly government survey of about 50,000 households. The researchers used the same definition of income as the Census Bureau uses in its annual report on income and poverty. The two sets of estimates have shown broadly similar trends in recent years.
Because recessions rarely match up with calendar years, the annual census data often does not allow for precise comparisons with the start and end of downturns. The most recent downturn ended in June 2009, according to a panel of academic economists widely considered to the arbiter of the business cycle.
The economy has been growing since 2009, but more slowly and inconsistently than many Americans would like and many economists and policy makers had predicted. President Obama has made the economy's condition his main focus this summer, promising new efforts to encourage economic growth, including a series of proposals on higher education that he is expected to announce Thursday. While taking credit for some improvement in the economy, he has acknowledged that many Americans have yet to see the benefits.
''We've got more work to do,'' Mr. Obama said last month at Knox College in Galesburg, Ill. ''Even though our businesses are creating new jobs and have broken record profits, nearly all the income gains of the past 10 years have continued to flow to the top 1 percent. The average C.E.O. has gotten a raise of nearly 40 percent since 2009. The average American earns less than he or she did in 1999.''
In the recession and its aftermath, many people went back to school, earning associate or bachelor's degrees. Such credentials have helped, the new data shows, but they have been no guarantee against loss of income.
Households headed by people with only a high school diploma have seen their post-recession income decline by 9.3 percent, to $39,300 in June of this year, the report said. For households headed by people with an associate degree, median income declined by 8.6 percent in those four years, to $56,400. And among households headed by people with a bachelor's degree or more, median income declined by 6.5 percent, to $84,700.
Since the end of the recession, the report said, income has declined by 3.6 percent for non-Hispanic white households, to $58,000, and by 4.5 percent for Hispanic households, to $41,000. Those changes were smaller than the 10.9 percent decline, to $33,500, for non-Hispanic black households, whose economic problems are likely to be a focus when Mr. Obama speaks next week on the 50th anniversary of the March on Washington.
Median income for households headed by people ages 65 to 74 increased by 5.1 percent, to $43,000, even though in many cases the head of the household was retired. By comparison, median income for households headed by people under age 25 fell 9.6 percent, to $31,300.
Median income declined by 4.5 percent for households headed by a person 25 to 34 years old, by 5.7 percent for those 35 to 44, by 2.5 percent for those 45 to 54, and by 7 percent for those 55 to 64. The report found no significant change for households headed by a person 75 or older.
Median income declined for households in three of four geographic regions, with the South showing the largest decline and the Midwest reporting no statistically significant change.
From June 2009 to June of this year, household income declined by 6.2 percent in the South, to $47,900; by 5.2 percent in the West, to $56,400; and by 3.9 percent in the Northeast, to $56,800.
By contrast, household income in the Midwest, $52,600, was not significantly different from what it was four years ago. Some parts of the Midwest have been helped by the natural-gas boom, while others have benefited from a modest manufacturing rebound in the last few years.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Household Income's Slow Climb Back: While median household income has risen slightly over the past two years, it is still 6.1 percent lower than it was when the recession began, according to two former Census Bureau officials. (Source: Analysis of Current Population Survey data by Gordon W. Green Jr. and John F. Coder, Sentier Research) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); RECESSION (92%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); STATISTICS (89%); CENSUS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); STATISTICAL METHOD (79%); COST OF LIVING (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); INFLATION (76%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); TRENDS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); LABOR FORCE (76%); OLDER WORKERS (71%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2013



637 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; MEMO FROM NEW DELHI; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1066 words

HEADLINE: Rival Economists in Public Battle Over Cure for India's Poverty

BYLINE: By GARDINER HARRIS; Hari Kumar contributed reporting.

 BODY:
NEW DELHI -- She is 7 years old, covered in dirt and spends her days asking for food from pedestrians and drivers in one of this city's central business districts.
Her name is Rohini, and other than pleading for bread, she had little to say when asked about her life. Instead, she threaded her way through thick traffic to her mother, Kamlesh, who on a recent rainy day was carrying one of Rohini's sisters, a toddler with a cloudy eye and a disturbingly quiet demeanor.
''We don't have the money to send the kids to school,'' Kamlesh said simply. 
India's inability to pull Kamlesh and hundreds of millions of others out of desperate poverty despite decades of robust economic growth has been one of history's great governance failures and economic mysteries.
Does India simply need more time for growth to work its magic, or is there something fundamentally wrong with its formula? Do improvements in health and literacy create growth or simply derive from it? And would India's people have better lives if the government focused on improving workers' skills or on bettering investors' opportunities?
Those are some of the questions behind an unusually nasty fight between two of this nation's greatest economists. It is a fight that has echoes in poor countries across the globe.
The battle between Amartya Sen, a Nobel Prize winner and Harvard professor, and Jagdish Bhagwati, an eminent professor at Columbia University, has broken out just as India's economy seems to be coming undone. The rupee has plunged to historical lows against the dollar, and extraordinary efforts by the government to stem the slide, including limits on investments abroad by Indian companies, appear to be having little effect. Growth has fallen to 5 percent annually, and Prime Minister Manmohan Singh recently admitted that it was unlikely to snap back soon. Foreign investors are turning away, and the nation's stock market has recently swooned.
Into this combustible mix came Mr. Sen and Mr. Bhagwati.
A courtly man with a cackling laugh, Mr. Sen, 79, is one of India's greatest living intellectuals. His speeches are thronged, his pronouncements make news and college students give him the kind of rock-star adulation that economists in the United States may never know.
Mr. Sen returned to India this summer to promote his new book, ''An Uncertain Glory,'' co-written with Jean Drèze. In an interview, he said that he had no idea that his book tour would make national political news or that he would be forced to defend himself against his old rival, Mr. Bhagwati.
After Mr. Sen made critical comments about an opposition politician, he was denounced by Hindu nationalists. But in an interview, he said that those who view him as sympathetic to the governing Indian National Congress Party have probably not read his book, which is a searing indictment of India's present government and every previous one.
In the book, Mr. Sen argues that India, almost alone among emerging Asian nations, has failed to invest substantially in the health and welfare of its people. This failure could doom its economy and people, he says, because a country's future growth depends just as much on its social infrastructure as its physical state.
India's economy grew nearly 8 percent annually in the past 10 years, second only to China among major economies. This improved incomes for hundreds of millions and created a growing middle class that in recent years has thronged Delhi's streets in protests about corruption and gang rapes. Meeting the growing expectations of this middle class has become a potent political issue.
But Mr. Sen argues that India's growth has failed to translate into substantially better lives for hundreds of millions of others. He points out that countries like Bangladesh, which have grown far more slowly and have much lower income levels, have performed better on key indicators like life expectancy.
''Living conditions in the poorer half of India are not much better, if at all, than in the poorer half of Africa,'' Mr. Sen wrote.
Indeed, nearly a third of all newborn deaths occur in India. One in three malnourished children are Indian, and rates of malnutrition are higher in India than in sub-Saharan Africa. Such facts serve as the core of Mr. Sen's book, and they are the kind of realities that much of India's elite have trouble even discussing, he wrote.
''Rapid economic growth has not achieved much on its own during the last 20 years or so to reduce India's horrendous levels of child undernourishment or to enhance child immunization rates,'' he wrote.
These problems are hardly addressed -- some say even worsened -- by miserable government nutrition, education and health care systems, but Mr. Sen's prescription is to expand these compromised programs.
''There has been a kind of write-off of public institutions by this administration, and they think the only thing that works is business, so they think the more we put in the hands of business the better,'' he said. ''That's a disastrous position to take.''
This argument is one that Mr. Bhagwati and his co-author on ''Why Growth Matters,'' Arvind Panagariya, denounce as not only mistaken but dangerous, since they view money spent on government programs as largely wasted.
Mr. Bhagwati, who is also 79, is one of the world's great trade economists, but he has lived in the shadow of Mr. Sen's Nobel for much of his professional life, and it clearly irks him. If his written criticism of Mr. Sen's work is shrill, his verbal criticism is downright nasty.
''My impatience with him is that he is obfuscating things constantly,'' Mr. Bhagwati said in one of his less incendiary descriptions.
To Mr. Bhagwati, India's myriad problems have less to do with poor health and literacy than a poor investment climate. Give people jobs and money and they will invest in their own education and health, he said.
Mr. Bhagwati's embrace of the private sector is widely shared in India. Only the poorest send their children to government schools and hospitals, and the central government now promotes public-private partnerships.
Some economists in India resolve the debate by saying that both have good ideas but go too far with them.
''Both guys are at the extremes of the spectrum,'' said Ajay Shah, a professor at the National Institute of Public Finance and Policy in New Delhi. ''We need to reinvest in some government programs and end others altogether.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The role of the Indian government in programs like this one, in which a government-run school provides meals to the poor, is one area in which Amartya Sen and Jagdish Bhagwati disagree. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MANSI THAPLIYAL/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); INTERVIEWS (86%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (86%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); EMERGING MARKETS (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); NOBEL PRIZES (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (71%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (69%); CELEBRITIES (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (66%); AWARDS & PRIZES (64%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (54%)

PERSON: MANMOHAN SINGH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (92%) INDIA (97%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2013



638 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; WHITE HOUSE MEMO; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 955 words

HEADLINE: Shaping a Speech, 50 Years After 'I Have a Dream'

BYLINE: By MICHAEL D. SHEAR

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Talk about pressure.
Next week, President Obama will mark the 50th anniversary of the March on Washington with a speech on the steps of the Lincoln Memorial, willingly putting himself in the very place where the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. delivered one of America's greatest oratories five decades ago.
The split-screen comparisons are as inevitable as they are unwanted. A gifted orator himself, Mr. Obama nonetheless faces an unenviable task: to offer Americans a stirring, resonant moment that goes beyond his sometimes professorial remarks, without falling into a politically dangerous mimicry of Dr. King's cadences and rhythms. 
But the challenge has become something of a self-created one for Mr. Obama during his presidency. This summer, he presented himself at the Brandenburg Gate in Berlin 50 years after President John F. Kennedy declared ''Ich bin ein Berliner.'' Last month, he chose the University of Cape Town in South Africa as the place for a speech to young people, just as Senator Robert F. Kennedy did a half century ago.
And in November, Mr. Obama has been invited to attend the 150th anniversary celebration of Abraham Lincoln's Gettysburg Address. The president has not formally accepted yet. But if he finds himself on that battlefield, he will once again be speaking in the shadow of rhetorical genius.
''You don't try to outdo the speech that was there,'' said Jon Favreau, the president's former top speechwriter, who left the White House this year. ''You want the speech to say something new, to add to whatever was said before. Why is it relevant today? What can we learn from it in our time?''
Mr. Obama's mere presence on the Lincoln Memorial platform on Wednesday will speak volumes: the election of the nation's first black president serves as a testament to America's sometimes halting progress toward what Dr. King that day envisioned as an ''invigorating autumn of freedom and equality.''
But the president will not be able to leave it at that. He -- and his speechwriters -- will have to carefully choose words for Mr. Obama that stand on their own, a task made almost impossible by the ease with which the youngest of schoolchildren recite Dr. King's most famous lines.
''It's a hugely daunting challenge,'' said Jeff Shesol, a speechwriter for President Bill Clinton. ''If you give some sort of wonky address on the economic agenda, I think it will sink like a stone. It will have to have some lift.''
Aides to Mr. Obama insist that the president, an assiduous student of history, is not dwelling on any comparisons that might be made between him and Dr. King, in large part because he sees it as foolish to try to match him.
''In moments like these, he's cognizant of the historical importance of the moment he's marking or the location where he's speaking,'' said Dan Pfeiffer, a senior adviser to the president. ''He does not view this as some sort of competitive exercise.''
Mr. Obama's current speechwriters declined to comment for this article. But Mr. Pfeiffer added, ''What does not give us any pause is the idea that a bunch of pundits might say his speech wasn't as good.'' He mocked an observer in the news media who might suggest that ''those were pretty good remarks, but they weren't the Gettysburg Address.''
All presidents face rhetorical challenges at key moments in their tenure, but Mr. Obama has had more than his share of legends to live up to. His acceptance speech at the Democratic National Convention in 2008 happened to land on the 45th anniversary of Dr. King's speech in Washington, five years ago next week.
Mr. Favreau recalled a debate among campaign advisers about how much Mr. Obama should talk about Dr. King in the acceptance speech that year. In the end, Mr. Obama made just a glancing reference to Dr. King and the anniversary.
''We went with a light touch,'' Mr. Favreau recalled. He said in such moments, ''you don't have to be too self-conscious about it.''
Lincoln -- whom Mr. Obama has repeatedly said he greatly admires -- delivered just 272 words in the address at Gettysburg in November 1863. Lincoln predicted, famously and erroneously, that ''the world will little note, nor long remember what we say here.'' Former presidential speechwriters said Lincoln's few words would make it even more difficult for Mr. Obama to find ones that feel fresh.
''I'd be pretty nervous as a speechwriter,'' Mr. Shesol said. ''It's high-stakes speechwriting, no question.''
But because Lincoln's address is so much less current than the one delivered by Dr. King, it presents the president with fewer speechmaking challenges, said Robert Schlesinger, the author of ''White House Ghosts,'' a book about modern presidents and their speechwriters.
''Gettysburg is pure history,'' Mr. Schlesinger said. ''In terms of living up to a moment, it's tougher in the Martin Luther King instance, since people remember. You can't go to YouTube and see Lincoln delivering his original address.''
Mr. Favreau said that his successors in the speechwriting office are sure to have reread Mr. King's speech as preparation for Mr. Obama's remarks next week. He said the president would typically go back and read the speech again, too.
They are words that Mr. Obama already knows well, Mr. Favreau said. In his 2008 campaign, Mr. Obama borrowed from Dr. King's speech to help convey his impatience with the slow pace of change. He often paraphrased Dr. King's comment that ''we have also come to this hallowed spot to remind America of the fierce urgency of now.''
While declining to preview the president's remarks ahead of next week's event, Mr. Obama's aides made one thing clear.
''Spoiler alert,'' Mr. Pfeiffer said. ''It will be good, but it won't be the 'I Have a Dream' speech.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Two days before taking the presidential oath of office in January 2009, Barack Obama spoke at the Lincoln Memorial. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 On Aug. 28, 1963, the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. capped the March on Washington with his ''I Have a Dream'' speech. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANNIVERSARIES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (91%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); HISTORY (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (72%); CHILDREN (70%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (67%)

PERSON: MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (92%); BARACK OBAMA (91%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); BILL CLINTON (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (91%); CAPE TOWN, SOUTH AFRICA (56%) UNITED STATES (98%); GERMANY (91%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2013



639 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 540 words

HEADLINE: To Enhance Atlantic Yards, A Plan to Sell A Big Part of It

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
He sold a stake in Barclays Center, the arena that opened in Brooklyn last fall.
He sold a controlling position in the Nets basketball team, which makes its home there. And he recently took on a partner for the residential building now under construction next door. 
Now, the developer Bruce C. Ratner, executive chairman of Forest City Ratner Companies, is looking for an investor to buy up to 80 percent of the rest of the $5 billion Atlantic Yards development in Brooklyn, which is to eventually include 14 residential buildings and 6,000 apartments near Atlantic and Flatbush Avenues. The company also has the right to erect an office building that could include a hotel.
Real estate analysts speculate that Mr. Ratner's company could reap as much as $800 million from the sale of 50 to 80 percent of the remaining project.
The company said that it will remain in control and continue to develop the property, and that the proceeds would help get some buildings, long-delayed, off the ground.
''The money will be invested in the Atlantic Yards project,'' said MaryAnne Gilmartin, chief executive of Forest City Ratner. ''We'll retain our position as the managing member. It's exciting; it raises the possibility that we'll be able to accelerate vertical development there.''
Six of the 14 remaining residential buildings would have to be built atop a concrete and steel platform over a railroad yard. The completion date for those buildings has been pushed back, angering opponents and some supporters who believed that the housing was the project's most critical component, because more than 30 percent of the units would be set aside for poor- and moderate-income families. Under an agreement with the state, Forest City will face millions in fines if it fails to build the residential part of the project.
William Shanahan and Darcy Stacom of CBRE, a real estate company, have started marketing the property. Word of the potential sale appeared in Real Estate Alert, an investment newsletter, on Tuesday. Paul Adornato, an analyst at BMO Capital Markets, said that the property should attract a lot of interest.
Atlantic Yards has had a long and tortured history. Mr. Ratner first conceived of the development in 2003, when he sought to bring a major sports team to Brooklyn as a lever for a broader residential and commercial project. He received hundreds of millions of dollars in public cash and incentives. But after a long public review process, the developer was buffeted by a recession, community opposition and a weak market.
So Forest City sold an 80 percent stake in the Nets to the Russian billionaire Mikhail Prokhorov and 45 percent of the arena for $223 million. The arena opened in September and work began on the first residential building, which at 32 stories would be the world's tallest modular tower, one that is built in a factory, assembly-line-style. The developer brought in a partner for that building, the Arizona State Retirement System.
Mr. Adornato said of Forest City: ''This is consistent with what they do. They'll take all the risk at the early stage of a project. Once they create value, they look to monetize that by bringing in investors. The layup will be to build the rest of the Yards as the market allows.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); BASKETBALL (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (76%); SPORTS (73%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); FINES & PENALTIES (67%); FAMILY (64%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (50%)

COMPANY: RATNER COS (84%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7231 BEAUTY SHOPS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2013



640 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1383 words

HEADLINE: The Government and the Entrepreneurs

BYLINE: SIMON JOHNSON


HIGHLIGHT: Entrepreneurship is important to economic development in countries rich and poor, and a global study shows there is much that governments can do to encourage it, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Simon Johnson, former chief economist of the International Monetary Fund, is the Ronald A. Kurtz Professor of Entrepreneurship at the M.I.T. Sloan School of Management and co-author of "White House Burning: The Founding Fathers, Our National Debt, and Why It Matters to You." 
Entrepreneurship seems like the quintessential private sector activity. An individual or a small group of colleagues decide to set up a business and raise some capital. If things go well, sales grow and they can hire more people. The business grows based on retained profits - or they may be able to attract funding from venture capital or some other risk-taking investors. Success brings legitimate big rewards to the people who are willing to risk an equity investment, which could rise in value or become worthless, and to those who work hard to make the business growth possible.
What does any of this have to do with the government? 
According to an authoritative series of reports on entrepreneurship around the world, the government has a key impact not just on how many new businesses are created, but also - and perhaps more importantly - on the nature of these firms and their ability to grow. 
The reports in question are the Global Entrepreneurship Monitor series, which has been running since 1999. I'll focus here on the 2012 Global Report (from which the quotes below are taken).
Tracking, monitoring and measuring entrepreneurship is not easy, and the Global Entrepreneurship Monitor team deserves a lot of credit for developing a sensible methodology and sticking to it. They survey around 2,000 adults in a random representative sample, and they talk with at least 36 experts in each country. Their goal is ambitious: "GEM provides a comprehensive view of entrepreneurship across the globe by measuring the attitudes of a population, and the activities and characteristics of individuals involved in various phases and types of entrepreneurial activity."
The focus is on "the incidence of start-up businesses (nascent entrepreneurs) and new firms (up to 3.5 years old) in the adult population (i.e. individuals aged 18-64 years)" (see Page 14).
No measure is perfect, but the strength of this approach provides insight into some fascinating questions. Where do people want to create new businesses? And when do entrepreneurs seek to make these businesses grow, rather than lurk under the regulatory radar?
These are important questions not just for the United States, where we pride ourselves on new enterprises being created, but also in all countries. All societies want jobs and preferably good jobs at high wages. Ideally also, there is a process of productivity improvement, meaning the amount that people can produce goes up every year. (This can be consistent with maintaining a sustainable environment or even using fewer resources, although I will readily concede that is not the path most of the world is currently on.)
The reports are rich in detail, but three points jump off the page regarding the role of government.
First, when the overall environment for business is bad, there are many entrepreneurs. For example, while there is a great deal of variation shown by the data within Africa, it is also clear that this is a difficult place to do business, because, for example, regulation is unpredictable and property rights can be hard to defend against powerful people.
Lack of human capital is also a weakness. You need capable engineers, managers and many others to help companies grow. The education system in many African countries is not in good shape.
Yet, there are plenty of potential entrepreneurs in the study: "Sub-Saharan Africa reported the highest intentions of any geographic region (53 percent), which is consistent with their positive perceptions about opportunities and their belief in their capabilities" (Table 2.2).
The explanation is simple. In such economies, entrepreneurship is a fallback option, when it is not possible to get a decent job in larger business.
"As per capita income increases, larger established firms play an increasingly important role in the economy," the report says. "This provides an option for stable employment for a growing number of people, serving as a viable alternative to starting a business."
Second, the negative effects of macroeconomic policy can crush new business creation even in places with plenty of human capital and good perceived opportunities.
For example, the prolonged recession in Southern Europe has reduced the perceived opportunities for potential entrepreneurs: "The Southern European countries show not only a consistently lower level of opportunity perceptions compared with the Nordic countries, but they have mostly showed declines," the study finds.
Perhaps this will turn around - entrepreneurs are good at dealing with adversity (and that's the point from Africa). But it's hard to break into a market when customers are squeezed and investors are cautious.
The Global Entrepreneurship Monitor reports make a fine but appealing distinction: do you see opportunities, and do you plan to do anything about it? These are separate issues. If your current job is good enough, you will stick with it. Or perhaps you don't have the skills necessary, in your own mind, to make the leap to start a company.
It would not be a surprise if entrepreneurs help countries like Portugal to recover from the euro crisis. But this is going to take awhile.
Third, the most difficult question is for what the report calls the innovation-driven economies, most of which are already among the richest countries in the world. What, if anything, should the government do to promote entrepreneurship?
Perhaps the answer is: not too much. All kinds of plausible schemes are put forward to help entrepreneurs at various stages of their development. No doubt some of these are effective, particularly when they involve private sector mentors and building networks of contacts. Also, helping companies at an early stage reach foreign customers can be helpful, so, for example, a business in Portugal does not have to worry so much about local or even regional macroeconomic conditions.
But what strikes me from the report is its data on the fear of failure. Part of what drives these numbers may be cultural, but there must also be economic incentives at work here, like the consequences of going bankrupt for a company or an individual. Compared with other countries, the fear of failure is high in Japan and also in South Korea. This fits with other evidence from those places. (For further thinking on why this matters, I recommend "Entrepreneurship and the Stigma of Failure," a paper by Augustin Landier.)
The fear of failure is even higher in Italy and Greece. Although we should worry about how precisely we can compare such attitudes across countries, the United States has one of the lowest fears of failure among rich countries.
Reducing the fear of failure for potential entrepreneurs is not any kind of panacea for economic development. Malawi, a poor country, has a very low fear of failure.
Government is responsible for the overall infrastructure in a country, and this includes access to education, decent roads and other transportation links. There is also a case for supporting basic technology development, like at the university level, for example, because of the spillovers or externalities throughout the economy. (I work at M.I.T., which benefits greatly from such support and which has had a major impact on new business creation.)
In innovation-based economies (as the Global Entrepreneurship Monitor classifies them), what governments really need to do is to encourage people - entrepreneurs and the equity investors who back them - to take risk and ensure that failure is seen in a positive light, rather than as some kind of stigma.
The message should be: Go out and start a business, based on your best idea. Find a technology with a new application or develop a different way to make customers happy. If it doesn't work out, you have still developed important skills and made a major contribution to society.

        
The Economics of Mad Geniuses
        
Immigration and Entrepreneurship
        
Affordable Care Act Could Be Good for Entrepreneurship
        
The Welfare Queen of Denmark
        
America's Biggest Entrepreneurs: High School Dropouts

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (96%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); STARTUPS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); VENTURE CAPITAL (78%); WRITERS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (73%); VENTURE CAPITAL APPLICANTS & RECIPIENTS (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); PRODUCTIVITY (72%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (60%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%); NATIONAL DEBT (57%) Entrepreneurship; Politics and Government; Today's Economist

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2013



641 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2013

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 322 words

HEADLINE: Daily Report: As Tech Industry Shifts, Big Players Scramble to Adapt

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: Hewlett-Packard, Cisco and other companies that once dominated the technology industry are struggling to remain relevant as users turn to cloud computing services and mobile devices. 

 BODY:
Outsiders often think of Silicon Valley as a constantly changing landscape, a place where fortunes rise and fall with the next great idea. Now some of the technology industry's biggest names are finding out that once you fall behind, it is pretty hard to catch up, Quentin Hardy reports. 
On Wednesday, Hewlett-Packard announced several significant personnel changes, along with sharply lower revenue and narrower operating profit margins. It was the latest in a string of disappointing earnings news from big technology companies that has some asking if the industry, after at least five years of growth, is finally slowing down.
"We're doing a turnaround in not the greatest economic environment," Meg Whitman, H.P.'s chief executive, said in an interview. "Everyone is trying to position themselves for the new style of information technology. The fittest will survive."
But the bad earnings news from older, big tech companies does not - so far - appear to be spreading to more youthful Internet companies like Google or Salesforce.com, which provide their software as a service over the Internet.
H.P.'s news, for example, comes on the heels of surprising plans announced last week to cut about 5 percent of the work force at the network computing company Cisco Systems and continuing issues at Oracle, Intel and even Microsoft.
If there is a common thread among these older outfits, long considered bellwethers for their industry, it is that they are all struggling to adapt to a computing world where people use the Internet on mobile devices like smartphones and tablets. Likewise, the information they retrieve is stored in a cloud of network computers that are used by many companies at the same time.

        
Daily Report: Cisco to Cut 4,000 Jobs, Despite Rising Revenue
        
A Shifting Workplace Experience
        
Mainframe Computers That Change With the Times
        
A Software Feud Ends, at Least for Today
        
General Electric Adds to Its 'Industrial Internet'

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); CLOUD COMPUTING (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (87%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (87%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (87%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); INTERVIEWS (74%); INFORMATION MANAGEMENT (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); SOFTWARE AS A SERVICE (72%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (71%); LAYOFFS (71%); TABLET COMPUTERS (67%); MAINFRAME COMPUTERS (65%); SMARTPHONES (64%); EXECUTIVES (54%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) Cisco Systems Inc; Cloud Computing; Computers and the Internet; Hewlett-Packard Company

COMPANY: CISCO SYSTEMS INC (92%); GOOGLE INC (90%); INTEL CORP (58%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (57%); SALESFORCE.COM INC (55%); MICROSOFT CORP (53%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Cisco Systems Inc; Hewlett-Packard Company

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (92%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (90%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); HPQ (NYSE) (57%); CRM (NYSE) (55%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (53%); GNE (PAR) (51%); GEC (LSE) (51%); GE (SWX) (51%); GE (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (92%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (90%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: MARGARET C WHITMAN (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2013



642 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 445 words

HEADLINE: The Affordable Care Act and Part-Time Work

BYLINE: JARED BERNSTEIN


HIGHLIGHT: A model comparing the expected and actual rates of involuntary part-time work indicates that the health care law has not had a significant effect, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Jared Bernstein is a senior fellow at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities in Washington and a former chief economist to Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. 
Among the various attacks on the Affordable Care Act, one of the more coherent - a low bar, given what's out there - is that it is causing small employers to create part-time jobs so as to remain under the 50 full-time worker cutoff for the employer mandate. The problem for those who want to come at the law from that angle, however, is that though the incentive exists, the evidence does not. 
As Paul Van de Water and I pointed out in Politico the other day, if employers were responding to the incentive the way the critics claim, we should see involuntary part-time work growing as a share of total jobs, as workers who want full-time jobs would be stuck with part-time ones. But both involuntary and overall part-time work are slowly declining as a share of all jobs.
Still, it is legitimate to ask whether the slow decline in the share of part-timers is occurring more slowly in this recovery because of the incentive to stay under 50 full-timers. So I built a simple statistical model of the relationship between the share of involuntary part-time work and the unemployment rate. I then ran the model through the first half of 2009, and predicted, using the actual unemployment rate, the shares of involuntary part-time work.
 Involuntary Part-Time Work: Actual and Predicted 
If the law were keeping more than the usual number of full-time workers stuck in part-time jobs, then the predicted trend would be significantly below the actual one. In fact, the two trends hug each other quite tightly, further evidence that part-time employment is much where we would expect it to be at this stage of recovery, given the high level and slow decline in the jobless rate.
At the end of the day, no one's saying the incentive does not exist or that it won't show up somewhere down the road in the data. But there are good reasons to believe it will be small, and it's not there yet.
Moreover, there's no question that the United States needs to reform what has been an unsustainably wasteful health care delivery system, which both costs more than in other countries and covers a smaller share of the population. The Affordable Care Act already appears to be moving us in the right direction with few side effects. The smart move now is to implement it and keep a close watch out for consequences, both intended and otherwise.

        
The New Economics of Part-Time Employment, Continued
        
A Surge in Part-Time Workers
        
The New Economics of Part-Time Employment
        
What Job-Sharing Brings
        
Breaking Out of a Cramped Economic Policy Debate

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (96%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (90%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); TRENDS (88%); HEALTH CARE (84%); SMALL BUSINESS (76%); STATISTICAL METHOD (65%) Part-Time Employment; Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (2010); Today's Economist

PERSON: JARED BERNSTEIN (74%); JOE BIDEN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2013



643 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 655 words

HEADLINE: Obama's Backup Plan on Colleges

BYLINE: DAVID LEONHARDT


HIGHLIGHT: President Obama&#8217;s first choice is for college performance data to help determine federal aid. The alternative is to publish the data and let parents and students use it to decide where to enroll. 

 BODY:
White House officials are well aware that their plan to link federal financial aid to college performance faces hurdles. College presidents have generally resisted attempts to measure outcomes, and Congressional Republicans have generally resisted any domestic-policy proposal from President Obama.
But the White House has something of a backup plan. Even if Mr. Obama (or his successor, given the plan's long timeline) cannot persuade Congress to change the rules for awarding federal aid by 2018, his administration can still collect and publish the data on college outcomes. 
Mr. Obama's first choice is that this data - on tuition, graduation and retention rates, student makeup and graduates' earnings - help determine how much federal money the colleges receive. The backup plan is that parents and students will be able to use the data to decide where to enroll and, in the process, reward top-performing colleges and punish laggards. The White House plans to publish ratings based on this data by 2015.
Whether this backup plan works will depend greatly on the details. 
Much of the data the administration plans to use in its ratings is already public. Mr. Obama's Education Department already publishes a "college scorecard" with a wealth of information. The Education Department also has a search engine called the College Navigator. Private groups, like Washington Monthly, also publish data on graduation rates and other measures. (The magazine's latest version is scheduled for release next week.)
Looking at these Web sites, you can discover, for example, that the University of Washington, Seattle, and the University of Texas at El Paso seem to have impressively high graduation rates, given the makeup of the student bodies. Baylor University and Montana State University, on the other hand, have lower graduation rates than one would expect, given the students who enroll there.
Yet it is not at all clear that such information has any significant influence on students' and parents' decisions about where to enroll. How often have you heard somebody talk about graduation rates when choosing a college?
Several studies have found that low-income students, in particular, end up attending colleges with low graduation rates - and many then fail to graduate. Only about one in three low-income students with the academic records to be admitted to one of the country's 238 most selective colleges attend one, according to a recent study by Caroline M. Hoxby of Stanford and Christopher Avery of Harvard. 
And students with identical backgrounds are less likely to finish college when they attend one with a lower graduation rate, according to a large study by William G. Bowen, Michael S. McPherson and Matthew M. Chingos.
To be clear, money is not the only reason that students choose to attend colleges with low graduation rates. More selective colleges can often be less expensive for low-income students, because they can offer more financial aid, notes Sarah Turner, a University of Virginia economist.
A larger reason for these often self-defeating decisions is a lack of good information. Many students and parents do not seem to understand the vast variation in college quality.
That is where Mr. Obama's backup plan comes in. He and his aides want to close this information gap and help people make better decisions, officials say. But they should not underestimate the difficulty of the task.
Theirs is hardly the first plan to publish comparative data about colleges on the Internet. So far, though, the information has failed to break into the mainstream. Figuring out why - and what kind of information might fare better - may be the first task facing Mr. Obama's education aides.

        
College Costs: Rising, Yet Often Exaggerated
        
Support for College Students and Banks: Not So Different
        
The Return on College, Around the World
        
Getting More Bang for the Buck in Higher Education
        
Q. and A. on the 'Shell Game' of College Aid

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TUITION FEES (90%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); GRADUATION RATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (78%); PUBLISHING (75%); SCHOOL GRADE REPORTS (73%) Colleges and Universities; Graduation Rates; Obama, Barack; Tuition

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); EL PASO, TX, USA (54%) TEXAS, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2013



644 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2013

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 932 words

HEADLINE: Found After Decades, a Forgotten Tape of King 'Thinking on His Feet'

BYLINE: MONA EL NAGGAR


HIGHLIGHT: In 1964, the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. delivered a speech at the New School. No audio record of that has been found, but the school has recovered a tape of a Q. and A. session that followed. 

 BODY:
There are hundreds of thousands of carefully preserved manuscripts and recordings that chronicle every speech, interview and public appearance made by one of America's greatest orators, the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. At least one of his appearances, however, seems to have slipped through the cracks of time, only to be discovered nearly 50 years later in the archives of the New School.
And it still seems as relevant today as it was back then. 
"I think America, somehow, must face her moment of atonement." Dr. King said, in response to a question about "preferential treatment" for African-Americans. "Not just atonement for atonement's sake, but we must face the fact that we're going to pay for it somehow. If we don't do it, we're going to pay for it with the welfare rolls, we're going to pay for it in many other ways."
On Feb. 6, 1964, Dr. King delivered a speech at the New School, inaugurating a series of lectures called "The American Race Crisis." While no audio record of the speech has been found, the school has recovered an audiotape containing 15 minutes of a question-and-answer session that had followed. Experts dedicated to the study of Dr. King said they had never heard of the speech or the follow-up discussion before.
"I was dazzled," said Steve Klein, director of communications at the Martin Luther King Jr. Center for Nonviolent Social Change in Atlanta. "Dr. King made a lot of preparation for all his speeches, but what's particularly interesting about this Q. and A. is he's thinking on his feet."
Like many such finds, the discovery of the long-lost audiotape happened by chance. Two years ago, Chris Crews, a graduate student in politics, noticed that a photo of Dr. King standing at a podium in the New School's Tishman auditorium was included in an e-mail from the school about coming events. Intrigued, Mr. Crews started digging. It took about six months, but with the help of a school librarian, a tape labeled "Crisis King PT 2'' was discovered in a box at the New School. (Presumably there was a "Crisis King PT 1," and the hunt for that continues.)
In his remarks at the New School, Dr. King spoke about a conversation he had with Jawaharlal Nehru, the prime minister of India at the time. He compared the lot of African-Americans in the United States to the untouchables in India, a community that was treated as inferior and ostracized, and made a moral and economic argument in favor of affirmative action. 
"It is a part of the social consciousness of our great democracy," Dr. King said. "We have many things that we do; if we deprive somebody of something, we do give something special to make up for that deprivation."
Dr. King's appearance occurred days before the landmark Civil Rights bill passed in the House of Representatives and less than five months after he delivered what is perhaps his most famous speech in front of the Lincoln Memorial during the March on Washington. With the 50th anniversary of that speech approaching, some civil rights leaders say the gains that have been made by blacks are threatened by recent Supreme Court rulings on affirmative education in higher education and on the Voting Rights Act. 
Fredrick Harris, director of the Institute for Research in African-American Studies at Columbia University, said the audiotape of Dr. King's remarks at the New School was "an incredible find because our image of Dr. King and the civil rights movement is seen only through the lens of the great moments of the movement." He added, "What this demonstrates is how he was engaged in the day-to-day struggles and conversations and thinking about policies that are still living with us today."
Miles Kohrman, a graduate of the New School who still spends most of his days at the school's archive, has unearthed nine additional reel-to-reel tapes from the Race Crisis series. 
"This is an incredible lineup of civil rights activists that totally disappeared off the face of the map," Mr. Kohrman, 22, said. The series included lectures by Charles Abrams, founder of the New York City Housing Authority; Roy Wilkins, the director of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People; and Melvin Tumin, a Princeton sociologist who specialized in race relations.
Since the discovery of the Race Crisis series, the school has slowly made a more conscientious effort to preserve its past. 
"There had never been a sustained attempt to really get a handle on all the material, or make it widely known and accessible," said Wendy Scheir, director of the New School archives and special collections. 
Pointing to thousands of newspaper clippings that had been kept in crumbling and poorly organized scrapbooks, Ms. Scheir added, "You would open them up and find this mountain of flakes on your feet."
Mr. Kohrman is busy organizing an exhibition for the Race Crisis series that will take place in February, marking its 50th anniversary. One feature will be an audio stand where visitors can listen to the timeless voice of Dr. King.
"It will bring America to that great day, when all of us will have a sort of moral balance,'' Dr. King tells his New School audience at one point, "where everybody can know that we can sit on or under our own vine and fig tree and not be afraid, knowing that we do live in a country where equality of opportunity is a reality."

        
Far North of Selma, an Allotment of Civil Rights History
        
An Old Staple of Black Culture Now Adds to a New Restaurant's Decor
        
A Writing Class Focused on Goodbyes
        
A Black Nurse, a German Soldier and an Unlikely WWII Romance
        
Protesters Target Weiner on School Discipline Stance

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); HISTORY (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (76%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (71%); SCHOOL LIBRARIES (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (62%) Affirmative Action; Blacks; Civil Rights and Liberties; King, Martin Luther Jr; New School; Race and Ethnicity; Speeches and Statements; Local History

ORGANIZATION: New School

PERSON: MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (93%) King, Martin Luther Jr

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); INDIA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2013



645 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1004 words

HEADLINE: Big Name Is Leaving Boies's Firm After a Year

BYLINE: PETER LATTMAN


HIGHLIGHT: David M. Bernick will move to the Dechert firm, a transition that reflects a developing era of free agency in the once-stable world of corporate law, where partners commonly switch firms, sometimes for millions of dollars. 

 BODY:
Last August, when the renowned trial lawyer David Boies announced the hiring of David M. Bernick, general counsel at the tobacco giant Philip Morris, he called the move a "huge step" for his firm, Boies Schiller & Flexner.
But after just a year at Boies Schiller, Mr. Bernick is leaving. He is expected to announce on Friday that he is moving to the law firm Dechert, according to people briefed on the matter. 
 "David is simply one of the best lawyers out there," Andrew J. Levander, the chairman of Dechert, said in a statement provided to The New York Times. "He is one of a handful of elite lead trial lawyers operating on the national stage."
It is the third time in recent months that a well-known partner has left Mr. Boies's firm. In April, Matthew Friedrich, a defense lawyer who formerly served as acting head of the Justice Department's criminal division, decamped to Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer. And David W. Shapiro, a former interim United States attorney in San Francisco, started his own firm.
The moves are raising eyebrows in the corporate law world, given that few partners have ever left Boies Schiller, which Mr. Boies started in 1997 and built into one of the country's most profitable law firms.
Last year, Boies Schiller partners earned an average of $2.7 million, according to the magazine American Lawyer.
Mr. Bernick's departure is in large part because conflicts of interest with existing Boies Schiller clients prohibited him from representing certain other companies, said Dawn Schneider, a spokeswoman for Boies Schiller.
"We wish him well for the future," Ms. Schneider said.
Still, the departures highlight the transformation that has taken place at corporate law firms over the last several decades and has only accelerated in recent years. Once staid partnerships where lawyers spent their entire careers, firms are increasingly collections of individuals with portable books of business. It is an era of free agents, where partners commonly switch firms, sometimes obtaining multimillion-dollar guaranteed contracts. Dechert, the firm that Mr. Bernick is joining, has grown rapidly by aggressively recruiting lawyers from rivals.
All of the movement comes at a challenging time for the law industry.
The market for high-end legal services continues to shrink, according to a recent report by the law firm group at Citi Private Bank.
Industry analysts say there are too many lawyers at the country's largest firms, with some estimating the excess capacity at as much as 10 percent of the lawyer population.
Many expect a round of law-firm layoffs. Earlier this year, Weil Gotshal & Manges became the first large firm to announce heavy cutbacks. A leading firm with about 1,200 lawyers, Weil let go of 60 lawyers and more than 100 support staff and also cut compensation of some of its partners.
The partner moves at Boies Schiller are unrelated to any economic weakness at the firm, people briefed on the matter said.
Mr. Boies and his partners are working on a number of prominent assignments. Jonathan D. Schiller is leading the firm's representation of the nutritional-supplement maker Herbalife in its battle with the activist investor William A. Ackman. He is also defending Barclays in cases related to the possible manipulation of the interest rate known as Libor. Mr. Boies continues to handle numerous lawsuits for Maurice R. Greenberg, the former head of the American International Group, and is expected to represent the British financier Guy Hands in a retrial of a fraud case against Citigroup this fall.
Rather than reflecting problems at the 250-lawyer firm, people say, the departures are explicable on a case-by-case basis.
Conflict-of-interest issues aside, Mr. Bernick's hiring was always seen as something of a "wild card" inside Boies Schiller because the firm rarely brings in partners from the outside. Mr. Bernick joined Philip Morris in 2010 after 32 years at the law firm Kirkland & Ellis, where he defended tobacco makers, breast implant manufacturers and asbestos companies. Then, after only two years at Philip Morris, he joined Boies Schiller, saying that he missed trying cases.
At Boies Schiller, Mr. Bernick earlier this year lost a trial defending Dow Chemical in a urethane price-fixing lawsuit. A federal judge ordered Dow to pay a $1.2 billion judgment in the case, triple a $400 million jury verdict. Dow is appealing the order.
This week, Mr. Bernick, 59, filed a lawsuit on behalf of two American Indian tribes against New York state's financial regulatory agency, challenging its crackdown on Internet lending businesses, several of which are owned by tribes. He is expected to take that case to Dechert.
As for Mr. Friedrich, the white-collar criminal defense partner in Washington, he left for Freshfields, a larger firm, because he wanted a bigger platform to handle large international investigations, said a person familiar with his thinking. And Mr. Shapiro, who spent a decade at Boies Schiller in San Francisco, had long wanted to hang his own shingle, a person said.
Mr. Friedrich, who is on vacation, could not be reached for comment, nor could Mr. Shapiro.
A lingering concern at Boies Schiller is planning for succession once Mr. Boies decides to retire. Mr. Boies, 72, is one of the country's most celebrated lawyers, having represented the former vice president Al Gore at the Supreme Court over the contested 2000 presidential election. He shows no signs of slowing down, having recently represented the software maker Oracle in several matters and helped to lead the successful challenge of Proposition 8, California's ban on same-sex marriage.
Boies Schiller has other leaders besides Mr. Boies in place, with Mr. Schiller and Donald L. Flexner serving as managing partners. It has begun transitioning some management responsibilities to other partners, and continues to grow, with plans to open a London office in the coming months.

        
Court Revives Financier's Fraud Suit Against Citigroup Over the Sale of EMI
        
With Banks Under Fire, Some Expect Settlement

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LAWYERS (97%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); TOBACCO MFG (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LAW FIRM ATTORNEY RECRUITMENT (78%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (78%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (78%); MAJOR UK LAW FIRMS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); LAYOFFS (74%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (73%); LAW FIRM PROFITABILITY (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (65%) Bernick, David M; Boies Schiller & Flexner; Boies, David; Friedrich, Matthew; legal profession; Shapiro, David; Legal Profession; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: DECHERT LLP (93%); BOIES SCHILLER & FLEXNER LLP (92%); WEIL GOTSHAL & MANGES LLP (58%); CITIGROUP INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Boies Schiller &amp; Flexner

TICKER: C (NYSE) (52%); C (BMV) (52%); 8710 (TSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (93%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (93%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%)

PERSON: Bernick, David M; Boies, David

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2013



646 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Dot Earth)

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1809 words

HEADLINE: Can Cities Adjust to a Retreating Coastline?

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN


HIGHLIGHT: Is there a way for leaders to acknowledge the need for a managed retreat from rising seas? 

 BODY:
Last June, in rolling out an ambitious$20-billion plan to gird New York City against the impacts of rising seas and storm surges in a warming climate, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg gave a classic "no retreat" speech, including this line:
[A]s New Yorkers, we cannot and will not abandon our waterfront. It's one of our greatest assets. We must protect it, not retreat from it.
Of course, who could ever imagine a politician standing on a coastline proclaiming, "We will retreat!"
But somehow, that's what has to be done. Finding a way to have a realistic discussion of where to hold firm and where to pull back, where to gird and where to let nature dominate, has to happen to limit costs and other regrets in thousands of coastal cities and smaller communities around the world. 
Klaus Jacob, an earth scientist at Columbia University whose home just north of the city up the Hudson River was flooded by the surge from Hurricane Sandy, has been calling the necessary urban design approach "managed retreat" (Reed Noss of the University of Central Florida has been making the same argument in the context of wildlife conservation).
Robust science, clear for decades, shows there will be no new "normal" coastline for centuries, actually millenniums, to come, even if greenhouse gas emissions are curbed.
Working to limit CO2 emissions can substantially reduce the "locked in" amount of eventual sea rise, as Anders Levermann of the Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research (with others) recently calculated and Ben Strauss of Climate Central effectively explained. Justin Gillis's recent column adds context.
But for the seaside communities of today, the big questions still relate to the near term, meaning the rest of this century. Tim Folger's cover story in National Geographic provides an excellent up-to-date overview of what's known, and remains unknown, about the pace of coastal change in a warming world. The article also explores possible responses, and includes this apt comment from Professor Jacob about the status quo:
"The problem is we're still building the city of the past," says Jacob. "The people of the 1880s couldn't build a city for the year 2000-of course not. And we cannot build a year-2100 city now. But we should not build a city now that we know will not function in 2100. There are opportunities to renew our infrastructure. It's not all bad news. We just have to grasp those opportunities."
Clarifying the pace of coastal retreats is incredibly important in judging how much, and how, to invest at any given time to limit losses over the long run. Unfortunately, decades of scientific research have not substantially determined what's likely in the near term (by 2100) even as the long-term picture of inundation remains robust. Revisit my video discussions with ocean analyst Josh Willis of NASA to learn more.
To chart the enduring lack of certainty, read the variousleaksfrom the forthcoming Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change report and you'll see roughly the same "maybe" forecast that scientists provided for my 1988 Discover Magazine cover story on global warming (the climate panel was just being formed at that time).
Here's how I described one resulting paradox in 2008 in "Melting Ice = Rising Seas? Easy. How Fast? Hard":
Most forecasting is easier and more reliable in the short run than over the long haul. Think of weather prediction. (And history is full of failed long-term forecasts of everything from oil prices to human population trends.)
But for scientists studying the fate of the vast ice sheets of Greenland and West Antarctica, the situation seems reversed. Their views of sea trends through this century still vary widely, while they agree, almost to a person, that centuries of eroding ice and rising seas are nearly a sure thing in a warming world...
My emails and calls to more than a dozen experienced ice scientists produced about a 50/50 split on whether Greenland or Antarctica was the biggest short-term risk.
But there was little disagreement that playing what amounts to two games of high-stakes poker at the same time by driving up greenhouse-gas concentrations is a bad idea, particularly as ever more people concentrate on coastlines in both rich and poor countries.
So where does this leave you if you live near a shore or run a coastal port, airport or city? Is the Bloomberg plan a good one or a stopgap that fits political imperatives of the moment while building bigger risks in the long haul?
A highly relevant new analysis, "Future flood losses in major coastal cities" (Nature Climate Change, Aug. 18) has come from a team led by Stéphane Hallegatte, a senior economist at the World Bank. The paper is part of a continuing research effort by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development and builds on a broader World Bank initiative on warming and sea level called Turn Down the Heat.*
Here's the study summary: 
Flood exposure is increasing in coastal cities owing to growing populations and assets, the changing climate, and subsidence Here we provide a quantification of present and future flood losses in the 136 largest coastal cities. Using a new database of urban protection and different assumptions on adaptation, we account for existing and future flood defenses. Average global flood losses in 2005 are estimated to be approximately $6 billion per year (U.S. dollars), increasing to $52 billion by 2050 with projected socio-economic change alone.
With climate change and subsidence, present protection will need to be upgraded to avoid unacceptable losses. Even if adaptation investments maintain flood probability, subsidence and sea-level rise will increase mean annual losses by between 15 and 22 percent in 2050 on top of the increase due to socioeconomic changes. To maintain flood risk, adaptation will need to reduce flood probabilities below present values. In this case, the magnitude of losses when floods do occur would increase, often by more than 50 percent, making it critical to also prepare for larger disasters than we experience today. The analysis identifies the cities that seem most vulnerable to these trends, that is, where the largest increase in losses can be expected.
Hallegatte sent three findings translated from paper jargon to language that even a mayor could understand:
- For the first time, this study takes into account existing coastal defenses. And we find that because of these defenses - and the way they have been designed for the current environmental conditions - the cities are very vulnerable to even moderate changes in sea level. Cities that are very well protected today are particularly vulnerable to such a change. Compared with previous studies that found that losses increase regularly with sea-level rise, we find a much sharper increase with sea level because of this effect. In policy terms, what it shows is that major investments in coastal protections will be needed in the next decades, at a high cost ($50 billion per year for the 136 cities). This is probably easy for rich cities, but it is more challenging for poor countries.
- The cities where the risk will increase most are not the cities where the risk is particularly high today (such as around the Mediterranean basin). So, cities where flood risk is not a priority today will have to take this problem seriously. And it is a challenge: one cannot see an increase in risk; what we see is the disaster when it is too late. The challenge for these cities is to do something about the increase in risk before the disaster hit. We know that this is politically difficult.
- Adaptation can decrease the probability of a disaster occurring, but all the cities will become more vulnerable to a failure in defenses, or to an exceptional event that exceeds the defense design. It means that floods - when they occur - will be larger in the future. It calls for better crisis management and contingency planning (including early warning systems and evacuation), reconstruction planning, and international collaboration, especially when poor countries are affected (or when small countries are hit, since for them it can be the entire national economy that is stalled by a flood, making them unable to manage the recovery and reconstruction).
As a side result, the U.S. appears particularly vulnerable, with defense standards much lower than countries with similar income (and even lower than many developing countries).
In a subsequent note, Hallegatte added this sobering thought, which builds on his earlier research (which I cited as New York and New Jersey reeled under Sandy's surge) on the factors leading to mega-disasters:
[A]n important limit of adaptation is that it can reduce the probability of floods (by raising defenses), but it also increases the losses when a flood does occur (that is, when the defenses fail or are exceeded by an exceptional event). Basically, with adaptation we're moving to a world that is better protected, and therefore more dependent on these protections, and more vulnerability to their failing.
Getting comfortable with the reality of no new normal coastline is clearly an imperative in the Anthropocene, this era (long or short; it's up to us) in which Earth is increasingly a human-shaped system.
 Update, 3:40 p.m. | * At the asterisk above, I incompletely described the genesis of the Hallegatte paper, leaving out the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.
 Update, 3:53 p.m. | I just recalled that my old friend Mike Lemonick wrote an excellent piece in 2012 for Climate Central focused on the response of coastal communities in Florida to sea-level realities. Here's the opener and a link to the rest:
It's not unusual for Keith London to run into people who doubt that global warming is really such a big deal. "I tell them, 'the ocean is rising,' " he said. "They say, 'so?' It drives you crazy."
London is no scientist; he's a city commissioner in Hallandale Beach, Fla., a municipality of about 37,000 that sits on the Atlantic coast between Fort Lauderdale and Miami. But he talks to scientists and engineers all the time as part of his job, and the story they tell him isn't pretty. "The average elevation in Florida is 6 feet," London said. "Some places are as little as 3 feet above sea level. And sea level is going to rise as all that ice in the Arctic melts." [Read the rest.]
 Updated, Aug. 23, 11:59 p.m. | 
The report from President Obama's Hurricane Sandy Rebuilding Task Force, released this week, is relevant. Here's a related Times editorial, published Friday.

        
Obama's Second-Term Options on the Environment
        
How Natural Gas Kept Some Spots Bright and Warm as Sandy Blasted New York City
        
Lessons from Sandy: Building with Resilience in Mind
        
On Hurricanes, Presidents, Climate and One Clear Human Factor in the Sandy Disaster
        
On Sandy and Humanity's 'Blah, Blah, Blah Bang' Disaster Plans

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: GLOBAL WARMING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); HURRICANE SANDY (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); CITIES (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (79%); WILDLIFE (73%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (73%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (73%); SCIENCE NEWS (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); PERSONAL FINANCE (50%) Antarctic Regions; Bloomberg, Michael R; Coastal Areas; Disasters and Emergencies; Floods; Folger, Tim; Global Warming; Greenhouse Gas Emissions; Greenland; Hurricane Sandy (2012); Ice; Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change; New York City; Urban Areas; Weather; World Bank; cities; Climate Change; disasters; environmental policy; planning; resilience; risk

ORGANIZATION: Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change; World Bank

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%) Bloomberg, Michael R; Folger, Tim

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); ANTARCTICA (92%) Antarctic Regions; Greenland; New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2013



647 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(T Magazine)

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2013

SECTION: T-MAGAZINE; culture

LENGTH: 1308 words

HEADLINE: This Is Rooney Mara

BYLINE: DAVID AMSDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Aloof, icy, playful, curious, remote, opaque, funny, shy, distant, nice, impenetrable, guarded, unreadable. Rooney Mara happens to be all of these things. 

 BODY:
Rooney Mara is not known for giving off the warmest of first impressions. Standoffish, aloof, icy, remote, guarded, distant, opaque, steely, impenetrable, unreadable: such tend to be the words used by journalists to describe their encounters with the actress, a less than inviting list of adjectives that I decide to lob at her the moment we meet in Manhattan. I figure my little ignoble stunt will put Mara on the defensive, stir up some deep-seated insecurities, maybe even provoke a flash of anger, all in the name of exposing some new, hidden dimension of the actress to the world.
"Yeah," Mara says when I finish. "I kind of have a bad reputation, don't I?"
Slide Show: The Mysterious Rooney Mara 
Her tone is so unruffled that she may as well be remarking on the weather in a city she doesn't care to visit. And from there? Silence. Mara fixes me with the same unblinking, glacier-eyed stare she deploys so penetratingly on screen - most notably in her breakout role, as the cyberpunk Lisbeth Salander, in David Fincher's 2011 adaptation of "The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo." Finally, sensing victory in my discomfort, a sly grin springs up on Mara's elfin, alabaster face.
"Isn't mystique and the unknown," she asks, "part of what keeps you drawn to someone?"
Well, yes. Then again, in our confessional age the desire to conceal has been largely eclipsed by the urge to reveal. Today, the sort of actors who once complained about the tabloids now take to Twitter and Instagram to produce their own self-centric versions, carefully curating their personas, forever setting the record straight, always ensuring that we are fed a steady and quasi-intimate diet of everything from their eating habits to handbag preferences to what they look like (gasp!) without makeup. Mara, in this landscape, represents a disarming and refreshing outlier: she may not win people over in the way of Jennifer Lawrence, who never fails to come across as an irrepressible dervish of Kentucky Fried Fun, but she also doesn't risk exhausting us with the robotic eagerness to please of an Anne Hathaway. Should I or anyone else choose to reinforce the chilly stereotypes of Mara already laid out for public consumption - well, go right ahead, is her attitude, one she began honing long before she became famous. "In high school, people thought I was stuck-up because I didn't talk to anyone," she says of growing up in Bedford, N.Y., a bucolic suburb of the city. "It was just because I was shy and scared, but I think because I'm super-self-possessed that it doesn't come across as scared so much as stuck-up. I would hear what people thought and be like, 'No! I'm actually nice!' " She laughs, rolls her eyes. "But now people can think whatever they want." 
Indeed, in person Mara is quite friendly, punctuating many sentences with laughter and exuding an eager curiosity about subjects ranging from Philip Roth's novels to her newfound addiction of binge watching the Swedish pop star Robyn's latest music video. "She doesn't take any interactions for granted, and she won't hide it if something isn't worth her time," Fincher says. "But once you get to know her you realize she's a playful girl, very funny, with a biting wit." True, yet Mara seems to prefer that you don't know this about her, recognizing that so long as people get her wrong it means that, as an actress, she is doing something right: remaining a slate so blank that just about any idea can be convincingly projected onto her. Her much-documented transformation for "Dragon Tattoo" (the motorcycle riding! the pierced nipple!) justly earned her a Best Actress Oscar nomination, and in the wake of that success Mara spent the better part of last year shooting four films back to back, a dizzying run during which she got to showcase her chameleon-like ability to mold herself into a variety of disparate characters while collaborating with a fantasy list of directors. First there was "Side Effects," Steven Soderbergh's Hitchcockian thriller about the pharmaceutical industry, in which Mara turned in a nuanced performance as the manipulative, pseudo-depressive wife of a fallen banker. Right after that wrapped she made her way to the Los Angeles set of "Her," Spike Jonze's take on sci-fi scheduled to come out in November, in which she portrays the ex-wife of a writer who falls in love with his computer's operating system. Then she was off to shoot two films in Texas: the just-released "Ain't Them Bodies Saints," by the newcomer David Lowery, and Terrence Malick's still-untitled meditation on love and obsession set against the backdrop of Austin's music scene.
Even before she had a career, Mara, who keeps a secret list of characters she'd like to play and people she hopes to work with, had a precociously clear idea of how she wanted to be seen in the industry. She became interested in acting at a young age, when her mother took her and her sister, Kate, to Broadway musicals and introduced the two to classic movies. "My sister started acting when she was young," Mara says of the elder Kate, who's currently starring in the Netflix political thriller "House of Cards." "But I just knew I didn't want to be a child actor. I knew I wanted to go to school and wanted to start when I was older, so I would be taken seriously." The topic of her family, however, is one that retriggers Mara's desire to keep certain facets of her life hidden behind veils. "I hate it when people ask me about my family - my football family," Mara says of the clan known in sports circles as the founding and current owners of the Pittsburgh Steelers (on her mother's side) and the New York Giants (on her father's), an N.F.L. legacy from which she is eager to extricate herself. "It has no relevance to acting."
Mara's latest decision - to stop working for a while when she is in her prime of what can be a maddeningly narrow window for women in film - is further evidence of how the 28-year-old actress values the idea of staying shrouded in a bit of mystery. "I haven't worked since last Thanksgiving and I have no plans on working anytime soon," she tells me. "After a movie I always feel a little lost. While you're doing it you feel like you're having some sort of revelation, like it's real, and then its over and you're like, 'That was not real.' " Mara acknowledges that this hiatus is something of a gamble but to talk to those close to her is to learn that her ambition is tempered by her instincts toward self-preservation. "She doesn't operate from a place of fear," Jonze says. "She's looking at the whole picture, and wants to figure out how to live her life."
These days that means leaving Los Angeles to spend time in New York. Talking about the possibilities of a summer spent unemployed, Mara becomes downright giddy, far from the frosty creature she's typically portrayed as. "What's something I could learn? What's a new skill I could acquire?" she wonders aloud, before launching into a to-do list of achievements she hopes to rack up by summer's end: learning a new language, probably French or Spanish; getting a sewing machine and teaching herself how to quilt; maybe dabbling in embroidery; finishing a novel she's been struggling to get through. But more than anything, she tells me, she has become fixated on the idea of learning ballroom dance. She explains that, like acting, dancing would force her to shed her naturally reticent husk. "I have hidden rhythm - like, I'm a crazy dancer when I'm alone - but I'm a little too shy to let it come out in public." Mara pauses, and then adds, "But, let me tell you, it's going to come out."

        
Now Online | T Fall Women's Issue
        
The Look | Rosie Huntington-Whiteley Dares to Go Bare
        
Happenings | The Parties at the First Week of the Cannes Film Festival
        
In Conversation | Bruce Weber and Kathleen Turner on Becoming Mentors
        
The Fairest of Them All

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (78%); NUTRITION (62%) Mara, Rooney; Actors and Actresses; The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo (Movie); Culture; T Fall Womens 2013

PERSON: JENNIFER LAWRENCE (73%); ANNE HATHAWAY (57%) Mara, Rooney

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2013



648 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 851 words

HEADLINE: A Silicon Valley for Ad Agencies, Only in the Mountains

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
AN agency holding group with ambitious growth plans is setting up shop in a growing market for agencies.
The holding group, Project WorldWide, is opening an agency named School in Boulder, Colo., which is increasingly becoming known as a home for entrepreneurs in the advertising business. Among the senior managers of School are executives who worked together at the Boulder office of Crispin Porter & Bogusky, part of MDC Partners.
It seems, in retrospect, that a decision in 2006 by Crispin Porter to open an office in Boulder -- serving as a dual headquarters with its operation in Miami -- helped transform Boulder into a nascent force in the advertising industry, competing with other regional power centers like Austin, Tex.; Boston; Silicon Beach, a new nickname for sections of the Los Angeles area; Miami; Minneapolis; Portland, Ore.; Richmond, Va.; and San Francisco. 
''Boulder is becoming a magnet for people figuring out 'What am I doing with my life?' '' said Max Lenderman, a principal at School -- pause here for the joke about ''School principal'' -- who is taking the title of conductor, analogous to chief executive.
Among the other agencies in the Boulder market are Grenadier; Made Movement, the latest venture of Alex Bogusky, formerly of MDC and Crispin Porter & Bogusky; Mondo Robot; Moxie Sozo; Oblique Design; the Sterling-Rice Group; TDA Boulder; Vermilion Design and Interactive; and Victors and Spoils, majority-owned by Havas.
Mr. Lenderman likened the start-up culture in Boulder to those of Silicon Valley and New York.
''Joe and I have been talking about a new breed of agency,'' he said, referring to Joe Corr, who is chief creative officer at School. ''We were looking at Made Movement, Victors and Spoils, Grenadier, and we got the jones as well.''
In addition to Mr. Lenderman, who is 41, and Mr. Corr, who is 33, the third principal at School is Shane Kent, who will be the agency's president. Mr. Kent, 43, had been a brand manager and brand development director at Unilever, working on products like Axe, Suave and Tresemmé.
Also, Ryan Nikolaidis, 29, an executive creative director at Project WorldWide, is being dispatched to help School develop its creative technology and physical computing practice. School will also specialize, Mr. Lenderman said, in tasks like digital advertising, social media and experiential marketing, which seeks to provide consumers with events, promotions and other tangible ways that they can engage with brands.
The members of the Boulder ad community are ''tightknit,'' said Mr. Lenderman, who worked with Mr. Corr at Crispin Porter; Mr. Corr, in turn, worked at Crispin Porter with Mr. Nikolaidis. Underlining the connections among the rolling stones of the Boulder ad scene is School's location: in a building on Walnut Street that was home to Common, an agency run by Mr. Bogusky between his stints at MDC and Made Movement. Mr. Bogusky called the building Fearless Cottage; the School executives have named it the School House.
School is working with clients of other Project WorldWide agencies, Mr. Lenderman said, adding that he was unable to identify them at this time.
School is the third agency to be opened this year by Project WorldWide; the others were Argonaut, started in March in San Francisco, and Shoptology, started in May in Dallas.
Project WorldWide, based in Auburn Hills, Mich., was formed in 2010 by Robert G. Vallee Jr., chairman and chief executive, with a nucleus that included agencies in the United States (George P. Johnson, Juxt Interactive), Australia (the Spinifex Group) and Germany (Raumtechnik). The holding group subsequently expanded by acquiring agencies like Affinitive, Partners & Napier and, earlier this week, Mercury 11, which is to be merged with Shoptology.
Still, Project WorldWide is tiny compared with the largest agency holding companies like WPP, the Omnicom Group and the Publicis Groupe. And the large are only growing larger with the planned merger of Omnicom and Publicis, announced last month, to form the Publicis Omnicom Group. Project WorldWide is small even compared with the smaller groups like Cheil Worldwide and MDC.
Still, a holding group the size of Project WorldWide appeals to ''talented people in today's marketing world who want to operate without the political influence of a holding company getting in the way,'' said Brian Martin, senior vice president for marketing and communications at Project WorldWide, based in New York.
As for the relatively low profile of Project WorldWide, that will be raised as ''more start-ups and acquisitions'' take place, Mr. Martin said, adding: ''They'll definitely be continuing. There are a lot of people reaching out to discuss opportunities of all sorts.''
Mr. Lenderman said that going into business with Project WorldWide appealed to him because ''they say they want to build a different kind of holding company, and I believe it.
''What I was attracted to was the scrappy, underdog mentality,'' Mr. Lenderman said, adding with a laugh: ''I grew up in Chicago as a Cubs fan. I root for the underdog every time to prove the world wrong.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Project WorldWide is opening School, in Boulder, Colo. Clockwise from top left, the agency's leaders include Joe Corr, Max Lenderman, Shane Kent and Ryan Nikolaidis. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GEORGE LANGE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (89%); BRANDING (89%); INTERACTIVE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (77%); EVENT MARKETING (72%); MOUNTAINS (69%); PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (66%)

COMPANY: CRISPIN PORTER & BOGUSKY (91%); HAVAS SA (58%); MDC PARTNERS INC (57%); UNILEVER PLC/NV (52%)

TICKER: HAV (PAR) (58%); MDZ.A (TSX) (57%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (57%); UNIA (AMS) (52%); UNA (BIT) (52%); UNA (AMS) (52%); UN (NYSE) (52%); ULVR (LSE) (52%); UL (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (58%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (58%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (57%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS311411 FROZEN FRUIT, JUICE & VEGETABLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS311225 FATS & OILS REFINING & BLENDING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (72%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); COLORADO, USA (93%); OREGON, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2013



649 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: Why Is Obama Caving on Tobacco?

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. BLOOMBERG. 
Michael R. Bloomberg is the mayor of New York City.

 BODY:
LAST year I endorsed President Obama for re-election largely because of his commitment to putting science and public health before politics. But now the Obama administration appears to be on the verge of bowing to pressure from a powerful special-interest group, the tobacco industry, in a move that would be a colossal public health mistake and potentially contribute to the deaths of tens of millions of people around the world.
Although the president's signature domestic issue has been health-care reform, his legacy on public health will be severely tarnished -- at a terrible cost to the poor in the developing world -- unless his administration reverses course on this issue. 
Today in Bandar Seri Begawan, Brunei, representatives from the United States and 11 other nations begin the latest round of negotiations over the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a multinational trade agreement. The pact is intended to lower tariffs and other barriers to commerce, a vitally important economic goal. But if it is achieved at the expense of people's health, the United States and countries around the world will be worse off for it.
The early drafts of the agreement included a ''safe harbor'' provision protecting nations that have adopted regulations on tobacco -- like package warnings and advertising and marketing restrictions -- because of ''the unique status of tobacco products from a health and regulatory perspective.'' This provision would have prevented the tobacco industry from interfering with governments' sovereign right to protect public health through tobacco control laws.
Countries (and cities) that have adopted such regulations have had great success reducing smoking rates and saving lives. In New York City, where we have adopted some of the most comprehensive tobacco policies in the world, the smoking rate among adults has fallen by nearly one-third, and among high school students it has been cut in half. This progress helped to increase average life expectancy: in 2010, it was 80.9 years in the city, more than two years longer than in the country as a whole.
This week, however, the Obama administration bowed to pressure from the tobacco industry and dumped the safe harbor provision from the trade compact. The tobacco industry was joined by other business interest groups that were fearful that the safe harbor provision would lead to other products' being singled out in future trade accords.
So instead of the safe harbor, the Obama administration is now calling for a clause requiring that before a government can challenge another's tobacco regulation under the treaty, their health authorities must ''discuss the measure.'' The administration will also try to ensure that a general exception for matters to protect human life or health (typical in trade agreements) applies specifically to tobacco regulation.
But these are weak half-measures at best that will not protect American law -- and the laws of other countries -- from being usurped by the tobacco industry, which is increasingly using trade and investment agreements to challenge domestic tobacco control measures.
If the Obama administration's policy reversal is allowed to stand, not only will cigarettes be cheaper for the 800 million people in the countries affected by the trade pact, but multinational tobacco corporations will be able to challenge those governments -- including America's -- for implementing lifesaving public health policies. This would not only put our tobacco-control regulations in peril, but also create a chilling effect that would prevent further action, which is desperately needed.
Tobacco use causes more deaths around the world than HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis combined. If nothing is done, one billion people will die of tobacco use by the end of this century. Through my philanthropy, I have supported grass-roots efforts overseas to discourage tobacco use. Bangladesh, for instance, has enacted new rules that are a big step toward banning smoking in public places and on all modes of transportation. In Vietnam, we helped build public support for comprehensive new legislation that includes some of the most effective tobacco-control techniques, like advertising bans and graphic warning labels on packages.
But if the trade pact proceeds without the safe harbor provision, this progress will be jeopardized, a devastating setback for the global effort to reduce tobacco use, particularly because the signatories to the trade pact include nations -- like the United States, Australia and Vietnam -- that have some of the world's strongest tobacco control measures. If the Obama administration caves, the tobacco rules of its own Food and Drug Administration will be subject to challenge.
I could not be more strongly in favor of trade agreements that expand economic opportunity here and around the globe. But a deal that sells out our national commitment to public health, and forfeits our sovereign authority over our tobacco laws, does not merit the support of Mr. Obama; of the Senate, which would have to ratify it; or of the American people.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY HARRY CAMPBELL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (90%); POLITICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SMOKING (89%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (89%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); TOBACCO MFG (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (88%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (78%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (77%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (75%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); SECURITIES TRADING (68%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (55%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (52%); HIGH SCHOOLS (50%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); BRUNEI DARUSSALAM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2013



650 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 904 words

HEADLINE: Found After Decades, a Forgotten Tape of Dr. King

BYLINE: By MONA EL NAGGAR

 BODY:
There are hundreds of thousands of carefully preserved manuscripts and recordings that chronicle every speech, interview and public appearance made by one of America's greatest orators, the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. At least one of his appearances, however, seems to have slipped through the cracks of time, only to be discovered nearly 50 years later in the archives of the New School.
And it still seems as relevant today as it was back then. 
''I think America, somehow, must face her moment of atonement.'' Dr. King said, in response to a question about ''preferential treatment'' for African-Americans. ''Not just atonement for atonement's sake, but we must face the fact that we're going to pay for it somehow. If we don't do it, we're going to pay for it with the welfare rolls, we're going to pay for it in many other ways.''
On Feb. 6, 1964, Dr. King delivered a speech at the New School, inaugurating a series of lectures called ''The American Race Crisis.'' While no audio record of the speech has been found, the school has recovered an audiotape containing 15 minutes of a question-and-answer session that had followed. Experts dedicated to the study of Dr. King said they had never heard of the speech or the follow-up discussion before.
''I was dazzled,'' said Steve Klein, director of communications at the Martin Luther King Jr. Center for Nonviolent Social Change in Atlanta. ''Dr. King made a lot of preparation for all his speeches, but what's particularly interesting about this Q. and A. is he's thinking on his feet.''
Like many such finds, the discovery of the long-lost audiotape happened by chance. Two years ago, Chris Crews, a graduate student in politics, noticed that a photo of Dr. King standing at a podium in the New School's Tishman auditorium was included in an e-mail from the school about coming events. Intrigued, Mr. Crews started digging. It took about six months, but with the help of a school librarian, a tape labeled ''Crisis King PT 2'' was discovered in a box at the New School. (Presumably there was a ''Crisis King PT 1,'' and the hunt for that continues.)
In his remarks at the New School, Dr. King spoke about a conversation he had with Jawaharlal Nehru, the prime minister of India at the time. He compared the lot of African-Americans in the United States to the untouchables in India, a community that was treated as inferior and ostracized, and made a moral and economic argument in favor of affirmative action.
''It is a part of the social consciousness of our great democracy,'' Dr. King said. ''We have many things that we do; if we deprive somebody of something, we do give something special to make up for that deprivation.''
Dr. King's appearance occurred days before the landmark Civil Rights bill passed in the House of Representatives and less than five months after he delivered what is perhaps his most famous speech in front of the Lincoln Memorial during the March on Washington. With the 50th anniversary of that speech approaching, some civil rights leaders say the gains that have been made by blacks are threatened by recent Supreme Court rulings on affirmative action in higher education and on the Voting Rights Act.
Fredrick Harris, director of the Institute for Research in African-American Studies at Columbia University, said the audiotape of Dr. King's remarks at the New School was ''an incredible find because our image of Dr. King and the civil rights movement is seen only through the lens of the great moments of the movement.'' He added, ''What this demonstrates is how he was engaged in the day-to-day struggles and conversations and thinking about policies that are still living with us today.''
Miles Kohrman, a graduate of the New School who still spends most of his days at the school's archive, has unearthed nine additional reel-to-reel tapes from the Race Crisis series.
''This is an incredible lineup of civil rights activists that totally disappeared off the face of the map,'' Mr. Kohrman, 22, said. The series included lectures by Charles Abrams, founder of the New York City Housing Authority; Roy Wilkins, the director of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People; and Melvin Tumin, a Princeton sociologist who specialized in race relations.
Since the discovery of the Race Crisis series, the school has slowly made a more conscientious effort to preserve its past.
''There had never been a sustained attempt to really get a handle on all the material, or make it widely known and accessible,'' said Wendy Scheir, director of the New School archives and special collections.
Pointing to thousands of newspaper clippings that had been kept in crumbling and poorly organized scrapbooks, Ms. Scheir added, ''You would open them up and find this mountain of flakes on your feet.''
Mr. Kohrman is busy organizing an exhibition for the Race Crisis series that will take place in February, marking its 50th anniversary. One feature will be an audio stand where visitors can listen to the timeless voice of Dr. King.
''It will bring America to that great day, when all of us will have a sort of moral balance,'' Dr. King tells his New School audience at one point, ''where everybody can know that we can sit on or under our own vine and fig tree and not be afraid, knowing that we do live in a country where equality of opportunity is a reality.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. in 1963. The next year, he was recorded while answering questions at the New School. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GEORGE TAMES/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (71%); SCHOOL LIBRARIES (71%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (61%)

PERSON: MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); INDIA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2013



651 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1191 words

HEADLINE: In Hamptons Again, Clintons Get to Work on Their Vacation

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG and AMY CHOZICK

 BODY:
SAGAPONACK, N.Y. -- Bill and Hillary Rodham Clinton are renting a virtual Shangri-La in this lush, beachside paradise in the Hamptons. The $11 million mansion sprawls over 3.5 acres of prime real estate, with four fireplaces, six bedrooms, a heated pool and private path to the beach.
But Clinton vacations are not about kicking back.
Mrs. Clinton will be spending many hours here holed up in an office, though one with an ocean view, working on a memoir about her days as secretary of state, people close to the family say. 
And, not one day after arriving here late last week, Mr. Clinton was already making a public appearance, at a softball game played each summer between artists and writers in East Hampton. There he found himself deluged by news photographers and autograph seekers as the ''Today'' show host Matt Lauer and The Daily News publisher Mortimer B. Zuckerman looked on.
A reporter asked, Was he getting to relax? ''Apparently not,'' he joked.
Relaxation is not entirely the point when the Clintons head to the Hamptons, where work and play are inexorably intertwined.
Since they arrived, Mr. Clinton celebrated his 67th birthday at the rented mansion with Paul McCartney and Jimmy Buffett. And the couple has entertained Marty Markowitz, the Brooklyn borough president, who was an early supporter of Mrs. Clinton's presidential bid in 2008.
On Friday, there will be a Bill, Hillary and Chelsea Clinton Foundation fund-raising gala at Topping Rose House -- a new hotel-restaurant operated by the celebrity chef Tom Colicchio. Attendees will include the Revlon chairman, Ronald O. Perelman, who is an event chairman, requiring a $50,000 donation; and Mr. Zuckerman and the real-estate executive Peter S. Kalikow, event co-chairmen at the $25,000-donation level.
The Clintons are known for keeping busy: in the last house they rented, an eight-bedroom, wood-shingled place on Georgica Beach, the former president spent time rearranging the books in the house by subject matter.
''He had organized it in a very effective way,'' the house's owner, Elie Hirschfeld, recalled.
The Clintons have filled their rental this summer with extended family, including Mr. Clinton's half-brother, Roger, and Roger's son, Tyler. Mrs. Clinton's brother Tony Rodham is also in Sagaponack. He brought his son, Zach, from his first marriage and his younger children, Simon and Fiona, from his second marriage. The former president took Simon and Fiona minigolfing on Wednesday.
The Clintons' daughter, Chelsea, and her husband, Marc Mezvinsky, will not be coming. She is in Oxford, England, finishing her dissertation; he is in New York working on a business deal.
The Clintons, who are here for roughly two weeks, have been coming to the Hamptons for so long -- as visitors, cash-seeking candidates and, more recently, renters -- that they have built up a social circle, and with it, some social obligations. ''At this point, he knows a lot of people who happen to summer out here,'' said Alan Patricof, an investor who is a longtime family friend and fund-raiser.
But the couple, he said, get all the privacy they want.
Indeed, they are left alone during morning walks on the beach with their dogs. (They now have three: Seamus, an 8-year-old arthritic chocolate Labrador; Tally, a poodle; and a new companion, Maisie, a curly-haired pup of undetermined breed.)
They have made Babette's, an easygoing French restaurant with an outdoor porch, a regular spot for cake, and usually sample the menu of Almond restaurant in Bridgehampton, which is owned in part by Jason Weiner, who is the brother-in-law of Mrs. Clinton's aide Huma Abedin.
They have been known to take in a show at the Stephen Talkhouse, the small, beach-shack-like music club in Amagansett that has drawn appearances from Bo Diddley, Van Morrison and Paul Simon. In 2011, they were tipped off that Mr. Buffett would make a surprise appearance at a show headlined by a Cape Verdean performer, Ilo Ferreira.
But their visit gave a scare to their Secret Service detail when residual damage from Tropical Storm Irene caused power to go out temporarily in the cramped nightclub.
''There was a loud pop and then total darkness,'' the owner, Peter Honerkamp, said. After five seconds, he said, the lights came back up and ''everyone laughed, breathed a sigh of relief, and the show went on.''
The Clintons, in fact, were among those who refused to let the storm drive them out of the Hamptons that August. They have been through plenty worse.
As the storm loomed, recalled Mr. Hirschfeld, the owner of the rental, he went out to check on the house and make sure everything was battened down.
The Clintons were there, he said, and they made clear they were enjoying his home's amenities. But, he added, they were both working, too -- he on a book, she on business related to the State Department.
''He had taken the dining room as his work space, and she had taken this study-library as hers,'' Mr. Hirschfeld said. ''He told me very proudly that he enjoyed being here and the setting and everything helped him complete his book. He finished it in the dining room.''
(That would apparently be his 2011 book, ''Back to Work,'' his prescription for economic renewal.)
Mr. Clinton declared that the family was staying put. He had heard the sea was expected to rise about 13 feet, and he had personally measured the dune at the edge of the property at 16 feet.
''I was astonished at his level of detail,'' said Mr. Hirschfeld, who admitted he never knew how tall his dune was. ''My office checked the survey, and indeed the president was correct.''
Mr. Clinton then reviewed the details of the emergency generator and which house functions would continue if the power went out.
The Clintons moved on from Mr. Hirschfeld's house this summer, in part because of the high cost of maintenance and utilities, which ate up much of their security deposit from the $200,000 rental. This year, they have moved several miles west, to Sagaponack.
This summer's rental -- which is costing them about the same, according to people with knowledge of their arrangement -- is owned by Michael Saperstein, an investment banker who happens to be a donor for their opponents, the Republicans.
That sort of thing, of course, is unavoidable in a place so rife with political contributors. In fact, the day after the Clinton foundation gala, on Saturday, former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani -- who was competing with Mrs. Clinton for a Senate seat in 2000 before he dropped out of the race -- will be a host of a fund-raising event in nearby Southampton for someone who could be her opponent in the 2016 presidential race, Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey.
For now, those who consider themselves both friends and donors say they are not going to push the whole 2016 thing this vacation.
''It's not about politics, it's not about government; they're welcomed as friends,'' said Robert Zimmerman, a prominent Democratic fund-raiser who has a home in Southampton.
But not everyone here has gotten the memo.
Even at the softball game Saturday, as Mr. Clinton made his way across the field, shouts like ''We'll see you back in the White House!'' could be heard.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Bill Clinton at a softball game between artists and writers in East Hampton, N.Y., last week. He signed balls and posed for pictures with the crowd. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG KUNTZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A21)
 The $11 million, six-bedroom property on Long Island that Bill and Hillary Rodham Clinton are renting this summer. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HAMPTON PIX) (A25) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); MARRIAGE (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); BEACHES (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); FAMILY (75%); WRITERS (74%); CELEBRITIES (74%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); FOUNDATIONS (72%); HOTELS & MOTELS (71%); VISUAL ARTISTS (69%); RESTAURANTS (69%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (68%); CHILDREN (66%)

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (59%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (94%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); PAUL MCCARTNEY (78%); RONALD PERELMAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); ENGLAND (54%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2013



652 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: A Limited Role for Cuomo as Obama Visits His State

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY

 BODY:
BUFFALO -- When President Obama arrived here on Thursday morning, emerging from Air Force One to a crowd of avid fans and a Lake Erie gale, the first person to shake his hand was Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, smiling wide. The president smiled too, hugging Mr. Cuomo before moving on to chat with the governor's three daughters.
That two of Mr. Cuomo's daughters are starting college at a time that Mr. Obama is promoting higher education was another happy coincidence in the complex, often complementary relationship between the two leaders. 
Mr. Cuomo is playing a limited role in the president's two-day tour in upstate New York, but political veterans say the two men actually have a warm working rapport, one with layers of personal connections, political calculation and, of course, professional debts of gratitude.
In particular, according to Christopher Lehane, a longtime Democratic political operative and friend of the governor, the president has played ''an incredibly important role in paving the way'' for Mr. Cuomo in 2009, signaling to David A. Paterson, the governor at the time, that he should not run for re-election.
Mr. Cuomo, for his part, has praised the president at crucial moments, including last fall in the wake of Hurricane Sandy, comments that were mirrored by Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey, a Republican, shortly before the presidential election.
Their personal styles seem somewhat at odds -- the president is more the professor, Mr. Cuomo is more the jock -- but they had nothing but nice things to say about each other on Thursday. The president called Mr. Cuomo ''one of the finest governors in the country,'' while Mr. Cuomo said, ''We always love to have the president here.''
Mr. Lehane also pointed out another strength in the relationship: the governor's ability to navigate Washington, something Mr. Lehane said Mr. Cuomo learned while serving as secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development under President Bill Clinton. It is a skill Mr. Obama has rewarded.
''If the question is, 'Does New York get what it needs from the administration?' the answer is unquestionably yes,'' said Mr. Lehane, who was Mr. Cuomo's counselor at the department.
Of course, the name Clinton could bring up a somewhat delicate political issue: Former Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton is considered a leading contender for the 2016 Democratic presidential nomination, which Mr. Cuomo is believed to be interested in (though he denies it).
The president has lavished praise on Mrs. Clinton's performance as secretary and would be a powerful ally in any national campaign.
Not that the Cuomos and Clintons do not have deep connections themselves; in 1994, for example, Mr. Clinton campaigned heartily for Mr. Cuomo's father, Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, in his unsuccessful bid for a fourth term.
Such interconnectedness between New York governors and Oval Office occupants is not completely surprising, considering the state's position as a Democratic stronghold and New York City's deep-pocketed donors.
While Mr. Cuomo has taken pains to stay in-state, Representative Peter T. King, a Long Island Republican and frequent critic of the president, said he was impressed by Mr. Cuomo's trip to Washington after Hurricane Sandy, particularly his willingness to talk to Republicans, including the House speaker, John A. Boehner.
''We had to basically convince him to come,'' said Mr. King, who added that ''in a way that's tribute to him: he's not trying to grandstand.''
Once there, Mr. Cuomo seemed comfortable on Mr. Obama's turf. ''From the time he walked in the speaker's office, he handled himself very well,'' Mr. King said.
At the University of Buffalo, which is part of the State University of New York system, spectators began lining up hours before the president's remarks, held at the Alumni Arena.
Even the choice of that site seemed to intertwine Mr. Obama's message with Mr. Cuomo's: the governor has made the economic health of upstate New York a priority, including signing a law which would allow SUNY schools to offer tax-free benefits to businesses that start on, or are adjacent to, its campuses.
Mr. Cuomo did not speak at the president's event, but sat in the front row, nodding and applauding. After the president finished, he quietly stood behind the stage, greeting well-wishers while Mr. Obama was surrounded by students wielding smartphones.
Shortly after that the two men parted, with Mr. Obama continuing by bus to Rochester and other upstate locales, and Mr. Cuomo heading to the State Fair in Syracuse with his daughters.
There, the governor said he appreciated the president's remarks about the cost of college. And he should know; the reason he gave for his relatively short time with Mr. Obama was that he needed to get his twins ready for their freshman years at Harvard and Brown, neither of which are cheap.
''I almost couldn't afford the sausage,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo and his daughters greeted President Obama as Mr. Obama arrived in Buffalo on Thursday morning. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHER GREGORY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (68%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (61%); HURRICANE SANDY (51%); CITIES (50%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (92%); BARACK OBAMA (92%); BILL CLINTON (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); DAVID PATERSON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BUFFALO, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2013



653 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 322 words

HEADLINE: A Closely Watched Gauge Suggests Stronger Growth

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- A gauge of the health of the United States economy rose in July, pointing to stronger growth in the second half of the year.
The Conference Board, a business research group, said on Thursday that its index of leading indicators increased 0.6 percent last month to a reading of 96. There was no change in June and a 0.2 percent increase in May. The index is composed of several previously released pieces of data and can signal economic conditions over the next three to six months. 
The solid gain suggests that economic growth is picking up after a weak start. The economy grew at an annual rate of 1.4 percent from January through June. Many economists say that growth could improve to a 2.5 percent rate in the second half of 2013.
The pace of growth measured by the index over the last six months has nearly doubled, ''pointing to a gradually strengthening expansion through the end of the year,'' said Ataman Ozyildirim, an economist at the Conference Board.
Eight of the 10 components of the index were positive in July. Higher stock prices, more requests for building permits and a decline in weekly applications for unemployment benefits made the biggest contributions.
The only measures to decrease were the average manufacturing workweek and orders for manufactured goods, which signal business investment plans.
A separate report on Thursday showed that the number of Americans applying for jobless benefits rose last week after reaching the lowest level in more than five years. But the broader trend suggests that companies are laying off fewer employees and could step up hiring in the months ahead.
The Labor Department said applications for first-time benefits rose 13,000 to a seasonally adjusted 336,000 in the week ended Saturday. The four-week average, which smooths out week-to-week fluctuations, fell 2,250, to 330,500. That is the sixth consecutive decline and the lowest for the average since November 2007.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Leading Indicators: An index of 10 economic components intended to predict overall economic activity
2004 =100. (Source: The Conference Board)
 Jobless Claims: Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time. (Source: Labor Department, via Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (89%); STATISTICS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (87%); AVERAGE WORK WEEK (78%); TRENDS (78%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); FACTORY ORDERS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (66%); BUILDING PERMITS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2013



654 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1279 words

HEADLINE: Clock Keeps Ticking, and No Deficit Deal in Sight

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WEISMAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Budget talks between the White House and Senate Republicans have gone nowhere since Congress began its summer recess, increasing chances of a fiscal stalemate that could lead to a government shutdown in October or the threat of a government default later in the fall.
Negotiators who had hoped for a summer breakthrough say the chances for a major deficit reduction deal are rapidly slipping away. While many members of both parties say they would like to avoid either a shuttering of the government as of Oct. 1 or a default caused by failing to increase the federal debt limit, no acceptable solution has emerged. Lawmakers say the consequences could be severe.
''It ends badly for the American people and the Republican Party if we shut down the government,'' said Representative Reid Ribble, Republican of Wisconsin and a member of the House Budget Committee. ''I hope grown-ups get in a room and behave like grown-ups, not simply actors on a political stage.''
In search of a compromise, a group of Senate Republicans are scheduled to meet with top White House officials next Thursday, the first such meeting since Aug. 1, when negotiators promised that staff and high-level talks would continue throughout the month. 
''Nothing has occurred since that time, nothing whatsoever,'' said Senator Bob Corker, Republican of Tennessee and one of the eight lawmakers involved in the talks.
Given the lack of progress, those involved say Speaker John A. Boehner will need to play a crucial role in finding an agreement. House Republican leaders consulted with their rank and file via a conference call Thursday night to sound out their ideas to avoid a fiscal crisis as early as Oct. 1. Mr. Boehner pressed gingerly for a straight short-term extension of funds to avoid an immediate government shutdown in October, but faced immediate opposition from conservatives demanding that funds be stripped from the health care law. One thought is to use a short-term spending bill to keep the government running into November, when Congress must raise the government's statutory borrowing limit. That way, with both a debt default and government shutdown looming, Republicans could apply maximum pressure on the White House to either agree to scuttle President Obama's health care law or accept significant changes in programs like Medicare and Social Security.
''We're looking for leverage on a lot of things. Obamacare is just one of them,'' said a senior House Republican leadership aide.
Mr. Obama personally pushed back hard on that idea Thursday and stuck to his position that he would not negotiate over the debt ceiling.
''We've seen a faction of Republicans in Congress suggest that maybe America shouldn't pay its bills that have already been run up, that we shut down government if they can't shut down Obamacare,'' the president said in Buffalo. ''That won't grow our economy. That won't create jobs. That won't help our middle class. We can't afford in Washington the usual circus of distractions and political posturing.''
Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew, speaking in the San Francisco area on Thursday, also called on Congress to increase the debt limit to avoid damage to the economy.
With so much political tumult roiling Republicans and more conservatives pushing to cut off financing for the health care law, both White House officials and Congressional Republicans are scaling back expectations that Senate-White House talks will produce the kind of grand bargain on the deficit that will win over House Republicans. Most of the federal government will shut down Oct. 1 unless Congress acts to keep money flowing. By late October or early November, Republicans believe the Treasury Department will exhaust its ability to borrow money if lawmakers fail to lift the government's debt limit.
Senate Republican negotiators are divided over how big a deal they can accept. White House officials are increasingly concerned that any agreement they can strike will not fly in the House. And House Republicans have only just begun to address the pending showdown.
''We don't know the end of the story here,'' said Representative Chris Van Hollen of Maryland, the ranking Democrat on the House Budget Committee. ''The way things are shaping up right now, it's looking very messy.''
The so-called sounding board talks with the White House, led by Senator Johnny Isakson, Republican of Georgia, grew out of Mr. Obama's overtures last winter toward Senate Republicans. Ultimately eight senators coalesced into a group to sound out the White House, report back to other senators and try to find a way forward on deficit reduction talks that foundered after automatic spending cuts known as sequestration kicked in March 1.
But even that small group has splintered. Senators John McCain of Arizona and Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, both defense hawks, have adopted a position that they would accept a small deficit deal -- perhaps $200 billion to $300 billion -- to cancel the next two to three years of sequestration, spare the Pentagon further cuts, and build good will for a broader deal.
Senators Corker, Isakson and John Hoeven of North Dakota have adamantly rejected that, saying they could never cancel spending cuts now for more gradual but less certain cuts stretched over a decade. That group has held out for a broader deficit deal that would shave trillions of dollars from the growth of entitlements like Medicare and Social Security.
Senator Ron Johnson, Republican of Wisconsin and the fiercest deficit hawk in the group, keeps insisting that the nation faces a cumulative deficit of $70 trillion over the coming decades, and negotiators should be working toward a $70 trillion solution.
White House officials continue to insist that any deal larger than a short-term sequester shut-off must include higher taxes, a deal breaker for the vast majority of House Republicans, even if a handful of Senate Republicans would go along. Even White House officials are starting to realize the president's six-month charm offensive with Senate Republicans may have been based on the flawed premise that a broad bipartisan deal in the Senate would be politically irresistible to the House. It has not worked so far on an immigration law overhaul, and fiscal matters are even more sensitive to House Republicans.
''What Republicans want to do is make progress on the debt,'' said Representative Tom Cole of Oklahoma, a member of the House leadership's vote-counting team. ''With all due respect to Republicans in the Senate, just because you get a deal with the minority of the minority over there doesn't mean you get a deal with a majority of the majority in the House.''
The search for a path around the looming crisis has been complicated by a full-throttle conservative push to shut down the government in October unless the Affordable Care Act is deprived of all further financing. Senior Republicans have tried hard to cool the enthusiasm around the idea. Mr. Cole called it ''well-intended but misdirected.''
''If it would work, fine, but it's not going to work,'' he said. ''You don't win your political point by putting hundreds of thousands of Americans out of work.''
But the push -- led by Senator Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas, and backed by influential groups like the Heritage Foundation -- is showing appeal among the conservative grass roots. Lee Bright, a state senator in South Carolina who has mounted a primary challenge against Mr. Graham, told a conservative group that met in Mount Pleasant, S.C., Wednesday night that the health care program needed to lose federal funding, and ''if you have to shut down the government, you shut it down'' to accomplish that.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); DEBT CEILING (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (85%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); MEDICARE (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); CONFERENCE CALLS (66%)

PERSON: REID RIBBLE (58%); BOB CORKER (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2013



655 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 686 words

HEADLINE: A Federal Prod to Lower College Costs

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

 BODY:
President Obama has been accused of promoting small-ball ideas in his second term, but the proposal he unveiled on Thursday is a big one: using sharp federal pressure to make college more affordable, potentially opening the gates of higher education to more families scared off by rising tuitions. While there are questions to be answered about his plan, his approach -- tying federal student aid to the value of individual colleges -- is a bold and important way to leverage the government's power and get Washington off the sidelines.
The basic idea is to give more student aid to colleges that admit more disadvantaged students, that show progress in lowering costs and raising scholarships, and that shepherd students to earn a degree. To measure that performance, the government would create a rating system to compare similar colleges, a potentially useful consumer tool that would also serve to shame institutions that do not measure up. 
The rating system would examine a college's accessibility, looking at the percentage of students receiving Pell Grants; its affordability, tied to tuition, scholarships and financial aid; and its outcomes, based on graduation rates, advanced degrees and the salaries earned by graduates. Students would be required to show progress toward a degree before receiving continued aid, and schools would be rewarded for developing innovative programs to serve more students at lower costs. All student borrowers would have a cap on their loan payments of 10 percent of their monthly income, expanding the current system.
It's increasingly clear that the higher education system cannot control costs or debt on its own. In 2010, graduates who took out loans left college owing an average of more than $26,000, the White House said. The actual price of private, nonprofit four-year colleges, after financial aid, has gone up an average of 4 percent a year for 20 years. For public institutions, which educate most students, the increase has been an average of 5 percent a year, with particularly sharp increases during the recession as states have cut back on their support. (Fortunately, those reductions are starting to be reversed.)
Many states let tuition jump even as they were cutting taxes. To provide incentives for states to do better, Mr. Obama proposed spending $1 billion on a race-to-the-top program that would reward states for keeping up their financing, and for demanding better performances from their colleges.
The proposal could have unfortunate unintended consequences. Would a needy student be punished who, for personal or travel reasons, has no choice but to attend a college that is low in the government rankings? The education secretary, Arne Duncan, said that such a student would still get some aid, but expressed only the hope that the incentive system would push the college up in the ratings.
The rating system could also become a blunt instrument, pushing universities into narrow molds. A liberal arts college should not be penalized simply because a history degree doesn't lead to the same earnings as a computer science degree. As the Education Department develops the ratings criteria over the next two years, it also needs to be careful not to build perverse incentives into the system -- for example, lowering education standards simply to raise graduation rates, which don't show whether students are actually learning. (Universities long ago learned to game the ratings systems used by magazines.)
Many of these ideas -- in particular, tying financial aid to performance -- need Congressional approval, meaning instant opposition from Republicans who reject anything Mr. Obama wants. Already, several prominent Republicans were expressing predictable complaints about government meddling and even the slippery slope toward ''federal price controls.'' But Mr. Obama is absolutely right to make increased college access a high administration priority.
''We can't price the middle class and everybody working to get into the middle class out of a college education,'' he said Thursday at SUNY Buffalo. ''We're going to have to do things differently.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (92%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (91%); STUDENT EXPENSES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (90%); TUITION FEES (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (77%); STUDENT LOANS (77%); GRADUATION RATES (77%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (76%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (72%); STUDENT DISCIPLINE (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (68%); GRANTS & GIFTS (67%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (79%); ARNE DUNCAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2013



656 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 380 words

HEADLINE: Suing the I.R.S. Back to Basics

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

 BODY:
The ease with which big-money donors are able to influence the nation's politics is nowhere better illustrated than by the charade that gives tax exemptions to obviously partisan political groups posing as ''social welfare'' organizations. Representative Chris Van Hollen, a Maryland Democrat, thus merits thanks for his decision to sue the Internal Revenue Service to force it to end its controversial muddying of tax law that has allowed these groups to flourish. 
Congress had set a firm definition in law that groups claiming what is known as tax-exempt 501(c)(4) status be ''operated exclusively for the promotion of social welfare.'' But, in enforcing the law, the I.R.S. decided they need only be ''primarily'' engaged in social welfare, not exclusively.
This opened the gates for groups from across the political spectrum to claim social welfare status and thereby be shielded from the need to disclose the identities of deep-pocketed donors whose main interest is cut-and-thrust politics. The lawsuit aims to end abusive schemes by which partisan operatives, exploiting the secrecy provided by the I.R.S. shield, bankroll political attack ads and other campaign agendas. The I.R.S. should be rooting for the lawsuit's success because it would relieve the agency of playing the unfortunate and increasingly incompetent arbitrator of its own flawed regulation.
Lately the agency has been pilloried by Tea Party conservatives and others claiming that they have been unfairly singled out for scrutiny in lining up for social welfare exemptions. In truth, many groups applying from right and left do not merit the exemption and should be required to disclose political donors.
Independent campaign watchdogs have joined the lawsuit with Representative Van Hollen, whose purpose in seeking full disclosure is to guard against big-money campaign corruption. Political spending via the 501(c)(4) route tripled to $256 million last year from $83 million in 2008, according to the Center for Responsive Politics. It is part of a trend in which undisclosed spending by nonparty groups has increased to 30 percent of campaign outlays last year from 1 percent in 2006, according to the Committee for Economic Development. The role of mystery money in politics is compounding with each election.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX LAW (92%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); LITIGATION (89%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (73%); TAX AUTHORITIES (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); TRENDS (69%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (68%); CORRUPTION (66%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (57%)

PERSON: CHRIS VAN HOLLEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2013



657 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 284 words

HEADLINE: Gap Revises Outlook Upward After Better Second Quarter

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Gap raised its earnings per share outlook for the year on Thursday, after its summer lineup helped increase second-quarter results and advanced its turnaround push. 
The higher guidance was short of Wall Street expectations, but the company also increased its annual dividend by 20 cents, or 33 percent, to 80 cents a share. Its shares rose 1 percent to $42.43 in trading after the market close. Over the last year, the stock is up 21 percent.
Gap, based in San Francisco, owns Banana Republic, Old Navy, Piperlime, Athleta and Intermix stores, in addition to its namesake chain. Since early last year, Gap has been invigorating sales with brightly colored clothing, designer collaborations and livelier stores. Last October, the company also announced a management overhaul to help it respond more quickly to shifting tastes around the world.
The change put the North American, international, online, outlet and franchise divisions under a single global executive for each of the company's brands. The company also formed an innovation and digital strategy team.
Gap's more upbeat outlook represents a bright spot in the broader industry. Major retailers including Walmart, Target and Macy's have lowered their expectations for the rest of the year, citing the uncertain economy.
As Gap reported this month, sales at stores open at least a year were up 5 percent for the three months that ended Aug. 3. Gains at Gap and Old Navy offset a decline at Banana Republic.
The company earned $303 million, or 64 cents a share, which was on the high end of its latest guidance of 62 to 64 cents a share. Analysts on average had expected 63 cents a share.
A year ago, the company earned $243 million, or 49 cents a share.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (90%); RETAIL SALES (78%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); DIVIDENDS (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (77%); RETAILERS (75%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (75%); FASHION DESIGNERS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2013



658 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: This Age Of Bubbles

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
So, another BRIC hits the wall. Actually, I've never much liked the whole ''BRIC'' -- Brazil, Russia, India, and China -- concept: Russia, which is basically a petro-economy, doesn't belong there at all, and there are large differences among the other three. Still, it's hard to deny that India, Brazil, and a number of other countries are now experiencing similar problems. And those shared problems define the economic crisis du jour.
What's going on? It's a variant on the same old story: investors loved these economies not wisely but too well, and have now turned on the objects of their former affection. A couple years back, Western investors -- discouraged by low returns both in the United States and in the noncrisis nations of Europe -- began pouring large sums into emerging markets. Now they've reversed course. As a result, India's rupee and Brazil's real are plunging, along with Indonesia's rupiah, the South African rand, the Turkish lira, and more. 
Does this reversal of fortune pose a major threat to the world economy? I don't think so (he said with his fingers crossed behind his back). It's true that investor loss of confidence and the resulting currency plunges caused severe economic crises in much of Asia back in 1997-98. But the crucial point back then was that, in the crisis countries, many businesses had large debts in dollars, so that falling currencies effectively caused their debts to soar, creating widespread financial distress. That problem isn't completely absent this time around, but it looks much less serious.
In fact, count me among those who believe that the biggest threat right now is that policy in emerging markets will overreact -- that their central banks will raise interest rates sharply in an attempt to prop up their currencies, which isn't what they or the rest of the world need right now.
Still, even if the news from India and elsewhere isn't apocalyptic, it's not the kind of thing you want to hear when the world's wealthier economies, while doing a bit better than they were a few months ago, are still deeply depressed and struggling to recover. And this latest financial turmoil raises a broader question: Why have we been having so many bubbles?
For it's now clear that the flood of money into emerging markets -- which briefly drove Brazil's currency up by almost 40 percent, a rise that has now been completely reversed -- was yet another in the long list of financial bubbles over the past generation. There was the housing bubble, of course. But before that there was the dot-com bubble; before that the Asian bubble of the mid-1990s; before that the commercial real estate bubble of the 1980s. That last bubble, by the way, imposed a huge cost on taxpayers, who had to bail out failed savings-and-loan institutions.
The thing is, it wasn't always thus. The '50s, the '60s, even the troubled '70s, weren't nearly as bubble-prone. So what changed?
One popular answer involves blaming the Federal Reserve -- the loose-money policies of Ben Bernanke and, before him, Alan Greenspan. And it's certainly true that for the past few years the Fed has tried hard to push down interest rates, both through conventional policies and through unconventional measures like buying long-term bonds. The resulting low rates certainly helped send investors looking for other places to put their money, including emerging markets.
But the Fed was only doing its job. It's supposed to push interest rates down when the economy is depressed and inflation is low. And what about the series of earlier bubbles, which, at this point, reach back a generation?
I know that there are some people who believe that the Fed has been keeping interest rates too low, and printing too much money, all along. But interest rates in the '80s and '90s were actually high by historical standards, and even during the housing bubble they were within historical norms. Besides, isn't the sign of excessive money printing supposed to be rising inflation? We've had a whole generation of successive bubbles -- and inflation is lower than it was at the beginning.
O.K., the other obvious culprit is financial deregulation -- not just in the United States but around the world, and including the removal of most controls on the international movement of capital. Banks gone wild were at the heart of the commercial real estate bubble of the 1980s and the housing bubble that burst in 2007. Cross-border flows of hot money were at the heart of the Asian crisis of 1997-98 and the crisis now erupting in emerging markets -- and were central to the ongoing crisis in Europe, too.
In short, the main lesson of this age of bubbles -- a lesson that India, Brazil, and others are learning once again -- is that when the financial industry is set loose to do its thing, it lurches from crisis to crisis.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRIC COUNTRIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); HOUSING BUBBLE (77%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); HOUSING MARKET (72%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (69%); CENTRAL BANKS (65%); INTEREST RATES (50%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (94%); INDIA (94%); CHINA (92%); TURKEY (79%); ASIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); INDONESIA (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2013



659 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 999 words

HEADLINE: Big Name Is Leaving Boies's Firm After a Year

BYLINE: By PETER LATTMAN

 BODY:
Last August, when the renowned trial lawyer David Boies announced the hiring of David M. Bernick, general counsel at the tobacco giant Philip Morris, he called the move a ''huge step'' for his firm, Boies Schiller & Flexner.
But after just a year at Boies Schiller, Mr. Bernick is leaving. He is expected to announce on Friday that he is moving to the law firm Dechert, according to people briefed on the matter. 
''David is simply one of the best lawyers out there,'' Andrew J. Levander, the chairman of Dechert, said in a statement provided to The New York Times. ''He is one of a handful of elite lead trial lawyers operating on the national stage.''
It is the third time in recent months that a well-known partner has left Mr. Boies's firm. In April, Matthew Friedrich, a defense lawyer who formerly served as acting head of the Justice Department's criminal division, decamped to Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer. And David W. Shapiro, a former interim United States attorney in San Francisco, started his own firm.
The moves are raising eyebrows in the corporate law world, given that few partners have ever left Boies Schiller, which Mr. Boies started in 1997 and built into one of the country's most profitable law firms.
Last year, Boies Schiller partners earned an average of $2.7 million, according to the magazine American Lawyer.
Mr. Bernick's departure is in large part because conflicts of interest with existing Boies Schiller clients prohibited him from representing certain other companies, said Dawn Schneider, a spokeswoman for Boies Schiller.
''We wish him well for the future,'' Ms. Schneider said.
Still, the departures highlight the transformation that has taken place at corporate law firms over the last several decades and has only accelerated in recent years. Once staid partnerships where lawyers spent their entire careers, firms are increasingly collections of individuals with portable books of business. It is an era of free agents, where partners commonly switch firms, sometimes obtaining multimillion-dollar guaranteed contracts. Dechert, the firm that Mr. Bernick is joining, has grown rapidly by aggressively recruiting lawyers from rivals.
All of the movement comes at a challenging time for the law industry.
The market for high-end legal services continues to shrink, according to a recent report by the law firm group at Citi Private Bank.
Industry analysts say there are too many lawyers at the country's largest firms, with some estimating the excess capacity at as much as 10 percent of the lawyer population.
Many expect a round of law-firm layoffs. Earlier this year, Weil Gotshal & Manges became the first large firm to announce heavy cutbacks. A leading firm with about 1,200 lawyers, Weil let go of 60 lawyers and more than 100 support staff and also cut compensation of some of its partners.
The partner moves at Boies Schiller are unrelated to any economic weakness at the firm, people briefed on the matter said.
Mr. Boies and his partners are working on a number of prominent assignments. Jonathan D. Schiller is leading the firm's representation of the nutritional-supplement maker Herbalife in its battle with the activist investor William A. Ackman. He is also defending Barclays in cases related to the possible manipulation of the interest rate known as Libor. Mr. Boies continues to handle numerous lawsuits for Maurice R. Greenberg, the former head of the American International Group, and is expected to represent the British financier Guy Hands in a retrial of a fraud case against Citigroup this fall.
Rather than reflecting problems at the 250-lawyer firm, people say, the departures are explicable on a case-by-case basis.
Conflict-of-interest issues aside, Mr. Bernick's hiring was always seen as something of a ''wild card'' inside Boies Schiller because the firm rarely brings in partners from the outside. Mr. Bernick joined Philip Morris in 2010 after 32 years at the law firm Kirkland & Ellis, where he defended tobacco makers, breast implant manufacturers and asbestos companies. Then, after only two years at Philip Morris, he joined Boies Schiller, saying that he missed trying cases.
At Boies Schiller, Mr. Bernick earlier this year lost a trial defending Dow Chemical in a urethane price-fixing lawsuit. A federal judge ordered Dow to pay a $1.2 billion judgment in the case, triple a $400 million jury verdict. Dow is appealing the order.
This week, Mr. Bernick, 59, filed a lawsuit on behalf of two American Indian tribes against New York state's financial regulatory agency, challenging its crackdown on Internet lending businesses, several of which are owned by tribes. He is expected to take that case to Dechert.
As for Mr. Friedrich, the white-collar criminal defense partner in Washington, he left for Freshfields, a larger firm, because he wanted a bigger platform to handle large international investigations, said a person familiar with his thinking. And Mr. Shapiro, who spent a decade at Boies Schiller in San Francisco, had long wanted to hang his own shingle, a person said.
Mr. Friedrich, who is on vacation, could not be reached for comment, nor could Mr. Shapiro.
A lingering concern at Boies Schiller is planning for succession once Mr. Boies decides to retire. Mr. Boies, 72, is one of the country's most celebrated lawyers, having represented the former vice president Al Gore at the Supreme Court over the contested 2000 presidential election. He shows no signs of slowing down, having recently represented the software maker Oracle in several matters and helped to lead the successful challenge of Proposition 8, California's ban on same-sex marriage.
Boies Schiller has other leaders besides Mr. Boies in place, with Mr. Schiller and Donald L. Flexner serving as managing partners. It has begun transitioning some management responsibilities to other partners, and continues to grow, with plans to open a London office in the coming months.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: David Boies of the firm Boies Schiller, from which David Bernick, hired last August, is departing. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CAROLYN KASTER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAWYERS (97%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); TOBACCO MFG (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LAW FIRM ATTORNEY RECRUITMENT (78%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (78%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (78%); MAJOR UK LAW FIRMS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); LAYOFFS (74%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (73%); LAW FIRM PROFITABILITY (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (65%)

COMPANY: DECHERT LLP (93%); BOIES SCHILLER & FLEXNER LLP (92%); WEIL GOTSHAL & MANGES LLP (58%); CITIGROUP INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (56%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (52%); C (BMV) (52%); 8710 (TSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (93%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (93%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2013



660 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1019 words

HEADLINE: Demographic Shifts May Help Virginia Democrats

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- For 36 years, elections for governor of Virginia have unfailingly followed this pattern: whichever political party holds the White House loses.
But despite President Obama's tepid job approval ratings, Democrats have a shot at breaking that rule this November. Some polls show the Democratic nominee, Terry McAuliffe, with a narrow lead over Kenneth T. Cuccinelli II, his Republican challenger.
''Why is McAuliffe ahead?'' asked Tom Davis, a former Virginia congressman and Republican strategist. 
One important reason: The same demographic shifts that made it possible for Mr. Obama to carry Virginia twice after 10 consecutive Democratic losses have raised the water level for the party's statewide candidates, too.
The swelling number of Virginia's suburban, college-educated, moderate, minority voters -- black, Hispanic and Asian -- is hardly the only factor shaping the race. It is certainly not the most conspicuous, as scandal swirls around Gov. Bob McDonnell, the departing Republican, and buffets Mr. Cuccinelli at the same time.
But continuing shifts in the electorate increase the odds that Mr. McAuliffe can take advantage. ''Demographic changes have leveled the playing field for Democrats in off-year elections, and have given us a huge pool of new voters to target,'' said Geoff Garin, the Democratic pollster who advises Mr. McAuliffe.
Democrats elsewhere hope that shifts in the national electorate give them a similar lift in Congressional elections next year. If they get that boost, it could limit the damage presidents almost invariably suffer in midterm contests as Republicans push to hold the House and recapture control of the Senate.
The number that best illustrates Democrats' improved opportunity for winning the White House has been the declining proportion of whites within the national electorate. White voters have favored Republican candidates over Democrats in 12 straight presidential elections.
In 1992, exit polls showed, whites represented 87 percent of the electorate, but by last November that proportion had dropped to 72 percent. Given Mr. Obama's overwhelming edge among voters who were black, Hispanic or Asian, the decline proved critical to the Democratic incumbent's victory.
Fewer Americans vote in midterm elections, and turnout patterns historically have resulted in higher proportions of white voters. But changes in the composition of the midterm electorate have moved in the same direction.
In 1990, for example, exit polls showed that whites made up 91 percent of those who voted. By 2010, that proportion had fallen to 78 percent.
As the Republican takeover of the House in 2010 suggests, the trend matters less in House elections because of the way district boundaries are drawn. But it could play a role in Senate races as Democrats try to preserve their majority.
In Virginia, the issue is not merely the declining proportion of white voters, whom Democrats expect to make up about 75 percent of voters this year, down from 78 percent in 2009. The mix of white voters has also changed, because of rapid growth among college-educated suburban moderates who have proven receptive to Democratic stances on social issues.
In 1970, as the first Republican governor since Reconstruction was taking office, just one in eight Virginians lived in the suburban counties outside Washington. By 2008, about one in three did.
This year, Mr. McAuliffe's campaign expects 35 percent of the vote to come from residents of the Washington media market.
''I've been saying for 20 years we're a purple state,'' said Frank Atkinson, an adviser to Republican officials and a historian of Virginia politics. ''It's a very different electorate.''
With intensive efforts to register and turn out targeted voters in the state, Mr. Obama broke through by unexpectedly comfortable margins in both 2008 and 2012. Piggybacking on those efforts in the governor's race, Virginia Democrats predict they will draw an extra 200,000 votes from among those the Obama campaign registered. That would be roughly 10 percent of the electorate.
Mr. McAuliffe, a former national Democratic chairman, still faces big challenges.
Republicans have been dogged by the scandal involving gifts to Mr. McDonnell from a political donor who also gave $18,000 worth of gifts to Mr. Cuccinelli, Virginia's attorney general. Now, an electric car company founded by Mr. McAuliffe faces a Securities and Exchange Commission investigation into possible fraud involving foreign investors.
Virginia's pattern of punishing the president's party in elections for governor remains a potent undertow for the Democratic ticket. Because those elections occur in the year after presidential contests, they represent the first flash point of discontent with White House incumbents that typically shows up 12 months later in Congressional contests.
Mr. Davis also noted the flip side of the two parties' divergent stances on social issues: increasing margins for Republicans in culturally conservative rural counties. Some of those counties are also centers for the state's coal mining industry, which strongly opposes some Democratic Party environmental policies.
That helped Mitt Romney last year win 63 percent of the vote against Mr. Obama in southwest Virginia's Ninth Congressional District. Exit polls showed just 28 percent of Virginia's vote came from small towns and rural areas, however.
Nationally, Republicans can also point to some trends that counter demographic changes helping Democrats.
Catholic voters, a once-strongly Democratic constituency that makes up around one fourth of the national electorate, have drifted toward Republicans. That improves Republican chances for competing in some large industrial states like Ohio and Michigan, said John Morgan, a Virginia-based Republican election analyst.
The same mix of cultural and economic issues helping Republicans in southwest Virginia has pushed neighboring West Virginia away from Democrats. The seat Senator Jay Rockefeller, the Democrat who is retiring, is a prime target for Republicans to pick up next year.
''I wish West Virginia was bigger,'' Mr. Morgan said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Terry McAuliffe, the Democratic candidate for Virginia governor, is facing Kenneth T. Cuccinelli II, a Republican, in November. (PHOTOGRAPH BY THE' N. PHAM/THE VIRGINIAN-PILOT, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); TOM DAVIS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2013



661 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1386 words

HEADLINE: How BlackBerry Handled Past Wealth

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and the economy at nytimes.com/economix.

 BODY:
It started in an unlikely place, far from the headquarters of more established technology companies, and grew to become a dominant player. Along the way, investors piled in, undeterred by the company's policy of never paying a dividend.
But then the technology changed, and the company struggled to keep up. Eventually it realized it could not continue as it was. It was broken up and acquired, with investors receiving a fraction of what their shares had been worth at the peak.
That was the story of the Digital Equipment Corporation, which was based in a former textile mill in Maynard, Mass., and became the second-largest computer company in the world in the 1980s. In 1998, it was acquired by Compaq, a maker of personal computers that had destroyed Digital's business in mini computers. It proved to be a poor deal for Compaq, which itself was acquired later by Hewlett-Packard.
A year before Digital was acquired, a small mobile technology company based in Waterloo, Ontario, went public on the Canadian market. In 1999, it listed on Nasdaq and became a phenomenon. It was called Research in Motion until this year, when its corporate name was changed to that of its primary product, BlackBerry. 
Now it seems as if BlackBerry will follow the Digital Equipment path. It has hired bankers to pursue its ''strategic options,'' and the expectation is that it will be acquired for its cash and patents while the product that made it rich and famous will gradually vanish.
Digital left behind a large number of technology companies in Massachusetts, some of which flourished in the very mill that Digital made famous. BlackBerry's impact on Waterloo seems likely to be similar.
This column is not about the changing technology that caused the decline of BlackBerry, which by now is well known. Instead, it is about the way the company handled prosperity when profits were plentiful -- a way that served BlackBerry executives well and that pleased Wall Street but provided no benefits to loyal shareholders.
BlackBerry's corporate filings show that over the years it distributed $3.5 billion to shareholders. (Although BlackBerry is based in Canada, it keeps its books in United States dollars and that number, like all others in this column, is in United States currency.) That is an impressive amount, especially considering that the entire company is now worth only a little more than $5 billion.
But loyal shareholders did not receive any of that money. To get the money, an investor had to sell. The money was spent on share buybacks, and most of those buybacks came in 2008 and 2009, when the company was flying high.
BlackBerry's financial strategy was not particularly unusual, although it does stand out in the way it abused the rules on executive stock options. Perhaps it would never have paid dividends anyway, but those options gave the company's executives good reasons to avoid dividends and concentrate on share buybacks.
The result was a classic ''sell low and buy high'' strategy, one that did wonders for the executives.
Over the years, BlackBerry executives and employees exercised options to acquire 83.3 million shares, adjusted for two stock splits. On average, they paid $4.38 a share.
Those prices were, of course, well below the market value of the shares at the time. That is the way options work -- or at least are supposed to work. The exercise price is equal to the market price when the options are issued, but the executive has up to 10 years to exercise them, and will do so only if the price has increased.
One reason companies that issue a lot of options prefer stock buybacks to dividends is that while buybacks may raise the market value of the stock and thus increase the value of an outstanding option, dividends are less likely to do so. Option holders, unlike shareholders, do not benefit from dividends.
Corporate managements like to say that options do not dilute shareholders' stakes because the company acquires and retires an offsetting number of shares. BlackBerry did just that, buying 85.5 million shares that it canceled. It bought an additional 12.3 million shares that it did not cancel but held to provide stock to issue directly to executives.
Over all, it paid an average of $36.10 for the shares it repurchased.
The net effect: It took in $365 million from the exercise of options. It paid $3.5 billion to repurchase shares. Under accounting rules, that $3 billion difference had no effect on reported profits, but it had a big effect on the resources available to the company for other purposes, like spending on research and development.
The incentive effects of option grants, as opposed to grants of actual shares, have long been debated. Options offer the possibility of large profits if the share price goes up, but might also expire, worthless, if the stock does not rise. Some critics argue that options may encourage executives to gamble with the company's assets because they will lose no more if the company's share price collapses than they would lose if it remained flat.
Restricted stock grants, on the other hand, have less upside. They also have a continuing downside, because an executive holding such shares will stand to lose money as the stock price declines, even if it is already worth less than when it was issued. Some argue that does a better job of aligning executive interests with those of shareholders.
In practice, companies tend to prefer options when they think the share price will rise, and restricted stock when they are not so confident.
That is the way it worked at BlackBerry. The last large option grants to senior executives were made in October 2007. A year later, the stock price had peaked -- at $148 in June 2008 -- and was down to about $70. No options were granted. Instead, restricted stock units were issued.
It may be that was coincidental. By then, BlackBerry and its top executives were up to their necks in investigations into the company's options practices. The company eventually admitted that ever since 1998 -- the year after it went public -- the company's top executives had been routinely backdating options to get exercise prices as low as possible and had lied about the practice to, among others, its auditors.
In 2006, when the backdating scandal broke in the United States, the company piously denied it had done anything of the sort. A few months later, it had to admit it had lied. In the end, top executives surrendered a large number of options, and other options were re-priced. The Securities and Exchange Commission determined that more than 1,400 individual grants had been backdated.
At least the executives were not doing that only for themselves. They also did it for new employees and others receiving grants. They seem to have done all they could to help out everyone involved.
Except, of course, the shareholders.
Any shareholder could have sold shares back when the company was buying, and no doubt many did. But the nature of stock options is that most, if not all, of the shares acquired when options are exercised are immediately sold. The executives certainly benefited from the purchases. Shareholders who believed in the company's future did not.
BlackBerry shares now trade around $10, up from around $9 before the company indicated it was looking for a buyer. While that price is way below the peak, it still represents a nice profit for any investor who bought when the company went public in 1997, although it is below the price paid when the company sold stock to the public in 2004.
In BlackBerry's defense, the buyback strategy was being recommended by most Wall Street firms for years, and the company, whose spokesman did not return a phone call seeking comment, no doubt received that advice from experts. And there is evidence that BlackBerry was particularly vulnerable to Wall Street wisdom. Before the credit crisis erupted, it had put cash into ''safe'' Wall Street recommendations like structured investment vehicles and auction-rate securities. It took losses on them, as well as on money that Lehman Brothers owed it when it collapsed.
None of this explains BlackBerry's fatal error, of not managing to be the company that figured out where technology was going. But it does explain why shareholders who believed in the company when times were good did not prosper as they might have.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: BlackBerry's annual meeting in Waterloo, Ontario, in July. The expectation is that the company will be acquired for its cash and patents while the product responsible for its success will vanish. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JON BLACKER/REUTERS) (B5) CHART: BlackBerry monthly share price (Sources: Company reports, Bloomberg) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); COMPANY NAME CHANGES (78%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (76%); STOCK OPTIONS (76%); COMPUTER MAKERS (75%); PATENTS (73%); US DOLLAR (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); ACQUISITIONS (71%); FABRIC MILLS (70%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (70%); TEXTILE MFG (70%); TEXTILE MILLS (70%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (60%)

COMPANY: BLACKBERRY LTD (92%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (84%)

TICKER: BBRY (NASDAQ) (92%); BB (TSX) (92%); HPQ (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (92%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (77%); ONTARIO, CANADA (70%) CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2013



662 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1057 words

HEADLINE: On Bus Tour, Obama Seeks to Shame Colleges Into Easing Costs

BYLINE: By MICHAEL D. SHEAR and TAMAR LEWIN; Michael D. Shear reported from Buffalo, and Tamar Lewin from New York.

 BODY:
BUFFALO -- President Obama deplored the rising costs of college on Thursday as he tried to shame universities into holding down prices. He held out the prospect of more federal student aid if they did.
Speaking at the University at Buffalo, where tuition and fees now total about $8,000 per year for New York residents, Mr. Obama said the middle class and those struggling to rise out of persistent financial troubles were being unfairly priced out of American higher education.
''Colleges are not going to just be able to keep on increasing tuition year after year and passing it on to students,'' Mr. Obama told an enthusiastic audience of about 7,200 students and others in the university's auditorium. ''We can't price the middle class and everybody working to get into the middle class out of college.'' 
The president, who was on the first day of a two-day bus trip across New York and Pennsylvania, said rising prices at colleges were partly driven by the distribution of $150 billion in federal assistance to students. He said colleges that allowed tuition to soar should be penalized by getting less federal aid for their students, while colleges that held down costs should get more of the money.
He announced plans to create a federal rating system that would allow parents and students to easily compare colleges. And he said he would urge Congress to pass legislation to link the student aid to the rating system.
''It is time to stop subsidizing schools that are not producing good results,'' Mr. Obama said to a roar of applause.
The president offered his college affordability proposals as part of a campaign to highlight efforts that his administration says will help the middle class.
Speaking to reporters on Air Force One, Arne Duncan, the education secretary, said the president's plan aimed to change incentives for colleges that were not doing enough to keep down costs. ''We want to see good actors be rewarded,'' Mr. Duncan said. ''We want to see them get more resources. And when we're not seeing that kind of commitment, we want to challenge that status quo.''
Higher education experts generally agreed that the plan was important, but a number found the ratings worrisome. ''It depends on having complete and accurate data, and there are some areas where the Department of Education does have good data, but others where it does not,'' said Molly Corbett Broad, the president of the American Council on Education, the largest higher education trade organization.
For example, she said, the department's statistics on graduation rates include only students who start and finish at the same institution. And, she said, it is unclear what leads students and families to the college choices they make.
''I'm all for analytics and analysis, but we just don't know what information, and how much, helps students and families make good college decisions,'' she said. ''It's very difficult to write an algorithm for how these decisions are made.''
Mr. Obama's plan is certain to anger some college officials, who argue that their costs are affected by state funding decisions, the rising cost of health care and other factors outside their control. Mr. Duncan said the administration planned to move slowly as it created the ratings system, in part to listen to the concerns of university administrators.
The plan requires approval by Congress, and reaction on Thursday tended to fall along party lines. Representative John Kline, Republican of Minnesota and the chairman of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce, said in a statement that he was skeptical of Mr. Obama's proposed rating system.
''I remain concerned that imposing an arbitrary college ranking system could curtail the very innovation we hope to encourage -- and even lead to federal price controls,'' Mr. Kline said. ''As always, the devil is in the details.''
Senator Marco Rubio, Republican of Florida, said: ''I'm strongly opposed to his plan to impose new federal standards on higher education institutions. This is a slippery slope, and one that ends with the private sector inevitably giving up more of its freedom to innovate and take risks. The U.S. did not create the best higher education system in the world by using standards set by Washington bureaucrats.''
A Democrat, Senator Tom Harkin of Iowa, the chairman of the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions, issued a statement applauding the president's proposal.
Some higher education experts questioned whether the administration was overstepping its authority.
''The proposal would be a huge change in higher education, with the federal government asserting itself as the definer of institutional goals and policy, and doing it through need-based financial aid,'' said Jane Wellman, the executive director of the National Association of System Heads. ''The federal government has never been in higher education policy before -- it has just administered financial aid -- and I'm not sure you can just take that role and stretch it like a rubber band.''
Others were more positive. ''It's kind of exciting that he doesn't seem to have given up on getting things through Congress, and just retreated to what he can do by executive action, as many people expected,'' said Judith Scott-Clayton, a professor of economics and education at Teachers College at Columbia University.
She and others agreed that the headline proposal was the plan to issue ratings, and ultimately to link them to student aid. But they said they had their qualms about how well the ratings would work.
''It's very dramatic, and it will get the conversation going,'' Dr. Scott-Clayton said. ''The problem is that getting the formula for the ratings right is very tricky, so linking a significant amount of student aid to the rates might be dangerous. I think they know that, and that's why it wouldn't start till 2018.''
Mr. Obama's sleek black bus traveled slowly across a sometimes rainy upstate New York, where he stopped to have lunch at Magnolia's Deli and Cafe in Rochester with students and professors. From there, the president went to the visitor center of Women's Rights National Historical Park in Seneca Falls, where he donated a framed copy of his remarks for the first bill he signed, the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act of 2009. The bill made it easier for women to make claims of pay discrimination.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Obama was a crowd-pleaser on Thursday at Magnolia's Deli and Cafe in Rochester, left. The president also attracted a crowd at the University at Buffalo, the first stop on his two-day bus tour to promote policies to make college more affordable. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRISTOPHER GREGORY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); STUDENT EXPENSES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TUITION FEES (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); GRADUATION RATES (78%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (77%); PARENTING (72%); LEGISLATION (72%); FAMILY (71%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); ARNE DUNCAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2013



663 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1321 words

HEADLINE: A Question of How Women's Issues Will Fare, in Washington and Overseas

BYLINE: By SARAH WHEATON

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Catherine M. Russell's portfolio includes half the population of the planet, roughly 3.5 billion women. But working with the 70,000 employees of the State Department to make women's issues a permanent priority, she said, may be the ''harder slog'' in a difficult new job.
''It's something that most people in the building I think are very receptive to, but it's a long process,'' Ms. Russell said in a recent interview in a coffee shop in downtown Washington.
Ms. Russell's position, ambassador at large for global women's issues, was created by Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton in 2009 to elevate one of Mrs. Clinton's longtime causes. 
But Ms. Russell's new boss, Secretary of State John Kerry, is primarily focused on forging Middle East peace, not women's issues. The question at the State Department, and among Mrs. Clinton's friends, is whether the ambassador at large and women's issues over all will get the attention they once did.
So far the White House says yes. Ms. Russell was a close aide to Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. when he was in the Senate, and most recently she was chief of staff to Mr. Biden's wife, Jill. She is married to Tom Donilon, a former national security adviser to President Obama, who stepped down in June.
''She's extremely well connected, in a quiet way,'' Mr. Biden said in a telephone interview. Ms. Russell is empowered, he said, by ''two important things: John Kerry and me.'' He quickly added, ''And the president.''
Still, Ms. Russell's White House connections will be tested in a field where success is hard to define and the goals are often amorphous. In a speech in April, Mrs. Clinton said in a typical formulation that she had created the job to weave the perspective of women's issues ''into the fabric of American foreign policy.''
Mrs. Clinton chose as the first women's ambassador her close friend Melanne Verveer, who was her chief of staff as first lady. In Ms. Verveer's subsequent travels to more than 60 countries -- where she often said that ''no country can get ahead if it leaves half its population behind'' -- leaders always knew she was channeling one of the world's most famous women.
Ms. Russell does not have that advantage, but said she was determined to carry on Mrs. Clinton's work. Her mission, she said, is to build on the efforts of the Office of Global Women's Issues -- with its staff of 24 and budget last year of $3.4 million -- to ''put in place the structure and the mechanisms to keep moving this effort forward long after all of us are gone.''
Officials in the office cite as accomplishments their push to ensure that 300 women took part in nationwide peace talks in Afghanistan in 2010 and their insistence that women's advancement be codified in the strategic partnership agreement that set forth the relationship between the United States and Afghanistan after 2014.
The office also counts as success stories a $17 million effort in 2009 to crack down on sexual violence in the Democratic Republic of Congo -- including training for police officers and judges, and health care and jobs courses for survivors -- and an extensive public-private partnership in the Americas that provides female entrepreneurs better access to markets and credit.
''Investing in women, advancing and protecting their rights, is not just the right thing to do morally,'' Ms. Russell said during her confirmation hearing in July. ''It is the smart thing to do economically and strategically.''
But in the interview, her first since her confirmation as ambassador, Ms. Russell seemed less at ease discussing her new global terrain and more comfortable talking, at length, about the federal bureaucracy she lives and breathes in Washington. She joked that she would have advised Mrs. Biden against giving that kind of long-winded answers. At 52 and the mother of two teenagers, she said she had recovered fully from a minor stroke she suffered last December.
Ms. Russell has not always made women's issues a professional focus. But they have ''been the center of her life and her interests,'' Mrs. Biden said in an interview.
In Reading, Pa., Ms. Russell's parents raised five children -- she was the oldest -- and ran a small plastics business. She studied philosophy at Boston College before earning a law degree at George Washington University. Ms. Russell first met Mr. Donilon when they worked on Walter F. Mondale's presidential campaign in 1984. They married in 1991.
By then, Ms. Russell was senior counsel to Senator Patrick J. Leahy, Democrat of Vermont, who testified at her confirmation hearing and is now chairman of the Senate subcommittee in charge of the State Department's purse. She was also an associate deputy attorney general in the Clinton administration in the mid-1990s.
But most of her experience in Washington comes with the Bidens. In 1994, Ms. Russell helped shepherd the Violence Against Women Act through Congress when Mr. Biden was the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee. Later, when Mr. Biden led the Foreign Relations Committee, she drafted an international version of the bill as his top adviser on women's issues. Last year Ms. Russell oversaw an effort by multiple departments to develop an ambitious plan for combating violence against women worldwide.
''I feel like I have a pretty good sense of how the government works,'' Ms. Russell said, ''and how to move things through the government.''
But she knows she faces hurdles. Jennifer Klein, Ms. Verveer's former deputy who continues to advise Mrs. Clinton on women's issues, said, ''We obviously dealt with a lot of people at the State Department who were very interested in this, and then we dealt with a lot of people who thought that has nothing to do with their work.''
Others see women's issues as a marginal focus when there are so many violent conflicts around the world.
''Certainly the problems specifically affecting women in Syria are not unimportant,'' said Kenneth M. Pollack, a former staff member of the National Security Council who is now a scholar at the Brookings Institution. But in such a humanitarian catastrophe, he said, ''until you have an answer to the military problem in Syria, you can't solve any other problem.''
Ms. Russell's first trip abroad as ambassador -- to Bali for a forum on women held at the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit meeting, a gathering of business and political leaders from the region -- reflects another effort of her office: inserting discussions about women into diplomatic talks.
Mr. Kerry, for his part, held a meeting with businesswomen during his first visit to Afghanistan, and in an opinion article that ran on March 8, International Women's Day, wrote, ''The world's most pressing economic, social and political problems simply cannot be solved without the full participation of women.''
Such attention to women is a sharp shift from the 1970s and 1980s, when the State Department was embroiled in court battles with female officers who said they had been passed over for policy-making jobs.
As the first man to serve as secretary of state since 2005, Mr. Kerry ''will be so effectively powerful as a male secretary to raise these issues with male counterparts,'' Ms. Verveer said. ''I think it is so counterintuitive, so unexpected.''
These days a course on women's issues will soon be mandatory for new foreign service officers. In May, a three-day elective version of the course met for the second time in Arlington, Va., at the Foreign Service Institute. But of the 24 students, a mix of seasoned officers and newer recruits, women outnumbered men by a 2-to-1 ratio.
Still, Ms. Russell knows she has the support of one male-dominated organization: the White House. Denis McDonough, the White House chief of staff, called her this summer to congratulate her on her confirmation. She told him, she said, that ''the bad thing is now I'm going to start bugging you about how the president can help us.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Catherine M. Russell, ambassador at large for global women's issues, at her Senate confirmation hearing last month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHER GREGORY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOMEN (94%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JOE BIDEN (73%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2013



664 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; MOVIE REVIEW; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 522 words

HEADLINE: The Desert Foils Friendly Scheming

BYLINE: By STEPHEN HOLDEN

 BODY:
It isn't easy to drum up sympathy for the two 30-ish buddies of ''Scenic Route,'' childhood friends who reunite for a road trip to hell. Through their own shortsightedness, they find themselves stranded in Death Valley on a nearly deserted road with only jelly beans to eat, a few swigs of water and no cellphone service. 
Mitchell (Josh Duhamel), the saner of the two, is a musician who has given up any rock 'n' roll dreams to be a discontented corporate drone with a wife and a young son. His best friend, Carter (a miscast Dan Fogler), who envisioned the trip as a chance to reconnect, is an unemployed writer reduced to living in his pickup truck. Frustrated by Mitchell's initial reticence, Carter fakes an automotive mishap in the desert so that Mitchell will have no choice but to let his hair down. After a stormy catching-up session, Carter restarts his vehicle, which promptly breaks down for real.
''Scenic Route,'' directed by the brothers Kevin and Michael Goetz from a screenplay by Kyle Killen, is an awkward, long-winded mash-up of therapy session, horror movie and survival tale with pretensions of psychological depth. Once the two friends find themselves helpless and desperate, the movie plays familiar teasing tricks, signaling imminent rescue, then pulling the rug out at the last second.
In the cleverest twist, Mitchell confesses that he has always wanted a mohawk, which Carter insists on giving him. But Mitchell's Travis Bickle look scares away the one driver who might have stopped to help. Any hopes of hiking to the nearest town are stymied by Mitchell's inability to walk without crutches because of an unexplained injury.
The screenplay gives Mr. Duhamel the chance to speechify and emote more than usual, but his character -- a shallow, faithless smoothie chafing at his grown-up responsibilities and sexual boredom with his new wife -- is a cliché. Mr. Fogler's self-righteous, pseudo-bohemian jerk is, in a word, toxic. No sooner has this chubby, shaggy-haired know-it-all begun ranting at Mitchell about his poor choice of a partner than you wish that something, anything, would shut him up. Carter goads Mitchell into a furious counterattack that leads to a potentially lethal -- and preposterous -- fight, from which both emerge seriously weakened.
You wonder how these supposed friends could expend so much energy without water and still be able to talk, much less fight. The most obvious answer is that the filmmakers had to keep them functional long enough to flesh out the movie's grueling 85 minutes.
''Scenic Route'' is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian) for language, violence and sex (in an awkwardly shoehorned flashback).
Scenic Route
Opens on Friday.
Directed by Kevin Goetz and Michael Goetz; written by Kyle Killen; director of photography, Sean O'Dea; edited by Kindra Marra; music by Michael Einziger; production design by Elizabeth Jones; costumes by Sheila Hume; produced by Brion Hambel, Paul Jensen, Luke Rivett and Scott Freeman; released by Vertical Entertainment. Running time: 1 hour 25 minutes.
WITH: Josh Duhamel (Mitchell) and Dan Fogler (Carter).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Josh Duhamel as Mitchell, who is lured to Death Valley. (PHOTOGRAPH BY VERTICAL ENTERTAINMENT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRAMA LITERATURE (88%); HIKING (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (72%); MOVIE RATINGS (71%); POP & ROCK (71%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (71%); WRITERS (69%); MOTOR VEHICLES (69%); HORROR FILMS (66%); VISUAL ARTISTS (66%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2013



665 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 324 words

HEADLINE: Sears, Facing Weak Sales and Internal Strains, Posts Loss

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Sears posted another bad quarter on Thursday, saying that its second-quarter loss widened as the company continued to struggle with weak sales and deep discounts.
Results for the retailer, which operates Kmart and Sears stores, were also hurt by the decline in the number of stores in operation and the lingering effects from its spinoff of the Hometown and Outlet stores. 
Shares of Sears Holdings fell 8.2 percent to close at $39.72.
A series of retailers, including Walmart and Macy's, have reported disappointing quarterly results this month and have issued bleaker outlooks as shoppers deal with an uncertain economy and an increase in the payroll tax.
Some store executives have also noted that people are shifting spending toward bigger-ticket items like cars and home improvement and away from clothing.
Sears, which caters to middle-income shoppers, faced those pressures on top of its own problems, further clouding the path toward profitability.
Edward S. Lampert, the Sears chairman who took on the role of chief executive and controls the company, on Thursday acknowledged the importance of profits but he emphasized that the company had made progress toward a so-called members-focused company whose most loyal customers receive incentives to buy.
Still, the latest results bolster critics' arguments that Sears has not done enough in its own stores to give shoppers a compelling reason to visit.
For the quarter, revenue at stores open at least a year in the United States fell 1.5 percent. The measure is a crucial indicator of a retailer's health because it excludes results from stores recently opened or closed.
''There was not much change in direction from weak results over the last few quarters, but this quarter should have benefited from strong seasonal sales in home improvement and a revived appliance market,'' Gary Balter, an analyst at Credit Suisse, said in a note to clients. ''Sears remains on a dangerous downward spiral.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (77%); EXECUTIVES (69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%)

COMPANY: SEARS HOLDINGS CORP (90%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (51%)

TICKER: SHLD (NASDAQ) (90%); CSGN (SWX) (51%); CS (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (90%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (90%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (90%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (51%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (51%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%)

PERSON: EDDIE LAMPERT (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2013



666 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 5148 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
Theater
Approximate running times are in parentheses. Theaters are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of current productions, additional listings, showtimes and ticket information are at nytimes.com/theater. A searchable, critical guide to theater is at nytimes.com/events.
Previews and Openings
'The Awake' (in previews; opens on Wednesday) Have you ever watched Jonathan, Jack Donaghy's rabidly sycophantic assistant on ''30 Rock,'' and said to yourself, ''I'd really like to see him tackle existential drama''? Your wait is over: Maulik Pancholy, who played Jonathan, is part of this new, Orwellian-sounding play by Ken Urban (''The Private Lives of Eskimos'') about a mysterious corporation that connects three different people. 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, Manhattan, (212) 279-4200, ticketcentral.com. (Eric Grode) 
'The Cheaters Club' (in previews; opens on Tuesday) If your neighborhood restaurant is suddenly a little short on servers, there's a good chance the Amoralists are presenting another play. Known for hiring actors by the dozens, the dependably pungent company will feature no fewer than 26 actors in its staging of this latest piece by Derek Ahonen. This one is about a group of siblings who meet for an annual excursion of sexual release, but this year's destination -- a haunted inn in Savannah, Ga. -- proves to be a bit different. Abrons Arts Center, 466 Grand Street, at Pitt Street, Lower East Side, (866) 811-4111, theamoralists.com. (Grode)
'Fetch Clay, Make Man' (previews start on Friday; opens on Sept. 12) Pairing one of black America's most beloved heroes (Cassius Clay, soon to be known as Muhammad Ali) with one of its most reviled performers (Lincoln Perry's screen character Stepin Fetchit) may sound like the makings of a cheeky improv skit, but the two men actually became friends in the 1960s. Will Power (''The Seven'') builds his drama around this unlikely relationship; Des McAnuff (''Jersey Boys'') directs. New York Theater Workshop, 79 East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 460-5475, nytw.org. (Grode)
'The Hill Town Plays' (in previews; opens on Sept. 5) Seemingly every space in the West Village that isn't hosting the New York International Fringe Festival will be part of this ambitious cycle of five related plays by Lucy Thurber (''Scarcity,'' ''Ashville,'' ''Where We're Born,'' ''Killers and Other Family,'' and ''Stay''). In addition to Rattlestick Playwrights Theater, Ms. Thurber's most reliable base of operations in New York (three of these plays have previously been staged there), Axis Theater and the New Ohio Theater and both Cherry Lane Theater spaces will present important stages in one fictional woman's life. Various locations, (866) 811-4111, theatervillage.com. (Grode)
'Mr. Burns, a Post-Electric Play' (previews start on Friday; opens on Sept. 15) The end of civilization has been on artists' minds lately, and now the adventurous Civilians have joined the post-apocalyptic parade. In this new play by Anne Washburn, one random episode of ''The Simpsons'' is the last remnant of Western culture. If the all-star downtown cast (which includes Quincy Tyler Bernstine, Matthew Maher and Jennifer R. Morris) and subject matter aren't enough of a draw, there's also a new score by Michael Friedman (''Love's Labour's Lost''). Playwrights Horizons, 416 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200, ticketcentral.com. (Grode)
'The Old Friends' (in previews; opens on Sept. 12) The Signature Theater's devotion to Horton Foote continues with the premiere of this drama by Foote, who died in 2009 and whose late-career success was fueled in no small part by the Signature's season-long retrospective in 1994. Michael Wilson (''The Trip to Bountiful'') directs two fellow Foote veterans, Lois Smith and Horton's daughter Hallie Foote, as well as Betty Buckley in this play about an uneasy meeting between two Texas farming families. Signature Center, 480 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 244-7529, signaturetheatre.org. (Grode)
'Philip Goes Forth' (previews start on Saturday; opens on Sept. 16) George Kelly wrote several timeless comedies in the 1920s, including ''The Show-Off'' and ''The Torch Bearers,'' but the mixed reviews he received for this 1931 work put him off playwriting for five years. If anyone is equipped to make the case for this gently satirical play, about an aspiring young playwright with more ambition than talent, it is the Mint Theater, which is giving ''Philip Goes Forth'' its first New York City revival. Mint Theater, 311 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (866) 811-4111, minttheater.org. (Grode)
'The Recommendation' (previews start on Friday; opens on Sept. 6) An old friendship gets a jolt when the popular, plugged-in Aaron Feldman is pulled over for a broken taillight and his friend, the unconnected Iskinder Iudoku, has the advantage. This is the most prominent staging to date for Jonathan Caren, who won a playwriting award for the piece when it had its premiere last year at the Old Globe in San Diego. Flea Theater, 41 White Street, TriBeCa, (212) 352-3101, theflea.org. (Grode)
'Romeo and Juliet' (previews start on Saturday; opens on Sept. 19) Despite being maybe the best-known romance in the history of Western theater, ''Romeo and Juliet'' has not been performed on Broadway in more than 35 years. Stepping in to fill the breach are Condola Rashad, fresh off ''The Trip to Bountiful,'' and the relative stage neophyte Orlando Bloom. (Sadly, this production is set in modern times, so the sword skills Mr. Bloom honed for the ''Lord of the Rings'' and ''Pirates of the Caribbean'' films will most likely go unused here.) David Leveaux has surrounded his young stars with seasoned stage veterans like Brent Carver, Chuck Cooper and Jayne Houdyshell. Richard Rodgers Theater, 226 West 46th Street, Manhattan, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com. (Grode)
'stop. reset.' (in previews; opens on Sept. 8) The future of the written word is very much on the minds of the employees of a Chicago publishing house in this new play written and directed by Regina Taylor (''Crowns''). In the course of trying to find an answer, the company's owner meets what the press materials describe as ''a mysterious youth plugged into the future,'' which seems like a pretty good description of young people in general these days. Signature Center, 480 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 244-7529, signaturetheatre.org. (Grode)
'Women or Nothing' (previews start on Wednesday; opens on Sept. 16) The Atlantic Theater has had several hits with batches of one-act plays by Ethan Coen (who, with Joel, is part of the Academy Award-winning Coen brothers tandem), and now Mr. Coen has written his first full-length work for the company. It's about two women who are eager to have a baby -- so eager that they might even be willing to sleep with a man to get one. David Cromer directs Susan Pourfar, one of his stars from ''Tribes,'' as one half of the couple, along with Halley Feiffer. Linda Gross Theater, 336 West 20th Street, Chelsea, (866) 811-4111, atlantictheater.org. (Grode)
Broadway
'Annie' James Lapine's revival of the singing comic strip from 1977 is merely serviceable. But its smiley-faced mixture of hope and corn scratches an itch in a city recovering from a recession and a hurricane. Theatergoers may occasionally feel the urge both to mist up and throw up, but Lilla Crawford is a nigh irresistible Orphan Annie. With Anthony Warlow and Faith Prince as Miss Hannigan (2:25). Palace Theater, 1564 Broadway, at 47th Street, (877) 250-2929, ticketmaster.com. (Ben Brantley)
'First Date' The winning Zachary Levi and Krysta Rodriguez star in this cliché-ridden romantic comedy, with a book by Austin Winsberg and a score by Alan Zachary and Michael Weiner. Mr. Levi is the nice Jewish boy who's had his heart kicked around, Ms. Rodriguez a boho chick with lots of experience. They're all wrong for each other, right? Sorry, but no prizes will be given for guessing how this familiar story ends (1:30). Longacre Theater, 220 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Charles Isherwood)
&#x2605; 'Kinky Boots' Cyndi Lauper has created a love-and-heat-seeking score that performs like a pop star on Ecstasy. This Harvey Fierstein-scripted tale of lost souls in shoe business, in which a young factory owner (Stark Sands) teams up with a drag queen (Billy Porter), sometimes turns into a sermon. But it's hard to resist the audience-hugging charisma of the songs in this Tony winner for best new musical (2:20). Al Hirschfeld Theater, 302 West 45th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Let It Be' Another Beatles tribute on Broadway? But this concert is the best of the bunch by far, with a rotating cast, 40 or so songs, and a burst of musical magical realism (2:20). St. James Theater, 246 West 44th Street, Manhattan, (212) 239-6200, letitbebroadway.com. (Anita Gates)
&#x2605; 'Matilda the Musical' The most satisfying and subversive musical ever to come out of Britain. Directed by Matthew Warchus, with a book by Dennis Kelly and addictive songs by Tim Minchin, this adaptation of Roald Dahl's novel is an exhilarating tale of empowerment, told from the perspective of that most powerless group, little children. Bertie Carvel is priceless as their schoolmistress nemesis (2:35). Shubert Theater, 225 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Motown: The Musical' A dramatically slapdash but musically vibrant joy ride through the glory days of the Detroit music label founded by Berry Gordy. Mr. Gordy's book is sketchy and obvious -- you want to plug your ears whenever the music stops. But the music is, of course, some of the greatest R&B ever recorded, and the performers mostly electric (2:40). Lunt-Fontanne Theater, 205 West 46th Street, (877) 250-2929, ticketmaster.com. (Isherwood)
'Pippin' Diane Paulus sends in the acrobats for her exhaustingly energetic (and now Tony-winning) revival of Stephen Schwartz and Roger O. Hirson's 1972 musical. As for the 99-pound story at the center of this muscle-bound spectacle -- the one about the starry-eyed son of Charlemagne (Matthew James Thomas) -- that's there too, if you look hard. With Patina Miller and a delightful Andrea Martin (2:35). Music Box Theater, 239 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Rodgers & Hammerstein's Cinderella' This ultimate and most enduring of makeover stories, via the team who gave us ''Oklahoma!,'' has been restyled by the director Mark Brokaw and the writer Douglas Carter Beane into a glittery patchwork of snark and sincerity, with a whole lot of fancy ball gowns. Laura Osnes and Santino Fontana are the appealing leading lovers (2:20). Broadway Theater, 1681 Broadway, at 53rd Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Soul Doctor' The story of Shlomo Carlebach (Eric Anderson), the folk-singing rabbi who made a splash in the 1960s (and befriended Nina Simone, played by the elegant Amber Iman), makes for an odd and mostly hackneyed musical, despite the use of his often lovely music, set to overly drippy lyrics by David Schechter and a similar book by the director, Daniel S. Wise (2:30). Circle in the Square Theater, 1633 Broadway, at 50th Street, (800) 432-7780, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)
'The Trip to Bountiful' Michael Wilson's slow-handed staging of Horton Foote's 1953 drama about an old woman's journey into the past is most notable for its remarkable star, Cicely Tyson, who seems thoroughly rejuvenated by her return to Broadway. The attractive supporting cast includes Cuba Gooding Jr., Vanessa Williams and Adepero Oduye (2:10). Stephen Sondheim Theater, 124 West 43rd Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
Off Broadway
'Around the World in 80 Days' This stage version of the Jules Verne novel is an odd combination of steampunk and vaudeville. The actors' shameless mugging grows annoying after a while, but the pace stays brisk and the energy level high (2:00). New Theater at 45th Street, 354 West 45th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, aroundtheworldinnyc.com. (Neil Genzlinger)
'Bill W. and Dr. Bob' Making the story of the founding of Alcoholics Anonymous 99 percent preachiness-free is quite an accomplishment. Samuel Shem and Janet Surrey's purpose-driven script, which never forgets the humor of the human experience, goes a long way toward making this a satisfying revival (2:15). SoHo Playhouse, 15 Van Dam Street, South Village, (866) 811-4111, billwanddrbob.com. (Gates)
&#x2605; 'Buyer & Cellar' Jonathan Tolins has concocted an irresistible one-man play from the most peculiar of fictitious premises -- an underemployed Los Angeles actor goes to work in Barbra Streisand's Malibu, Calif., basement -- allowing the playwright to ruminate with delicious wit and perspicacity on the solitude of celebrity, the love-hate attraction between gay men and divas, and the melancholy that lurks beneath narcissism. In the capable hands of the director Stephen Brackett and the wickedly charming actor Michael Urie, this seriously funny slice of absurdist whimsy creates the illusion of a stage filled with multiple people, all of them with their own droll point of view (1:30). Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street, at Seventh Avenue South, West Village, (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com. (David Rooney)
'Cougar the Musical' Three older women find themselves attracted to younger men, two against their better judgment. The concept seems made for bus tours, but imagination, appealing numbers with original melodies and theme-transcending jokes lift this show well above the level of ''Menopause: The Musical'' and its ilk (1:30). Fridays and Saturdays only. St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Gates)
'Cuff Me: The Fifty Shades of Grey Musical Parody' What can I possibly say that isn't said by the title of this production? Here's one thing: It's not exactly great theater, but I'd still rather see ''Cuff Me'' than read the novel upon which it's based (1:30). Actors Temple Theater, 339 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Claudia La Rocco)
'Harbor' Family and children are on the playwright Chad Beguelin's mind in this comedy about a gay couple and the manipulative sister who came to stay. ''Harbor'' doesn't quite succeed as social satire -- the humor often feels overfamiliar and the sister's quips about gayness start to grate the audience as well as their intended targets. But the play, a Primary Stages production, does better as a study of characters realigning family loyalties in a changing world (2:00). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200, primarystages.org. (Rachel Saltz)
'It's Just Sex' Jeff Gould's lightweight comedy, a long-running hit in Los Angeles, is about three married couples whose party turns into an evening of spouse-swapping and postcoital navel-gazing (metaphorically). The cast is personable, but the script's only deep thought is that if women were told they could talk only to one person for the rest of their lives, they would understand why sexual fidelity is so stifling for men (1:30). Actors Temple Theater, 339 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Gates)
'Me and Jezebel' Kelly Moore (that's Mr. Kelly Moore) is great fun to watch as Bette Davis in Elizabeth Fuller's real-life ''Man Who Came to Dinner'' story. Too bad Ms. Fuller, who plays herself, isn't really an actress. This comedy about a movie star taking over the guest room and the lives of a Connecticut family one month in 1985 is admirably self-deprecating (1:45). Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street, Manhattan, (212) 921-7862, ticketmaster.com. (Gates)
'My Name Is Asher Lev' Aaron Posner's adaptation of Chaim Potok's novel feels like a well-made play from the era in which the story takes place: the 1950s. Set in a Hasidic neighborhood in Brooklyn, this tale of an artistic prodigy has been directed with an attention to emotional nuance by Gordon Edelstein and features strong performances from its three-person cast: Ari Brand, Mark Nelson and Jenny Bacon (1:30). Westside Theater/Upstairs, 407 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Saltz)
&#x2605; 'Natasha, Pierre and the Great Comet of 1812' Dave Malloy's transporting pop opera dramatizes an emotionally potent slice of Tolstoy's ''War and Peace.'' Rachel Chavkin directs a superb young cast who bring the loves and losses of 19th-century Russian aristocrats to vibrant, intimate life in a stylish cabaret setting expressly built for the production (2:30). Kazino, West 13th Street, at Washington Street, West Village, (877) 704-2821, thegreatcometof1812.com. (Isherwood)
&#x2605; 'Peter and the Starcatcher' The most exhilarating and inventive example of story theater since the Royal Shakespeare Company's ''Life and Adventures of Nicholas Nickleby.'' This production, about the boy who became Peter Pan, is an enchanted anatomy of the urge to defy gravity. Roger Rees and Alex Timbers direct (2:10). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
&#x2605; 'Potted Potter' With no new Harry Potter adventures to pore over, what's a Muggle in need of a fix to do? One answer: this gloriously goofy parody by Daniel Clarkson and Jefferson Turner, which compresses a retelling of the seven books into 70 minutes, complete with a game of Quidditch. Clearly the two comics attended Professor Flitwick's charms class, because they cast the perfect spell over the audience: reductio ad absurdum (1:10). Little Shubert Theater, 422 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Daniel M. Gold)
Summer Shorts 2013 (Series B) The three comedies in Series B of 59E59 Theater's annual roundup of short plays are a mixed bag. Marian Fontana's heartfelt, if predictable, ''Falling Short'' has great one-liners but mines familiar territory to win sympathy for its online-dating heroine; Paul Weitz's ''Change'' lampoons drug burnouts and the bourgeoisie in such scrupulously equal measure that its criticism of the characters neutralizes itself. But Alan Zweibel's ''Pine Cone Moment'' -- about lovers in their autumn years haunted by their dead spouses -- is a deliciously goofy, romantic and sometimes joyously antic confection. You'll leave the theater smiling (1:45) 59 East 59th Street, Manhattan, (212) 279-4200, ticketcentral.com. (Andy Webster)
&#x2605; 'The Two-Character Play' Playing strung-out sibling theater troupers in Tennessee Williams's rarely seen fever dream of an eternal folie à deux, Amanda Plummer and Brad Dourif don't just strike sparks. They're a raging conflagration that keeps changing form and direction. Gene David Kirk directs this revival of a demented, messy and oddly affecting self-portrait from an American master (2:10). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Unbroken Circle' Eve Plumb, a k a Jan of ''The Brady Bunch,'' demonstrates a flair for grown-up comedy as a born-again Christian with drinking and divorce habits in James Wesley's comic drama. Too bad the production is uncertainly paced and a little unpolished, because this story of a 1970s Texas family dealing with the death of an abusive patriarch has a lot going for it (1:50). St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Gates)
&#x2605; 'The Weir' This first-rate revival of Conor McPherson's play gathers a group of friends as they tell ghost stories to drive away a loneliness than can be even more frightening (1:30). Irish Repertory Theater, 132 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 727-2737, irishrep.org. (Ken Jaworowski)
Off Off Broadway
&#x2605; 'Then She Fell' Inspired by Lewis Carroll's ''Alice'' books, this transporting immersive theater work occupies a dreamscape where the judgments and classifications of the waking mind are suspended. A guided tour of Wonderland, created by Third Rail Projects, leads its participants through a series of rooms and an interactive evening of dance, poetry, food and drink (2:00). The Kingsland Ward at St. John's, 195 Maujer Street, near Humboldt Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718) 374-5196, thenshefell.com. (Brantley)
&#x2605; 'The Vaudevillians' The drag performer Jinkx Monsoon (real name: Jerick Hoffer) and her accompanist, Major Scales (Richard Andriessen) turn a simple conceit into a hilarious evening. They are vaudeville performers who were frozen in an avalanche in the 1920s. Thawed out in the present, they find that many of their songs -- ''I Will Survive,'' for instance -- have been repurposed by more recent performers. They reclaim them, vaudeville style (1:25). Laurie Beechman Theater at the West Bank Cafe, 407 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 352-3101, SpinCycleNYC.com. (Genzlinger)
'Wanda's Monster' Making Books Sing, which turns children's books into musicals, has adapted Eileen Spinelli's 2002 picture book about Wanda, a little girl who knows that a monster lives in her closet. Barbara Zinn Krieger, who wrote the script, has transformed Wanda's Granny -- the only adult who acknowledges the truth of Wanda's perception -- from a sensible soul into a kick-out-the-jams rocker. This characterization works beautifully with the show's upbeat score and lyrics by the children's pop star Laurie Berkner. This charming production brings home a point worth considering at any age: embrace what you fear, and you just may find a friend (1:00). Vineyard Theater, 109 East 15th Street, (646) 601-1406, wandasmonster.com. (Laurel Graeber)
Long-Running Shows
'Avenue Q' R-rated puppets give lively life lessons (2:15). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'The Berenstain Bears Live! In Family Matters, the Musical' This adaptation of three of Stan and Jan Berenstain's children's books is pleasant enough, but the cubs are showing their age. Saturday and Sunday only (:55). Marjorie S. Deane Little Theater, 5 West 63rd Street, (866) 811-4111, berenstainbearslive.com.
'Black Angels Over Tuskegee' The tear-jerker story of these trailblazing African-American pilots (2:30). Actors Temple Theater, 339 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
Blue Man Group Conceptual art as entertainment (1:45). Astor Place Theater, 434 Lafayette Street, East Village, (800) 258-3626, ticketmaster.com.
'The Book of Mormon' Singing, dancing, R-rated missionaries proselytize for the American musical (2:15). Eugene O'Neill Theater, 230 West 49th Street, (800) 432-7250, telecharge.com.
'Celebrity Autobiography: The Next Chapter' Celebrities read selections of the witless wisdom culled from the tell-all tomes of the rich and famous. The cast appearing in this Monday's performance includes Mindy Cohn, Kristen Johnston, Tate Donovan and Shalita Grant (1:30). Stage 72, 158 West 72nd Street, (212) 362-2590, stage72.com.
'Chicago' Jazz Age sex, murder and razzle-dazzle (2:25). Ambassador Theater, 219 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Doña Flor y Sus Dos Maridos' A Spanish-language adaptation (''Doña Flor and Her Two Husbands,'' in English) of Jorge Amado's novel, a sex farce with the clarity and logic of a folk tale and the spirit of a party (1:40). Saturday only. Repertorio Español at Gramercy Arts Theater, 138 East 27th Street, (212) 225-9920, repertorioespanol.com.
'The Fantasticks' Boy meets girl, forever (2:05). Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.
'Fuerza Bruta: Look Up' A sensory bath aimed at clubgoing college kids in search of cultural diversion (1:05). Daryl Roth Theater, 20 Union Square East, at 15th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Jersey Boys' The biomusical that walks like a man (2:30). August Wilson Theater, 245 West 52nd Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'The Lion King' Disney's call of the wild (2:45). Minskoff Theater, 200 West 45th Street, (800) 870-2717, ticketmaster.com.
'Mamma Mia!' The jukebox musical set to the disco throb of Abba (2:20). Cadillac Winter Garden Theater, 1634 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Newsies' Extra! Extra! enthusiasm (2:20). Nederlander Theater, 208 West 41st Street, (866) 870-2717, newsiesthemusical.com.
'Old Jews Telling Jokes' With old jokes, a few songs and a little schmaltz, this winning revue is simple, effective entertainment executed with obvious affection (1:20). Westside Theater, 407 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Once' Almost love, in a singing Dublin (2:15). Bernard B. Jacobs Theater, 242 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Perfect Crime' The murder mystery that has been investigated since 1987 (1:30). Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.
'The Phantom of the Opera' Who was that masked man anyway? (2:30). Majestic Theater, 247 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Rock of Ages' Big hair, thrashing guitars and inspired humor fuel this jukebox musical (2:25). Helen Hayes Theater, 240 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Sistas: The Musical' Black women reflect on their lives, with songs (1:30). St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Sleep No More' A movable, murderous feast at Hotel Macbeth (2:00). The McKittrick Hotel, 530 West 27th Street, Chelsea, (866) 811-4111, sleepnomorenyc.com.
'Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark' Web surfing with music (2:45). Foxwoods Theater, 213 West 42nd Street, (800) 745-3000, spidermanonbroadway.marvel.com.
'Stomp' And the beat goes on (and on), with percussion unlimited (1:30). Orpheum Theater, 126 Second Avenue, at Eighth Street, East Village, (800) 982-2787, ticketmaster.com.
'Wicked' Oz revisited (2:45). Gershwin Theater, 222 West 51st Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.
Last Chance
&#x2605; 'The Designated Mourner' (closes on Sunday) This revival of Wallace Shawn's anatomy of a survivor in a totalitarian country makes the definitive case for its author as one of the most complex and uncompromising moralists of the American theater. André Gregory, who directed the New York premiere in 2000, returns with the same first-rate cast: Deborah Eisenberg, Larry Pine and Mr. Shawn (3:00). Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, publictheater.org. (Brantley)
'The Great Society' (closes on Saturday) Beginning just after the Kennedy assassination in 1963, Alexander Harrington's play follows President Lyndon Baines Johnson as he seeks to win passage of civil rights and antipoverty legislation even as the growing involvement in Vietnam swamps his administration and forces him to not seek re-election in 1968. Mitch Tebo makes a fine L.B.J., but the play has trouble keeping up with the sheer number of issues it tries to cover. Events are mostly headlines, dialogue is limited to exposition and the opportunity to understand Johnson is diminished (2:40). Clurman Theater at Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Gold)
'The Hamlet Project' (closes on Monday) Mashing a wacky interactive drinking game with Shakespeare's tragic play leads to an inexpensive and unexpectedly good time (2:10). Harley's Smokeshack & BBQ, 356 West 44th Street, Clinton, hamletprojectnewyork.com. (Jaworowski)
'I Forgive You, Ronald Reagan' (closes on Sunday) This overwrought new play, about the aftermath of the 1981 air-traffic controller strike, wants very much to be a modern-day ''Death of a Salesman.'' It has its own working-class hero who loses his identity (and ultimately his sanity) after being forced out of his livelihood, and who compensates by pinning unrealistic hopes on his coddled, lazy offspring. But problems with John S. Anastasi's script keep us from fully empathizing with its Everyman protagonist and agreeing that attention must be paid (2:00). Beckett Theater at Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Catherine Rampell)
&#x2605; 'Murder for Two' (closes on Sunday) A virtuosic Jeff Blumenkrantz plays all the suspects, and Brett Ryback the investigating officer, in this nifty mystery musical comedy by Joe Kinosian and Kellen Blair. The actors also provide the music, taking turns at the piano, under Scott Schwartz's fleet direction (1:30). McGinn/Cazale Theater, 2162 Broadway, at 76th Street, fourth floor, (212) 246-4422, 2st.com. (Isherwood)
&#x2605; 'rogerandtom' (closes on Saturday) From a conventional start -- Penny waits in her apartment for Roger to arrive so they can go see the new play by their brother Tom -- Julien Schwab's witty absurdist comedy quickly gets surreal, with a subtle plot that twists and folds back on itself. Smartly using meta-theatrical devices like a broken ''fourth wall'' and benefiting from excellent performances, the play reminds us that acting doesn't only take place onstage (1:10). Here, 145 Avenue of the Americas, at Dominick Street, South Village, (212) 352-3101, here.org. (Gold)
'Shida' (closes on Wednesday) This one-woman musical, written and performed by Jeannette Bayardelle, is an earnest portrait of Shida, a young woman who survives sexual abuse and drugs to reach adulthood with newfound hope. The structure, though, racing from scene to scene and song to song, doesn't allow Shida to emerge as a distinct individual; she feels instead like a generic compilation (1:10). Ars Nova, 511 West 54th Street, Clinton, (866) 811-4111, shidathemusical.com. (Genzlinger)
&#x2605; Summer Shorts 2013 (Series A) (closes next Friday) The first set in this year's edition of short plays at 59E59 Theaters -- a tasty and astringent foray into show-business rivalry by Neil LaBute, an imagining of Sarah Palin's job interview with John McCain by Lucas Hnath and a fairy tale satire by Tina Howe -- is consistently entertaining without dramatic histrionics or knee-slapping hilarity (1:45). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, Manhattan, (212) 279-4200, ticketcentral.com. (Webster)
'The Unavoidable Disappearance of Tom Durnin' (closes on Sunday) David Morse gives a precise, chilling performance as the title character, a mini-Madoff, in Steven Levenson's downbeat drama about a man trying to make amends for the damage his crime inflicted on his family (1:40). Laura Pels Theater, Harold and Miriam Steinberg Center for Theater, 111 West 46th Street, (212) 719-1300, roundaboutunderground.org. (Isherwood)
'Vanya and Sonia and Masha and Spike' (closes on Sunday) Portraying a woman mired in what appears to be a permanent midlife crisis, the marvelous comic actor Kristine Nielsen provides much of the laughing gas in Christopher Durang's uneven but intermittently delightful riff on Chekhovian themes. David Hyde Pierce and Julie White also star in this Tony-winning play directed by Nicholas Martin (2:30). John Golden Theater, 252 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY CAROL ROSEGG) (C17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (79%); FESTIVALS (78%); THEATER (74%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (63%); WRITERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SAVANNAH, GA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); GEORGIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2013



667 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2013
National

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 660 words

HEADLINE: Many Young El Pasoans Find They Can Go Home Again

BYLINE: By JULIÁN AGUILAR. 
jaguilar@texastribune.org

 BODY:
EL PASO -- In 2009, Xochitl Rodriguez, a multitalented performer from a middle-class El Paso neighborhood, was Bhutan's first-ever invited artist in residence. After leaving South Asia, she served another residency in Kansas City.
But Ms. Rodriguez, 28, eventually did what many native El Pasoans do not: she came home, planted roots and is giving the West Texas desert a taste of what she went away to discover. She left for Austin right after high school. Now she is the director of the applied integrative program here at La Fe Preparatory, a small school just blocks from the Mexican border. 
El Paso was once one of America's leading exporters of youth. In the 1990s, among cities El Paso's size, only Gary, Ind., lost more 19- to 30-year-olds to emigration, according to a study by former State Senator Eliot Shapleigh, a Democrat and fifth-generation El Pasoan.
Gradually, returns like Ms. Rodriguez's are becoming more common. Indeed, many of the new businesses contributing to El Paso's improving quality of life are the creation of expatriates coming home to the border.
''The seeds of my dedication to community were already there,'' Ms. Rodriguez said. ''I just didn't know it.''
For many young El Pasoans, the search for upward mobility has meant leaving town. The city's average household income and high school graduation rates are below the state's. And 21.9 percent of the population over 25 has at least a bachelor's degree, compared with 26 percent for the state, according to United States census figures. Many of the most ambitious young people have left for college in Austin or beyond.
El Paso continues to be one of the state's fast-growing regions, but educators and philanthropists constantly battle a brain drain. In 2010, the University of Texas at El Paso received what was then its largest donation, $5 million from the Hunt Family Foundation. About $4 million was earmarked for a research and development institute designed to make El Paso more competitive.
The recent shift is largely anecdotal but palpable: young El Paso natives are returning home as new jobs and a burgeoning restaurant and night life scene make the city more hospitable.
For Ms. Rodriguez, it was about giving back. She had opportunities many young people here would never have, she said, and she wanted to bring them home to the city's youth.
But there is something else. Alfred Campos, 37, said there are not as many reasons for today's El Paso youth to do what he did in 1993: join a band, buy an old van and tour across the country before landing in Europe.
Between stops in Germany, Poland and the Czech Republic, he came home to visit, he said -- and eventually decided to come back. Two months ago, he opened Monarch, a bar nestled between the city's downtown and west side.
''I got to see El Paso transitioning,'' Mr. Campos said. ''I would come back and see places opening. I'd see all these young people, but they weren't getting married or talking about getting married right away. All these things were different. There's no reason not to be in El Paso anymore.''
Norberto Portillo fled for San Antonio after high school, finding his way to culinary school in Scottsdale, Ariz. He lived in Portland, Ore., for several years before coming home and opening Tabla, a tapas restaurant and cigar bar blocks from the border and within walking distance of El Paso's government, arts and entertainment districts.
The menu lacks the standard border fare of Mexican food combination plates or fried food baskets. Instead, it features dishes like duck breast and gnocchi. On a recent weekday evening, a jazz trio -- not a mariachi band -- was performing.
Mr. Portillo said that when young El Pasoans come home, they are more driven and want to make an impact.
''Getting a taste of moving away gets them out of their own comfort zone,'' he said. ''There is some pretty good talent here, and people are embracing it. If anything, I have come to embrace the city for what it is.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Alfred Campos, 37, right, who left El Paso in 1993 before returning and opening a bar, Monarch, joins a friend, Misha Mayr, for a night of singing at the bar. (PHOTOGRAPH BY VANESSA MONSISVAIS FOR THE TEXAS TRIBUNE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); ECONOMIC MIGRATION (77%); FOUNDATIONS (76%); PHILANTHROPY (76%); CHARITIES (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (75%); GRADUATION RATES (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (71%); CENSUS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EL PASO, TX, USA (92%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (91%); GARY, IN, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (94%); MISSOURI, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); BHUTAN (92%); ASIA (90%); SOUTHERN ASIA (88%); EUROPE (79%); MEXICO (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (50%); GERMANY (50%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2013



668 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 573 words

HEADLINE: Taking Oath, Mugabe Adds To His Rule Of Zimbabwe

BYLINE: By LYDIA POLGREEN

 BODY:
JOHANNESBURG -- Robert Mugabe was sworn in as president of Zimbabwe on Thursday in a pomp-filled ceremony in the capital, Harare, that extends by five years his 33-year rule.
Mr. Mugabe won a broad but hotly disputed victory in Zimbabwe's national election on July 31, defeating his main rival, Morgan Tsvangirai, by nearly 30 percentage points. It was a surprising turnabout for Mr. Mugabe, 89, who won fewer votes than Mr. Tsvangirai did in the previous presidential election, in 2008, and was forced into forming a unity government.
Mr. Mugabe struck a conciliatory note in his televised inaugural speech, given in a stadium filled with thousands of cheering supporters. He praised Mr. Tsvangirai and other opposition leaders, and called for unity. 
''We will have competition and winners and losers,'' Mr. Mugabe said. ''We shall never be competing to be Zimbabweans.''
Mr. Tsvangirai's party, the Movement for Democratic Change, called the election a farce and rejected the result as illegitimate, a view shared by many local observers and the United States, which said the vote did not represent the will of the Zimbabwean people.
The voters' roll was not made available until the day before the election, and it was only on paper, which is all but impossible to analyze for fraud and omissions. Many voters were turned away, and there was a high instance of voters' requiring assistance, which is unusual in a country with high literacy rates like Zimbabwe, observers said. In previous versions of the roll, urban voters and young people -- the core supporters of the opposition -- were badly underrepresented.
Observers from the African Union and the Southern African Development Community, a regional economic and trading bloc, also pointed out serious problems with the vote, but accepted the outcome.
The Movement for Democratic Change had filed a legal challenge to the result in the country's Constitutional Court, but withdrew it when the government refused to hand over voting materials and other evidence the opposition needed to prove its case.
''It was clear that the whole exercise was fraudulent,'' said Douglas Mwonzora, a spokesman for the party. ''We did not get the evidence we needed, and the court would not allow us to lead evidence from witnesses. We had no means to make our case.''
The opposition had little hope in the courts in any case, Mr. Mwonzora said, since they are packed with Mugabe loyalists. Indeed, the court decided to rule despite the withdrawal of the challenge, declaring on Tuesday that the election had been free and fair.
''They just wanted to create a judgment in favor of Mugabe,'' Mr. Mwonzora said.
The election was meant to end the crisis that has plagued Zimbabwe since the disastrous 2008 presidential election, in which Mr. Tsvangirai won the most votes but refused to participate in a runoff because of violent attacks on his supporters. Regional powers brokered a deal that created an uneasy coalition government that retained Mr. Mugabe as president and made Mr. Tsvangirai prime minister.
Despite his victory, Mr. Mugabe faces a difficult road ahead. His health is believed to be frail, and his party, ZANU-PF, is deeply divided over who will succeed him. The country's economy is fragile.
And despite accepting his victory, few of Mr. Mugabe's fellow African leaders were eager to help him celebrate his inauguration. South Africa's president, Jacob Zuma, begged off, sending a deputy instead.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Robert Mugabe on Thursday at his swearing-in ceremony in Harare, Zimbabwe. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEXANDER JOE/A.F.P. -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); WITNESSES (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (74%); LITERACY RATES (71%); LITIGATION (70%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (68%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (68%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (50%)

PERSON: MORGAN RICHARD TSVANGIRAI (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARARE, ZIMBABWE (92%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (91%) ZIMBABWE (98%); AFRICA (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2013



669 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 688 words

HEADLINE: Will a Boycott Help Russia's Gays?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Boycotting Vodka Won't Help Russia's Gays,'' by Mark Lawrence Schrad (Op-Ed, Aug. 21):
Before the Stolichnaya vodka boycott, the plight of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender Russians went unnoticed. Afterward, it became front-page news, as images of people pouring vodka into the streets went viral; government leaders condemned Russia's new discriminatory laws, and celebrities commanding huge audiences debated boycotting or even stripping Russia of the glory of playing host to the Olympics in Sochi.
Our goal should be to help not only Russian gay people but all people suffering from human rights violations. Boycotts and other actions that heighten awareness of such abuses are a success. 
Our long-term goal should be to raise the standards of human rights, inclusive of L.G.B.T. people, using the tremendous opportunity before us with the coming Sochi Olympics, to let the world know that human rights violations are a stain on a country's honor, disqualifying it from economic investment, prestige and the moral authority that entitles a country to respect for its national interests.
Let other countries contemplating using gay people or others as political scapegoats beware. The world will shun you.
JAY KALLIO New York, Aug. 21, 2013
To the Editor:
Mark Lawrence Schrad makes both good and bad arguments to advance his thesis. Among the good are the declining economic importance of vodka exports to the Russian economy, and the fact that the primary target, Stolichnaya, is based outside Russia and that its leaders have condemned President Vladimir V. Putin's antigay policies.
But Mr. Schrad misfires when he argues that the ''symbolic'' gesture of a boycott is bound to backfire in Russia's conservative antigay culture. Short-term backlash is inevitable, but even an economically ineffective boycott will keep the issue alive at Russian dinner tables -- where the real long-term change will occur -- and keep Russians from wrongly assuming that homophobic policies will not cost them cultural standing in the world.
Mr. Schrad's condescending alternative -- that those sympathetic to the cause of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender Russians reframe the issue within the context of the country's ''endemic corruption and the weak rule of law'' -- offers no practical course of action to those singled out for systematic discrimination and physical violence. Sadly for the makers of Stolichnaya, switching to another brand of vodka is the most accessible way for consumers to register their discontent.
SHELLEY ALPERN Salem, Mass., Aug. 21, 2013
The writer is director of social research and shareholder advocacy at Clean Yield Asset Management, an investment advisory firm that advocates for more responsible corporate social and environmental policies.
To the Editor:
The essay misses the point. No one realistically believes that President Vladimir V. Putin or his legislature will change their antigay laws overnight or stop thugs from beating up gays, all because of a vodka boycott in gay bars and other sympathetic locales, or that Russians will reverse their opinions about gays. But as with the civil rights and gay rights movements, you don't ''win'' on these issues immediately but rather over a long period of time, step by step and protest action after protest action.
Though the effects of encouraging people to boycott Russian vodka around the world may be small, the gay rights movement and its supporters are taking a stand, making a statement and keeping this issue in the public eye, with luck, changing the perception of gays by Russians as deserving the same civil rights and protections as everyone else.
MARK CHINITZ New York, Aug. 21, 2013
To the Editor:
Mark Lawrence Schrad dismisses the effectiveness of boycotting countries (like Russia) when they engage in very bad behavior.
He cites the Jackson-Vanik Amendment in 1974 against the Kremlin as being ineffective in allowing Jews to emigrate from the Soviet Union.
Really?
America spoke up loudly and morally. Indeed, the world (including businesses and cultural institutions) paid attention.
STEVEN COHEN New York, Aug. 21, 2013

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY LEIGH GULDIG) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOYCOTTS (92%); GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); DISCRIMINATION (89%); TRANSGENDER PERSONS (89%); CELEBRITIES (78%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (78%); DISTILLED LIQUORS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS (74%); WRITERS (73%); BEVERAGE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (72%); WINTER OLYMPICS (70%); CORRUPTION (69%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (67%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (50%)

COMPANY: CLEAN YIELD ASSET MANAGEMENT INC (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2013



670 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 894 words

HEADLINE: Bo Xilai's Poisonous Legacy

BYLINE: By CHENG LI and RYAN McELVEEN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- A rising political star. A murderous wife. An attempted cover-up. A runaway police chief. A playboy son. A secret French villa. A corrupt official. A political downfall.
This conflagration of events surrounding the former high-ranking Chinese official Bo Xilai has captured the imagination of China watchers around the world. After 18 months of speculation, preparation and anticipation, Bo's trial on charges of corruption and abuse of power began Thursday in Jinan, China.
The trial, with its predetermined outcome, will not be the climax of Bo's story as much as the beginning of its long denouement as the Communist Party seeks to sweep this scandal under the carpet and turn its attention to the country's economic problems. 
But for China's leadership, the stains of Bo Xilai will not fade from those carpets so easily. As Bo is hauled off to serve years in prison, the most likely outcome of the trial, the leadership will be left to address the social divisions exposed by his demise.
Bo represents a generation of Chinese leaders who were raised in an era of Communist upheaval and came to power amid capitalist excess. He entered politics with a lust for power in a country without a soul.
The details of Bo's early history are murky. He embraced Mao's revolutionary cause as a radical Red Guard but spent a spell as a teenager imprisoned. He is said to have broken the ribs of his own father, the veteran Communist leader Bo Yibo, in a violent confrontation. Yet, like many of the so-called princelings, children of senior party officials, he relied on his father's lobbying to start his political career.
In his role as the Chongqing Province party secretary, Bo led the charge to revive Maoism. He abused his underlings while expecting their adulation in return. He cracked down on organized crime but ran Chongqing like a mafia boss. He fought corruption while engaging in it himself. He preached traditional Communist morality while his son flaunted his wealth at elite schools abroad. He opposed Western-style democracy but campaigned as if he were up for democratic election.
Those contradictions will be manifest in this week's trial, wherein the new leadership under President Xi Jinping aims to showcase the application of due process but will wield its power absent an independent judiciary. China's leaders have worked to develop a Goldilocks strategy: presenting evidence that is not too weak and not too strong. They realize that strong evidence would embolden critics of Communist Party corruption, whereas weak evidence would leave many viewing Bo as the unlucky scapegoat of intraparty machinations. For the leadership, the trial is a no-win situation.
After the trial, the political stains of the scandal will remain, forcing the party to confront the major divisions in society whose fault lines have been exposed by the case.
After coalescing for a fairly seamless political transition in 2012, the Chinese leadership has been divided over how to handle Bo's trial. The princelings, who are led by Xi and dominate the Politburo Standing Committee, may differ greatly from Bo in terms of personality, but they empathize with him through their shared political background and sense of ''red nobility'' entitlement to run the country.
Leaders of a different political background, especially those with close ties to former Prime Minister Wen Jiabao, may want to see a more severe punishment for Bo. Additionally, Bo knows many secrets about his former Politburo colleagues, many of whom will want to ensure that he stays quiet for a long time to come. However these maneuverings are resolved, residual alignments from the trial may spur new ideological alliances among the leadership as it shifts to debating the political and economic direction of the country.
This debate over political and economic policies is being led by China's public intellectuals. Members of the New Left, for whom Bo was once the most visible patron, champion Maoism and advocate a greater state role in economic planning to reduce China's income gap. On the other side, liberal intellectuals are pushing for more rapid economic and sociopolitical reform. These starkly disparate views will clash, especially when the party embarks on potentially sweeping economic reforms at October's Third Plenum of the Central Committee.
Finally, the Chinese people, and particularly the growing middle class, are increasingly disillusioned over the country's political direction. Although they support anti-corruption efforts, they are aware that Bo's corruption was far less severe than that of other Chinese officials. Even if this week's trial is portrayed as a victory for Xi's anti-corruption campaign, it will primarily reinforce how commonplace graft has become. Less swayed by corruption accusations, another significant group of people, most noticeably in Chongqing, sympathizes with Bo and continues to regard him as an inspirational and effective leader who got things done.
These stark divisions are not going away anytime soon. Unless the party leadership can implement meaningful reforms to establish a more accountable and representative government, the stains of Bo Xilai's legacy may be deeper than we can now imagine.
Cheng Li is the director of research at the John L. Thornton China Center at The Brookings Institution, where Ryan McElveen is a researcher.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ORGANIZED CRIME (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); SCANDALS (89%); POLICE FORCES (78%); DUE PROCESS (78%); ELECTIONS (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); BONE FRACTURES (64%)

PERSON: XI JINPING (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHONGQING, CHINA (90%) SOUTHWEST CHINA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); SHANDONG, CHINA (58%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2013



671 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 516 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street Ends Higher on Economic Data, Despite Halt

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
U.S. stocks maintained earlier gains on Thursday after trading resumed at the Nasdaq exchange following a more than three hour halt in the afternoon, caused by a problem in distributing stock price quotes. 
Traffic on the exchange stopped at 12:14 p.m. Eastern time, the exchange said on its Web site. Trading continued on the New York Stock Exchange.
Before the disruption, Wall Street was trading higher, as solid economic figures out of China and Europe helped lift the mood in a week when investors have been largely fretting over when the Federal Reserve would start to reduce its monetary stimulus program.
By the end of trading, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was 0.9 percent higher, and the Dow Jones industrial average gained 0.4 percent. When it halted trading, the Nasdaq composite was up 0.9 percent, and closed nearly 2 percent higher.
Though the minutes of the last Fed policy meeting, published on Wednesday, showed that most officials appeared comfortable with the idea of starting to reduce the stimulus this year, there was less clarity over whether the so-called tapering would begin in September or December. The Fed has been purchasing $85 billion of financial assets a month to help keep interest rates low and spur growth.
Better-than-expected figures out of China and Europe helped investors to focus on something different.
A survey from HSBC provided further evidence that China, the world's second-largest economy, may be over its recent soft patch. Its monthly purchasing managers' index -- a gauge of business activity -- rose to 50.1 points for August from 47.7 in July. Numbers above 50 indicate an expansion in activity.
The monthly composite purchasing managers' index for the 17-country euro zone, which includes both manufacturing and services, rose to 51.7 in August from 50.4. The index, published by financial information company Markit, is now at its highest level since June 2011, providing evidence that the euro zone recovery from recession is gathering pace.
In Europe, the FTSE 100 index of leading British shares closed up 0.9 percent at 6,446.87 while Germany's DAX rose 1.4 percent to 8,397.89. The CAC 40 in France ended 1.1 percent higher at 4,059.12.
On Wednesday, United States stocks had a very volatile day as investors digested the Fed minutes. After dropping sharply, they recovered to briefly trade higher before ending up modestly down. The dollar was also volatile, but it remains largely on the ascendant as traders price in the prospect of Fed tapering as soon as next month.
The euro was slightly higher, at $1.3361, while the dollar rose 0.9 percent to 98.55 yen.
Earlier in Asia, Hong Kong's Hang Seng advanced 0.4 percent, to 21,895.40 points. Japan's Nikkei 225 index fell 0.4 percent, to 13,365.17, while South Korea's Kospi lost 1 percent, to 1,849.12.
The benchmark index in the Philippines dived 6 percent, catching up with earlier losses in regional markets after being closed because of flooding that submerged large parts of Manila, the capital.
Oil prices moved higher, with the benchmark New York rate up $1.20 at $105.07 a barrel.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EURO (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); EURO ZONE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MONETARY UNIONS (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (88%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (88%); SUSPENSION OF TRADING (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (76%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (70%); WEB SITES (57%); INTEREST RATES (51%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); ASIA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2013



672 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 432 words

HEADLINE: Chinese Manufacturing Grows More Than Expected

BYLINE: By BETTINA WASSENER

 BODY:
HONG KONG -- An early reading Thursday of a closely watched survey of manufacturing-sector activity provided the latest indication that China's economy had bottomed out after many months of slowing growth. 
The preliminary purchasing managers' index for August, compiled by the research firm Markit and released by the British bank HSBC, jumped to 50.1 points from 47.7 in July, showing a swing to expansion from contraction, with a figure of 50 the dividing line. The increase, to a four-month high, easily beat analysts' expectations.
HSBC's preliminary survey offers one of the earliest indications each month of how the Chinese economy is doing, and Thursday's reading is likely to solidify expectations that a stabilization that had begun to show in July has continued into August.
The reading ''adds to the number of green shoots indicating a stabilizing economy since July,'' Li Wei and Stephen Green, economists at Standard Chartered, wrote in a note, adding that government-led measures aimed at shoring up economic growth, like tax breaks for small businesses and steps aimed at speeding up railway construction, appeared to have begun to take effect.
Future purchasing manager surveys, they said, were likely to ''continue to hover between 50 and 53 in the coming months, with no dramatic improvement.''
The Chinese authorities' approach of economy-bolstering tweaks focused on specific areas contrasts with the big-bang stimulus adopted after the global financial crisis and highlights Beijing's willingness to accept slower growth as it tries to reduce the economy's reliance on cheap credit, investments and exports.
After years of double-digit expansion rates, the economy has now settled into a slower pace of growth of around 7.5 percent this year. And despite the unexpectedly strong survey results on Thursday, some analysts said the picture could well cloud again next year.
Yao Wei, China economist at Société Générale Hong Kong, said government-driven infrastructure investment should be able in the short term to offset problems like the renminbi's strength relative to many other emerging Asian currencies, many of which have fallen sharply in recent months. A rebound in the third quarter is ''almost certain,'' Ms. Yao said.
However, she added, a similar pickup during the fourth quarter of last year, which was also aided by government policy, was short-lived. Given efforts to rein in shadow banking activities and potential challenges from abroad as the Federal Reserve scales back its support of the U.S. economy, ''we caution that this uptick may not last either,'' she said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (72%); INFRASTRUCTURE (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (63%); CURRENCIES (60%); MASS TRANSIT CONSTRUCTION (52%); RAILROAD CONSTRUCTION (52%)

COMPANY: SOCIETE GENERALE SA (57%)

TICKER: GLE (PAR) (57%); GLE (BIT) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (59%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (94%); HONG KONG (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2013



673 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1316 words

HEADLINE: Japan's Women to the Rescue

BYLINE: LAURA D'ANDREA TYSON


HIGHLIGHT: Prime Minister Shinzo Abe&#8217;s effort to expand opportunities for women is not simply an exercise in political correctness but an economic necessity driven by demographics, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Laura D'Andrea Tyson is a professor at the Haas School of Business at the University of California, Berkeley, and served as chairwoman of the Council of Economic Advisers under President Clinton. 
Among economists (most of whom are male), there is a tendency to treat diversity and gender equality as "soft" issues - worthy social goals perhaps, but secondary to the real business of economic growth, job creation and productivity.
But these soft issues have jumped to the top of the long-term growth agenda in Japan, the world's third-largest economy, where Prime Minister Shinzo Abe is working to shake the nation out of its 20-year deflationary slump.
So far the world's attention has focused on Mr. Abe's bold macroeconomic policies to lift demand and growth in the short run. These policies have been strikingly successful, confirming the validity of Keynesian remedies for an economy suffering from insufficient demand when interest rates are stuck at their zero lower bound. As a result of higher deficit spending and a vast quantitative easing program by the Bank of Japan, the Japanese economy is growing at 4 percent, the highest rate among advanced economies, and the stock market has soared by 80 percent over the last six months. 
Now, after his recent impressive electoral victory, Prime Minister Abe has signaled his intention to move forward with the "third arrow" of his policy quiver - significant structural reforms to increase Japan's long-term growth potential. His list reads like a neoclassical economist's list of "usual suspects," including deregulation, industrial restructuring, corporate tax reform and trade liberalization - all worthy objectives. But in a departure from tradition, he is also championing reforms to expand economic opportunities for women. 
Mr. Abe believes in numerical targets, and he has established several of them to increase the participation and advancement of women in the workplace. He wants to eliminate day-care waiting lists by creating 200,000 new day-care openings in authorized public facilities by 2015, with another 200,000 by 2017. He wants businesses to double their child-care leave to three years. He wants 30 percent of leadership positions in government and business to be held by women by 2020. He is calling on Japanese corporations to appoint at least one woman to their boards. And he is considering both changes in tax laws that discourage mothers from working and new training subsidies to help them return to the workplace following child-care leave.
These initiatives are not motivated by softhearted political correctness but by hard-headed economic logic. Japan needs to expand its work force, which is shrinking rapidly as a result of a sagging birth rate and an aging population. The International Monetary Fund estimates that Japan's working-age population will fall by almost 40 percent by 2050. The share of citizens older than 65 is expected to jump from 24 percent in 2012 to 38 percent in 2050, when the ratio of the working population to the elderly population will be 1 to 1.
"Japan is growing older faster than anywhere else in the world," the I.M.F. reports. Unless the nation can shore up its work force, it faces a long-term drag on economic growth at a time of soaring obligations for old-age entitlements.
Japan has one of the largest gender gaps in the world. Even though Japanese women are highly educated - indeed, the university enrollment rate for 18-year-old females now exceeds that for 18-year-old males - the female employment rate is about 25 percentage points lower than the rate for men, and ranks among the lowest in the developed countries.
Japan also has the largest gender pay gap of any country in the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, with the exception of South Korea. On average, Japanese women earn about 72 percent of the compensation of men for equivalent jobs. The gender pay gap rises during childbearing and child-rearing years indicating a "motherhood pay penalty"." This penalty is larger in Japan than in any other O.E.C.D. country, including Korea.
In the 2012 Global Gender Gap Report of the World Economic Forum, Japan ranked near the bottom - 102 out of 135 countries - on an index measuring gender parity in economic participation and opportunity. Japan has consistently had the worst ranking of any developed economy on this index since it was introduced in 2006.
There are several reasons for Japan's poor performance. Strong cultural norms value stay-at-home mothers. Tax distortions reinforce these norms and penalize two-worker households. Long working hours with overtime requirements make it difficult to balance work and family responsibilities. Child-care services are in acute short supply. There are long waiting lists for public child care, and a limited number of private providers because of burdensome regulations that Mr. Abe has pledged to ease.
Women are often caught in a Catch 22: they cannot secure a job until a child-care slot is available, and they are not eligible for such a slot until they have a job. And rigid immigration laws make it impossible for Japanese families to sponsor foreign workers to provide domestic help. A Japanese woman cannot get a visa for a foreign nanny, but a Japanese nightclub owner can get a visa for a foreign female entertainer.
About 70 percent of Japanese women leave the work force after their first child. Only about one-third of Japanese mothers with young children work, compared with 50 to 60 percent in the United States, Britain and Germany, and 75 percent in Sweden. Nearly three-quarters of college-educated working women in Japan voluntarily leave their jobs for six months or longer, more than twice the incidence among their counterparts in the United States (31 percent) and Germany (35 percent). Most of the Japanese women who quit work for family responsibilities want to rejoin the work force but have a hard time doing so and face serious penalties in future wages and promotions.
The gender gap is costly. The I.M.F. estimates that if Japan's female labor participation rate climbed to the average of the Group of 7 industrial economies, Japan's per-capita economic output would be 4 percentage points higher. If employment rates for Japanese women were to reach parity with those for Japanese men, Goldman Sachs estimates Japan's work force would gain eight million people and its gross domestic product would be 14 percent larger.
Given the magnitude of these effects, it is not surprising that the recent I.M.F. assessment of the health of Japan's economy specifically welcomed policy initiatives to increase female employment. It is also not surprising that a group of Japanese business leaders has established a high-level task force to work with the Japanese government and the World Economic Forum to foster business practices and policies to increase economic opportunities for women and to improve Japan's ranking on the forum's index.
To be sure, narrowing Japan's gender gap won't be easy. It is entrenched in a wide array of cultural barriers, government policies and corporate workplace practices. Political resistance and inertia are still formidable. Despite Mr. Abe's call to put women in leadership roles, to date his own Liberal Democratic Party has been lackluster in recruiting female candidates for Parliament.
The main reason to think that Japan's structural changes to encourage the employment and advancement of women will succeed is that there is no alternative. Japan's demographic challenges are too severe and the untapped economic potential of Japanese women is too large to ignore. As Mr. Abe astutely remarked in a speech last spring, women are Japan's "most underutilized resource."

        
Office Advancement vs. Home Duties
        
Incentives for Men, to Help Women to Work
        
Strongest Since 1999?
        
Who Works the Longest Days
        
Snapshots of Upwardly Mobile Areas

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); WOMEN (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (87%); CHILD CARE (85%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); WOMEN WORKERS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (77%); TRENDS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (77%); DEFLATION (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); PRODUCTIVITY (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); DEREGULATION (72%); GENDER EQUALITY (72%); AGING TRENDS (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (69%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (67%); TAX REFORM (67%); POPULATION DECLINE (67%); INTEREST RATES (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (65%); FAMILY LEAVE (65%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (65%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (63%); TAX LAW (63%); AGING (60%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (50%); CORPORATE TAX (50%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (50%) Abe, Shinzo; Child Care; Economic Conditions and Trends; Elderly; Gender; International Monetary Fund; Japan; Labor and Jobs; Wages and Salaries; Women and Girls; World Economic Forum; Today's Economist

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (55%)

ORGANIZATION: International Monetary Fund; World Economic Forum

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (55%)

PERSON: SHINZO ABE (94%); BILL CLINTON (73%) Abe, Shinzo

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (92%) Japan

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2013



674 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 509 words

HEADLINE: Alibaba Said to Push to Allow Partners to Nominate Board Members

BYLINE: NEIL GOUGH


HIGHLIGHT: The Chinese e-commerce giant, which analysts expect could be valued at $100 billion or more in an initial public offering, has made a proposal to allow top executives to retain control over corporate strategy, according to a person with knowledge of the matter. 

 BODY:
The Alibaba Group, the Chinese e-commerce giant whose anticipated initial public offering is expected to be a blockbuster, has made a proposal to the Hong Kong stock exchange that would allow the company's partners to nominate the majority of its board members, a person with knowledge of the matter said on Friday. 
Alibaba, which analysts expect could be valued at $100 billion or more in an I.P.O., made the proposal as it seeks ways for top executives to retain their sway over corporate strategy while it weighs the merits of a listing in Hong Kong or the United States, the person said, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the information was not public.
Both the Nasdaq and the New York Stock Exchange permit companies to issue more than one class of shares, which can allow founders or management to exert disproportionate control over a company by increasing the voting rights of the shares they hold. Facebook and Google have dual-class listings, while some family-controlled companies, including The New York Times Company, also use the structure.
Hong Kong, however, discourages dual-class listings. For example, the English soccer club Manchester United had explored a Hong Kong I.P.O. but chose to list last year in New York, where it was able to issue two classes of shares.
Under Alibaba's proposal to the Hong Kong exchange, nominations for the majority of its board seats would be made by a committee of more than 20 partners, including the co-founder and executive chairman, Jack Ma, top lieutenants and other long-serving senior staff members, according to the person.
The partner committee would not include SoftBank, the Japanese telecommunications company that owns 36.7 percent of Alibaba, or Yahoo, which has a 24 percent stake.
The proposal "still gets to the heart of some of the issues that cause people to go dual-class, but it would still be single-class," said the person, adding that any board nominations made by the partners would still be subject to the approval of shareholders.
A spokesman for the Hong Kong stock exchange declined to comment.
News of Alibaba's proposal was earlier reported on Friday by the Hong Kong Economic Times newspaper.
Alibaba has yet to appoint underwriters or decide where it will list, according to the person familiar with the matter, but analysts and investors already expect the I.P.O. to be one of the biggest and most highly anticipated since Facebook raised $16 billion in May 2012.
Alibaba operates online businesses including the merchandise sourcing Web site Alibaba.com; Tmall.com, a platform for retailers to connect with online shoppers; and the consumer-to-consumer retail Web site Taobao Marketplace.
Alibaba's profit tripled in the first quarter of the year, rising to $668.7 million from $220.5 million in the same period a year earlier, according to Yahoo's stock exchange filings. Quarterly revenue increased to $1.38 billion, up 72 percent from a year earlier.

        
Why an Alibaba I.P.O. Is Both Promise and Problem for Yahoo
        
Why Alibaba Could Be China's Next $100 Billion I.P.O.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (93%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (91%); EXECUTIVES (90%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (90%); COMPANY STRATEGY (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); STOCK OFFERINGS (89%); INTERNET RETAILING (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS (77%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); BOARD CHANGES (77%); APPROVALS (73%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (72%); FAMILY COMPANIES (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (69%); SOCCER (66%); RETAILERS (62%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (60%) Alibaba.com; Hong Kong Stock Exchange; Initial Public Offerings; Ma, Jack; I.P.O./Offerings; Technology

COMPANY: ALIBABA GROUP HOLDING LTD (92%); NEW YORK TIMES CO (82%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); FACEBOOK INC (56%); GOOGLE INC (56%); MANCHESTER UNITED PLC (55%); ALIBABA.COM LTD (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Alibaba.com; Hong Kong Stock Exchange

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (82%); FB (NASDAQ) (56%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (56%); MANU (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (92%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (82%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (82%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (82%); NAICS711211 SPORTS TEAMS & CLUBS (55%); SIC7941 PROFESSIONAL SPORTS CLUBS & PROMOTERS (55%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (50%); NAICS454112 ELECTRONIC AUCTIONS (50%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%)

PERSON: Ma, Jack

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) HONG KONG (95%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2013



675 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 873 words

HEADLINE: Study Suggests Shift in Fed Bond-Buying

BYLINE: BINYAMIN APPELBAUM


HIGHLIGHT: The Federal Reserve should keep buying mortgage bonds even as it stops buying Treasuries, and even as it sells off its existing holdings of both, two economists have concluded. 

 BODY:
JACKSON HOLE, Wyo. - A new studyfinds that the Federal Reserve should keep buying mortgage-backed securities even as it stops buying Treasury securities, and even as it sells off its existing holding of Treasuries and mortgage bonds.
The study supports the Fed's basic argument that buying bonds can help the economy, but it argues that the Fed made crucial mistakes in creating its bond-buying program, and that the Fed is at risk of compounding those errors. 
Buying mortgage bonds has a larger economic effect than buying Treasuries, according to the study by Arvind Krishnamurthy, an economist at Northwestern University, and Annette Vissing-Jorgensen, an economist at the University of California, Berkeley.
But they found little economic benefit in holding mortgage bonds or Treasuries, a basic element of the Fed's stimulus campaign. 
And they argued that the Fed was undermining itself by failing to articulate a clear plan for the purchases. The paper was presented Friday morning at the annual monetary policy conference here in Jackson Hole, Wyo., convened by the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City. 
There is broad agreement among economists that asset purchases have helped to hold down long-term interest rates indirectly, by signaling to investors that the Fed is serious about its plans to hold down short-term interest rates.
There have been persistent questions, however, about the direct benefits of the purchases.
Professors Krishnamurthy and Vissing-Jorgensen argue that the Fed's purchases of more than $2 trillion in Treasuries since the financial crisis have had "limited economic benefits." The purchases have cut the government's borrowing costs, but they found little evidence for the Fed's assertion that that has reduced borrowing costs for businesses and consumers.
It follows that "cessation of Treasury purchases or a sale of Treasury bonds will have small negative macroeconomic effects."
They argue that the Fed should focus instead on buying mortgage bonds. The two professors found in an influential 2011 paper that the Fed's purchases of mortgage bonds in 2008 and 2009 did reduce the cost of mortgages.
In the new paper, they write that the Fed's current round of purchases has also worked, but for a different reason.
The first round of Fed buying helped because the financial crisis had constrained the resources of traditional bond buyers, in effect creating a shortage of demand for mortgage bonds, forcing sellers to offer higher interest rates.
The second round, by contrast, has worked because the Fed is reducing the supply of bonds available for purchase.
In both cases, the authors write, the benefit of the purchases is mostly limited to the housing market.
"It does not, as the Fed proposes, work through broad channels such as affecting the term premium on all long-term bonds."
Interestingly, it also follows from this logic that selling the Fed's existing holdings of mortgage bonds won't have much impact on borrowing costs, because that would not affect the supply of the current crop of mortgage bonds.
Referring to mortgage-backed securities, the study says: "We conclude that an exit should proceed in the following sequence: The Fed should first cease its purchases of Treasury bonds and then sell down its Treasury portfolio. Second, the Fed should sell its higher-coupon M.B.S. as this will have small effects on primary market mortgage rates. The last step in this sequence is that the Fed should cease its purchases of current-coupon M.B.S. as this tool is currently the most beneficial source of economic stimulus."
Professors Krishnamurthy and Vissing-Jorgensen argue that the Fed should be as clear as possible about its plans for this exit.
One of the most important developments in monetary policy over the last generation is the conclusion that central banks can increase the power of their actions by talking about their goals, thereby shaping the expectations of investors.
The Fed has embraced this approach in its core business of adjusting short-term interest rates, declaring that it intends to keep rates near zero at least as long as the unemployment rate remains above 6.5 percent and inflation remains under control. But it has not offered similar clarity about its bond-buying plans.
Fed officials have said that they want to remain flexible because they are still learning about the costs and benefits of asset purchases. The new paper argues that this is a mistake; it says that clarity about quantitative easing is even more important because of the large role of expectations in determining long-term rates.
"It is imperative that central banks outline a framework for the use of LSAP," the paper says, using the acronym for asset purchases favored by cognoscenti. "Without such a framework, investors do not know the conditions under which LSAPs will occur or will be unwound, which undercut the efficacy of policy targeted at long-term asset values."
In English: If the Fed doesn't explain what it's doing, investors will assume the worst, and borrowing costs will rise as if the Fed is doing nothing.

        
Handicapping the Fed's Next Move
        
Better Data, but Not Enough for the Fed
        
Implications for Monetary Policy
        
Updates on the Fed Announcement
        
Wall Street's Ideal Jobs Gain: Middling

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BONDS (93%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); HOUSING MARKET (71%); WRITERS (60%) Federal Reserve System; Interest Rates; Quantitative Easing; United States Economy

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF KANSAS CITY (69%)

ORGANIZATION: Federal Reserve System

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (69%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) WYOMING, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2013



676 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2013

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: The Ad Campaign: Catsimatidis Goes on the Attack

BYLINE: THOMAS KAPLAN and MATT FLEGENHEIMER


HIGHLIGHT: Three weeks before the primary, John A. Catsimatidis has released two ads criticizing his main Republican rival, Joseph J. Lhota. 

 BODY:

Thanks to his considerable fortune, John A. Catsimatidis has been a steady presence on television as he seeks the Republican nomination for mayor. His advertisements so far have touted his rags-to-riches biography and his commitment to public safety. Now, three weeks before the primary, he is going on the attack against his main Republican rival, Joseph J. Lhota. Mr. Lhota is the focus of a 30-second commercial, "3 Things," that began airing Friday. A second new commercial, "Cares About Us," also criticizes Mr. Lhota.
PRODUCER The Victory Group 
THE SCRIPT "Three big differences in the race for mayor. As M.T.A. chairman, Joe Lhota raised subway fares and bridge tolls. John Catsimatidis will never do that. Lhota calls police officers 'mall cops.' John Catsimatidis considers them heroes. And while Catsimatidis created thousands of jobs, Joe Lhota created one - for himself. A bureaucrat versus a businessman. John Catsimatidis for mayor."
ON SCREEN After an aerial shot of the Statue of Liberty, a tightly cropped image of Mr. Lhota's face appears on screen, in a dark and foreboding blue-gray tint. Mr. Lhota is not smiling. Superimposed on screen are the words: "$15 Bridge Tolls" and "Highest Subway Fares Ever." The commercial continues with two more drab images of Mr. Lhota, one of which is overlaid with a caption noting Mr. Lhota's $332,500 salary at the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, and a video clip in which Mr. Lhota is seen speaking into a microphone. All of the images of Mr. Lhota are monochromatic, while Mr. Catsimatidis is shown in color, and in livelier moments, cutting the ribbon at one of his grocery stores and enthusiastically giving a thumbs-up.
ACCURACY Mr. Lhota presided over the authority when it voted to raise subway and bus fares and tolls on bridges and tunnels.
The bridge tolls refer to a single bridge, the Verrazano, and a one-way fare, collected entering Staten Island. The toll is $15 when paid in cash, but $10.66 when paid using E-ZPass. 
The current $2.50 base subway fare is the highest fare ever, although, adjusted for inflation, it is not the highest on record, nor is the average fare paid per trip, according to a report by the city's Independent Budget Office. But Mr. Lhota has repeatedly defended the fare increases, noting that they had been scheduled before he took charge of the transit authority. A rescue package devised in 2009 by Gov. David A. Paterson and the State Legislature established a plan for biennial fare increases, and the transit authority is planning to raise fares again in 2015 and 2017. 
Mr. Catsimatidis also has little basis to give the impression that, as mayor, he will stop any future fare or toll increases. Transit fares are set by the authority, which the mayor does not control. (The footage used to illustrate Mr. Catsimatidis's point about bridge tolls is also not ideal: It appears to be the George Washington Bridge, which is controlled by the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, not the transportation authority.)
At a campaign forum in May, Mr. Lhota described the police officers for the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey as "nothing more than mall cops." Mr. Lhota later apologized.
Mr. Lhota did not create the position of authority chairman; he was nominated for it by Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo. And while Mr. Lhota did earn $332,500 in that position, that represented a significant pay cut from his previous job as an executive at the Madison Square Garden Company.
SCORECARD Mr. Catsimatidis's decision to attack Mr. Lhota shows that the primary race has entered a new and more heated phase. The advertisement takes advantage of Mr. Lhota's biggest gaffe of the campaign - the "mall cops" comment - and shows that Mr. Catsimatidis sees Mr. Lhota's time at the transit authority as another potential vulnerability. But at the same time, Mr. Catsimatidis is clearly taking some liberties in suggesting he could protect New Yorkers from fare increases, which is not within the mayor's power.

        
The Ad Campaign: 'Serious' Lhota Tries to Stand Out From Circus
        
The Ad Campaign: Supporters Praise Catsimatidis in Ad
        
The Ad Campaign: Catsimatidis Emphasizes Business Background
        
The Ad Campaign: Lhota's First Ad Highlights Biography
        
At Mayoral Forum, a Focus on the Environment

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MAYORS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (88%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (77%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); BUDGETS (68%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (68%); INFLATION (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); JOB CREATION (53%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (51%) Catsimatidis, John A; Elections, Mayors; Lhota, Joseph J; Political Advertising; NYC 2013

PERSON: JOHN CATSIMATIDIS (95%); DAVID PATERSON (50%) Catsimatidis, John A; Lhota, Joseph J

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2013



677 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 970 words

HEADLINE: Week in Review: S.E.C. Pushes to Fix Market Flaws

BYLINE: ERIC OWLES


HIGHLIGHT: A barrage of bad trades from Goldman Sachs and pricing paralysis on Nasdaq is spurring regulators to push ahead on new safeguards. 

 BODY:
A barrage of bad trades from Goldman Sachs and pricing paralysis on Nasdaq is spurring regulators to push ahead on new safeguards.
The Securities and Exchange Commission's chairwoman, Mary Jo White, said that she would "shortly convene a meeting of the leaders of the exchanges" to push ahead on new testing requirements that have been rebuffed by exchange companies.
A look back on our reporting of the past week's highs and lows in finance. 
 FRIDAY, AUG. 23 
 Nasdaq Chief Defends Handling of Trading Halt | Robert Greifeld said that the exchange needs to work on its "defensive driving" to deal better with mistakes by others. DealBook »
 THURSDAY, AUG. 22 
 Pricing Problem Suspends Nasdaq for Three Hours | The United States stock market remains vulnerable to technological breakdowns even as regulators and market operators work to keep up with trading that is increasingly electronic and driven by speed. DealBook »
 News Analysis: In Markets Tuned Up Machinery, Stubborn Ghosts Remain | Why are markets failing, and failing so often? One reason is the need for speed, says Floyd Norris. Another is increased competition. DealBook »
 Big Name Is Leaving Boies's Firm After a Year | Once staid partnerships where lawyers spent their entire careers, firms are increasingly collections of individuals with portable books of business. DealBook »
 Moody's Threatens to Cut Credit Ratings of Banks | If it follows through, Moody's could reduce the ratings of Wall Street giants like Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley and JPMorgan Chase as much as two grades. DealBook »
 Goldman Sachs Banker Charged With Rape | Jason Lee was arraigned on charges of raping a 20-year-old woman in an East Hampton rental home and posted $20,000 bail. The New York Times »
 New Claims in U.S. Case Against SAC Ex-Trader | The updated charges against Mathew Martoma mesh with the accusations contained in the S.E.C. lawsuit brought against Steven Cohen last month. DealBook »
 WEDNESDAY, AUG. 21 
 Bloomberg to Increase Oversight After Privacy Lapses | Investigators found that when the issue was first brought to the company's attention in 2011, top executives decided to stop giving journalists access to the data but that no concrete steps were taken. DealBook »
 For Activist Fund's Chief, a Sober Self-Evaluation | William A. Ackman sounded a note of contrition in a letter to investors, saying that Pershing Square Capital Management's investment in J. C. Penney had been a "failure." DealBook »
 Fed Appeals Rejection of Rule on Debit Card Fees | The appeal will be a crucial test of the courts' power to overturn the financial regulations that stemmed from the sweeping banking overhaul after the crisis. DealBook »
 TUESDAY, AUG. 20 
 Currency Volatility Unnerving Investors | Lawmakers and central bankers in India, Indonesia, Turkey and several emerging-market economies are scrambling to contain the damage from falling currencies and to keep foreign investors from heading for the exits. DealBook »
 Many Wall St. Banks Woo Children of Chinese Leaders | Although many of those hired have worked diligently, others have been placed on the payroll with little or no work expected of them. DealBook »
 Barnes & Noble's Founder Will Not Pursue a Bid for the Bookstores | Leonard S. Riggio's disclosure accompanied the retailer's latest results, which included a loss that more than doubled from the same time last year. DealBook »
 MONDAY, AUG. 19 
 An Admission of Wrongdoing as S.E.C. Takes a Harder Line | The agreement sets a potential precedent for the regulator, which is busy with investigations involving JPMorgan Chase and the hedge fund SAC Capital Advisors. DealBook »
 Obama Presses for Action on Bank Rules In a private White House meeting, President Obama told the nation's top financial regulators that they must work to prevent a repeat of the 2008 financial crisis. The New York Times »
 DealBook Column: Hiring the Connected Isn't Always a Scandal | In financial firms, does hiring the children of the elite constitute bribes? Hardly, says Andrew Ross Sorkin. DealBook »
 Banks Coming Up Short in Planning for the Worst, Fed Says | The Fed said some banks were not taking into account the possibility of falling house prices when valuing certain mortgage-related assets for the tests. DealBook »
 Norway's Statoil Will Sell Some North Sea Assets to OMV of Australia | The $2.65 billion transaction saves $7 billion in capital costs, notably on Rosebank, a deepwater discovery that is likely to be one of Europe's most expensive projects. DealBook »
 Oversight Board Faults Broker-Dealer Audits | Auditors performed complete and correct audits of at least three brokerage firms last year. That amounted to only 5 percent of the 60 audits reviewed. DealBook »
 Ex-Prosecutor in Enron Case Coming Back | The Justice Department named Leslie R. Caldwell, a defense lawyer at the firm Morgan Lewis, as the next head of its criminal division. DealBook »
 To Cover New York, Zillow Buys a Rival Site | The seven-year-old start-up StreetEasy sold itself to the giant of online real estate information for $50 million in cash. DealBook »
 SUNDAY, AUG. 18 
 Public Funds Take Control of Assets, Dodging Wall St. | The world's biggest pension and sovereign wealth funds have found they can often manage their own money at a lower cost without losing out on returns. DealBook »
 SATURDAY, AUG. 17 
 Hiring in China by JPMorgan Under Scrutiny | Federal authorities have opened a bribery investigation into whether JPMorgan Chase hired the children of powerful Chinese officials to help the bank win lucrative business in the booming nation, according to a confidential United States government document. DealBook »
 WEEK IN VERSE 
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
 'Cups' "You're gonna miss me when I'm gone," sings Anna Kendrick. Even if it's only for three hours. DealBook »

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); WOMEN (89%); SUSPENSION OF TRADING (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); JOURNALISM (76%); CURRENCIES (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (70%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (69%); SEX OFFENSES (69%); SUITS & CLAIMS (67%); LITIGATION (66%); WRITERS (65%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (64%); EMERGING MARKETS (63%); BAIL (63%) Top Headline 2; Week in Review

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%)

PERSON: MARY JO WHITE (73%); ROBERT GREIFELD (58%); STEVEN A COHEN (50%); STEVEN COHEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); INDONESIA (79%); INDIA (70%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2013



678 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1166 words

HEADLINE: Hedge Funds Win Ruling in Argentina Bond Case

BYLINE: PETER EAVIS


HIGHLIGHT: Hedge funds won the appeals court ruling, but may not receive a big financial return. 

 BODY:
A dogged group of hedge funds secured a significant victory in a federal appeals court on Friday in a case that is likely to have far-reaching effects on international bond markets, parts of the banking system and the struggling nation of Argentina.
The hedge funds, including one affiliated with the investment firm of the billionaire Paul E. Singer, bought a handful of bonds that Argentina's government defaulted on early in the last decade. Their aim was to buy the debt for pennies on the dollar and then sue Argentina to press it to pay the bonds in full. A lower court judge ruled in their favor, and a three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in New York upheld his decision.
The funds may not be in line for a big financial return on their high-risk bet, even after the court victory on Friday. But even if their wager never pays off, the funds' litigation strategy is bringing important changes to the international market in which many countries borrow to finance their deficits and support their economies. 
The litigation could also create a situation in which Argentina, led by President Cristina Fernández de Kirchner, chooses to default on billions of dollars of bonds, a move that would deepen the country's economic problems. Argentina has employed prominent New York lawyers to fight its case. Mrs. Kirchner has often commented combatively on the case, calling the hedge funds "vultures."
"This is legal history in the making," said Arturo C. Porzecanski, a professor of international economics at the American University in Washington. "The ruling, as well as the entire Argentina litigation, is really setting precedent."
The appeals court decision has its roots in a dark period of Argentina's recent history. Reeling from a harsh economic slowdown, Argentina defaulted on nearly $100 billion of debt in 2001. In the years afterward, many of the country's bondholders agreed to deals in which they received new "exchange" bonds that were worth a lot less than the original ones. Argentina has kept up with the payments on the exchange bonds since it issued them.
But some investors, known as holdouts, refused to join the exchange deals and demanded full repayment. This included Mr. Singer's firm, Elliott Management, which has sued other developing countries to make money on defaulted bonds. In the Argentina case, it even persuaded a court in Ghana to seize an Argentine naval vessel.
The funds demanded that they be paid in full on $1.3 billion of defaulted Argentine bonds, and Judge Thomas P. Griesa of Federal District Court in New York ruled forcefully in their favor.
His ruling contained two crucial features. First, he said Argentina had to pay the holdouts on their defaulted bonds whenever it next made payments on the restructured bonds. And in a move that has few precedents, Judge Griesa came up with a way to potentially enforce his decision if Argentina chose to ignore it. He singled out the financial firms that pass the payments on the restructured bonds from the Argentine government to their holders. If these firms handled the payments, they could effectively find themselves in contempt of the court's ruling.
Not wanting to break the law, the firms, like Bank of New York Mellon, would stop processing the bond payments. Mrs. Kirchner would then have to decide whether to pay the holdouts to clear the way for the payment-processing firms to funnel money to the holders of the exchange bonds or, in the alternative, default on the exchange bonds.
Though the appeals court sided with Judge Griesa, it delayed the enforcement of the decision while the Supreme Court decides whether to take the case.
"Today's unanimous, well-reasoned decision appropriately condemns Argentina's persistent violation of its obligations and its extraordinary defiance of the laws of the United States," Theodore B. Olson, a partner at Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher, the law firm that is representing an affiliate of Elliott Management, said in a statement.
"This is another opportunity for my government to do what it should do and deal in good faith," said Horacio Vázquez, a Buenos Aires native who leads a group of bondholders who want to be repaid in full.
Elliott bought some of its Argentine debt before the country's 2001 default, according to a person familar with the fund's actions.
One big question is whether the appeals court decision will disrupt the sort of debt reductions that can ease the economic burdens of some countries. Investors might be emboldened to take a tough line after seeing Elliott's legal successes.
But the appeals court argued that this Argentina case was narrow in nature, suggesting that it may not apply in other defaults. "This case is an exceptional one with little apparent bearing on transactions that can be expected in the future," Judge Barrington D. Parker wrote in the decision.
Legal specialists who think the Argentina case won't have a wide effect have also noted that many bonds now have a special feature that make it much harder for hedge funds to hold out.
Still, bonds continue to have a so-called pari passu clause, from the Latin for "on equal footing," which has been crucial in this case. The clause provided the legal basis for the courts to demand that the holdouts be paid when the holders of the exchange bonds are paid.
"Everyone who has a clause like this had better look at it very carefully," Mitu Gulati, a law professor at Duke, said.
Perhaps the most jarring development is that the appeals court upheld the provisions that are designed to stop banks from passing on payments on the exchange bonds. The government debt market lacks an authority, like a bankruptcy court, that can sort out disputes between creditors and debtors. By effectively tying the hands of firms like Bank of New York Mellon, the United States courts could become such an enforcer.
"This is the revolution in this case," Mr. Gulati said. "For the first time in hundreds of years of sovereign debt, a court is saying, 'We're going to go out there and improve the market by helping you to enforce it.' "
The odds of Argentina getting the Supreme Court to rule on the case do not look strong.
"On the one hand, just looking at these questions as questions of law, I don't think the Supreme Court is likely to take it up," Henry Weisburg, a partner at Shearman & Sterling, said. "But you do have to balance this against the fact that sovereign states do get deference from the Supreme Court."
In Argentina, Mrs. Kirchner is likely to keep up her strong opposition to the hedge funds for the foreseeable future, which means they probably won't get paid in full any time soon.
But political analysts are starting to doubt whether she can win the 2015 election. That could pave the way for a new president who may be more willing to settle with the holdouts.
 Jonathan Gilbert contributed reporting from Buenos Aires. 

        
Ralph Lauren Corp. Agrees to Pay Fine in Bribery Case
        
Argentina Denied Request for Full-Court Hearing on Debt

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (95%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (91%); APPEALS COURTS (91%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (91%); BONDS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT (89%); JUDGES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); APPEALS (89%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); LAWYERS (75%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%) Argentina; Hedge Funds; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 2

PERSON: CRISTINA FERNANDEZ DE KIRCHNER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) ARGENTINA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); GHANA (79%) Argentina

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2013



679 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 821 words

HEADLINE: The New Nuclear Craze

BYLINE: MARK BITTMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Fears of climate change are no reason to revive a doomed energy source. 

 BODY:
There is a new discussion about nuclear energy, prompted by well-founded concerns about carbon emissions and fueled by a pro-nuclear documentary called "Pandora's Promise." Add a statement by James E. Hansen - who famously sounded the alarm on climate change - and, of course, industry propaganda, and presto: We Love Nukes.
Before we all become pro-nuclear greens, however, you've got to ask three questions: Is nuclear power safe and clean? Is it economical? And are there better alternatives? 
No, no and yes. So let's not swap the pending environmental disaster of climate change for another that may be equally risky.
Despite all-out efforts and international cooperation, Fukushima, which scared Germany right out of the nuclear power business, still isn't under control. Proponents of nuclear power promise new and safer technology, but these discussions are filled with "coulds"; no such plants exist. Nor would they reduce the risks of proliferation. (Oh, that little thing.)
Nor would they do much to mitigate the all-too-infrequently discussed dangers of uranium mining, which uses vast amounts of water in the West - an area that can ill afford it - and is barely regulated or even studied. Thousands of uranium mines have been abandoned, and no one seems to know how many remain to be cleaned up. The cost of that cleanup, of course, will be borne by taxpayers, not industry.
Then there's disposal of spent fuel, which is not contained at the same safety level as active fuel, itself a scary thought. Decades into the nuclear age there remains, incredibly, no real plan for this; a patchwork scheme by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, which appears to be even more industry-friendly than most federal agencies, was rejected by an appeals court last year, and the Obama administration is standing by its campaign promise (shocking, I know) to abandon the nuclear repository at Yucca Mountain in Nevada.
The economic viability of nuclear power is no more encouraging. Plants continue to close and generation rates continue to drop. Operators may indeed continue to make money on reactors, but that's only because federal subsidies are enormous. Insurance costs are limited. Loans are guaranteed (the Solyndra loan guarantee was half a billion dollars; in contrast, loan guarantees for new nuclear plants may run $8 billion); cost recovery and return on investment are also assured for decades, and some operators are able to collect costs from ratepayers (and pay dividends to shareholders) years before plants come online - even if they never come online.
So they're economical as long as you're the owner, because historically, subsidies for nuclear power have been more than double the expense of power generation itself. While estimates of the costs of power generation vary wildly - allowing both proponents and detractors of any given power technology to make their cases - few of them take externalities (costs to the environment or to public health, for example) into account. And nuclear power's externalities could exceed those for any other form of power generation except coal.
That's why we're reducing coal usage - if we had a strong climate policy it would be gone in a couple of deades, and nuclear should be right behind it. It's likely that no new nuclear plants will be built before true renewables are able to take the place of scary, highly damaging energy sources.
Which brings us full circle: the new proponents of nuclear power say that since nuclear power is arguably preferable to coal, maybe we should subsidize the building of new plants.
If those were the only options, maybe that argument would be a sound one. But they're not. Energy efficiency (remember that?), natural gas (imperfect, yes, but improvable) and wind are all cheaper. Even solar is already less expensive than nuclear power in good locations.
Some studies show that renewables can generate 80 percent of our electricity in 2050, using current technologies, while reducing carbon emissions from the electric sector by 80 percent. Climate change fears should be driving not old and disproven technologies but renewable ones, which are more practical. These technologies remain relatively small - non-hydro renewables were around 5 percent of the total last year - but they're growing so fast (wind and solar use have quadrupled in the last five years) that just this week the chairman of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission predicted that solar power could soon begin to double every two years.
Utilities are afraid that solar power will be to the electrical grid what PCs were to mainframes, or e-mail to the Postal Service: a technology that will simply kill its predecessors. Coal and nuclear power are both doomed, and the profit-making power grid with it. That's all to our benefit.

        
Crowdfunding Clean Energy
        
Let's Not Braise the Planet
        
Innovations in Light
        
The Power of a Hot Body
        
Green Roofs in Big Cities Bring Relief From Above

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); SOLAR ENERGY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (78%); HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); WIND ENERGY (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (77%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (75%); URANIUM MINING (66%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (60%); SHAREHOLDERS (60%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (55%); APPEALS COURTS (50%) Alternative and Renewable Energy; Nuclear Energy; solar energy; Wind Power; Solar Energy; Mark Bittman

COMPANY: SOLYNDRA INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2013



680 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 510 words

HEADLINE: Law School Applications Decline, Especially From Graduates of Elite Colleges

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: The decline in overall applications from 2008-12 was 17 percent, but among graduates of 20 top universities it was 28 percent. 

 BODY:
We've written before about the declining interest in law school, as evidenced by the number of people taking the Law School Admission Test and the number applying to law schools. Over at the Associate's Mind blog, Keith Lee notes that the number of applicants is down across the board, but the drop-off is particularly sharp among people who went to elite schools for their bachelor's degrees. 
He looked at graduates of the Ivies and three other schools (Stanford, Duke, the University of Chicago); I've done a similar analysis, but included the top 20 national universities as ranked by U.S. News that send a substantial number of alumni to law school each year. (Note that M.I.T. and Caltech, which are top-ranked national universities by U.S. News, are not included in this analysis because they are not among the top 240 biggest feeders to law schools for which the Law School Admission Council releases data.)
Across the board, the number of people applying to matriculate in fall 2012 was 67,700, down about 17 percent from the number who applied to matriculate in fall 2008 (82,000). 
The average decline in applicants who graduated from the "elite" schools was 28 percent.
Among all 240 feeder schools that the Law School Admission Council releases data for, Rice had the biggest decline; 135 of its alumni applied to matriculate in fall 2008, but only about half that number applied for the fall 2012 semester.
I'm not sure why graduates with bachelor's degrees from these higher-ranked universities have shown larger declines in interest in law school. Maybe they have access to better career services offices, which informed them that opportunities for newly minted lawyers havedeclined. Or maybe the range of jobs available to them in nonlegal fields has recovered faster than that for most college graduates, so the Ivy Leaguers feel less pressure to wait out the terrible job market by enrolling in law school. Or maybe it's just coincidence.
I should note, by the way, that among the 240 feeder schools the Law School Admission Council tracks, there were 55 feeder schools that saw their alumni law school applicants increase; 22 schools had percentage increases in the double-digits.
Among the schools with the biggest increases in percentage terms were Florida Gulf Coast University, Liberty University, Sam Houston State University, Utah Valley University and the University of New Mexico. Rutgers University School of Arts and Sciences (a program founded in 2006) and Kaplan University (where enrollment grew sharply in the early years of the 2000s) had the biggest increases in the number of their graduates who applied to law school.
An earlier version of this post referred imprecisely to the origins of a program at Rutgers University. It is the program, the School of Arts and Sciences, and not the university, that was "founded relatively recently."

        
The Return on College, Around the World
        
Out of Harvard, and Into Finance
        
Answers to Reader Questions About Law School
        
The Education Bonus and the Gender Gap
        
It's Not Just the Degree, but What You Study

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LAW SCHOOLS (93%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (92%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); LAWYERS (89%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); RANKINGS (74%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (72%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); EMPLOYMENT (63%) Colleges and Universities; Education; Law Schools

COMPANY: KAPLAN INC (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611430 PROFESSIONAL & MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT TRAINING (50%); NAICS611310 COLLEGES, UNIVERSITIES & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (50%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) SOUTHEAST USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2013



681 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(At War)

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2013

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 1121 words

HEADLINE: Remembering Iraq on an Indian Reservation

BYLINE: NATHAN S. WEBSTER


HIGHLIGHT: Nathan S. Webster asks why Lance Marottek, 25, returned to the Fort Peck Indian Reservation in northwestern Montana after five years in the Army. 

 BODY:
Why go back? After five years in the Army, with 27 months spent in Iraq and much of the rest in Honolulu, why would Lance Marottek, 25, return to the northeastern Montana town of Poplar, population less than 1,000? On the rough edge of the Fort Peck Indian Reservation, with a graduating high school class of just 40 students, it offers the kind of small town life many young men join the military to flee from, never to return.
But, when Mr. Marottek finished his second deployment to Iraq with the 25th Infantry Division in 2011, he said he had figured out that "I can do whatever I want in Montana - hunting, fishing, driving - no one's going to bother me, no one's going to stop me. I could never live in a city. Honolulu was almost too much."
The wanderlust that had motivated him to enlist in 2007 arose after a few boring classes at community college, and a realization that he was falling into a simple extension of high school amid the often dreary emptiness around the reservation. His grandfather, a Korean War veteran, had always suggested military service. He and about a half dozen other students in his small high school class made the same choice, he said. 
"I couldn't imagine my life being if I did the same things I did in high school," he said. "How many people get to say they lived in Hawaii for a couple years? Or Iraq? I wanted to travel and see some different things."
Like many veterans with multiple deployments, he remembers one more fondly than the others. While he deployed both times with Alpha Company, First Battalion, 14th Infantry Regiment, his 2007-9 experience was much more rewarding, he said, with the unit aggressively controlling the area around Tarmiyah, a rugged little city north of Baghdad. The men were tightknit, packed into bays filled with bunk beds in a city youth center turned into a joint security station; they found an intense camaraderie in the rough conditions and nonstop missions.
The second deployment, at a joint service station, or American minibase, called McHenry near Hawija in 2010-11, the soldiers were in two-man trailers, with plenty of private space where they could disappear on their own to watch movies and play video games. It wasn't the same - they lost that tightknit feel. And, with a much less aggressive mission posture, Mr. Marottek felt that they opened themselves up to more attacks. His closest call came when a rocket-propelled grenade penetrated his heavily armored vehicle, called a MRAP. 
"It was like a flaming baseball bat slamming against my head," he said. No Purple Heart from the sprayed shrapnel and no concussion, but "I think I'm always going to have ringing in my ears. That's just going to be normal. My girlfriend gets annoyed, asking me a question, and I say 'huh?'"
The Army taught Mr. Marottek to drive MRAPs and Stryker armored vehicles, so his post-military transition to driving backhoes and trucks around the booming North Dakota oil fields was not a difficult one. 
Many veterans find it easy to fall into familiar ruts upon returning home. Before the Army, Mr. Marottek had briefly taken classes in operating heavy equipment, but he didn't want to simply go back to school and get bored like he did before. Someone gave him a number to call, and he hooked on with a four-man company working in the North Dakota oil fields. A year-and-a-half later, the company, Common Denominator, has about 45 men who drive trucks, backhoes and other equipment in the fields of the Bakken oil field about two hours away. 
The oil fields provide good work, he says, with 12-hour days paying about three times as much as he earned when he was deployed. It starts as grunt work, but raises and bonuses kick in for the men who last 60 days. With demand for workers so high, he says he's still surprised when some workers collect a bonus for five straight days on the job - then disappear. 
"I don't understand a lot of poverty," he said. "The opportunity is there, but only a handful of people want to take it."
Half-Sioux from a Native American father who was never in his life, Mr. Marottek was raised by his mother's parents after she passed away when he was 5. While his father's extended family lives throughout the Reservation, he encounters them only sporadically. His grandfather Pete owned a farm south of town, where Mr. Marottek grew up helping as a farmhand; one regret from Iraq, he said, was not seeing his grandfather for about a year before he died in June 2008. "He'd been smoking, drinking and dipping his entire life. Just what he did." Mr. Marottek made it to the funeral on emergency leave, "in just 48 hours, I was in Billings, Mont.," he said. But "there was no time to adjust. I was in a Walmart with no weapon, and none of my guys. It was rough." His grandmother Marianne still runs the farm today, he said, and "you tell me how many 70-year-old women work three jobs."
Mr. Marottek recruits new guys for his company's work crew, men he can vouch for, and who want to work, and fellow veterans if he can find them. "We can share some experiences, and it makes it easier; but if it wasn't for those guys on the crew, I wouldn't even talk about Iraq. I hardly think about it that much," he said. "The Army was a chapter, but I'm not going to make it run my life."
Ironically, a visible reminder of Iraq are the region's sprawling "man-camps," like the one near Williston, N.D., where the oil fields are a common destination of Mr. Marottek's crew.
The camps help with the region's housing problem. There are lots of jobs, but nowhere for workers to live, and no easy way to create an infrastructure. Mr. Marrotek said he was fortunate to have access to cheaper, hometown rent in Poplar for himself, his girlfriend, Carlee, and their two young girls. It's often a two-hour commute to work sites, but in northwest Montana, he said, it's about two hours to everywhere.
About the camps, with their neat lines of hundreds of trailers, complete with dining facilities, on-site recreation and strict rules forbidding alcohol and visitors, Mr. Marottek said, "they damn near look like a forward operating base."
 Nathan S. Webster embedded in Iraq several times as a freelance photojournalist. His book, "Can't Give This War Away: Three Iraqi Summers of Change and Conflict" is available as an e-book on Amazon. Follow his blog at "Can't Give This War Away"and on Twitter.
 An earlier version of this post misidentified the location of the Montana town of Poplar. It is in the northeast, not northwest. 

        
Veterans Bare Their Souls in Literary Events
        
The Dangers of a Sensationalist Portrayal of Veterans
        
A Problematic Genre, the 'Kill Memoir'
        
Guide to a Few Nonprofit Groups Providing Care to Veterans
        
Losing My Father at War, One Letter at a Time

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HIGH SCHOOLS (91%); ARMIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (76%); KOREAN WAR (73%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (72%); CONCUSSIONS (72%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (71%); BRAIN INJURIES (50%) Iraq; Iraq War (2003-11); Labor and Jobs; Montana; North Dakota; Veterans; Walmart Stores Inc; Walmart Stores Inc|WMT|NYSE; A Soldier Writes; Afghanistan; At War; Economy; Employment; Families; health; Iraq War: 2003 - 2011

COMPANY: ALPHA CO LTD (65%)

ORGANIZATION: Walmart Stores Inc

TICKER: 4760 (JASDAQ) (65%) Walmart Stores Inc; WMT; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (65%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HONOLULU, HI, USA (91%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (58%) MONTANA, USA (96%); HAWAII, USA (93%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) Iraq; Montana; North Dakota

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2013



682 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY ADVISER; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 995 words

HEADLINE: For College Students, So Many Health Plans to Choose From

BYLINE: By ANN CARRNS. 
E-mail: ann.carrns@gmail.com

 BODY:
If you're headed to college this fall, you've no doubt planned to pack your laptop, your bedding and your favorite music. But have you figured out your health insurance?
The Affordable Care Act is offering more health coverage choices to young adults, including college and graduate students, said Jen Mishory, deputy director of Young Invincibles, a nonprofit group focused on economic issues affecting young Americans. ''There's going to be options out there to compare and contrast and figure out,'' she said.
For starters, if you're under 26 and your parents have health insurance that offers coverage for family members, the law allows you to stay on their plan in many cases. The government says more than three million people have already gained coverage as a result of this provision, which took effect in 2010. It applies even if you are financially independent, and whether you are single or married. Costs are going up, though, as some plans now charge an additional premium for family members added to the plan. 
College students have to consider other twists, too. Suppose your parents' plan requires that you use a local network of doctors, but you're attending school out of state. Martin Rosen, co-founder of Health Advocate Inc., which helps workers navigate their health benefits, said you should review your parents' plan before relying on it for coverage during college. If it is a health maintenance organization or preferred-provider plan and you seek care out of network, he said, ''you're going to have less coverage, or you'll pay more money for it.''
In that case, you may want to consider a health plan offered by your college. While student plans have until January to provide the full menu of ''essential'' health benefits mandated by the Affordable Care Act, many colleges are already offering plans that meet the requirements, said Jennifer Haubenreiser, the immediate past president of the American College Health Association.
It's important, however, to check specifics. Self-insured college plans -- those in which the school pays claims directly, instead of hiring an insurance company to do so -- don't have to meet the law's essential-benefits requirement, said Sara Collins, a health insurance expert at the Commonwealth Fund.
But again, some colleges are meeting them anyway. Northeastern University in Boston, for instance, says that even though it is self-insured, its health plan will include benefits that ''meet or exceed'' the law's requirements.
(There had been concern that students eligible for student health plans at self-insured schools -- which are in the minority -- wouldn't qualify for financial help on the new state-based health exchanges, which open for business Oct. 1 for coverage starting in January. But the federal government cleared up that confusion in recent regulations. As long as students at self-insured colleges don't enroll in the school's health plan, they may still qualify for subsidized coverage on an exchange, according to Kaiser Health News.)
While benefits in student plans are expanding because of the law, premiums are increasing, too, said Stephen Beckley, a college insurance consultant in Fort Collins, Colo. The average annual premium for a student plan at a private four-year college is now about $2,200.
So for comparison, you may want to look at policies available on the new exchanges in October, to see if you can find a cheaper plan. States are starting to approve insurance plans for their exchanges, and some premium estimates are lower than had been expected, but final financial information isn't available yet.
Coverage purchased on the exchange would start in January. If you already have school coverage for the fall, the ability to switch plans in midyear depends on your school. Some colleges offer only annual enrollment, while others allow students to withdraw at the end of a semester if they can acquire comparable insurance, Mr. Beckley said.
Jillian Foster, 29, who will attend New York University as a graduate student this fall, is uninsured and says she will evaluate her health plan options later this summer. She is too old to stay on her parents' plan, but is looking forward to having some sort of basic coverage again -- either through her college, or perhaps through an exchange, if the coverage is less expensive. ''My budget is quite tight,'' she said.
Many private four-year colleges automatically enroll students in their health plans, but allow students to opt out if they are covered under a comparable plan.
One possible advantage of school plans is that they typically are considered an education cost for financial-aid purposes, so their cost often may be wrapped into a student's aid package, Ms. Haubenreiser of the college health association said.
If you're wondering about your options, here are some questions to consider:
1. Can I choose between my parents' plan and the exchanges?
If you're financially dependent on your parents, and qualify for coverage under their health plan, you're generally not eligible for subsidized coverage on the exchanges, Ms. Collins said.
2. How can I get coverage on the exchanges at a minimal premium?
The exchanges will offer ''catastrophic'' plans for young people, which offer preventive care but carry low premiums, but have higher out-of-pocket costs. There's a question, however, about whether such plans will meet some colleges' minimum coverage requirements, Ms. Haubenreiser said.
3. Aside from my parents' plan and the exchanges, are there other low-cost options?
One possibility may be Medicaid, the federal-state insurance program for low-income people. Traditionally, Medicaid coverage has been limited to children, pregnant women and the disabled. But under the health care law, some states are expanding eligibility to cover low-income adults. ''It's not impossible that some students could qualify for Medicaid,'' Mr. Rosen said.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Affordable Care Act may give college students like Marche Curry, left, an alternative to college health insurance plans. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOE RAEDLE/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (93%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); FAMILY (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); SELF INSURANCE (89%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (73%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2013



683 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: The Ugly American Telegram

BYLINE: By ANDREW J. BACEVICH. 
Andrew J. Bacevich, a professor of history and international relations at Boston University, is the author, most recently, of ''Breach of Trust: How Americans Failed Their Soldiers and Their Country.''

 BODY:
BOSTON -- ON Aug. 24, 1963, the American ambassador to South Vietnam, Henry Cabot Lodge, received a top-secret message with the bureaucratically anodyne title Deptel 243. But the content of the message was anything but routine. Hastily drafted and cleared over the course of a single day, with most of official Washington on vacation, Deptel 243, also known as the Hilsman telegram, signaled a major shift in American policy. A few days later Mr. Lodge remarked, ''We are launched on a course from which there is no respectable turning back.''
For years the witticism ''Sink or swim with Ngo Dinh Diem'' -- the South Vietnamese president -- had captured the essence of America's position regarding the Southeast Asian country. Nearly a decade before, the United States had installed Mr. Diem in power and had supported him ever since. On a trip to Southeast Asia in 1961, Vice President Lyndon B. Johnson affirmed Mr. Diem's standing in Washington's eyes, hailing him as the ''Churchill of Asia.'' He was our guy. 
Now, according to Deptel 243, he wasn't.
Mr. Diem's principal offense was his refusal to do America's bidding. Fiercely anti-Communist, he was also fiercely nationalistic, and an autocrat to boot. He resented outsiders telling him how to run a country that was his, not theirs.
Unfortunately, his insistence on exercising power outstripped his aptitude for doing so. Internal opponents besieged his regime. Insurgents supported by Communist North Vietnam controlled large swaths of the countryside. The Army of the Republic of Vietnam, or A.R.V.N., built under American tutelage, was neither militarily effective nor politically reliable.
Things came to a head in the spring of 1963. In major South Vietnamese cities, Buddhist monks mounted large anti-Diem protests, culminating in dramatic acts of self-immolation. The American government pressed President Diem to calm troubled waters. His government responded by roiling them further.
His influential sister-in-law Tran Le Xuan, commonly known as Madame Nhu, mocked the ritual suicides as ''barbecues.'' Her husband, Mr. Diem's brother and right-hand man Ngo Dinh Nhu, used the protests as a pretext to launch a violent crackdown -- which he then blamed on the army, angering A.R.V.N. generals.
Worse still were rumors about Mr. Nhu's secretly approaching North Vietnam to explore a possible peace deal. Any such deal would strike at the foundations of America's cold war policy, based on the premise that the United States presided over a bloc of freedom-loving peoples devoted to preventing the spread of tyranny. Allowing lesser nations to opt out by reconciling with tyrants would leave the self-anointed ''leader of the free world'' looking foolish.
This was the situation facing the Kennedy administration on Saturday, Aug. 24, 1963, when the White House received word of an A.R.V.N. plot to overthrow Mr. Diem. In Saigon, embassy officials sought guidance.
Seizing the moment, three second-tier officials -- Michael V. Forrestal, W. Averell Harriman and Roger Hilsman -- set out to provide it. Within hours, the United States government had thrown in with the coup plotters. Mr. Diem had become expendable.
''No one made a decision,'' the historian Howard Jones later observed. More or less in a fit of exasperation, senior policy makers ''merely signed off on one that they all thought someone else had made.''
Released at 9:36 p.m. that night, Deptel 243 instructed American officials in Saigon to notify A.R.V.N. leaders that providing further military or economic support had become ''impossible'' unless ''steps are taken immediately'' by the South Vietnamese president to remove Mr. Nhu -- in essence offering Mr. Diem a chance to come around. If, however, ''Diem remains obdurate and refuses, then we must face the possibility that Diem himself cannot be preserved.''
Although providing Mr. Lodge with no specifics on how to make all this happen, the cable assured him that ''we will back you to the hilt on actions you take to achieve our objectives.'' The ambassador had a free hand.
The August plot came to nothing, but the change in American policy proved irreversible. Assured of Washington's backing, disgruntled A.R.V.N. generals eventually got their act together. On Nov. 1, 1963, they overthrew -- and murdered -- Mr. Diem and his brother. The prospect of a reinvigorated war effort beckoned.
This, of course, was not to be. If anything, conditions grew worse. Inept generals proved unable to govern. In Saigon, political chaos reigned. Away from the capital, prosecution of the war flagged. Mr. Diem's departure from the scene had opened a Pandora's box, setting in motion the sequence of events that culminated in 1965 with the disastrous decision to Americanize the Vietnam War.
Reflecting on American complicity in Mr. Diem's overthrow a quarter-century after the fact, the diplomat Richard C. Holbrooke, who was in South Vietnam at the time of Mr. Diem's overthrow, expressed hope that the mistakes had at least left policy makers a bit wiser. Perhaps, he speculated, they ''learned to ask themselves more searching questions about what kind of regime might follow the incumbents; about the real extent of American influence, and of its ability to control events. ...''
They hadn't then. They haven't since. In Washington, the conviction that removing obstreperous leaders, whether adversaries like Saddam Hussein or ''friends'' like Hosni Mubarak, facilitates Washington's ability to steer events remains the most persistent -- and dangerous -- of illusions. Yet time and again, the effect has been to let loose the forces of anarchy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (86%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); COLD WAR (78%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (64%); RELIGION (62%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (62%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (62%); SUICIDE (61%); PEACE PROCESS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); VIET NAM (94%); ASIA (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2013



684 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 683 words

HEADLINE: Catsimatidis Attacks Lhota on Tolls, Fares and 'Mall Cops' Comment

BYLINE: By THOMAS KAPLAN and MATT FLEGENHEIMER

 BODY:
Thanks to his considerable fortune, John A. Catsimatidis has been a steady presence on television as he seeks the Republican nomination for mayor. His advertisements so far have touted his rags-to-riches biography and his commitment to public safety. Now, three weeks before the primary, he is going on the attack against his main Republican rival, Joseph J. Lhota. Mr. Lhota is the focus of a 30-second commercial, ''3 Things,'' that began airing Friday. A second new commercial, ''Cares About Us,'' also criticizes Mr. Lhota.
PRODUCER The Victory Group 
THE SCRIPT ''Three big differences in the race for mayor. As M.T.A. chairman, Joe Lhota raised subway fares and bridge tolls. John Catsimatidis will never do that. Lhota calls police officers 'mall cops.' John Catsimatidis considers them heroes. And while Catsimatidis created thousands of jobs, Joe Lhota created one -- for himself. A bureaucrat versus a businessman. John Catsimatidis for mayor.''
ON SCREEN After an aerial shot of the Statue of Liberty, a tightly cropped image of Mr. Lhota's face appears on screen, in a dark and foreboding blue-gray tint. Mr. Lhota is not smiling. Superimposed on screen are the words: ''$15 Bridge Tolls'' and ''Highest Subway Fares Ever.'' The commercial continues with two more drab images of Mr. Lhota, one of which is overlaid with a caption noting Mr. Lhota's $332,500 salary at the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, and a video clip in which Mr. Lhota is seen speaking into a microphone. All of the images of Mr. Lhota are monochromatic, while Mr. Catsimatidis is shown in color, and in livelier moments, cutting the ribbon at one of his grocery stores and enthusiastically giving a thumbs-up.
ACCURACY Mr. Lhota presided over the authority when it voted to raise subway and bus fares and tolls on bridges and tunnels.
The bridge tolls refer to a single bridge, the Verrazano, and a one-way fare, collected entering Staten Island. The toll is $15 when paid in cash, but $10.66 when paid using E-ZPass.
The current $2.50 base subway fare is the highest fare ever, although, adjusted for inflation, it is not the highest on record, nor is the average fare paid per trip, according to a report by the city's Independent Budget Office. But Mr. Lhota has repeatedly defended the fare increases, noting that they had been scheduled before he took charge of the transit authority. A rescue package devised in 2009 by Gov. David A. Paterson and the State Legislature established a plan for biennial fare increases, and the transit authority is planning to raise fares again in 2015 and 2017.
Mr. Catsimatidis also has little basis to give the impression that, as mayor, he will stop any future fare or toll increases. Transit fares are set by the authority, which the mayor does not control. (The footage used to illustrate Mr. Catsimatidis's point about bridge tolls is also not ideal: It appears to be the George Washington Bridge, which is controlled by the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, not the transportation authority.)
At a campaign forum in May, Mr. Lhota described the police officers for the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey as ''nothing more than mall cops.'' Mr. Lhota later apologized.
Mr. Lhota did not create the position of authority chairman; he was nominated for it by Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo. And while Mr. Lhota did earn $332,500 in that position, that represented a significant pay cut from his previous job as an executive at the Madison Square Garden Company.
SCORECARD Mr. Catsimatidis's decision to attack Mr. Lhota shows that the primary race has entered a new and more heated phase. The advertisement takes advantage of Mr. Lhota's biggest gaffe of the campaign -- the ''mall cops'' comment -- and shows that Mr. Catsimatidis sees Mr. Lhota's time at the transit authority as another potential vulnerability. But at the same time, Mr. Catsimatidis is clearly taking some liberties in suggesting he could protect New Yorkers from fare increases, which is not within the mayor's power.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (88%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (88%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (77%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); BUDGETS (68%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (68%); INFLATION (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); JOB CREATION (53%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (51%)

PERSON: JOHN CATSIMATIDIS (93%); DAVID PATERSON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2013



685 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OPINIONATOR; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: The New Nuclear Craze

BYLINE: By MARK BITTMAN. 
Joe Nocera is off today.

 BODY:
There is a new discussion about nuclear energy, prompted by well-founded concerns about carbon emissions and fueled by a pro-nuclear documentary called ''Pandora's Promise.'' Add a statement by James E. Hansen -- who famously sounded the alarm on climate change -- and, of course, industry propaganda, and presto: We Love Nukes.
Before we all become pro-nuclear greens, however, you've got to ask three questions: Is nuclear power safe and clean? Is it economical? And are there better alternatives? 
No, no and yes. So let's not swap the pending environmental disaster of climate change for another that may be equally risky.
Despite all-out efforts and international cooperation, Fukushima, which scared Germany right out of the nuclear power business, still isn't under control. Proponents of nuclear power promise new and safer technology, but these discussions are filled with ''coulds''; no such plants exist. Nor would they reduce the risks of proliferation. (Oh, that little thing.)
Nor would they do much to mitigate the all-too-infrequently discussed dangers of uranium mining, which uses vast amounts of water in the West -- an area that can ill afford it -- and is barely regulated or even studied. Thousands of uranium mines have been abandoned, and no one seems to know how many remain to be cleaned up. The cost of that cleanup, of course, will be borne by taxpayers, not industry.
Then there's disposal of spent fuel, which is not contained at the same safety level as active fuel, itself a scary thought. Decades into the nuclear age there remains, incredibly, no real plan for this; a patchwork scheme by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, which appears to be even more industry-friendly than most federal agencies, was rejected by an appeals court last year, and the Obama administration is standing by its campaign promise (shocking, I know) to abandon the nuclear repository at Yucca Mountain in Nevada.
The economic viability of nuclear power is no more encouraging. Plants continue to close and generation rates continue to drop. Operators may indeed continue to make money on reactors, but that's only because federal subsidies are enormous. Insurance costs are limited. Loans are guaranteed (the Solyndra loan guarantee was half a billion dollars; in contrast, loan guarantees for new nuclear plants may run $8 billion); cost recovery and return on investment are also assured for decades, and some operators are able to collect costs from ratepayers (and pay dividends to shareholders) years before plants come online -- even if they never come online.
So they're economical as long as you're the owner, because historically, subsidies for nuclear power have been more than double the expense of power generation itself. While estimates of the costs of power generation vary wildly -- allowing both proponents and detractors of any given power technology to make their cases -- few of them take externalities (costs to the environment or to public health, for example) into account. And nuclear power's externalities could exceed those for any other form of power generation except coal.
That's why we're reducing coal usage -- if we had a strong climate policy it would be gone in a couple of deades, and nuclear should be right behind it. It's likely that no new nuclear plants will be built before true renewables are able to take the place of scary, highly damaging energy sources.
Which brings us full circle: the new proponents of nuclear power say that since nuclear power is arguably preferable to coal, maybe we should subsidize the building of new plants.
If those were the only options, maybe that argument would be a sound one. But they're not. Energy efficiency (remember that?), natural gas (imperfect, yes, but improvable) and wind are all cheaper. Even solar is already less expensive than nuclear power in good locations.
Some studies show that renewables can generate 80 percent of our electricity in 2050, using current technologies, while reducing carbon emissions from the electric sector by 80 percent. Climate change fears should be driving not old and disproven technologies but renewable ones, which are more practical. These technologies remain relatively small -- non-hydro renewables were around 5 percent of the total last year -- but they're growing so fast (wind and solar use have quadrupled in the last five years) that just this week the chairman of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission predicted that solar power could soon begin to double every two years.
Utilities are afraid that solar power will be to the electrical grid what PCs were to mainframes, or e-mail to the Postal Service: a technology that will simply kill its predecessors. Coal and nuclear power are both doomed, and the profit-making power grid with it. That's all to our benefit.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (78%); HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (76%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (75%); URANIUM MINING (66%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (60%); SHAREHOLDERS (60%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (55%); APPEALS COURTS (50%)

COMPANY: SOLYNDRA INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2013



686 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 528 words

HEADLINE: A Surprising Reversal For Emerging Stock Markets

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and the economy at nytimes.com/economix.

 BODY:
FOR more than a decade, investors loved emerging markets. Now many seem to fear them.
There have been sharp falls this month in several markets, from India to Turkey, reflecting concerns about weakening currencies. But even before those declines, emerging markets were underperforming relative to developed markets to an extent not seen since the Asian currency crisis of the late 1990s. 
As can be seen in the accompanying charts, the MSCI Emerging Market Index is down more than 10 percent this year, while the world index, covering all developed markets, is up an equivalent amount.
That disparity is not caused by one or two exceptional performers. The charts list the 10 largest emerging markets, as measured by the market capitalization of their stocks. Each has lost money this year. Among the 10 largest developed countries, all but two markets are up for the year, measured in United States dollars to adjust for currency fluctuations. The exceptions are Australia and Canada, which came through the financial crisis relatively well and until recently had been prospering from exports of raw materials to emerging markets, particularly China. And both of them are up when measured in local currencies.
The use of dollar figures hurts the reported performance of some emerging markets. The South African and Malaysian markets are up a little for the year, measured in local currencies, but down when measured in dollars. In India and Brazil, the local-currency market declines are less than half as large as the dollar-based figures shown.
The Asian financial crisis, in which developing countries that had maintained fixed exchange rates were forced to abruptly devalue their currencies, turned out to have a lasting effect. Countries decided that it was critical to run balance of payments surpluses and to build up foreign currency reserves. The willingness of the United States and Europe to run large deficits helped.
That stood the developing countries in good stead when the credit crisis erupted in 2008, but afterward, it became harder for the developing countries. Srinivas Thiruvadanthai, the director of research at the Jerome Levy Forecasting Center, notes that some of them, including India, Brazil and South Africa, are now running substantial deficits.
The world as a whole cannot, of course, have a surplus or deficit in its balance of payments. And last year the European Union ran its first annual surplus in more than a decade, while the deficit in the United States has declined.
After the Asian crisis, emerging markets did very well. The MSCI Emerging Markets Index, shown in the chart, outperformed the MSCI World Index in every year from 2001 through 2007. It did worse in 2008, when all markets crumbled, but again did better in 2009 and 2010 as it became clear that emerging markets had fared much better than developed economies.
For the decade from the end of 2000 through the end of 2010, the developed market index rose a scant 5 percent. The emerging markets index more than tripled during the same period. Since then, however, the developed markets have risen nearly 20 percent, while the emerging ones have fallen about the same amount.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Emerging Markets Submerge: Stock markets in emerging markets have fallen sharply this year, while most developed markets are up significantly. The relative outperformance of the developed markets has been greater than at any time since the Asian currency crisis of the late 1990s.
IN THE THREE LARGEST DEVELOPED AND EMERGING MARKETS
IN THE 10 LARGEST DEVELOPED AND EMERGING MARKETS (Sources: MSCI via Bloomberg
 World Bank) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (94%); EMERGING MARKETS (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (89%); DEVALUATION (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (88%); US DOLLAR (78%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (76%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (63%); EUROPEAN UNION (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (93%); BRAZIL (92%); EUROPE (92%); CANADA (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2013



687 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 316 words

HEADLINE: Rebels Delay Peace Talks In Colombia

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO; Susan Abad contributed reporting from Bogotá, Colombia.

 BODY:
RIO DE JANEIRO -- Colombia's largest rebel group said Friday that it would delay its peace talks with the Colombian government, complicating negotiations to end Latin America's longest-running guerrilla war. 
Calling the move a ''pause,'' the announcement by the group, the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC, came a day after Colombia's president, Juan Manuel Santos, proposed legislation to hold a nationwide referendum on any agreements reached in the negotiations. The two sides have been talking to each other in Havana since last November, and Mr. Santos's bill would open the way for a referendum during national elections in 2014.
The rebel group said in its statement that it needed to ''focus exclusively'' on analyzing Mr. Santos's proposal, while also criticizing the government's economic and social policies at a time when protests by farmers, truckers and coffee growers are roiling parts of the country.
The group's move emphasizes the many challenges in ending the war, which has persisted over five decades. While the FARC has been weakened by military strikes that have killed top commanders, it remains an important threat in parts of Colombia, as illustrated by clashes in July and its recent kidnapping of a former United States Marine, Kevin Scott Sutay.
Still, political analysts in Colombia cautioned that such twists in the peace talks were to be expected.
''These crises are normal in peace processes and shouldn't be taken as a great tragedy,'' said Ariel Ávila, an analyst in Bogotá, the Colombian capital, who studies the FARC. ''The FARC is also taking this opportunity to consult with its commanders on the front to go over everything that has happened at the negotiating table.''
Responding to the FARC's move, President Santos said Friday that it was ''legitimate that they study this, but time passes and the patience of the Colombian people has its limit.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PEACE PROCESS (92%); TALKS & MEETINGS (92%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (91%); REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); REFERENDUMS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); ARMED FORCES (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (73%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (73%); COFFEE FARMING (68%); COFFEE (53%)

ORGANIZATION: REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA (90%)

PERSON: JUAN MANUEL SANTOS (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (88%) COLOMBIA (95%); BRAZIL (92%); LATIN AMERICA (88%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2013



688 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 565 words

HEADLINE: Sales of New Homes Fall Sharply as Mortgage Rates Rise

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Americans cut back sharply in July on their purchases of new homes, a sign that higher mortgage rates may slow the housing recovery.
Sales of newly built homes dropped 13.4 percent to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 394,000, the Commerce Department said on Friday. That is the lowest in nine months. And sales fell from a rate of 455,000 in June, which was revised down from a previously reported 497,000.
The housing rebound that began last year has helped drive economic growth and create more construction jobs. But mortgage rates have climbed a full percentage point since May. The increase has begun to steal some momentum from the market. 
Sales of new homes are still up 7 percent in the 12 months ended in July. Yet the annual pace remains well below the 700,000 that is consistent with a healthy market.
July's drop ''may mark an 'uh-oh' kind of moment for the housing recovery,'' said Mark Vitner, an economist at Wells Fargo Securities.
Homebuilder stocks declined sharply on Friday, even as overall market indexes rose. Shares of Toll Brothers, D. R. Horton and Lennar -- three of the nation's largest builders -- all fell more than 2.5 percent at the close of trading.
And major homebuilders' shares have been dropping steadily since late May. The slide began after the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, first signaled that the Fed might reduce its bond purchases later this year. The bond purchases have helped keep mortgage rates and other borrowing costs low.
The average rate on a 30-year mortgage reached 4.58 percent this week, according to Freddie Mac. That's up from 3.35 percent in early May and the highest in two years.
Potential buyers appear to have noticed that financing a home purchase has become more expensive. The number of Americans applying for mortgages to buy homes has plummeted 16 percent since the end of April. And in July, builders began work on the fewest single-family homes in eight months. Most economists expect the housing recovery will continue, albeit at a slower pace.
''We've been spoiled by low rates,'' Greg McBride, senior financial analyst at Bankrate.com. ''People are gnashing their teeth now over a rate we had never seen four years ago.'' He notes that, based on their figures dating back to 1985, rates on the 30-year loan had never sunk below 5 percent until 2010.
The impact of higher mortgage rates has surfaced in the new-home market faster than the resale market because the new-home sales are measured when contracts are signed.
Higher rates may have also caused potential buyers to cancel some purchases of new homes. Mr. Vitner says that may explain why sales were revised down in May and June. Most of the revisions occurred in sales of homes not yet under construction. Buyers do not need mortgages until construction begins.
Sales of previously occupied homes reached a nearly four-year high last month. But that report measured completed sales, which typically reflects mortgage rates locked in a month or two earlier.
The jump likely reflected a rush by home buyers to lock in lower rates. Next week, a measure of contract signings in July will be released. Many economists expect that will drop.
Fed officials are closely watching the impact of higher mortgage rates on the housing recovery. The drop in sales could strengthen the hand of those Fed members who want to delay reducing the bond purchases.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW HOME SALES (94%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (91%); REAL ESTATE (91%); MORTGAGE RATES (91%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); STATISTICS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); EXISTING HOME SALES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); JOB CREATION (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (64%)

COMPANY: D R HORTON INC (90%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%)

TICKER: DHI (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (90%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (90%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2013



689 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 401 words

HEADLINE: Central Bank Acts to Strengthen Brazilian Real

BYLINE: By LANDON THOMAS Jr.

 BODY:
Brazil's central bank announced a $60 billion program on Thursday aimed at halting the slide of the Brazilian real, making Brazil the latest emerging economy to seek to prop up its sagging currency. 
Similar moves have been made by central banks in Indonesia and Turkey. The action highlights growing fears on the part of policy makers in these countries that the recent slide in their currencies poses a serious economic threat given the high levels of dollar-denominated debt that their national banks and companies have taken on.
As local currencies weaken, dollar debts increase in value and become increasingly difficult to service.
The real has lost more than 15 percent of its value against the dollar this year as foreign investors as well as locals have sold their reals for dollars.
The Indian rupee, the South African rand, the Turkish lira and the Indonesian rupiah have also lost more than 10 percent against the dollar as the money that once poured into these economies returns to more developed economies in anticipation of higher interest rates in the United States.
''We are in the midst of a significant rebalancing, and the growth outlook for emerging market countries has deteriorated,'' said Jens Nordvig, a currency strategist at Nomura in New York.
Earlier this week, the Turkish central bank increased interest rates in a bid to stop the fall of the lira, which is approaching the psychologically crucial hurdle of a dollar-lira rate of 2.00. Indonesia, which like Turkey and Brazil relied on foreign dollars to finance large current-account deficits, also announced on Friday a series of steps to increase the availability of dollars in the markets and the broader economy.
While the measures may have a short-term impact -- the real was up more than 1 percent against the dollar on Friday -- their long-term effect is uncertain. After years of heady growth, spurred in part by a commodity boom coupled with very low interest rates and stagnation in the United States and Europe, economic momentum is shifting slowly from emerging to developed economies.
Another concern is that as economies in Turkey, Brazil and Indonesia slow, it could become difficult politically for central banks to push rates ever higher.
Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the Turkish prime minister, whose ruling Justice and Development Party faces crucial local elections early next year, has been especially vocal in this regard.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The mint in Rio de Janeiro. The real has lost more than 15 percent of its value against the dollar. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SERGIO MORAES/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMERGING MARKETS (91%); CURRENCIES (91%); CENTRAL BANKS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); INTEREST RATES (87%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); ELECTIONS (70%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (69%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (64%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (60%); PRIME MINISTERS (60%)

PERSON: RECEP TAYYIP ERDOGAN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (59%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) BRAZIL (97%); TURKEY (96%); INDONESIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2013



690 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 965 words

HEADLINE: At a Fed Conference, Views Differ Sharply On Stimulus's Effect

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
JACKSON HOLE, Wyo. -- There is still plenty of skepticism about the stimulus campaigns of the Federal Reserve and other central banks, and there is plenty of concern about the consequences. But for the first time in several years, there was also a general sense of optimism among the policy makers gathered here for an annual meeting at the foot of the Grand Tetons that things are going reasonably well.
Unconventional monetary policy ''has been a significant success altogether,'' Christine Lagarde, managing director of the International Monetary Fund, said in a lunchtime address. She said the efforts continued to yield benefits and should not be unwound too quickly. 
Even for developing countries, which have sometimes criticized the efforts, the effects are ''still positive,'' she said. ''Marginally, but still positive.''
But the conference, convened by the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, underscored again the striking divide between academics, where skepticism is widespread about the benefits of the Fed's asset purchases, and policy makers, where confidence is equally widespread.
The Fed has accumulated more than $3 trillion in Treasury securities and mortgage-backed securities, and since last December it has been expanding those holdings by $85 billion a month in an effort to drive down unemployment and promote growth.
The day began with a series of academic presentations criticizing the power of that approach. The most supportive said that the Fed's purchases of Treasuries had little value, but that its purchases of mortgage-backed securities ''likely have had beneficial macroeconomic effects.''
That study, by Arvind Krishnamurthy, an economist at Northwestern University, and Annette Vissing-Jorgensen, an economist at the University of California, Berkeley, still found little economic benefit in holding on to the mortgage bonds and Treasuries, a basic element of the Fed's stimulus campaign. And it argued the Fed was undermining its own efforts by failing to articulate a clear plan for the purchases.
Policy makers tend to view these critiques as triumphs of theory over reality. They point to events in June as a kind of perverse evidence, noting that a wide range of interest rates jumped after the Fed's chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, announced that the Fed intended to reduce its monthly asset purchases by the end of the year. The implication, they said, is that the purchases had been suppressing those rates.
''The paper doesn't comport very well with the experience of the last couple of months,'' said Donald L. Kohn, a fellow at the Brookings Institution and a former Fed vice chairman. ''We've had a very broad set of asset price changes.''
Academic economists, in turn, say policy makers are claiming credit without presenting evidence.
While it seems clear, for example, that the Fed's purchases of mortgage bonds have reduced interest rates on mortgage loans, some economists see evidence that current economic conditions have limited the benefits of lower mortgage rates. Banks have retained some of the benefit rather than passing it on to customers. Tighter qualification standards mean that many would-be borrowers cannot benefit from the lower rates. And those who are borrowing may not be inclined to spend more.
''Showing Fed affects interest rates doesn't mean it automatically affects real activity,'' one of those skeptics, Amir Sufi, an economist at the University of Chicago, said on Friday in an exchange of messages on Twitter. ''Quantitative significance must be established.''
These debates, of course, are not merely academic. Fed officials are divided over when to begin cutting their monthly asset purchases -- and when they do so, they must decide whether to buy fewer Treasuries, fewer mortgage bonds, or some combination.
Mr. Bernanke chose not to attend the conference as he prepares to step down in January, and no other Fed official spoke in his place.
Dennis P. Lockhart, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, said on Friday that he would support a cut when the Fed's policy-making committee meets in September as long as there was no particularly bad news between now and then.
''I would be supportive in September as long as the data that comes in between now and then basically confirm the path we're on,'' he told CNBC.
Mr. Lockhart, however, does not hold a vote on the Federal Open Market Committee this year. One official who does, James Bullard, the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis president, told CNBC in a separate interview that he was undecided. ''I don't think we have to be in any hurry in this situation,'' he said. ''Inflation is running low, you've got mixed data on the economy, so I'd be cautious. I wouldn't want to prejudge the meeting.''
Policy makers from developing countries urged the Fed to clarify its plans so they can prepare for potential disruptions. Low interest rates in the developed world have sent vast quantities of money sloshing into those countries. Ms. Lagarde said that net flows to those countries had risen by $1.1 trillion since 2008, about $470 billion above expectations based on long-term trends.
As rates rise, history suggests that some of the money may come sloshing back, with hugely disruptive consequences.
Investors already are selling foreign currencies and buying dollars in the expectation that the Fed will begin to decelerate its stimulus campaign, allowing the dollar to strengthen. The Indian rupee lost 4 percent of its exchange value in about a week, prompting the Reserve Bank of India to impose restrictions last week on the outflow of money.
Agustín Carstens, governor of the Bank of Mexico, said, ''Advanced country central banks should mind the spillover effects of their actions.'' He added, ''Otherwise the crisis will be reactivated with new actors.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: James Bullard is the president of the St. Louis Fed. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PRICE CHAMBERS/BLOOMBERG NEWS, VIA GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BONDS (89%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); INTEREST RATES (87%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (87%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); MORTGAGE RATES (71%); MOUNTAINS (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%); MORTGAGE LOANS (52%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF KANSAS CITY (69%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (69%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (69%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%); CHRISTINE LAGARDE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) ROCKY MOUNTAINS (90%); WYOMING, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2013



691 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1143 words

HEADLINE: Hedge Funds Win Ruling In Argentina Bond Case

BYLINE: By PETER EAVIS; Jonathan Gilbert contributed reporting.

 BODY:
A dogged group of hedge funds secured a significant victory in a federal appeals court on Friday in a case that is likely to have far-reaching effects on international bond markets, parts of the banking system and the struggling nation of Argentina.
The hedge funds, including one affiliated with the investment firm of the billionaire Paul E. Singer, bought a handful of bonds that Argentina's government defaulted on early in the last decade. Their aim was to buy the debt for pennies on the dollar and then sue Argentina to press it to pay the bonds in full. A lower court judge ruled in their favor, and a three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in New York upheld his decision.
The funds may not be in line for a big financial return on their high-risk bet, even after the court victory on Friday. But even if their wager never pays off, the funds' litigation strategy is bringing important changes to the international market in which many countries borrow to finance their deficits and support their economies. 
The litigation could also create a situation in which Argentina, led by President Cristina Fernández de Kirchner, chooses to default on billions of dollars of bonds, a move that would deepen the country's economic problems. Argentina has employed prominent New York lawyers to fight its case. Mrs. Kirchner has often commented combatively on the case, calling the hedge funds ''vultures.''
''This is legal history in the making,'' said Arturo C. Porzecanski, a professor of international economics at the American University in Washington. ''The ruling, as well as the entire Argentina litigation, is really setting precedent.''
The appeals court decision has its roots in a dark period of Argentina's recent history. Reeling from a harsh economic slowdown, Argentina defaulted on nearly $100 billion of debt in 2001. In the years afterward, many of the country's bondholders agreed to deals in which they received new ''exchange'' bonds that were worth a lot less than the original ones. Argentina has kept up with the payments on the exchange bonds since it issued them.
But some investors, known as holdouts, refused to join the exchange deals and demanded full repayment. This included Mr. Singer's firm, Elliott Management, which has sued other developing countries to make money on defaulted bonds. In the Argentina case, it even persuaded a court in Ghana to seize an Argentine naval vessel.
The funds demanded that they be paid in full on $1.3 billion of defaulted Argentine bonds, and Judge Thomas P. Griesa of Federal District Court in New York ruled forcefully in their favor.
His ruling contained two crucial features. First, he said Argentina had to pay the holdouts on their defaulted bonds whenever it next made payments on the restructured bonds. And in a move that has few precedents, Judge Griesa came up with a way to potentially enforce his decision if Argentina chose to ignore it. He singled out the financial firms that pass the payments on the restructured bonds from the Argentine government to their holders. If these firms handled the payments, they could effectively find themselves in contempt of the court's ruling.
Not wanting to break the law, the firms, like Bank of New York Mellon, would stop processing the bond payments. Mrs. Kirchner would then have to decide whether to pay the holdouts to clear the way for the payment-processing firms to funnel money to the holders of the exchange bonds or, in the alternative, default on the exchange bonds.
Though the appeals court sided with Judge Griesa, it delayed the enforcement of the decision while the Supreme Court decides whether to take the case.
''Today's unanimous, well-reasoned decision appropriately condemns Argentina's persistent violation of its obligations and its extraordinary defiance of the laws of the United States,'' Theodore B. Olson, a partner at Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher, the law firm that is representing an affiliate of Elliott Management, said in a statement.
''This is another opportunity for my government to do what it should do and deal in good faith,'' said Horacio Vázquez, a Buenos Aires native who leads a group of bondholders who want to be repaid in full.
One big question is whether the appeals court decision will disrupt the sort of debt reductions that can ease the economic burdens of some countries. Investors might be emboldened to take a tough line after seeing Elliott's legal successes.
But the appeals court argued that this Argentina case was narrow in nature, suggesting that it may not apply in other defaults. ''This case is an exceptional one with little apparent bearing on transactions that can be expected in the future,'' Judge Barrington D. Parker wrote in the decision.
Legal specialists who think the Argentina case won't have a wide effect have also noted that many bonds now have a special feature that make it much harder for hedge funds to hold out.
Still, bonds continue to have a so-called pari passu clause, from the Latin for ''on equal footing,'' which has been crucial in this case. The clause provided the legal basis for the courts to demand that the holdouts be paid when the holders of the exchange bonds are paid.
''Everyone who has a clause like this had better look at it very carefully,'' Mitu Gulati, a law professor at Duke, said.
Perhaps the most jarring development is that the appeals court upheld the provisions that are designed to stop banks from passing on payments on the exchange bonds. The government debt market lacks an authority, like a bankruptcy court, that can sort out disputes between creditors and debtors. By effectively tying the hands of firms like Bank of New York Mellon, the United States courts could become such an enforcer.
''This is the revolution in this case,'' Mr. Gulati said. ''For the first time in hundreds of years of sovereign debt, a court is saying, 'We're going to go out there and improve the market by helping you to enforce it.' ''
The odds of Argentina getting the Supreme Court to rule on the case do not look strong.
''On the one hand, just looking at these questions as questions of law, I don't think the Supreme Court is likely to take it up,'' Henry Weisburg, a partner at Shearman & Sterling, said. ''But you do have to balance this against the fact that sovereign states do get deference from the Supreme Court.''
In Argentina, Mrs. Kirchner is likely to keep up her strong opposition to the hedge funds for the foreseeable future, which means they probably won't get paid in full any time soon.
But political analysts are starting to doubt whether she can win the 2015 election. That could pave the way for a new president who may be more willing to settle with the holdouts.
Jonathan Gilbert contributed reporting from Buenos Aires.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Ghana court seized the Argentine vessel ARA Libertad in October on an injunction requested by Elliott Management. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ELENA CRAESCU/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (92%); BONDS (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); APPEALS COURTS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT (89%); JUDGES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); APPEALS (89%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); LAWYERS (75%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%)

PERSON: CRISTINA FERNANDEZ DE KIRCHNER (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) ARGENTINA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); GHANA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2013



692 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ART; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1099 words

HEADLINE: Mirror of Change Through China's Young Artists

BYLINE: By SHEILA MELVIN

 BODY:
BEIJING -- Each summer for the past five years, the Central Academy of Fine Arts in China, one of the nation's top art academies, has celebrated the graduation of its best students with a major exhibition of their works called, appropriately, ''The Start of a Long Journey.''
Held in the academy's 160,000-square-foot, or about 15,000-square-meter, museum here, this year's exhibition opened in June and closes Sunday. It includes 155 jury-selected works by departing undergraduate and graduate students from CAFA's six schools: Chinese painting, fine arts, design, architecture, urban design and humanities.
''It's their calling card, to introduce them to society,'' said the academy's vice president, Xu Bing, an artist and MacArthur Fellowship recipient who spent many years in New York. ''I want to present our students in the same way as professional artists,'' he added. ''This has become a very important exhibition.'' 
The show is an example of how popular arts education has become in China. Many art schools rent stadiums in which to hold entrance exams. Applicants who make the initial cut paint outside at easels and afterward, professors walk through the forest of completed works, selecting the best for further consideration and tossing the rest into a recycling pile.
''Our acceptance rate last year was 1 percent,'' Mr. Xu said. ''We had 90,000 applicants and we admitted 900.''
This figure is echoed at other schools; the China Academy of Art, in Hangzhou, saw a 50 percent increase in applicants in 2012, with 89,567 students vying for 1,665 spots, according to its Web site.
''The Start of a Long Journey'' has received considerable media coverage in China, and its opening attracts collectors and gallery owners from around the world. The show has also spawned a nationwide touring exhibition that includes works by the top graduates from each of China's nine arts academies, including CAFA. (The 2013 national exhibition will open Nov. 1 at the China Academy of Art in Hangzhou.)
Students selected to exhibit their work in ''Long Journey'' are the cream of China's aspiring artists and, beginning this year, CAFA has instituted a program that will track their career progress.
''We will follow them for 10 years,'' Mr. Xu said. ''These are the students with the best hope for the future, but we will study them. Then we will know more about the strengths and weaknesses of our arts education.''
The works on display at the CAFA show run the gamut of contemporary art and design, including sculpture, painting, installations, multimedia, jewelry, furniture, print-making, photography, animation, and more -- one small room is even set aside for the perusal of the best dissertations by humanities graduates. Viewed as a whole, the works in ''Long Journey'' demonstrate years of hard work.
Chen Mingqiang, for example, spent three years on a piece that explores the changing nature of marriage in China. For his project, Mr. Chen constructed fantastical wedding suits out of salvaged scrap metal and then replicated a marriage ceremony with his girlfriend in an elaborate video performance in a village outside Beijing.
''I'm close to 30,'' he said, ''And I was thinking about getting married.''
By trawling through flea markets, he collected 400 marriage certificates dating from 1949 to the present, many of which are on display in the show. A lavishly decorated certificate from the early 1950s uses a pair of peonies to represent the marrying couple; by the 1960s, this symbol had changed to sunflowers -- a more proletarian blossom.
Certificates from the era of the Cultural Revolution feature portraits of Mao Zedong at the top and of beaming workers, peasants and soldiers at the bottom, with the couple barely figuring at all. After 1979, when China began its period of rapid economic growth, the elaborate illustrations gradually disappeared -- today a marriage certificate is a plain document that resembles a passport.
''Now marriage is a contract,'' Mr. Chen said, shrugging. ''Back then it was a really big thing.''
China's evolving society also provides fodder for works including Jiang Chunlin's video series ''Celebrity Interviews,'' in which an artist dressed as Mao, Karl Marx, Albert Einstein and other historic figures gives fictional answers to questions about contemporary society. (Mao decries China's food safety problems and suggests that corrupt businessmen be arrested, but is told the jails could not hold them all.) At the end of each eight-minute ''interview'' the artist removes his disguise.
Another student, Shen Yi, traveled to the island of Madeira in the Atlantic to interview Chinese emigrants about their lives and to photograph them before a steely gray sea. In the piece, ''Hydroponics,'' some subjects face the camera, others turn their backs to it and a few are out of the frame altogether, the stances dependent on whether they plan to return to China or remain in their rootless, watery environment. Closer to home, Qiu Aiyan offered ''Character Embroidery-Wordsworth Classics,'' an installation consisting of three ancient texts -- the Dao De Jing, the Diamond Sutra and the Classic of Mountains and Seas -- that she embroidered in oversize cloth books.
Wang Yan's installation ''The Intumescent Waves'' features dozens of black and white mammogram images printed on white enamel medical trays. In ''To and Fro, Golden Body,'' Kong Xi stretches the definition of printing with two works, one made by his footprints in the dust and the other with gold foil painstakingly affixed to his own body and peeled off, inch by inch, to create a shimmering ''print'' of himself.
''My students are really good. Their works are very different from mine,'' Mr. Xu said. ''I think that the works of young Chinese artists are very interesting. They have their own way of relating to society that's different from our generation -- we are more burdened by culture and history.''
Mr. Xu, who has a major new installation called ''Tao Hua Yuan's Ideal Unites the Human Race'' slated, according to Mr. Xu, to open in the garden at the Victoria & Albert Museum in London in the autumn, and an upcoming retrospective in Taiwan, among other projects, surprised many in the international art world when he opted to leave New York in 2008 and return to China to take up the position at CAFA. Five years later, he acknowledged that his administrative duties can sap the time and focus required for his own art, but said the platform provided by CAFA and the chance to interact with young artists was worth it.
''Doing this work helps you to understand this country,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); PAINTING (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (77%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); ACADEMIC TESTING (72%); ANIMATION (68%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (51%); WEB SITES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (74%) ZHEJIANG, CHINA (90%); EAST CHINA (89%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (89%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2013



693 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; CURRENTS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 979 words

HEADLINE: Air Travel, Like Other Facets of American Life, Is Not What It Used to Be

BYLINE: By ANAND GIRIDHARADAS

 BODY:
NEW YORK -- The man was, at first, an impregnable fortress of training. He was expert in the United Airlines way. My bag, though damaged by his below-wing colleagues, had no chance of seeing its grievances redressed. He was even straightforward about his gruffness in delivering this message.
''When you do this 10,000 times a day, you just cut to the chase,'' he said. 
The fortress held for a time. It was an utterly unremarkable moment in contemporary American air travel. And then something in the man turned. The training broke, and a human spilled out. He apologized for being gruff and asked me to distinguish the he-and-I of this transaction from the he-and-I who, had we met elsewhere, ''would probably be having a couple of beers.''
''The system is designed not to repair this bag,'' he said, trying out his new guise of candor. ''The system,'' he added, ''is designed for certain people to win.''
It's a truism nowadays that American air travel has lost whatever romance it once possessed. Foreigners from troubled places take solace in at least having planes and terminals better than those in the United States. Passengers from LAX to JFK and ORD to IAH have resigned themselves to hunger, deriving comfort from being near enough to their knees to eat them, should things get dire.
Explanations and excuses abound. But the United man seemed to see the situation -- of the airlines, and perhaps, in a larger way, of the country -- more clearly than most.
He saw how all those layers of corporate training and customer-service jargon separate workers like him from the human reality of what they do. Maybe they got into the business because they liked the idea of helping people get to weddings, sales meetings and funerals. But somewhere down the line, after so many utterances of ''I'm not authorized'' and ''unavailable right now'' and ''not showing up in my system,'' the heart goes numb. It becomes natural to stop imagining your customers as humans with problems and dreams like your own.
''You know what semantics is?'' the United man said, when asked about all the fine print preventing him from fixing bags. The purpose of the fine print, he said, is to limit the number of people who persevere all the way to a repaired bag. ''It's designed to fend off the herd,'' he said. ''We're only going to cover so much of this stuff -- because this stuff happens a lot.''
The United man saw something else, too. He saw how, in a changing country, stratification is infecting domains once immune to it. Had I been traveling in first class, he said, ''you probably wouldn't even have to talk to me.'' Just dial a number, and they would be right on the case.
Later he said something that reminded me of the poor countries I've visited. He urged me to find some way, any way, of getting to United's chairman and chief executive, Jeff Smisek: ''If you can get to Smisek, you want to let him know that this is not the way to treat customers.''
The American credo has always been a strange, contradictory one: adamant about the right to differential outcomes of wealth and privilege, and adamant about the right to fairness and equal treatment. In aviation, that used to mean different food in first class and economy, perhaps, but food of some sort for all. Different baggage allowances, perhaps, but some bags allowed for everyone. Different degrees of intimacy in the customer service, perhaps, but a universal right to speak to a real person when aggrieved.
What is changing today is the erosion of the idea of a common minimum experience -- in air travel, to be sure, but not only there.
The aviation experience is being chopped these days into a series of discrete moments, and each moment becomes an opportunity to upsell: You can stick with the dismal base model, or you can upgrade. The result is that American air travel has become a class system as intricate as some in the ancient world.
There is the no-legroom caste; the caste that buys $50 of extra, ''economy-plus'' legroom; and the plentiful-legroom caste up front. JetBlue sells special seats that come with early boarding and ''early access to overhead bin space''; it also sells ''Even More Speed'' seats that bring an ''expedited'' security line. There are group numbers for boarding that depend on who you are and how much you paid for your ticket. There is the new Global Entry program, in which you pay to circumvent the normally tiresome immigration process. High in the air, there are those who swipe credit cards to eat and those who don't even get peanuts.
Considered in isolation, each of these changes probably makes sense. You can almost picture the PowerPoint slides about ''dynamic customer segmentation'' and such. Considered together, though, they contribute to making a country in which ordinary people lose faith in the fairness of things -- in being entitled to certain basic treatment simply by virtue of being human.
United Airlines would seem to be betting on such a loss of faith. They have produced a lovely new advertisement, which they run on their overhead screens, extolling their relationship with professional golfers and the P.G.A. tour. The golfers give testimonials, talking about how specially United treats them. ''We make their travel on United as seamless and enjoyable as possible,'' a United representative named Lynne Strunk tells the camera.
Down below the screens, the customers watch. Their own experience of United is very different. But part of what makes stratified societies work is acceptance. Over time, people learn to bask in the reflected glow of the great and the good, instead of expecting to shine themselves. They learn that there are different rules for different kinds of people, and that this is O.K. They learn to be happy with peanuts -- or, as the case may be, without them.
Join an online conversation at http://anand.ly and follow on Twitter.com/anandwrites

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (90%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (78%); SALES & SELLING (73%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (68%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (63%)

COMPANY: UNITED AIR LINES INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2013



694 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 303 words

HEADLINE: Indonesia Takes Steps to Cut Imports and Lift Investment

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
JAKARTA -- Indonesia announced a package of policy measures on Friday to reduce imports and bolster investment in labor-intensive industries as it struggles to revive confidence and consumer spending in its economy, Southeast Asia's largest. 
The intervention by President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono comes after a punishing week for emerging markets, with currencies from Brazil to India hit hard by fears of higher global borrowing costs and a reduction in cheap cash from the United States.
Indonesia has faced sell-offs in the rupiah, stocks and bonds after an unexpectedly large second-quarter deficit in its current account -- a measure of foreign trade and investment -- prompted fears that the weak global economy would only further erode exports at a time when a surge in inflation is crimping domestic demand.
The country's chief economic minister, Hatta Rajasa, said the government would increase the import tax on luxury cars, seek to reduce oil imports and provide tax incentives for investment in agriculture and in metal industries.
Chua Hak Bin, economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in Singapore, said most of the measures looked like medium- and long-term efforts, like tax incentives and simplification of permits. ''The near-term impact on the current-account deficit from these measures is less clear,'' he said.
The government revised its gross domestic product growth estimate for this year to between 5.9 percent and 6 percent, down from 6.3 percent earlier.
Growth in the second quarter of 5.8 percent was the slowest since 2010.
A slowdown in growth in China has squeezed demand and prices for Indonesia's most lucrative exports, like coal, tin and palm oil, while foreign investment has slowed sharply on expectations that the U.S. Federal Reserve will cut back its bond-buying program later this year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMPORT TRADE (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (88%); BONDS (78%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); INFLATION (78%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); CURRENCIES (76%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (73%); COAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); TAX LAW (73%); LUXURY GOODS (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (53%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%)

PERSON: SUSILO BAMBANG YUDHOYONO (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (73%) INDONESIA (94%); ASIA (92%); BRAZIL (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (92%); SINGAPORE (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2013



695 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 412 words

HEADLINE: Microsoft Lifts the Dow; Other Indexes Also Rise

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
A big jump in Microsoft helped lift the Dow Jones industrial average on Friday.
Microsoft had its biggest gain in four years after its chief executive, Steven A. Ballmer, said he would retire. The surge for the company, part of the 30-member Dow, contributed more than a third of the index's advance. 
The Dow closed up 46.77 points, or 0.3 percent, at 15,010.51.
The stock market stumbled at midmorning after the government reported a plunge in new-home sales, then drifted steadily higher in the afternoon. Trading volume was very light.
The Commerce Department released data on July purchases of new homes, which showed that Americans had cut back sharply, a sign that higher mortgage rates may slow the housing recovery.
Sales of newly built homes dropped 13.4 percent to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 394,000, the lowest in nine months. And sales fell from a rate of 455,000 in June, which was revised down from a previously reported 497,000.
The housing rebound that began last year has helped drive economic growth and create more construction jobs. But mortgage rates have climbed a percentage point since May. The increase has begun to steal some momentum from the market.
Sales of new homes are still up 7 percent in the 12 months ended in July. Yet the annual pace remains well below the 700,000 that is consistent with a healthy market.
July's drop ''may mark an 'uh-oh' kind of moment for the housing recovery,'' said Mark Vitner, an economist at Wells Fargo Securities.
Homebuilder stocks declined sharply on Friday. Shares of Toll Brothers, D. R. Horton and Lennar -- three of the nation's largest builders -- all fell more than 2.5 percent at the close of trading.
Traders reacted to the drop in home sales by buying bonds and gold, investments that become more attractive when the economy appears weaker.
In the market for government bonds, the price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose 20/32 to 97 8/32, and its yield declined to 2.82 percent, from 2.89 percent late Thursday. The price of gold rose $25, or 1.8 percent, to $1,395 an ounce, the highest in two months.
Stocks have sagged in August on concerns that the Federal Reserve will start to pull back on its economic stimulus.
On Friday, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index edged up 6.54 points, or 0.4 percent, to 1,663.50. The Nasdaq composite index rose 19.09 points, or 0.5 percent, to 3,657.79. The Nasdaq exchange was closed for most of the afternoon Thursday because of a technical problem.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg)
New-Home Sales: Annual pace of new private homes sold during the month, seasonally adjusted
 Prices of New Homes: Median price for new homes (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW HOME SALES (92%); REAL ESTATE (92%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BONDS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); STATISTICS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); BOND MARKETS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); TREASURY SECURITIES (75%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); MORTGAGE RATES (74%); INTEREST RATES (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (70%); JOB CREATION (67%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (67%); MORTGAGE LOANS (54%)

COMPANY: D R HORTON INC (90%); MICROSOFT CORP (90%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%)

TICKER: DHI (NYSE) (90%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (90%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (90%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2013



696 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 872 words

HEADLINE: Museum for African Art Broadens Its Mandate

BYLINE: By PATRICIA COHEN

 BODY:
Soon after construction began in 2007 on the Museum for African Art's new headquarters, engineers discovered a quicksand-like layer of sediment under the site, at Fifth Avenue and 110th Street. The structural problems were surmounted, but in other ways, the museum has had trouble finding stable ground since.
The opening date was postponed five times, fund-raising stalled and the executive director who had nurtured the project for 15 years resigned last fall, when her husband's mayoral campaign began in earnest. 
Now, in an effort to revive the faltering project, the museum's board has quietly embarked on a bold plan to transform the museum into a clearinghouse and public policy institute for all things Africa, and rename it the New Africa Center.
''We've made a dramatic shift,'' Mitchell A. Harwood, treasurer of the museum's executive committee, said. Mr. Harwood cited as a model the Asia Society, the nonprofit educational center founded by John D. Rockefeller III in 1956, which also contains a museum at its Park Avenue headquarters in Manhattan.
The public policy institute -- which is projected to open in 2015 -- will expand the museum's portfolio far beyond the arts, to include economics, employment, conservation, agriculture and more. The strategic overhaul, outlined in an executive summary that the museum has circulated to potential donors, also offers an updated accounting -- the museum's first in five years -- of how much more money will be needed to complete the 70,000-square-foot headquarters.
In addition to the $75 million already raised, the summary pamphlet says that $60 million more is required -- instead of the $10 million more that museum officials had repeatedly quoted -- to complete the interior construction and develop programming. More than $32 million already collected is from the city, state and federal governments.
The revised strategy comes after deep soul-searching, a change in staff and a summer of frenetic planning. The board sought advice from the DeVos Institute of Arts Management at the Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in Washington, Mr. Harwood said.
The reshaped mission is the latest stage in the 29-year-old lifetime of the Museum for African Art. Created in 1984 by Susan Mullin Vogel, an art historian and innovative curator, the museum initially occupied two Upper East Side town houses before moving to a building in SoHo in 1993. In 1997 Elsie McCabe Thompson -- now the wife of the Democratic mayoral candidate William C. Thompson Jr. -- took over as president. It was her vision to transform one of the city's smallest museums into a multimillion-dollar anchor of an elongated Museum Mile on Fifth Avenue at the corner of Central Park.
The museum worked with EdisonLearning Inc., a private operator of public schools. When that initiative fell apart in 2002, the museum president, struck a deal with the developers Brickman and Sidney Fetner Associates to have the museum occupy the bottom floors of a 19-story luxury condominium.
City, state and federal officials steered tens of millions of dollars in public money and tax credits toward the project. Corporate executives, including the developer Ian Bruce Eichner and John Tishman, chief of Tishman Realty & Construction, sit on the board.
Yet Ms. Thompson was unable to see her dream through. The museum moved to a temporary headquarters in Long Island City 11 years ago in anticipation that its new home would soon be finished. Since 2006, its public galleries, which had regularly drawn rave reviews for its shows, have been shuttered. The museum at that point had fewer than 20 staff members and an annual budget of roughly $3 million.
Today, at the new Fifth Avenue site, the trapezoid-shaped windows, meant to evoke an African basket weave, are mostly covered in a bright orange and purple design. Passers-by can see unfinished concrete floors and pillars and see posted work permits, but no sign of work.
In October 2012, Ms. Thompson, a Harvard-trained lawyer who worked in the Dinkins administration in the early 1990s, resigned, saying she was leaving ''to pursue other opportunities,'' but people who spoke with her said she was also concerned her record might be a distraction while the museum still needed to raise money and her husband was running for mayor. She didn't ''want to make this an issue for him or the museum,'' Mr. Harwood said.
Although she said at the time she would formally join the board, Ms. Thompson is not a member. She has declined repeated requests for an interview.
A month before Ms. Thompson's announcement, Phil Conte, an experienced hand at managing nonprofits, was hired as executive vice president and chief financial officer. He cut the 38-person staff by 75 percent, he said, while the museum focuses on fund-raising. He and the remaining employees have moved into the equivalent of a two-bedroom apartment on the 20th floor of the new building. The museum is not yet paying monthly maintenance fees or common charges, said Leslie LeCount, a spokeswoman for the museum.
Mr. Harwood said a reason fund-raising had stalled was that the ''vision was really not being effectively communicated.'' He added: ''I think it would be good to let the world know what we're doing.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Elsie McCabe Thompson
 Windows meant to evoke an African basket weave, at the Museum for African Art in Manhattan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JENNIFER S. ALTMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (74%); HISTORY (73%); ART HISTORY (73%); NEWS BRIEFS (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (70%)

COMPANY: EDISONLEARNING INC (60%)

ORGANIZATION: THE ASIA SOCIETY (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611110 ELEMENTARY & SECONDARY SCHOOLS (60%); SIC8211 ELEMENTARY & SECONDARY SCHOOLS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2013



697 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1306 words

HEADLINE: A Museum's Comeback

BYLINE: By NATE TAYLOR

 BODY:
KANSAS CITY, Mo. -- With an actor's showmanship, a man wearing black glasses and a white fedora described the player behind each of the 10 bronze statues that greeted a small group of visitors inside the lobby of the Negro Leagues Baseball Museum.
He pointed to a catcher. ''The legendary Josh Gibson, who many will call the black Babe Ruth,'' he said, adding that others ''call Ruth the white Josh Gibson.''
He pointed to the batter, Martín Dihigo, who played all nine positions, and said, ''The only baseball player in the history of the sport to be in five different countries' baseball Hall of Fame.'' Dihigo is honored in Mexico, Cuba, Venezuela, the Dominican Republic and Cooperstown, N.Y.
In 15 minutes, the man had described each player. Then, he introduced himself. 
''I'm Bob Kendrick,'' he said. ''I'm the president of the museum.''
Five years ago, the Negro Leagues Baseball Museum, a privately funded nonprofit organization, was on the verge of a collapse. Its finances were in disarray, and many of its longtime donors and board members were dissatisfied. Some corporate sponsors said they felt alienated, and the stream of visitors had slowed to a trickle. Even supporters wondered whether the museum would survive, and the recession did not help.
Many museum officials and supporters said they felt the museum had lost its way after the 2006 death of Buck O'Neil, a first baseman and manager in the Negro leagues, mostly with the Kansas City Monarchs. O'Neil had become the face of the museum as its most ardent promoter. Kendrick, a close friend of O'Neil's and the museum's marketing director for 12 years, left in 2010, a year after being passed over for president.
But Kendrick has returned, and attendance has increased, to almost 60,000 visitors last year. Relationships with community leaders have been repaired. And the museum, the only major one of its kind in the United States, had a $300,000 profit in 2012, its most successful year since 2007.
''We're talking about an institution that played such a pivotal role in the social advancement of America that most people don't know,'' Kendrick said of the Negro leagues, which operated between 1920 and 1960. ''It's so much bigger than the game of baseball.''
The museum, which opened in 1991, displays uniforms from the 1920s and 1930s, along with vintage posters, photographs and signed balls. It also shows videos of O'Neil describing what it was like to play when baseball was segregated. In 2006, 17 players and executives from the Negro leagues were inducted into the Hall of Fame in Cooperstown in large part because of O'Neil and the Negro leagues museum.
In 2009, the board selected Greg Baker, a former assistant to the Kansas City manager, as the museum's new president in a contentious 8-7 vote. Baker charted a new path that diverged from the one that O'Neil had established through his own storytelling and charm, upsetting many longtime supporters, several board members said.
In 2009, Baker told The Kansas City Star: ''People understood Buck very well, but the museum operated in his shadow. For it to survive, we've got to change that.''
Mamie Hughes, a member of the board of directors whose father, James Samuel Currie, had played in the Negro leagues, said of Baker: ''His knowledge was just so limited. I respected him, but I didn't feel he was qualified.''
Local sponsors found themselves sidelined, and some ended their support. ''We were all very puzzled why our involvement was no longer being encouraged,'' said Nancy Pagel, the marketing director for Hy-Vee, a supermarket chain in the Midwest that had held an annual fund-raiser for the museum since 2002. ''We were extremely worried about the museum.''
Museum officials pointed to the Legacy Awards in 2010, the museum's biggest annual event, as perhaps the institution's lowest point. The ceremony, which recognizes the best major league players from the previous season, had been held in the nearby Gem Theater. But in 2010, the ceremony was moved to a larger site with more costly food and entertainment in hopes of increasing attendance. The strategy failed.
''We had never lost the kind of money we had lost that year in putting on the Legacy Awards,'' said Betty Brown, the board's chairwoman.
A month later, Kendrick left the museum for a job at the National Sports Center for the Disabled.
Baker had built relationships with families of Negro league players, but the institution's finances worsened. In 2009, the museum lost more than $300,000, its worst year ever.
''It was an extremely difficult task given the financial situation,'' said David Gershon, a longtime supporter of the museum. ''I thought Greg was doing a great job. Sometimes things just don't work out.''
Baker resigned in 2010 under pressure from the board. He declined requests for an interview.
Searching for a way forward, museum officials decided to try to persuade Kendrick to return.
''I would be lying if I said I wasn't hurt the first time around,'' Kendrick said. ''As much as I tried to be rational, Buck was on the other shoulder saying, 'Come on home.' ''
Kendrick returned as president in April 2011. Board members and museum officials said the financial turnaround was immediate. Kendrick held a series of successful events celebrating O'Neil's 100th birthday, signaling that O'Neil's presence would remain a fixture of the museum.
''As soon as we brought Bob back, things began to change,'' Brown said.
This year, the museum, which has a budget of about $1.1 million, held a gala featuring the Jackie Robinson movie ''42,'' and raised nearly $100,000. Harrison Ford and Chadwick Boseman, who played Robinson, attended, as did several players from the Kansas City Royals. The event received so much attention that it prompted a first for the museum: Corporate sponsors had to be turned away.
It was also a boon that Kansas City hosted the All-Star Game in 2012, bringing Hall of Famers like Frank Robinson, Hank Aaron and Tony Gwynn to the museum to discuss the influence of the Negro leagues on the major leagues. Commissioner Bud Selig made his first visit to the museum that week.
Kansas City officials have taken notice. Jermaine Reed, a Kansas City councilman, led a push for the city to contribute $130,000 to refurbish the museum, which is in his district.
''This is where black baseball started,'' he said ''You have to preserve the history.''
The museum received $250,000 from the state of Missouri last week to help finance operations. The Washington Nationals, interested in their city's rich Negro leagues history, have been in discussions with the institution to form a partnership.
But Kendrick cannot count on another movie or All-Star game to attract visitors to the museum, so he and his staff are creating small events to promote the museum, which renewed its relationship with Hy-Vee. The museum recently held a hot dog festival that featured Dodger dogs, Fenway franks and bratwursts from Milwaukee.
The organization also is planning a traveling exhibition next year that features the stories of Hispanic players in the Negro leagues and how the leagues helped push Latin American players into the majors.
''These broader stories need to be told, and if we're not going to tell then who will?'' Kendrick asked.
On a recent Tuesday, Kourtney Thompson, a teacher from Michigan, spent two hours poring through the museum's exhibits. His high school baseball coach, Ronald Teasley, played in the Negro leagues. Thompson learned where he played -- a right-handed outfielder for the New York Cubans -- and his nickname, School Boy.
''You can go in there and wonder and look at the accomplishments of people,'' Thompson said. ''It adds an aspect to our experience that's missing when you look at the mainstream history.''
He added: ''I haven't been to the Baseball Hall of Fame. I'm glad I came to see this first.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A display of player statues and the ''Safe at Home'' painting, below left, by Kadir Nelson, at the Negro Leagues Baseball Museum. Bob Kendrick, below right, is the museum's president. (D1)
 The Negro Leagues Baseball Museum, which opened in 1991, has uniforms and a room, left, typical of the ones that players would stay in. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DREW ANTHONY SMITH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (93%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); ATHLETES (89%); SPONSORSHIP (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (90%) MISSOURI, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2013



698 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 927 words

HEADLINE: Despite 'Enormous Strides,' Minorities Still Face Barriers, President Says

BYLINE: By JON HURDLE and PETER BAKER; Jon Hurdle reported from Scranton, and Peter Baker from Washington.

 BODY:
SCRANTON, Pa. -- President Obama declared on Friday that the United States had made ''enormous strides'' in race relations since the March on Washington 50 years ago, but said ''institutional barriers'' for African-Americans and other minorities still existed and must be overcome.
Speaking at a town hall-style meeting at Binghamton University in New York, Mr. Obama said that even though there was less overt discrimination in modern society, the legacy of slavery and Jim Crow continued to afflict many in America. He said the economic troubles of recent years had exacerbated divisions across racial and class lines. 
''Fifty years after the March on Washington and the 'I Have a Dream' speech, obviously we've made enormous strides,'' Mr. Obama said in response to a question from a professor of African-American studies. ''I'm a testament to it. You're a testament to it.'' He added that ''we know that some discrimination still exists, although nothing like what existed 50 years ago.''
''But,'' he added, ''let's assume that we eliminated all discrimination magically with a wand, and everybody had goodness in their heart, you'd still have a situation in which there are a lot of folks who are poor, and whose families have become dysfunctional, because of a long legacy of poverty, and live in neighborhoods that are run-down and schools that are underfunded and don't have a strong property tax base.''
His solution, he continued, was to promote programs like an expansion of early childhood education and his latest effort to make college more affordable -- including, he said, making law school two years instead of three. Such policies, he said, ''help lift everybody,'' and therefore ''everybody will be better off.''
Mr. Obama's comments came just before many thousands of people will converge on Washington for several days of events commemorating the civil rights march of 1963 and the address by the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. describing his dream of a day when people would be judged by their character, not their color.
As the nation's first black president, Mr. Obama occupies a singular place in this anniversary moment, the culmination of a half-century of struggle and a symbol to people around the world about the progress in America. And yet he has tried to rebut arguments that his own success meant that the country had graduated beyond race.
Mr. Obama plans to host a reception at the White House on Tuesday to mark the anniversary of the march, and then on Wednesday he will speak from the Lincoln Memorial, as Dr. King did a half-century ago. His comments at Binghamton offered a preview of sorts of some of the themes he may raise.
He celebrated the fact that the struggle for equality for African-Americans had evolved to include other minority groups like Latinos, immigrants, and gays and lesbians.
''What's wonderful to watch is that the younger generation seems, each generation seems wiser, in terms of wanting to treat people fairly and do the right thing and not discriminate,'' he said. ''And that's a great victory that we should all be very proud of.''
Yet he said that persistent poverty and the economic troubles of recent years had fueled fresh suspicion between groups of Americans. ''We've seen that over the last couple of years the tendency to suggest somehow that government is taking something from you and giving it to somebody else, and your problems will be solved if we just ignore them and don't help them,'' Mr. Obama said. ''And that, I think, is something that we have to constantly struggle against, whether we're black or white or whatever color we are.''
The meeting at Binghamton came on the second day of a two-day bus trip through New York and Pennsylvania to promote Mr. Obama's proposals to make it easier for young Americans to afford a college education. He has proposed creating a federal rating system to allow parents and students to easily compare colleges and has urged Congress to link it to student aid.
Wandering the stage in a blazer and slacks and wearing no tie, a relaxed Mr. Obama used the occasion to set the stage for a conflict with Congress this fall over spending. He argued that the falling deficit meant it was time to focus less on spending restraint and more on investing in programs like education, scientific research and Head Start.
''We don't have an urgent deficit crisis,'' the president said. ''The only crisis we have is one that's manufactured in Washington, and it's ideological. And the basic notion is that we shouldn't be helping people get health care and we shouldn't be helping kids who can't help themselves and whose parents are under-resourced, we shouldn't be helping them get a leg up.''
He later traveled to Scranton, Pa., where he appeared with Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. The president singled out recent cuts in Pennsylvania's education spending, which critics have blamed for a financing crisis in the Philadelphia school district.
''Let's face it, here in Pennsylvania there have been brutal cuts to not just higher education, but to education generally,'' Mr. Obama said, a week after the City of Philadelphia said it would borrow $50 million to make sure schools opened on time next month.
Mr. Biden, in his first public appearance since accompanying his son Beau to a Houston cancer hospital for tests, said the younger Mr. Biden was recovering. ''He's doing well, and he's anxious to get back to work,'' the vice president said.
Mr. Biden, who was born in Scranton, called the former coal town ''the community that formed everything I believe in.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama with Senator Bob Casey at Binghams Family Restaurant in Lenox, Pa., on Friday. Mr. Obama bought pies on his way to an event in Scranton. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHER GREGORY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RACE & RACISM (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); DISCRIMINATION (89%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (89%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (78%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (76%); LAW SCHOOLS (76%); POOR POPULATION (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); SLAVERY (70%); CHILDREN (69%); ANNIVERSARIES (65%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (64%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (64%); PROPERTY TAX (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%); BOB CASEY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (93%); SCRANTON, PA, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2013



699 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 919 words

HEADLINE: New Rules Would Cut Silica Dust Exposure

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
The Occupational Safety and Health Administration proposed long-awaited rules on Friday to limit crystalline silica, a move it said would prevent nearly 700 deaths a year by reducing exposure to these very small particles that can cause lung cancer and other diseases.
OSHA faced heavy pressure from labor leaders, who argued that the current exposure limits, adopted four decades ago, were lax and should be strengthened to prevent silicosis, an irreversible respiratory disease that can be fatal. But business groups lobbied against the proposal, questioning whether it would be feasible to carry out and noting that silicosis deaths were declining. 
''Exposure to silica can be deadly, and limiting that exposure is essential,'' said David Michaels, the assistant secretary of labor in charge of OSHA. He estimated that the proposed rule would prevent 1,600 new cases of silicosis each year.
Dr. Michaels said the rules -- issued after two and a half years of delay -- would affect 534,000 businesses, 90 percent of them in construction. He said it would cost industry $640 million to comply with the new rules, averaging $1,242 a company -- but he estimated that the total benefits would exceed $4 billion.
Crystalline silica -- tiny particles no more than one-hundredth the size of grains of sand -- is created during work with stone, concrete, brick or mortar. It can occur during sawing, grinding and drilling and is common in glass manufacturing and sand blasting. One government study found that many workers in hydraulic fracturing, known as fracking, were exposed to 10 times the permissible level of silica.
Dr. Michaels said, ''Every year, exposed workers not only lose their ability to work but also to breathe. This proposal is expected to prevent thousands of deaths from silicosis -- an incurable and progressive disease -- as well as lung cancer.''
He said the public would have 90 days to submit written comments before public hearings would be held.
Marc Freedman, executive director of labor law policy at the United States Chamber of Commerce, questioned the need for the rules. For general industry and maritime, the proposed permissible exposure levels will be cut to 50 micrograms a cubic meter of air from 100 micrograms. The construction industry's exposure levels will be cut 80 percent, to 50 micrograms from 250 in a cubic meter of air.
Mr. Freedman said many businesses thought rigorous enforcement of current standards would be sufficient. ''I'm not saying employers don't want to spend the money on safety -- the question is, Is this doable?'' he said.
Tighter restrictions, he said, would affect the fracking industry. ''This could have a big impact on fracking, when that industry has been doing a lot of good things for the economy,'' he said.
OSHA officials said that fracking executives had assured them that they were working to reduce silica exposure.
Peg Seminario, director of safety and health for the A.F.L.-C.I.O., applauded OSHA's move. ''It's a very important rule -- there are over two million workers exposed to silica,'' she said. ''It's long recognized as a hazard. The current standard was adopted more than 40 years ago, and it doesn't protect workers.''
She said the proposal would require businesses to measure periodically for silica and to offer medical testing every three years, including chest X-rays and lung function tests, for workers exposed to permissible limits 30 days or more a year.
Ms. Seminario noted that many Canadian provinces already had the tighter exposure limits. She acknowledged, however, that there might not be enough certified laboratories to test whether businesses' air quality met the new standards.
Dr. Michaels said it would cost an average of $550 for firms with fewer than 20 employees to comply with the proposed rules. Among the steps companies could take to reduce silica particles, Dr. Michaels said, would be to use a vacuum or water hose with saws that produce such dust. For businesses that do extensive grinding, the grinding apparatus could be inside an airtight housing with a vacuum that draws away the particles.
Labor unions and other worker advocacy groups had criticized the Obama administration for the delays, saying the Office of Management and Budget -- known for insisting on thorough cost-benefit analyses -- sat on the proposal for more than two years. Dr. Michaels said the main reason for the delay was that his agency needed to analyze the new rules for 130 industries. He predicted that industries would find cheaper ways than OSHA foresees to tighten exposure limits.
''The proposed rule uses common-sense measures that will protect workers' lives and lungs -- like keeping the material wet so dust doesn't become airborne,'' he said. ''It is designed to give employers flexibility in selecting ways to meet the standard.''
The American Chemistry Council, an industry group, issued a statement, saying the current exposure limit was ''appropriate to protect against silica-related disease, provided it is adhered to strictly.'' Noting that the mortality rate from silicosis has dropped more than 90 percent over the last 45 years, the council said, ''The cases of silicosis that still occur result from noncompliance with the current'' limit.
But the American Public Health Association, a nationwide group of public health professionals, applauded OSHA's move. Georges C. Benjamin, the association's executive director, said, ''The proposal marks an important step in addressing a serious health hazard for workers.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SILICOSIS (92%); OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY AGENCIES (91%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL ILLNESS (90%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (86%); LOBBYING (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); CANCER (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (75%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (74%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (73%); LUNG CANCER (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); CONSTRUCTION (67%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (58%); GLASS MFG (50%)

ORGANIZATION: OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY & HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2013



700 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 805 words

HEADLINE: New York City Election Choices

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

 BODY:
Public AdvocateThe job of public advocate is little more than a bullhorn, and sometimes not even that. The original purpose of this position was to give citizens a voice in City Hall and serve as a watchdog on the mayor and the city government. But the job's influence has been whittled away by a succession of mayors, and its budget is a mere $2.2 million, barely enough to pay the electric bills and a few modest salaries. Its only real power comes if the mayor dies or resigns; the public advocate takes over until an election can be held in a few months.
There are five candidates in the Democratic primary Sept. 10. The top three are City Councilwoman Letitia James of Brooklyn; Reshma Saujani, a former deputy public advocate; and State Senator Daniel Squadron, who represents Brooklyn and Lower Manhattan. Of these, we recommend Mr. Squadron, who has the credentials and temperament to step into this job and to run the mayor's office in an emergency. 
Ms. James, Mr. Squadron's strongest competitor, describes herself as a fighter, but in a recent debate she refused to answer a question about her campaign finances and instead attacked the questioner. She promised to be a ''thorn to bureaucracy,'' but the city needs more than a thorn. Ms. Saujani has done impressive work helping young women acquire technological skills, but she tends to speak of herself as a potential mayor, not public advocate. The other candidates are Catherine Guerriero, a teacher and businesswoman originally from Staten Island, and Sidique Wai, a community liaison for the Police Department.
Mr. Squadron has shown himself to be a strong advocate for ethics reform in Albany. He helped pass tough gun laws earlier this year; forced the Bloomberg administration to stop charging rent to homeless families; proposed an alliance to get wealthier park lovers to help fund poorer parks; and helped end the interminable negotiations over Brooklyn Bridge Park, now a celebrated part of the city's waterfront. He promises to fight for the city's ''overlooked orphans in our political system'' -- just what a public advocate should do.
Borough Presidents
Each of the five boroughs in New York City has a president. It is a modest job with the power to advise on developments and appoint members to city boards, including community boards in the borough. Marty Markowitz, the departing Brooklyn borough president, became a kind of cheerleader for his borough. A few have done next to nothing. Some, like the Manhattan borough president, Scott Stringer, have used it as a base to run for higher office -- in his case, comptroller.
Manhattan and Queens have competitive races in the Sept. 10 primary.
QUEENS The two front-runners are a former Assembly member and City Council member, Melinda Katz, and City Councilman Peter Vallone Jr. Mr. Vallone has sometimes acted with refreshing independence in his votes on the Council, but Ms. Katz has a more thoughtful concept about how to work within the limits of the office to make a difference. Her priorities include an economic master plan for development in the borough -- important because the borough president advises the city about such issues. She also wants a better plan for Flushing Meadows-Corona Park, where a soccer stadium is being considered. We endorse Melinda Katz.
MANHATTAN Four excellent candidates are fighting to replace Mr. Stringer. Three are City Council members: Gale Brewer, from the Upper West Side; Jessica Lappin, from the Upper East Side and Roosevelt Island; and Robert Jackson, from Harlem and Inwood. The fourth is Julie Menin, who headed the community board in Lower Manhattan for seven years.
Ms. Lappin is an energetic public official who promises to help work on public safety, seeks compromises on real estate developments to protect community interests and vows to help schools that do not have support from well-off parents' organizations. Mr. Jackson has been an important voice for education reform over the years. Ms. Menin has been a strong force in downtown Manhattan, fighting for more funds for a culture center at the former World Trade Center site. She also supported an Islamic mosque, convincing her community board to rally behind the beleaguered developers.
Gale Brewer stands out, even in this impressive field. Ms. Brewer most recently was the guiding force behind the city's humane new sick leave policy of five days a year for most workers. She promises to focus the office on helping constituents, like those who will almost certainly be confused next year about health care reform, and to work for more affordable housing in new developments. As she has in the past, she plans to hire interns who go on to become more responsible leaders or simply better citizens. Ms. Brewer is too rare a public official to retire. We endorse her for Manhattan borough president.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITIES (92%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); MAYORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); POLITICS (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); FAMILY (73%); POLICE FORCES (72%); ETHICS (72%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (71%); BUDGETS (71%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (70%); HOMELESSNESS (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2013



701 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; TRAILSIDE; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: Twice Was Not a Charm for Bars Run by Stringer

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
As a young man, Scott M. Stringer tried and failed to turn a ramshackle Manhattan saloon into a thriving establishment, eventually abandoning the effort in the wake of disputed bills and a displeased landlord.
Twice, it turns out.
In a previously undisclosed chapter of his entrepreneurial life, Mr. Stringer took over management of a Manhattan bar called Simon Sez in the fall of 1990, a few months before he opened Uptown Local, his better-known watering hole for politicians on the Upper West Side.
Both bars met dismal fates. Uptown Local ended in bankruptcy. In the case of Simon Sez, Mr. Stringer and his partners, including a young lawyer who later rose to lead the New York State Democratic Party, were eventually evicted from the premises after a dispute with the landlord ended in court after several months. 
Mr. Stringer, a Democrat who is the Manhattan borough president and a candidate for city comptroller, has rarely discussed his involvement with Simon Sez, and he made no mention of it during a recent interview about his barkeeping days at Uptown Local.
A 30-year-old when he jumped into the private sector, Mr. Stringer, the scion of a political family, has described his flirtations with the hospitality trade as a youthful experiment that came to an emphatic close after he returned to government.
But while it shut down after 15 months, Simon Sez still looms large for its former landlord, an Upper West Side property owner named George H. Beane, who said he remained aggrieved at the actions of Mr. Stringer and his partners.
''There were lots and lots of broken promises,'' Mr. Beane said in an interview.
Located on a lively stretch of Amsterdam Avenue, Simon Sez was an attempt by Mr. Stringer to turn around the fortunes of a cramped tavern previously called the Shark Bar, owned by an acquaintance of his brother's.
Mr. Stringer arranged to take over the operation, signing up investors from his circle of friends, including Charlie King, who later rose to prominence as an ally of the Cuomo family and, until last year, served as executive director of the New York State Democratic Party.
The bar was a more basic affair than Uptown Local, which had a full menu and a dining room. Simon Sez, patrons recall, featured a jukebox and, possibly, a television. (Recollections differ.)
Mr. Stringer said he could not recall how the partners settled on the name, but a local artist created a logo that featured ''Simon,'' a nerdy, bespectacled cartoon character whose likeness was printed on sweatshirts.
In 1990, a recession was in full swing, and business did not pick up. Soon, Mr. Beane, the landlord, was complaining about loud music and sanitary conditions that left something to be desired.
At this point, memories diverge.
Citing unpaid bills, Mr. Beane eventually pursued eviction. In an interview, he said that Mr. Stringer and his partners fell behind on their rent and recalled Mr. Stringer offering a variety of excuses.
''He was mugged once, that's why we didn't get the check,'' Mr. Beane said. ''His checkbook was stolen once, that's why we didn't get the check.''
Mr. Stringer vehemently disputed that account, saying those exchanges did not take place. ''Twenty-five years ago, like many small business owners, I had the curse of a bad landlord,'' he said in a statement, adding, ''Simply put, he was a jerk.''
Mr. Stringer said that Mr. Beane took an early dislike to him and his partners and went out of his way to keep them from obtaining a new liquor license.
Mr. Beane did write to the state liquor authority about the license, though he said it was because the bar was a poor tenant.
Mr. Beane said he was owed tens of thousands of dollars in unpaid rent; Mr. Stringer says that he left no outstanding debt.
Both sides agree that Mr. Beane did not sue or pursue the matter further after Simon Sez vacated the site. ''I knew it would be fruitless and I didn't want to waste the time,'' Mr. Beane said.
By then, Mr. Stringer had shifted focus to Uptown Local, which opened in the winter of 1991, while he was still overseeing operations at Simon Sez. The two establishments overlapped for about six months.
Mr. King, Mr. Stringer's partner on the project, said he had fond memories of their days at Simon Sez -- and he retained a sense of humor about the bar's demise.
''Ninety-nine percent of these kinds of concerns close within the first year to three years,'' Mr. King said. ''In politics, it's good to be part of the 99 percent, but in business, it actually isn't.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In the 1990s, Scott M. Stringer, now a candidate for city comptroller, managed a bar at this location on the Upper West Side. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRINKING PLACES (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); EXECUTIVES (77%); EVICTION (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); POLITICS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); LAWYERS (71%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (69%); CITY GOVERNMENT (68%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (66%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2013



702 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 599 words

HEADLINE: What's Ailing the Airlines, and Us

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''Merge Is What Airlines Do,'' by Joe Nocera (column, Aug. 17), could have been titled ''Go Bankrupt Is What Airlines Do.'' There's an old saying on Wall Street that no one has ever made money in the long run by hauling passengers.
Private rail service is a thing of the past, ocean liners as a means of transportation are gone, and Greyhound Lines operates post bankruptcy. Airlines in the United States have lost tens of billions of dollars since deregulation in 1978, a period that also saw more than 100 airlines file for bankruptcy. 
Though the champions of deregulation's success like to highlight cheap airline seats and ubiquitous service, they fail to mention that those affordable seats were subsidized by shareholders and bondholders. That's no way to meet the growing needs of the flying public over the long haul.
The Justice Department could help this process along by allowing passenger carriers to take a page from the airfreight industry, which was also deregulated in 1978, by approving the merger of USAirways and American Airlines and therefore letting passenger airlines here compete successfully in the capital markets.
KEVIN C. MURPHY New York, Aug. 17, 2013
The writer is a former head of global transportation at Morgan Stanley and a former senior infrastructure fellow at the Harvard Kennedy School.
To the Editor:
When the pilot says ''thank you for your patience,'' you can bet on a prolonged delay and missed connections.
The obvious conclusion to be drawn from the escalation in airline fares, the decline in the number of routes and the frequent delays because of inadequate aircraft maintenance is to expand and improve rail service, bringing transportation infrastructure in the United States up to a level that exists in most other developed countries.
WILLIAM A. CRAMER West Lafayette, Ind., Aug. 17, 2013
To the Editor:
Joe Nocera's column points out some basic facts that are driving airline mergers: fuel costs (about 35 percent of a ticket price) have tripled since 2000; the 9/11 security costs have in some cases been greater than the airline fare; and the industry has lost $70 billion in capital in the last decade.
Flying in the United States is still a super bargain (just look back at prederegulation fares and adjust for inflation). The American public -- and unfortunately top Washington politicians -- seem to believe that they have a divine right to fly below cost.
I wish that more domestic travelers would try a flight in Europe to find out what air travel really costs. The proposed American Airlines-USAirways merger should be approved with modifications to slots at crucial airports -- like Reagan National Airport in Washington -- and let Southwest and Jet Blue move in to undercut the legacy carriers on their monopoly or oligopoly routes.
That will keep prices in line with inflation and energy costs.
CHARLES H. GESSNER Marblehead, Mass., Aug. 17, 2013
To the Editor:
Re ''U.S., Filing Suit, Moves to Block Airline Merger'' (front page, Aug. 13):
I am glad that the Justice Department has finally sided with anguished travelers by filing a lawsuit to block the proposed merger of American Airlines and USAirways. With the evaporating competition in the commercial airlines industry, the customers are being burdened with escalating airfares, onerous fees and, above all, plummeting levels of service on the ground as well as on board.
The proposed merger, which would create the world's largest airline, will not alleviate air travelers' growing woes but would reduce competition and consumer choice.
ATUL M. KARNIK Woodside, Queens, Aug. 14, 2013

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CRISTIANA COUCEIRO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEREGULATION (91%); AIRLINES (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); AIRPORTS (89%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (89%); AIR FARES (89%); MERGERS (89%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); BONDS (77%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (76%); WRITERS (73%); AIR FREIGHT (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); APPROVALS (72%); INFRASTRUCTURE (72%); MARINE VESSELS (71%); TICKET SALES (69%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (67%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (67%); INFLATION (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); DOMESTIC TOURISM (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (53%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (55%); MORGAN STANLEY (54%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (56%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2013



703 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1734 words

HEADLINE: 50 Years After March, Views of Fitful Progress

BYLINE: By RICK LYMAN; Kim Severson contributed reporting from Atlanta, and Kitty Bennett from Seattle.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- When Daniel R. Smith was born dirt poor more than three-quarters of a century ago, there were only about 20 other blacks in his small Connecticut town. His own father had been born a slave in Virginia in 1862. Mr. Smith served as a medic in Korea in the years just after the Army had been desegregated.
And in August 1963, he found himself standing beside the Reflecting Pool with tens of thousands of others listening to the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. deliver one of the most famous speeches in American history.
''I felt that this was the beginning of a new era for black Americans, that whites would respect blacks more,'' said Mr. Smith, whose story exemplifies the journey of millions of black Americans. ''From then on, I thought, America is America, it has become what the Constitution stands for.'' 
This week, he intends to join the thousands of others at events commemorating the 50th anniversary of the March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom. But what is often on Mr. Smith's mind, as it is on the minds of others who attended and watched the historic event, is what has happened in the five decades since Dr. King detailed his vision of a society in which people are judged by the content of their character, not the color of their skin.
''I wondered back then if the mind-set of the nation would change,'' Mr. Smith said. ''I think it did, for a while, but the pace has slowed considerably.''
Energized by his experience at the march, Mr. Smith headed to the Deep South to study veterinary medicine at what was then the Tuskegee Institute in Alabama, but drifted into civil rights work and marched from Selma to Montgomery with Dr. King in 1965. He ran anti-poverty and literacy programs in the poorest corners of Alabama, having his share of scrapes along the way, before returning to work for the federal government and settling in Washington.
And now, five decades after the march, Mr. Smith, 81, lives on a leafy street in a diverse neighborhood in Northwest Washington with his second wife, who is white.
Certainly it is a different-looking society compared with 1963. A black man is president, for one thing, and young people in minority groups have an array of opportunities that their parents were limited to dreaming about.
''When you look at the places that were typically occupied by people who were not racial minorities, whether it's the legal profession or the medical profession or major companies, there are now racial minorities in those places,'' said Christopher Bracey, a law professor at George Washington University who writes on constitutional law and civil rights. ''The changes are tangible. You can see it everywhere. Yes, there are still disparities, but there is no doubt there has been progress.''
A New York Times comparison of census data from 1960 and 2011 shows that 56 percent of black Americans lived below the poverty line around the time of the march, compared with 18 percent of whites. By 2011, the number had dropped to 28 percent for blacks, though the percentage was still double that for white Americans.
A separate report by the Census Bureau, released this week, showed that the percentage of blacks who graduated from high school jumped to 85 percent in 2012, from 25.7 percent in 1964, while the number of black Americans with at least a bachelor's degree rose to 5.1 million from 365,000.
And the outcome is clear in the types of jobs that black Americans now hold. The percentage of blacks working in executive, administrative or managerial positions, for instance, went to more than 8 percent in 2011, from a little over 1 percent in 1960.
But there have been other changes, particularly in black family life, that are not so clearly positive. The percentage of blacks who had never married rose to 49 percent in 2011, from 23 percent in 1963, a jump that far outstrips the rise in that category among whites. Black households headed by a woman jumped by nearly 12 percentage points at a time when similar households for whites rose just under 4 percentage points.
''If people could be disabused of the notion we are in a postracial society because America elected a black president, that would be helpful,'' said Joyce Ladner, who at 19 worked with the small crew that organized the 1963 march and is now a retired sociologist. ''Yeah, we have a black president, however look at all of these things that are still unjust, all of these problems that still exist.''
Mr. Smith, who in 1963 was a social worker at Norwich State Hospital in Connecticut, had no intention of going to the march. There had been too many dire warnings in the news media and from political figures that the event might easily dissolve into violence.
''I was really reluctant to go down and get gassed and get beat up,'' Mr. Smith said. But a white colleague at the hospital talked him into it. ''And so we drove down, with a lot of trepidation,'' he said.
Many of those who attended and studied the event say that the march that has passed into history does not exactly match the reality. Dr. King's vision of a nonracial society, which has been embraced in subsequent years by leaders of both major political parties, was just one face of the march, which focused just as much on issues of employment and economic equality.
''There is a reason Dr. King is invoked by both conservatives and liberals,'' Professor Bracey said. ''For conservatives, it's because of his rhetoric about colorblindness. To liberals, what is attractive is that he did speak directly to a substantive, progressive, racial justice agenda.''
As they approached Washington the evening before the march, Mr. Smith and his friend noticed the gathering flotilla of buses and cars converging on the nation's capital.
''I remember coming into the city and driving down New York Avenue and, frankly, we were lost,'' Mr. Smith said. ''Suddenly, a policeman on a motorcycle pulled us over. We told ourselves to stay calm.''
The white policeman asked where they were going. To the march, they said. O.K., he said, follow me. ''And he gave us an escort all the way in,'' Mr. Smith said. ''He asked if we had a place to stay and we said no and he said, well, I can take you to a place.''
And that is how Mr. Smith and his friend ended up among 20 other people in sleeping bags on the third floor of a white family's Washington home, emerging the next morning to join the growing throngs headed to the Mall.
''It was just like ants,'' he said. ''I was struck by the nuns, and the priests in their white collars. It wasn't just black people. It was like all of America was there.''
What is troubling to some who lived through that era is the way the march and Dr. King's speech have become romanticized, as if the march had been a kind of love-in, solving America's racial problems on a golden wave of eloquence.
''This is the way we have constructed our mythology,'' said Daniel Serwer, a professor at Johns Hopkins who as a white high school student in New Rochelle, N.Y., decided to join a bus caravan to the march. ''It was that one day in 1963, America decided segregation was wrong and got rid of it. But that's not what happened. It was a really ugly battle for years.''
Lonnie G. Bunch III, director of the National Museum of African American History and Culture in Washington, stood before a photograph from an exhibit on the march of a young couple dangling their feet in the Reflecting Pool -- one white and one black.
''I thought this was the great image that personified the transformative nature of the march,'' Mr. Bunch said. ''This is the future we saw in the spirit of that day.''
Sometimes, Mr. Bunch said, he comes to watch the people as they tour the exhibit, to see what catches their eye or read what they write in the visitors' book.
''You see a lot of older folks show the exhibit to their children and grandchildren,'' Mr. Bunch said. ''Young people today, those who were not alive in those years, what they know is about the speech. They don't really know the march.''
Despite the warnings of violence, there was not even a whisper of it the day of the march. Instead, Mr. Smith said, a ''festive'' atmosphere dominated.
''People were in the trees, wading in the pool,'' he said. ''They were talking, shaking hands, meeting people. Men would carry young kids on their shoulders. Everyone was friendly.''
Mr. Smith's father, a janitor at a clock shop in Winsted, Conn., northwest of Hartford, was 70 years old when Daniel was born in 1932. He died in a car accident when Daniel was 6, leaving his wife, 40 years his junior, to raise six children.
With the help of three surrogate fathers -- all local white men who took an interest in the young man, including a veterinarian who gave him a job and a lifelong interest in animals -- Mr. Smith graduated from high school and earned a degree at Springfield College in Massachusetts.
He was drafted into the newly desegregated Army but found that racism remained. When he tried to sign up for the Army's K-9 Corps, his commander told him, ''They aren't taking any colored soldiers.''
As a civil rights worker, he was chased down a rural highway by a carload of white men who repeatedly smashed into his bumper and yelled at him to pull over. ''If they'd have caught me, I'd have been dead,'' Mr. Smith said.
So, Mr. Smith says, he is well aware how much difference the 1963 march made in race relations and in the lives of black Americans.
When people talk about that day, they tend to go in one of two directions, said William P. Jones, author of ''The March on Washington: Jobs, Freedom and the Forgotten History of Civil Rights'' and a history professor at the University of Wisconsin-Madison.
''One tendency is to say, well, the march was about affirming the moral rightness of racial equality, and that was totally done so it was a great success,'' Professor Jones said. ''The other is to say, no, we still have racial and economic inequality, and it's actually increasing, so the march was a total failure. I actually tend to come down on the side of thinking that a lot of the goals of the march were realized.''
Mr. Smith has his own way of thinking about it.
''It's like you run a race and you hit a wall and you have to work with yourself to get past the wall,'' he said. ''That's what happened to America. We made great progress and then we hit a wall and the wall started to push back and America just has not pushed through that wall yet.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Daniel R. Smith, 81, was in the crowd when the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. gave his ''I Have a Dream'' speech at the March on Washington 50 years ago next week. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRISTOPHER GREGORY/THE NEW YORK TIMES
AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (A1)
Daniel R. Smith said he had high hopes after the 1963 March on Washington: ''I felt that this was the beginning of a new era for black Americans, that whites would respect blacks more.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHER GREGORY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12)
On Aug. 28, 1963, the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. addressed thousands of people gathered around the Reflecting Pool on the National Mall in Washington. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMES H. WALLACE/SMITHSONIAN'S NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AFRICAN AMERICAN HISTORY AND CULTURE)
Roy Wilkins, N.A.A.C.P.
Walter Reuther, United Auto Workers
John Lewis, Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee
Martin Luther King Jr., Southern Christian Leadership Conference
Whitney M. Young, National Urban League (A13) CHARTS: A Dream Examined: A half-century after the March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom, disparities in education, employment, housing and wages still exist. Many of the economic goals outlined in the speeches by the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., and nine other speakers have yet to be achieved. (Sources: Economic Policy Institute
Civil Rights Project at U.C.L.A.
National Employment Law Project
''Legacies of the War on Poverty,'' by Martha J. Bailey and Sheldon Danziger
 Center for Housing and Financial Markets, Hudson Institute) (A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (89%); RACE & RACISM (78%); HISTORY (78%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (74%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (72%); ANNIVERSARIES (67%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (67%); LEGAL SERVICES (62%); LAW SCHOOLS (62%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (59%); NATIONAL URBAN LEAGUE (59%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (59%); HUDSON INSTITUTE (59%); INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (59%); NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AFRICAN AMERICAN HISTORY & CULTURE (59%)

PERSON: MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (94%); JOHN LEWIS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALABAMA, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2013



704 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2013

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 860 words

HEADLINE: What Happened to the Kandy-Kolored Tangerine-Flake Streamline Baby?

BYLINE: BENJAMIN PRESTON


HIGHLIGHT: Popular automotive colors have changed over the years, but we have settled firmly into the lackluster trio of white, black and silver. 

 BODY:
Have you looked at the cars around you recently? I mean, really looked at them? I guess it depends on where you live, but there's a pretty good chance that many of the vehicles you see at any given time will be silver, black, white, gray or some sort of brown or muted blue.
Those colors sound boring - and they are - but before I go off on a rant about how unappealing today's most popular automotive paint colors are, and how much better the crazy hot-rod paint jobs of the of the '50s and '60s were, I'm willing to take a few steps back and look at this thing from a broader perspective. 
When you start breaking up automotive history into decade-long chunks, it becomes clear that automobiles haven't really been around for all that long. So what are the trends in paint color? Luckily, there area few folkswho have dug into this subject, and it seems that paint schemes can be broken down roughly by decade.
Here's the way the color game generally plays out:
 The Early Years: Cars were new, and paint colors were limited. When Henry Ford figured out that black paint was cheaper and dried faster than other colors (making the production process faster and cheaper), it took the color out of a lot of cars for more than a decade. Let's think of that as "Paint Prohibition." That's not to say there wasn't any color, but still ...
 The Roaring '20s: The economy was booming and rich people demanded ever-nicer-looking cars. So bolder colors appeared on fancy cars, and even run-of-the-mill vehicles like Chevrolets and Dodges featured more interesting palettes than the Model T's utilitarian black.
 The Flirty '30s: The '30s were more dreary than flirty for a lot of people, and as a result, car colors became more muted. The economy was wrecked, and there wasn't as much demand for pizazz. People needed basic protection for their vehicles' steel bodies, and dull colors did the job for less money than fancy ones.
 The Fighting '40s: From 1942 to 1946, it was hard to find anything built in America that wasn't painted olive green or battleship gray. That's because automotive production was shifted to the war effort, of course. After the war, it took a few years for the Detroit automakers to get back up to full speed.
 The Fabulous '50s: Cars were bigger, bolder and brighter than ever before, and American cars, in particular, flashed multicolor paint jobs in a variety of spectacular pigments. But even the corals and aquamarines that Detroit used to coat many of its cars were no match for the crazy hues applied by hot rodders and lowriders.
 The Swinging '60s: Think muscle cars here - muscle cars in orange, bright green, yellow and violet. Whatever hot rodders did on the fringes of society in the previous decade must have rubbed off, because it seeped into the mainstream a little bit. That's not to say that people didn't still like boring colors, but even those had some color in them. Like mint green, frost blue and pale yellow.
 The 1970s: The oil embargo and the inflation woes of the era leave me bereft of adjectives for this decade, but the economic backlash seemed to take its toll on the more playful colors in automakers' palettes. Earth tones, olives and dark colors like navy and burgundy were more common.
 The '80s: While President Ronald Reagan was swinging his verbal ax at the Communists, colors began slowly to come back - as did some truly horrible computer-inspired body graphics. By the '90s, all of those pastel button-downs that Jerry Seinfeld was wearing on television seemed to have oozed into the paint buckets of car manufacturers. Remember all those teal and purple cars that people were buying? They were bold in their own way, especially if the colors looked like three different colors, depending on where you were standing.
 The 21st Century: By the time Bill Clinton made his final curtain call as president, America's tastes had mellowed out. Since the turn of the millennium, the battle for most popular color has been a shootout among white, silver and black, which, if you think about it, really aren't colors at all. They're hues.
Fortunately, whatever the future of paint may hold is likely to be cleaner and more environmentally friendly than the painting practices of years past. But it's also lucky that automotive painters of years past spilled so much of their colors on the floors of factory paint booths. Today, that overspray has become a treasure for some; layers of wild colors locked into hardened chunks and made into jewelry.
With technology what it is today, those of us who like a little color in our lives can only hope that advanced paints will one day be as cool as those crazy metallic-flake '50s hot rods or the multicolored rolling gemstones of the '90s. If we have the ability to cover an entire car in a chrome wrap, or post a picture of a bucolic 19th-century English lane (or an Herbalife ad) on a vehicle, how about building production cars that change color and show little video clips, like the signs in Times Square?

        
Wheelies: The Rule, Britannia Edition
        
Speaking of Henry Ford
        
Weekend Wheels Calendar
        
New This Week: 'Driven' Video Reviews by Tom Voelk
        
Go East Old Man: Off The Reservation

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (63%) automobiles; Color; Ford, Henry; Automobiles

PERSON: Ford, Henry

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2013



705 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1887 words

HEADLINE: How Technology Wrecks the Middle Class

BYLINE: DAVID H. AUTOR AND DAVID DORN


HIGHLIGHT: Technology is creating jobs &#8212; but at the upper and lower ends of the spectrum. The outlook for the middle class may rely on &#8220;new artisans&#8221; who combine technical and interpersonal skills. 

 BODY:
In the four years since the Great Recession officially ended, the productivity of American workers - those lucky enough to have jobs - has risen smartly. But the United States still has two million fewer jobs than before the downturn, the unemployment rate is stuck at levels not seen since the early 1990s and the proportion of adults who are working is four percentage points off its peak in 2000.
This job drought has spurred pundits to wonder whether a profound employment sickness has overtaken us. And from there, it's only a short leap to ask whether that illness isn't productivity itself. Have we mechanized and computerized ourselves into obsolescence?
Are we in danger of losing the "race against the machine," as the M.I.T. scholars Erik Brynjolfsson and Andrew McAfee argue in a recent book? Are we becoming enslaved to our "robot overlords," as the journalist Kevin Drum warned in Mother Jones? Do "smart machines" threaten us with "long-term misery," as the economists Jeffrey D. Sachs and Laurence J. Kotlikoff prophesied earlier this year? Have we reached "the end of labor," as Noah Smith laments in The Atlantic? 
Of course, anxiety, and even hysteria, about the adverse effects of technological change on employment have a venerable history. In the early 19th century a group of English textile artisans calling themselves the Luddites staged a machine-trashing rebellion. Their brashness earned them a place (rarely positive) in the lexicon, but they had legitimate reasons for concern.
Economists have historically rejected what we call the "lump of labor" fallacy: the supposition that an increase in labor productivity inevitably reduces employment because there is only a finite amount of work to do. While intuitively appealing, this idea is demonstrably false. In 1900, for example, 41 percent of the United States work force was in agriculture. By 2000, that share had fallen to 2 percent, after the Green Revolution transformed crop yields. But the employment-to-population ratio rose over the 20th century as women moved from home to market, and the unemployment rate fluctuated cyclically, with no long-term increase.
Labor-saving technological change necessarily displaces workers performing certain tasks - that's where the gains in productivity come from - but over the long run, it generates new products and services that raise national income and increase the overall demand for labor. In 1900, no one could foresee that a century later, health care, finance, information technology, consumer electronics, hospitality, leisure and entertainment would employ far more workers than agriculture. Of course, as societies grow more prosperous, citizens often choose to work shorter days, take longer vacations and retire earlier - but that too is progress.
So if technological advances don't threaten employment, does that mean workers have nothing to fear from "smart machines"? Actually, no - and here's where the Luddites had a point. Although many 19th-century Britons benefited from the introduction of newer and better automated looms - unskilled laborers were hired as loom operators, and a growing middle class could now afford mass-produced fabrics - it's unlikely that skilled textile workers benefited on the whole.
Fast-forward to the present. The multi-trillionfold decline in the cost of computing since the 1970s has created enormous incentives for employers to substitute increasingly cheap and capable computers for expensive labor. These rapid advances - which confront us daily as we check in at airports, order books online, pay bills on our banks' Web sites or consult our smartphones for driving directions - have reawakened fears that workers will be displaced by machinery. Will this time be different?
A starting point for discussion is the observation that although computers are ubiquitous, they cannot do everything. A computer's ability to accomplish a task quickly and cheaply depends upon a human programmer's ability to write procedures or rules that direct the machine to take the correct steps at each contingency. Computers excel at "routine" tasks: organizing, storing, retrieving and manipulating information, or executing exactly defined physical movements in production processes. These tasks are most pervasive in middle-skill jobs like bookkeeping, clerical work and repetitive production and quality-assurance jobs.
Logically, computerization has reduced the demand for these jobs, but it has boosted demand for workers who perform "nonroutine" tasks that complement the automated activities. Those tasks happen to lie on opposite ends of the occupational skill distribution.
At one end are so-called abstract tasks that require problem-solving, intuition, persuasion and creativity. These tasks are characteristic of professional, managerial, technical and creative occupations, like law, medicine, science, engineering, advertising and design. People in these jobs typically have high levels of education and analytical capability, and they benefit from computers that facilitate the transmission, organization and processing of information.
On the other end are so-called manual tasks, which require situational adaptability, visual and language recognition, and in-person interaction. Preparing a meal, driving a truck through city traffic or cleaning a hotel room present mind-bogglingly complex challenges for computers. But they are straightforward for humans, requiring primarily innate abilities like dexterity, sightedness and language recognition, as well as modest training. These workers can't be replaced by robots, but their skills are not scarce, so they usually make low wages.
Computerization has therefore fostered a polarization of employment, with job growth concentrated in both the highest- and lowest-paid occupations, while jobs in the middle have declined. Surprisingly, overall employment rates have largely been unaffected in states and cities undergoing this rapid polarization. Rather, as employment in routine jobs has ebbed, employment has risen both in high-wage managerial, professional and technical occupations and in low-wage, in-person service occupations.
So computerization is not reducing the quantity of jobs, but rather degrading the quality of jobs for a significant subset of workers. Demand for highly educated workers who excel in abstract tasks is robust, but the middle of the labor market, where the routine task-intensive jobs lie, is sagging. Workers without college education therefore concentrate in manual task-intensive jobs - like food services, cleaning and security - which are numerous but offer low wages, precarious job security and few prospects for upward mobility. This bifurcation of job opportunities has contributed to the historic rise in income inequality.
HOW can we help workers ride the wave of technological change rather than be swamped by it? One common recommendation is that citizens should invest more in their education. Spurred by growing demand for workers performing abstract job tasks, the payoff for college and professional degrees has soared; despite its formidable price tag, higher education has perhaps never been a better investment. But it is far from a comprehensive solution to our labor market problems. Not all high school graduates - let alone displaced mid- and late-career workers - are academically or temperamentally prepared to pursue a four-year college degree. Only 40 percent of Americans enroll in a four-year college after graduating from high school, and more than 30 percent of those who enroll do not complete the degree within eight years.
The good news, however, is that middle-education, middle-wage jobs are not slated to disappear completely. While many middle-skill jobs are susceptible to automation, others demand a mixture of tasks that take advantage of human flexibility. To take one prominent example, medical paraprofessional jobs - radiology technician, phlebotomist, nurse technician - are a rapidly growing category of relatively well-paid, middle-skill occupations. While these paraprofessions do not typically require a four-year college degree, they do demand some postsecondary vocational training.
These middle-skill jobs will persist, and potentially grow, because they involve tasks that cannot readily be unbundled without a substantial drop in quality. Consider, for example, the frustration of calling a software firm for technical support, only to discover that the technician knows nothing more than the standard answers shown on his or her computer screen - that is, the technician is a mouthpiece reading from a script, not a problem-solver. This is not generally a productive form of work organization because it fails to harness the complementarities between technical and interpersonal skills. Simply put, the quality of a service within any occupation will improve when a worker combines routine (technical) and nonroutine (flexible) tasks.
Following this logic, we predict that the middle-skill jobs that survive will combine routine technical tasks with abstract and manual tasks in which workers have a comparative advantage - interpersonal interaction, adaptability and problem-solving. Along with medical paraprofessionals, this category includes numerous jobs for people in the skilled trades and repair: plumbers; builders; electricians; heating, ventilation and air-conditioning installers; automotive technicians; customer-service representatives; and even clerical workers who are required to do more than type and file. Indeed, even as formerly middle-skill occupations are being "deskilled," or stripped of their routine technical tasks (brokering stocks, for example), other formerly high-end occupations are becoming accessible to workers with less esoteric technical mastery (for example, the work of the nurse practitioner, who increasingly diagnoses illness and prescribes drugs in lieu of a physician). Lawrence F. Katz, a labor economist at Harvard, memorably called those who fruitfully combine the foundational skills of a high school education with specific vocational skills the "new artisans."
The outlook for workers who haven't finished college is uncertain, but not devoid of hope. There will be job opportunities in middle-skill jobs, but not in the traditional blue-collar production and white-collar office jobs of the past. Rather, we expect to see growing employment among the ranks of the "new artisans": licensed practical nurses and medical assistants; teachers, tutors and learning guides at all educational levels; kitchen designers, construction supervisors and skilled tradespeople of every variety; expert repair and support technicians; and the many people who offer personal training and assistance, like physical therapists, personal trainers, coaches and guides. These workers will adeptly combine technical skills with interpersonal interaction, flexibility and adaptability to offer services that are uniquely human.
 David H. Autor is a professor of economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. David Dorn is an assistant professor of economics at the Center for Monetary and Financial Studies in Madrid. 

        
Less Innovation, More Inequality
        
The Rise of the Permanent Temp Economy
        
Rising Inequality, Even Among College Presidents
        
Hard Times, for Some
        
Crumbling American Dreams

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRODUCTIVITY (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (85%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (78%); WORKFORCE DEMAND (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); CROP PRODUCTION (76%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (74%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (70%); WRITERS (68%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (60%) computerization; Income Inequality; Labor and Jobs; productivity; Wages and Salaries; Productivity; The Great Divide

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2013



706 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1386 words

HEADLINE: What Is Economics Good For?

BYLINE: ALEX ROSENBERG and TYLER CURTAIN


HIGHLIGHT: A Fed leader has to know that economics is not yet a science, and may never be. 

 BODY:
Recent debates over who is most qualified to serve as the next chairman of the Federal Reserve have focused on more than just the candidates' theory-driven economic expertise. They have touched on matters of personality and character as well. This is as it should be. Given the nature of economies, and our ability to understand them, the task of the Fed's next leader will be more a matter of craft and wisdom than of science.
When we put a satellite in orbit around Mars, we have the scientific knowledge that guarantees accuracy and precision in the prediction of its orbit. Achieving a comparable level of certainty about the outcomes of an economy is far dicier.
The fact that the discipline of economics hasn't helped us improve our predictive abilities suggests it is still far from being a science, and may never be. Still, the misperceptions persist. A student who graduates with a degree in economics leaves college with a bachelor of science, but possesses nothing so firm as the student of the real world processes of chemistry or even agriculture. 
Before the 1970s, the discussion of how to make economics a science was left mostly to economists. But like war, which is too important to be left to the generals, economics was too important to be left to the Nobel-winning members of the University of Chicago faculty. Over time, the question of why economics has not (yet) qualified as a science has become an obsession among theorists, including philosophers of science like us.
It's easy to understand why economics might be mistaken for science. It uses quantitative expression in mathematics and the succinct statement of its theories in axioms and derived "theorems," so economics looks a lot like the models of science we are familiar with from physics. Its approach to economic outcomes - determined from the choices of a large number of "atomic" individuals - recalls the way atomic theory explains chemical reactions. Economics employs partial differential equations like those in a Black-Scholes account of derivatives markets, equations that look remarkably like ones familiar from physics. The trouble with economics is that it lacks the most important of science's characteristics - a record of improvement in predictive range and accuracy.
This is what makes economics a subject of special interest among philosophers of science. None of our models of science really fit economics at all.
The irony is that for a long time economists announced a semiofficial allegiance to Karl Popper's demand for falsifiability as the litmus test for science, and adopted Milton Friedman's thesis that the only thing that mattered in science was predictive power. Mr. Friedman was reacting to a criticism made by Marxist economists and historical economists that mathematical economics was useless because it made so many idealized assumptions about economic processes: perfect rationality, infinite divisibility of commodities, constant returns to scale, complete information, no price setting.
Mr. Friedman argued that false assumptions didn't matter any more in economics than they did in physics. Like the "ideal gas," "frictionless plane" and "center of gravity" in physics, idealizations in economics are both harmless and necessary. They are indispensable calculating devices and approximations that enable the economist to make predictions about markets, industries and economies the way they enable physicists to predict eclipses and tides, or prevent bridge collapses and power failures.
But economics has never been able to show the record of improvement in predictive successes that physical science has shown through its use of harmless idealizations. In fact, when it comes to economic theory's track record, there isn't much predictive success to speak of at all.
Moreover, many economists don't seem troubled when they make predictions that go wrong. Readers of Paul Krugman and other like-minded commentators are familiar with their repeated complaints about the refusal of economists to revise their theories in the face of recalcitrant facts. Philosophers of science are puzzled by the same question. What is economics up to if it isn't interested enough in predictive success to adjust its theories the way a science does when its predictions go wrong?
Unlike the physical world, the domain of economics includes a wide range of social "constructions" - institutions like markets and objects like currency and stock shares - that even when idealized don't behave uniformly. They are made up of unrecognized but artificial conventions that people persistently change and even destroy in ways that no social scientist can really anticipate. We can exploit gravity, but we can't change it or destroy it. No one can say the same for the socially constructed causes and effects of our choices that economics deals with.
Another factor economics has never been able to tame is science itself. These are the drivers of economic growth, the "creative destruction" of capitalism. But no one can predict the direction of scientific discovery and its technological application. That was Popper's key insight. Philosophers and historians of science like Thomas S. Kuhn have helped us see why scientific paradigm shifts seem to come almost out of nowhere. As the rate of acceleration of innovation increases, the prospects of an economic theory that tames the economy's most powerful forces must diminish - and with it, any hope of improvements in prediction declines as well.
SO if predictive power is not in the cards for economics, what is it good for?
Social and political philosophers have helped us answer this question, and so understand what economics is really all about. Since Hobbes, philosophers have been concerned about the design and management of institutions that will protect us from "the knave" within us all, those parts of our selves tempted to opportunism, free riding and generally avoiding the costs of civil life while securing its benefits. Hobbes and, later, Hume - along with modern philosophers like John Rawls and Robert Nozick - recognized that an economic approach had much to contribute to the design and creative management of such institutions. Fixing bad economic and political institutions (concentrations of power, collusions and monopolies), improving good ones (like the Fed's open-market operations), designing new ones (like electromagnetic bandwidth auctions), in the private and public sectors, are all attainable tasks of economic theory.
Which brings us back to the Fed. An effective chair of the central bank will be one who understands that economics is not yet a science and may never be. At this point it is a craft, to be executed with wisdom, not algorithms, in the design and management of institutions. What made Ben S. Bernanke, the current chairman, successful was his willingness to use methods - like "quantitative easing," buying bonds to lower long-term interest rates - that demanded a feeling for the economy, one that mere rational-expectations macroeconomics would have denied him.
For the foreseeable future economic theory should be understood more on the model of music theory than Newtonian theory. The Fed chairman must, like a first violinist tuning the orchestra, have the rare ear to fine-tune complexity (probably a Keynesian ability to fine-tune at that). Like musicians', economists' expertise is still a matter of craft. They must avoid the hubris of thinking their theory is perfectly suited to the task, while employing it wisely enough to produce some harmony amid the cacophony.
 Alex Rosenberg is the R. Taylor Cole Professor of Philosophy and chair of the philosophy department at Duke University. He is the author of "Economics - Mathematical Politics or Science of Diminishing Returns," most recently, "The Atheist's Guide to Reality." 
 Tyler Curtain is a philosopher of science and an associate professor of English and comparative literature the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. He was recently named the 2013 recipient of the Robert Frost Distinguished Chair of Literature at the Bread Loaf School of English, Middlebury College, Vt. 

        
Philosopher Kings and Fiscal Cliffs
        
How Reliable Are the Social Sciences?
        
Government, Responsibility and Happiness
        
Should Religion Play a Role in Politics?
        
The Core of 'Mind and Cosmos'

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MATHEMATICS (89%); PHILOSOPHY (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); SCIENTIFIC METHOD (78%); CHEMISTRY (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); NOBEL PRIZES (72%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (69%); AWARDS & PRIZES (65%) Economics (Theory and Philosophy); Federal Reserve System; Philosophy; United States Economy; The Stone

ORGANIZATION: Federal Reserve System

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%) ILLINOIS, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2013



707 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 707 words

HEADLINE: Central Bankers Say Emerging Economies Will Be Ready for Fed Exit

BYLINE: BINYAMIN APPELBAUM


HIGHLIGHT: The question of what other central banks are supposed to do about the Fed cutting its extraordinary asset purchases dominated the formal agenda here at the Kansas City Fed&#8217;s annual monetary policy conference. The answers were surprisingly mellow. 

 BODY:
JACKSON HOLE, Wyo. - The stimulus campaigns of the Federal Reserve and the central banks of Europe and Japan, by depressing domestic interest rates, have helped to push trillions of dollars into developing markets in recent years.
Now that the Fed has declared its intent to start easing up on the accelerator by the end of the year, some of that money is starting to slosh back to the United States.
Outflows from emerging markets have exceeded inflows since the Fed's June announcement; Bloomberg calculates that emerging-market stocks have lost more than $1 trillion in value; emerging-market currencies are depreciating rapidly. 
The question of what central banks are supposed to do about it dominated the formal agenda here at the Kansas City Fed's annual monetary policy conference. 
The answers were surprisingly mellow. The rest of the world would like the Fed to explain its plans clearly, and then to travel slowly. Bankers from developing nations said they might need to impose some restrictions on the outflow of capital, but expressed little concern over the potential for serious economic disruptions.
The Fed's exit "is a net positive for emerging markets," said Luiz Awazu Pereira da Silva, the Central Bank of Brazil's deputy governor. "We prepared ourselves in Brazil. And I think we are now sort of capable of mitigating the risks for the unwinding of these measures."
Christine Lagarde, the managing director of the International Monetary Fund, struck the same sanguine tone in a Friday speech, declaring that "Central banks handled entry well, and we see no reason why they should not handle exit equally well."
She added that the fund - and by extension, the major economies - accepted that some developing countries might need to impose some financial controls. "In some circumstances, capital flow management measures have been useful," she said.
This is not the way that policy makers used to talk. The big countries and the I.M.F. spent the last few decades pushing for the liberalization of financial markets. They argued that developing nations were creating their own problems by failing to take the painful steps necessary to moderate capital inflows, notably by allowing their currencies to appreciate. And they showed no tolerance for capital controls.
Developing nations, for their part, defended capital controls, arguing that that they should not be expected to bear the cost of other countries' domestic missteps.
Both of these arguments were certainly revisited at Jackson Hole.
Terrence J. Checki of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York warned that capital controls don't work and "often can lead to counterproductive results."
Stanley Fischer, former governor of Israel's central bank, noted that the alternative, allowing currencies to appreciate, meant that smaller countries were essentially agreeing to curtail their own growth by making their exports more expensive.
"If something happens in one country, then the rest of the world should share in the adjustment by allowing the exchange rate to adjust?" Mr. Fischer asked.
The 2008 financial crisis helped policy makers find a larger patch of common ground. Developing nations conceded the need for economic revival in the United States, Europe and Japan - not least because exports need buyers - while developed nations conceded it was reasonable to mitigate the resulting disruptions.
But it has been easy to agree in theory during these long years of waiting for the Fed and other central banks to actually being the process of pulling back.
Now comes the hard part. Mr. Pereira, of Brazil's central bank, was only here to provide his upbeat assessment because the head of Brazil's central bank, Alexandre Tombini, pulled out at the last minute. And on Friday, Brazil announced a $60 billion commitment to buttress the value of its currency over the remainder of the year. India, Indonesia and Turkey also have moved to shore up their currencies in recent weeks.
All of that, of course, before the Fed has actually started to taper.

        
Getting Big Banks Out of the Commodities Business
        
Sadly, Too Big to Fail Is Not Over
        
A Call to Battle on Bank Leverage
        
Multinational Corporations' Support for Big Banks Is Not Persuasive
        
Choosing the Next Head of the Federal Reserve

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CENTRAL BANKS (97%); EMERGING MARKETS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (89%); INWARD INVESTMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); INTEREST RATES (73%); GOVERNORS (58%) Banking and Financial Institutions; Federal Reserve System; Economix

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (61%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF KANSAS CITY (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Federal Reserve System

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (61%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (61%)

PERSON: CHRISTINE LAGARDE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WYOMING, USA (92%) BRAZIL (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2013



708 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1195 words

HEADLINE: Platinum Card and Text Alert, via Pawnshop

BYLINE: STEPHANIE CLIFFORD and JESSICA SILVER-GREENBERG


HIGHLIGHT: As banks zero in on more affluent customers and close branches in poor areas, pawnshops are stepping into the void to offer an array of services. 

 BODY:
Linda Ballard, 61, uses the word "love" to describe her banking relationship, lauding the ease of cashing her bimonthly paycheck, the convenience of text alerts about her balance and the features on the platinum card that she was upgraded to in July.
But she is not getting all this from a bank. She is getting this array of services from a pawnshop - part of an industry that has long had a reputation of taking advantage of vulnerable customers handing over prized possessions in exchange for cash.
As banks zero in on more affluent customers who promise twice the revenue of their lower-income counterparts, close branches in poor areas and remain stingy with credit, pawnshops are revamping their image and stepping into the void to offer financial services.
"The way the banks have tightened up so much on making small loans and making equity loans, we've kind of evolved into, I like to call it the poor man's bank," said Robbie Whitten, chief executive of Money Mizer Pawn and Jewelry of Columbus, Ga. 
There are, however, plenty of potential drawbacks, consumer advocates say.
Some loans from pawnshops can come with interest rates as high as 25 percent. And fringe financial operations, the consumer advocates say, can imperil lower-income customers' ability to save for the future. Without a traditional checking or savings account, borrowers often pay more for basic financial transactions like cashing checks, paying bills and wiring money, financial counselors say. And because pawnshops do not seek or report matters affecting credit scores, pawnshop banking makes it hard for customers to build credit history.
"Consumers need to be aware that the products don't always carry the same protections as those you would get from a bank," said Tom Feltner, director of financial services at the Consumer Federation of America.
How fast the pawnshop industry is growing is unclear, but the industry association estimates there were 10,000 pawnshops in early 2012, the latest figures available, compared with about 6,400 in 2007. That expansion is, in part, fed by the rising number of Americans whose tarnished credit effectively bars them from the mainstream financial system. The growth has attracted the attention of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, a recently formed regulator that has been scrutinizing pawnshops, along with other nonbank lenders like payday loan operators.
EZCorp, a publicly traded operator of pawnshops, reported that total loan balances swelled 22 percent to $44 million in its most recent quarter.
Another publicly traded lender, Cash America International, told investors in June that the company's fortunes were growing as more "traditional consumer lenders are exiting the market."
As a result, pawnshops are offering services like check cashing, Western Union money transfers, bill payment and prepaid cards to customers who are "getting forgotten in the banking system," said Jerry Whitehead of the Pawnshop Consulting Group.
The services are not, generally, big moneymakers for the shops. The main attraction is that they bring in traffic, and many of those shoppers go on to buy items from the pawnshop or to take out a pawn loan themselves - and that is where the stores make their money.
The basic business of pawnshops is, of course, a financial service. If a man walks in and hands over, say, a watch, the shop will lend him money based on a percentage of the item's value. The customer has a set period of time to pay that back, usually one to four months. If he pays it back in time, and pays the interest, he gets the item back. If he does not, the pawnshop sells the item.
Pawn loans are so profitable simply because of the high interest rates pawnshops can charge. Interest rates vary by state and range from 2.5 percent to 25 percent a month, the industry group the National Pawnbrokers Association estimates. So a 30-day loan on a $150 item would give a pawnshop a profit of up to $37.50, while a four-month loan could mean a profit of $150. Pawnshops may also charge fees for things like storage and lost tickets.
Yet for many customers who have been denied credit because of checkered financial histories, an instant loan from a pawnshop can feel like something of a miracle - at least at first - consumer advocates say.
But the high interest rates can plunge borrowers already on precarious financial footing deeper into debt, consumer advocates say.
Emmett Murphy, a spokesman for the pawnbrokers' association, said about 85 percent of loans were paid off, and pawnbrokers would much rather see a loan repaid than deal with selling a pawned item.
La Familia Pawn and Jewelry, a chain based in Winter Park, Fla., that focuses on Hispanic customers, began offering bill-paying services this summer and will add Western Union and prepaid debit cards soon, mostly because customers wanted convenience, said its chief financial officer, Woody Whitcomb.
"Some customers actually asked if we could be their bank, which we can't, because we're not licensed to take deposits," Mr. Whitcomb said.
La Familia charges $1.50 for each bill paid and uses the standard Western Union rates, but the point is to get customers using its much more profitable pawn loans.
"The pawn business will always be our bread and butter," he said, "but if we can give customers other reasons to come into our stores, that will increase traffic."
David Sanchez, 38, who lives in Hanes City, Fla., says he uses his local La Familia shop as "an interim banking system." For money between paychecks, he regularly pawns a gold chain in return for a $100 loan for 30 days, with a $25 fee at the end - even though he has a checking account and a credit card. Now, he is paying bills and cashing checks at La Familia. "I really do not go into my bank," Mr. Sanchez said.
Pawn America, a Minnesota chain, has gone a step further in emulating banks: building financial centers with a separate entry that abut most of its pawnshops. Go in one way, and you can hock your ring. Enter the adjoining room, and you see "nice, private teller windows, and that's our financial center. You're going to be served by somebody wearing a white shirt, a tie, very professional," said Chuck Armstrong, chief legislative officer.
And its services look awfully similar. Under its Payday America operation, customers can get a one-year line of credit of up to $1,000 without putting down an item. And this year, it introduced a platinum version of its prepaid debit card with express-lane checkout, 5 percent cash back on purchases or 5 percent extra on loans, and free check cashing.
Ms. Ballard, of St. Paul, is a Pawn America customer who received the platinum card in July. She said she was initially wary of the industry.
"The first time I went to a pawnshop, I looked around to see who was looking at me go in," she said. Now, though, despite her bank checking account, she cashes her paychecks at Pawn America rather than using direct deposit. And she loves her new platinum card.
She has other financial products, she said, and, "I would give them all up but that one."

        
Over a Million Are Denied Bank Accounts for Past Errors
        
Suit Accuses Online Lender of Violating New York Rate Caps

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CONSUMER PROTECTION (91%); CONSUMER LAW (91%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); AFFLUENT MARKET (90%); CHECK CASHING SERVICES (89%); WIRE TRANSFERS (89%); CONSUMER LENDING (89%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); PREPAID CARDS (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); EXECUTIVES (67%); INTEREST RATES (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%) Banking and Financial Institutions; Consumer Federation of America; Consumer Protection; Credit and Debt; Credit Scores; Florida; Minnesota; Pawnbroking; Personal Finances; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: WESTERN UNION CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Consumer Federation of America

TICKER: WU (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, GA, USA (55%) GEORGIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Florida; Minnesota

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2013



709 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1562 words

HEADLINE: A Mayor, for Better or for Worse

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO and MEGAN THEE-BRENAN

 BODY:
They stirred resistance at every turn, prompting predictions of economic doom, touching off years of lawsuits and spawning a cottage industry of jokes on late-night television.
But Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's crusades to restrict smoking, encourage biking, expose calorie counts and sideline automobiles are now overwhelmingly embraced by New York City residents, according to a New York Times poll, making his experiments in behavioral modification an unexpectedly popular hallmark of his legacy.
In a stinging assessment of the mayor's priorities and effectiveness, however, two-thirds of New Yorkers say they believe that the quality of the city's long-troubled school system has stayed the same or become worse since he took office in 2002, despite his vigorous pledges to improve it.
Most New Yorkers say Mr. Bloomberg's policies have favored the rich over the middle class and the poor. And 70 percent say that as mayor, he has paid too much attention to Manhattan, rather than its surrounding, less well-off boroughs. 
Over all, the Times poll offers a portrait of a long-term relationship between mayor and city that remains deeply conflicted and contradictory, marked by almost loveless admiration and an unmistakable yearning for change as Mr. Bloomberg's third and final term winds to a close.
Asked to rate the 12 years of his mayoralty, 52 percent describe them as fair or poor, compared with 46 percent who label them as excellent or good.
When comparing him with past mayors, 38 percent rank Mr. Bloomberg as average -- a bracing evaluation for a man who thinks of himself as anything but. Still, 21 percent say he is above average and 15 percent say he is one of the best.
Since he became mayor, 40 percent say the quality of life in the city has stayed the same, 35 percent think it has become better, and 23 percent find it has gotten worse.
In the waning days of Mr. Bloomberg's tenure, New Yorkers are expressing a measure of affection for their 108th mayor, a sometimes prickly by-the-numbers manager who eschewed the role of emoter in chief. Fifty-four percent pronounce him ''likable.''
And despite his $27 billion fortune and a luxurious lifestyle, 55 percent of respondents say Mr. Bloomberg cares ''some'' or ''a lot'' about the needs and problems of people like themselves, compared with 43 percent who say he cares ''not much'' or ''not at all.''
In a follow-up interview after the poll was conducted, Dr. Mitchell J. Breidbart, a 55-year-old podiatrist in Queens, summed up the complex feelings about Mr. Bloomberg, praising him as noble for entering public service but complaining that his policies had left the city unaffordable.
''If I won the lottery I think I would stop working, and here's a rich guy who took on one of the most difficult jobs there is,'' Dr. Breidbart said. ''As far as the job he's done, he's not the worst mayor, but he's not the best, either.''
The poll of 1,029 adult New Yorkers was conducted Aug. 2 through 7. The margin of sampling error is plus or minus three percentage points.
The survey revealed the financial strains of everyday life during the Bloomberg era. Eighty-five percent say New York is becoming too expensive for people like them to live in. Nearly two-thirds say it is harder to make ends meet in New York than in other large American cities.
Gone are the days when New Yorkers sensed that their city government catered to the indigent: just 3 percent of residents say Mr. Bloomberg's policies have favored the poor.
But in a finding that might hearten Mr. Bloomberg, who once described New York City as a ''luxury product'' worth paying for, 64 percent say they will still want to be living in New York City four years from now.
Residents are evenly split, 44 percent to 45 percent, about whether Mr. Bloomberg's initiatives have done more to improve their lives or to interfere with them.
But when asked specifically about his signature policies, they express broad support for most, suggesting that philosophical objections yielded to acceptance once the measures were put in place.
Eighty-two percent approve of his smoking ban inside restaurants and bars; 81 percent approve of his requirement that fast-food chains post calorie counts on menus; 85 percent approve of his mandate that restaurants display the letter grades given to them by the city; 72 percent approve of the pedestrian plazas he ordered installed around the city; 64 percent approve of the bike lanes he had constructed; and 73 percent approve of the bike-sharing program he created.
New Yorkers, who pride themselves on their fiercely independent style, have come to respect, and even like, Mr. Bloomberg's brand of elbows-out interventionism in their lives.
''Look at the ground,'' said Marvin Gruza, 50, an accountant in Queens. ''When you walk into the city it's a different city. You have bike lanes. Yes, construction and change is painful, but people will look back in 10 or 15 years and say we're glad he made us do it.''
There are two glaring exceptions, however.
By a wide margin, people disapprove of his attempt to reduce obesity by limiting sales of sugary drinks in containers larger than 16 ounces. Fifty-nine percent object to the regulation, which was struck down by a state court this year and, unlike Mr. Bloomberg's other health rules, never enforced.
There is equally strong opposition to the mayor's dismantling of the city's Board of Education in 2002. Fifty-seven percent now disapprove -- a sign of dissatisfaction with the mayor's handling of education since the State Legislature granted him much greater authority over the system.
The poll shows a profound sense of unease over the state of the public schools, whose reinvention Mr. Bloomberg had put at the center of his mayoralty and his legacy. He has raised teacher pay, closed failing schools, rolled out a letter-grade system for evaluating schools and made it harder for instructors to gain tenure.
Yet of those surveyed, 32 percent say public education has not changed during Mr. Bloomberg's three terms; the same percentage say it has grown worse; and 26 percent say it has improved.
Phyllis Rudnick, a 77-year-old former teacher who lives in the Far Rockaway section of Queens, recalled the difficulty of watching families learn that their local schools would be shut down.
''Parents were so unhappy. They fight so hard to keep schools open,'' Ms. Rudnick said. ''After 12 years of being mayor, the best thing you can do is shut down a school and start over?''
Perhaps no set of municipal statistics has given Mr. Bloomberg greater pride than the city's plunging crime rates, which have reached records lows during his tenure.
Nevertheless, less than half of the public -- 44 percent -- believe that crime has actually decreased during his time as mayor; 35 percent say it has stayed the same; and 17 percent say it has increased. That perception may be influenced by the large drop in crime under Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, his immediate predecessor.
Gavin Johnson, 39, from the Bronx, said Mayor Bloomberg has ''had his problems, but they have been smaller problems, especially with the police.''
''There have been issues with the stop-and-frisk,'' Mr. Johnson said, ''but fewer police shootings -- nothing really to scar his term.''
The stop-and-frisk policing tactic, which the city credits with reducing gun violence, is as polarizing as ever: 50 percent approve of it and 47 percent disapprove of it, according to the poll, which was conducted before a federal judge ruled Monday that the city's use of the procedure violated New Yorkers' rights by, in effect, singling out young black and Hispanic men. Approval for the tactic is lowest among black residents, 28 percent of whom support it, compared with 55 percent of whites and 59 percent of Hispanics.
While 49 percent of New Yorkers approve of Mr. Bloomberg's job performance, black residents do so at a significantly lower rate (38 percent) than whites (55 percent) or Hispanics (49 percent).
Still, Mr. Bloomberg can claim credit for having vastly improved the city's race relations, an accomplishment that eluded the previous two mayors.
Throughout the administrations of Mr. Giuliani and David N. Dinkins, the percentage of New Yorkers who rated race relations as ''generally good'' mostly hovered in the mid-20s and 30s, dipping to a low of 19 percent in 1993.
Soon after Mr. Bloomberg's election, the figure shot up to 63 percent as he defused racial tensions by avoiding incendiary rhetoric and forging close ties to civil rights leaders like the Rev. Al Sharpton. He leaves office with 59 percent describing race relations as generally good.
Speculation about Mr. Bloomberg's future after City Hall, a topic that consumes the city's political class, arouses equally strong opinions from its citizens.
Two-thirds think he is either very likely or somewhat likely to seek public office in the future. But 50 percent seem displeased by the prospect, saying he should not bother. Of those who say he should run for another office, the largest group wants his political aspirations to remain within the state, as a candidate for governor. New Yorkers do not, however, wish to see Mr. Bloomberg stay too close to home. Were he somehow allowed to seek a fourth term as mayor, a majority, 57 percent, say they would not vote for him.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (90%); CITIES (89%); LITIGATION (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); CITY LIFE (76%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); SMOKING (73%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2013



710 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; THE GETAWAY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1599 words

HEADLINE: Leaving on a (Private) Jet Plane

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE ROSENBLOOM

 BODY:
In less time than it takes to undergo a body scan, I breezed through the terminal and onto the tarmac.
No one at Teterboro Airport, in low-slung industrial New Jersey, asked for my driver's license. No one rifled through my bag. There were no screaming children or grown-ups in pajama bottoms wheeling luggage the size of fat steamer trunks. It was strangely serene: only the sound of the wind and the tap of my heels on the runway as I walked toward two pilots at the foot of a Challenger 300, a gleaming private jet with seating for nine. I stepped onto a swatch of blue carpet beneath the air stair and, steadied by a pilot's hand, at long last boarded a plane like a human being, not a pack mule.
Inside, the pilot in command, Rob Martin of XOJet, a private jet company based in San Francisco, went over the essentials: the iPod dock; the touch screen to control the lights and movies; the leather swivel seats that I was told (while treating mine like a Tilt-a-Whirl) cost $30,000 to replace; the satellite phone; the Nespresso machine; the cabinet with the Oreo cookies and Kistler chardonnay. 
''One thing I forgot to mention,'' Mr. Martin said before we took off, ''the couch will fold out into a bed.''
At a time when industry surveys show that travelers are fed up with epic lines at commercial airports, when lounges are overflowing with airline-branded credit card holders, and first class is but a shadow of what it was in the golden age of air travel, companies are making private jets easier to come by. What had been an industry that relied on full or partial ownership of planes is opening up, with jet operators and owners like XOJet offering more flexible programs, and brokers who don't own planes working in tandem with them to offer seats -- in some cases through apps -- within striking distance of the price of a first class ticket.
''The industry has literally changed 180 degrees in the last five years,'' said Bill Papariella, an aviation executive who worked at NetJets, Marquis Jet, and Sentient before becoming a founder and president of the operator Jet Edge International. Companies that survived the recession have made pricing simpler and now offer more membership options, based on where, when and how often you fly. And a handful of new industry players are making booking a private jet as easy as ordering up a private car on Uber.
''It's much easier and much cheaper than it's ever been before,'' said Bradley Stewart, chief executive of XOJet.
Even so, can you afford to travel like James Bond? The answer depends on what type of flier you are. (How often do you fly? Where do you fly? How rigid is your schedule?) Different companies have different pricing structures, but one of the most common models is a yearly or monthly membership fee plus the cost of your flights. That can run you anywhere from several thousand dollars a year to several hundred thousand dollars a year.
At one end of the spectrum are operators like Jet Edge International, who say their private jets are the purview of those with net worth in excess of $50 million. ''We specialize in the 1 percent of the 1 percent,'' Mr. Papariella said.
At the other end of the spectrum are a handful of start-ups that want to change that, like BlackJet, which is enabling first-class fliers to graduate to private travel by selling individual seats to its members, who currently pay a $2,500 annual fee. The company, which began putting clients on flights late last year, finds jet owners or operators that will transport 6 to 14 travelers at a time in markets like New York, South Florida, Los Angeles, San Francisco, Las Vegas (and next up, Chicago and Washington, D.C.).
''Our client is the mass affluent as opposed to the 1 percent of the population,'' said Dean Rotchin, founder and chief executive of BlackJet. ''It's bringing it from the rock star level down to a practical tool for the mass affluent.''
For instance, a recent search for a last-minute, one-way first-class ticket on a commercial airline from New York to Los Angeles was about $1,400 to $2,000. On BlackJet, Mr. Rotchin said that trip would be about $3,600, in addition to the membership fee. (There are no TSA lines but passengers' names are checked against no-fly lists.)
You must be flexible, though. When you book a flight on BlackJet (which can sell individual seats because as a broker it does not need an FAA operating license), you choose either a departure in the a.m. (between 7 and 10) or p.m. (between 4 and 7). Also, the amenities on the jets vary.
''Flying private has always been an aspiration because the commercial experience is rarely fluid and easy and hassle-free and pleasant,'' said Josh Rubin, the founder and editor in chief of the art and culture site Coolhunting.com and a BlackJet member. It's still a splurge (though as an early adopter he pays less than new members), but he recalled a day in February when he and friends who had just been at a TED conference were driving to Van Nuys Airport in California and got stuck in traffic. ''We ended up getting to the airport 10 minutes before the scheduled wheels up,'' he said, ''and it was no big deal. We parked the car, got on the plane and were off.''
Private jets have also allowed Mr. Rubin to travel easily with his Sealyham terriers, Otis and Logan, a process he blogged about on Cool Hunting. The trade-off, he said, is that the planes he's been on have been small and lacked Wi-Fi. ''People think it's the ultimate luxury,'' he said, ''but not without some sacrifice.'' (That includes sharing a small jet with strangers, technically making the experience semiprivate.)
This year, BlackJet is trying to revolutionize how reservations are made by selling seats online and through an app of the same name, which is not surprising considering that Garrett Camp, a founder of the app-based car service Uber, is an investor (along with boldface names like Ashton Kutcher).
Other new brokers are also trying to lower the cost of flying private. Jumpjet, for one, offers monthly memberships from $2,350 to $5,500 for 10 round-trip flights a year (how far you can travel depends on your membership level). The Web site promises ''a new way to fly for the approximate cost of first class airfare.''
''I would describe us as luxury for less,'' said Will Ashcroft, Jumpjet's chief executive.
Yet some competitors say that through the years many companies have tried and failed to make flying private as affordable as flying first class.
''I've yet to see anything like that work,'' said Mr. Papariella of Jet Edge. ''Those companies treat the plane like a commodity, and it's not a commoditized business. It's a personal service business.''
Operators often keep member profiles with details ranging from family birthdays to whether they want their car heated when the flight lands. ''If they want sushi from Nobu,'' said Gregg Slow, senior vice president for sales and national accounts for XOJet, ''we figure out how to get them sushi from Nobu.'' (XOJet agreed to take me on a flight so I could check out the bells and whistles.)
But those who fly private -- mostly for business (41 percent of the industry's revenue) but also tourism (about 27 percent of industry revenue) according to the research firm IBISWorld -- do not do so for these extravagances alone. They do so to save time, safeguard their pets and collaborate with colleagues on confidential projects.
''The reason they call it private travel is because it's supposed to be private,'' said Jordan Hansell, chief executive of NetJets, which plans to spend $17.6 billion for up to 670 aircraft over the next decade and whose client perks have included a complimentary Plácido Domingo concert at the Royal Palace in Spain. ''On our planes and with my business associates we work the entire time. I don't have to worry about anybody listening in.''
That sort of lavish, personalized service is hard to replicate when using an app to buy a seat.
As Mr. Stewart of XOJet put it, apps can work for younger customers who fly private a couple of times a year, but not for Fortune 500 clients. ''If you're a 59-year-old guy running a $30 billion company,'' he said, ''you want a throat to choke.''
However yet another company called JetSuite is betting it can use technology to lower prices. Its chief executive, Alex Wilcox, a founder of JetBlue, wants to be the Southwest Airlines of private jet travel.
His dream? When consumers visit a commercial flight search site like Kayak.com, they also see private jet availability. For instance, a trip from New York to Charlotte, N.C., might pop up for $400 on JetBlue, but $1,000 a person for a four-person flight on JetSuite. What's preventing that from happening, Mr. Wilcox said, is an availability tool that would allow jet companies to instantly notify Kayak when a plane is available.
''We can't deliver that information fast enough right now,'' he said, adding that he plans to change that in the next year or two. (Perhaps having Tony Hsieh, the chief executive of Zappos.com, on the board will help.) In the meantime, JetSuite offers deals on one-way flights at Facebook.com/jetsuiteair and Twitter.com/Jetsuite.
Back on the XOJet flight, Mr. Slow put his feet up on one of the leather chairs that swivel almost 360 degrees, the jet gently rocking us into the sort of daze usually achieved in a hammock on a summer afternoon.
''This is nap central,'' Mr. Slow said. ''Put a little Golf Channel on in the background, and I'm out.''
Some 147 miles and 31 minutes later, we were descending.
For the first time since I was a kid, I was sad to be getting off an airplane.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The author boards an XOJet craft at Teterboro Airport, in New Jersey. (TR1)
 Captain Rob Martin, left, and Steve Kerby at the controls of XOJet's Challenger 300 out of Teterboro. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSHUA BRIGHT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (TR2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); AIRLINES (78%); AIR CHARTER SERVICES (78%); TRAVEL TICKETS (78%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); TRAVEL AGENTS (69%); EXECUTIVES (60%); CREDIT CARDS (50%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: NETJETS INC (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4522 AIR TRANSPORTATION, NONSCHEDULED (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2013



711 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; ELIZABETH LUNNEY AND ADRIAN ZACKHEIM; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1512 words

HEADLINE: Not at First Sight, or Even the First Dozen

BYLINE: By LINDA LEE

 BODY:
It was not as if they hadn't had every chance to fall in love. For three years, Adrian Zackheim, the publisher and president of three imprints at Penguin Random House, and Elizabeth Lunney, co-founder of ABC Languages, a foreign language school, fled Manhattan for weekends to the same house owned by Nancy Winston in Westport, Conn.
Mr. Zackheim, a New Yorker who was divorced, was renting a space in Westport so he could spend alternate weekends, as specified in the divorce decree, with his son David, then a high school sophomore. Ms. Lunney, a Californian who had never married, had been a serial moocher and weekend visitor once she had moved to New York in 1995.
''If it had a backyard, I'd take it,'' she said. She settled into a routine of visiting the home of Ms. Winston, who was part of a multigenerational group of friends who connected through the California teaching center for Gestalt therapy known as Esalen, where Ms. Lunney's mother and stepfather, Gordon Wheeler, worked. 
But there was no spark between Mr. Zackheim, now 61, and Ms. Lunney, now 45. For one thing, Ms. Lunney was in an on-again, off-again relationship, and Mr. Zackheim had a girlfriend. ''He came with his girlfriend, kind of a mystery guy,'' she said of her first sighting of him. ''He's intimidating. Big. Deep voice. Very serious. They literally walked in the house, said hello, went downstairs, and we didn't see them again.''
Judith Coyne, the executive editor of More magazine, and her husband have known Mr. Zackheim for decades and saw a series of his relationships. When he wasn't in Westport, he was often their guest in Columbia County, N.Y.
Ms. Coyne said, ''He was always with women who are intelligent and nice.'' But none of them, she said, matched Mr. Zackheim in his enthusiasm for life. Once, while he and the Coynes were vacationing together on the Mediterranean island of Minorca, Ms. Coyne said that Mr. Zackheim took them to one of the beach-side stands selling ''not very good sandwiches'' called bocadillos. ''Adrian was ebullient,'' she recalled. ''Aren't these bocadillos great?''
Although Mr. Zackheim was acknowledged as erudite, charming and a great conversationalist, Ms. Winston, a therapist in private practice in New York, did not see anything potentially romantic between her Westport houseguests. ''Adrian wasn't looking, she wasn't looking,'' Ms. Winston said.
The two were often in the house at the same time. Ms. Lunney had a chance to meet David, along with Mr. Zackheim's father, and his other son, Alex, who was in college. They and others, including Ms. Winston's son, all cooked dinner on Saturdays, an ad hoc family talking late into the night. Still, nothing.
''I wasn't physically attracted to him,'' Ms. Lunney said. And she wasn't part of his world. ''People talk about journalists and publishing and publishing houses, and I just don't know anything,'' she said.
Ms. Coyne, however, saw something in Ms. Lunney that she thought Mr. Zackheim couldn't help but admire. ''She's like, 'Yeah!' She's even more passionate. She out-bocadillos him, and that's not easy. It's like trying to get to the right of Senator Ted Cruz.''
The pair met once in Manhattan to see a movie together, ''Mamma Mia!'' They walked out after 45 minutes.
When, by chance in August 2008, a then-single Ms. Lunney, her mother and her sister ended up at the same Mexican spa, Rancho La Puerta, as the then-single Mr. Zackheim, there was still no spark. Even her very intuitive mother, Nancy Lunney Wheeler, did not see a relationship blossoming.
In September 2008, a few weeks after the spa trip, it was time for Mr. Zackheim to pack up his belongings in Westport and say goodbye. David had graduated from high school and, like his brother, was headed off to Williams College.
That last weekend, Mr. Zackheim was already driving his father back to Forest Hills, Queens. He offered Ms. Lunney a ride as well. Only then did he realize he wouldn't have regular evenings with Ms. Lunney anymore. And so he said to her, ''I feel like something is conspiring to put us together -- why don't we go on a date?''
At that, Ms. Lunney recoiled and said, ''What? No! We're friends.''
''I did everything I could do to dissuade him,'' she recalled. ''I said, 'I want children and you don't.' He said, 'That's true.' '' At last he suggested she just come to his apartment the next night for dinner, and they would watch tennis together.
She said: ''So I went home, and I thought, 'Hey, I just agreed to go over to his house by myself. Isn't that a date?' ''
She went. They ate, and somewhere during the tennis, he leaned in for a kiss.
Ms. Lunney remembered thinking: ''O.K., I'll give this a try. Then I thought, there's something here.''
A few weeks passed before they would see each other again. Their time apart ''added a little frisson,'' she said.
''I couldn't believe my luck, and yet it was always what I thought love should be: to be with someone who knows and likes, no, loves who I am and vice versa,'' she said in an e-mail.
He soon concluded that they should be together. In six months they decided to stop mooching and buy their own country home, in Columbia County, with a hot tub and a pond. ''It's so chill,'' she said, ''even though there are weekenders.''
They decorated the house together. ''That's where we really nested as a couple,'' she said.
When her business suffered during the recession, he was there with advice and support. In turn, he began taking Italian lessons from one of her teachers and found he loved it.
It was not completely smooth. There was still the issue of children.
''We struggled with that one,'' she said. ''Neither of us had had a lot of luck in love, but we were at a big impasse. I went outside and sat by myself. Then I said, 'We need to go to a therapist to talk us through it.' '' She added, ''Sometimes you have to dig deep to keep it real.''
Their decision was to let the universe decide. (So far, the universe has said no.)
Both avoid conflict and seek compromise. Her mother said of Mr. Zackheim: ''He just clicks right into my family, my stepkids, my husband. Everyone is very well read and communicative and juicy and loving people. And that's Adrian too.''
His family was on board as well. Alex, his older son, said, ''I felt like he had good reasons to be with her, and not any not to be.''
In an e-mail, Mr. Zackheim wrote: ''There was no denying the chemistry between us once we let it happen. But what came later, the mutual respect, the incredible fun we have together on a mundane evening at home as well as an exotic night in some faraway place, the comfort we find in each other's company, all of these gifts really blossomed once we had more time to explore each other. I truly do love Liz, and there's nothing I'd rather do than spend time with her anywhere.''
Ms. Winston said they have success as a couple because they do not push each other's buttons. ''She doesn't have expectations of how he should be,'' Ms. Winston said. ''Adrian is very funny, very focused, but a little scattered on the day-to-day stuff.''
''We're both basically optimistic people,'' Mr. Zackheim said. ''It's like, what's wrong with people? Why not date people you really like? A challenge is exciting and fun and dangerous. But I found my temperamental match. She's nonconfrontational. She's a contented person looking for a reason to be contented.''
In August of 2012, Mr. Zackheim asked Ms. Lunney to dinner at Gramercy Tavern to celebrate her birthday. He was nervous, however, because he was planning to get down on one knee. But because they were seated so close to other tables he realized he could not. Instead, he blurted out, ''I have an agenda.''
As Ms. Lunney recalled it: ''He pulled out a box, slid it over and said, 'This is for you.' I looked at the ring and said, 'What is this?' He said, 'I want you to wear it' and I said, 'Is there anything you want to ask me?' ''
On Thursday, Aug. 15, Doris T. Appel, a former Chatham, N.Y., town justice, made the marriage legal with a simple ceremony on the lawn outside Town Hall there. And on Saturday, Aug. 17, there was a much larger celebration at Gedney Farm in New Marlborough, Mass., on a knoll under a tree, with Ms. Lunney in very little makeup and a strapless Nicole Miller gown. A string trio played, and rows of friends and family sat on white chairs.
Ms. Winston, who was leading the celebration, asked everyone to take a breath. ''Without me there would be no wedding,'' she said. ''I'm going to tell you a story about how Elizabeth and Adrian met. ...''
ON THIS DAY
When Aug. 15, and Aug. 17
Where Civil ceremony at the Town Hall in Chatham, N.Y., followed by a reception at Gedney Farm, an event site in New Marlborough, Mass.
Details There were two cakes that were made by friends of the couple. For the bride there was a three-tiered white cake with coconut and a French mousseline butter cream filling, and fresh cattleya orchids were centered on each layer and put around the base. The groom's cake was chocolate with chocolate and hazelnut mousseline filling and a bitter chocolate ganache frosting.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, the bride, Elizabeth Lunney, walks toward the aisle with her parents and with her stepneice holding her train. Above, the ceremony, with the sons of the groom, Adrian Zackheim, behind him. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEWART CAIRNS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); PUBLISHING (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); LANGUAGE SCHOOLS (77%); MARRIAGE (76%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (72%); HIGH SCHOOLS (72%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (72%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (71%); STEPPARENTS (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); BALEARIC ISLANDS, SPAIN (72%) UNITED STATES (92%); MEDITERRANEAN (52%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2013



712 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; BEHIND THE WHEEL | 2014 CHEVROLET IMPALA; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 992 words

HEADLINE: For America's Sedan, a Great Leap Forward

BYLINE: By EZRA DYER

 BODY:
My wife used to work as a sales representative for Johnson & Johnson. Like many sales reps, she was provided a nondescript, inexpensive company car -- in her case, a Chevrolet Impala. At some point, the ''a'' fell off the trunk badge and we began calling it the ''Impal.'' The Impal's chief virtue was its huge trunk, which could conceal many cases of sample products -- typically, Tylenol PM and K-Y jelly. Say what you want about the old Impala, but it sure could haul some K-Y jelly. General Motors should have made a bigger deal of that.
Thanks to rental companies, sales fleets and bargain hunters, the old Impala is a common sight. It has been America's best-selling full-size sedan since 2004, with nearly 170,000 sold last year.
But there's a difference between ''popular'' and ''best.'' The redesigned 2014 model is aimed at retaining a solid proportion of the old car's customer base while luring buyers whose names are not Avis and Enterprise. 
It's off to a good start -- Consumer Reports recently ranked the Impala as the best sedan on the market, the first domestic car to earn that title in more than 20 years. The former model (renamed Impala Limited) is still in production, but available only to fleet buyers.
There are now three choices of propulsion: a 2.5-liter 4-cylinder, a 2.4-liter 4-cylinder eAssist hybrid or a V-6. The hybrid's combined city-highway rating of 29 miles per gallon is quite impressive for such a large car, but G.M.'s eAssist system is a fairly dreary powertrain, regularly reminding you why it's not called the eFunPower. And that version will not be available until the end of the year.
I say if you want a big car, you want the big motor. In the Impala, G.M.'s ubiquitous direct-injected 3.6-liter V-6 makes 305 horsepower and 264 pound-feet of torque. Interestingly, G.M. dropped this modern, muscular V-6 into the old body style in 2012. Now that's a spicy rental car.
The 3.6 is a guttural, vocal motor, which suits the mood in a Camaro or a Cadillac ATS but seems inappropriately aggressive in a family vehicle like a Chevy Traverse.
The first thing I noticed about the Impala is that it's preternaturally quiet. I asked G.M. officials if they'd done anything to muzzle the V-6, and they responded that the Impala's interior serenity was accomplished mostly by isolating the passenger compartment through tricks like ''triple-sealed doors with acoustic perimeter water deflectors'' and robot-applied sound deadener on the floor pan and trunk.
But they also conceded that the transmission shift points were lowered so that the V-6 spends less time growling its way through the upper registers of its power band. Translation: The transmission generally forgoes sportiness in return for relaxation and economy. (The E.P.A. rating is 18 m.p.g. in town and 28 on the highway.)
If you jab the accelerator, the engine will clear its throat with a healthy amount of thrust, accompanied by a surprising amount of wheel spin from the front tires. The Impala can light 'em up for quite a while before the traction control kicks in, which should make for some memorable exits from the school drop-off lane.
The interior is a mash-up of visually appealing design rendered with sometimes questionable materials. The wraparound sweep of the dash, the 8-inch screen that powers up like a secret door to reveal a storage cubby behind it, the subtle LED glow of the nighttime lighting -- all are worthy steps forward for our old friend Impala. The optional front bench seat -- the last one offered in a car sold in America -- has been banished in favor of these ''bucket seats'' that are all the rage. But can we please lose the fake wood pasted hither and thither about the interior? I suspect that other manufacturers are infiltrating focus groups to tell G.M. (and Toyota) that customers really love plastic wood.
Remember this: fake wood, it's not good. Feel free to come up with something better, or just stop making fake wood.
The Impala's other strange synthetic is the ''sueded microfiber'' seating surface of my midlevel 2LT test model. The material looks like something you'd find draped on a Chinese recliner at the kind of furniture store that has a going-out-of-business sale every two weeks. It looks acceptable now, but after 20,000 miles you may wish they had just covered the seat in leather.
Still, this is a car where the phrase ''for the money'' comes into play in any discussion of chintzy demerits. After all, this is a cavernous sedan priced at $35,770 as tested. That might sound like a lot for an Impala, but for that money it's pretty well equipped -- 11-speaker Bose audio system, keyless ignition, navigation system, remote starter and 19-inch wheels.
A base 2.5-liter LS starts at $27,535.
The Cadillac XTS shares its platform with the Impala (same V-6, same basic proportions), and I drove one that cost more than $64,000. Now 35 grand doesn't look so bad, does it?
While the 2013 Impala lives on as a fleetmobile, Chevy hopes the slickly restyled 2014 will find 70 percent of its sales with private buyers. So while you'll surely see the occasional sales rep or police chief at the wheel, this is now a vehicle that can be seriously mentioned in the same context as the Toyota Avalon or Dodge Charger.
In the '90s, it was fashionable for rappers to name-check the Impala. But when Lil' Troy wrote, ''Wanna be a baller, shot caller, 20-inch blades on the Impala,'' I'm sure he was talking about a Chevy from the glory days of the 1960s, not the rebadged police car of the 1990s or the anonymous front-drive sedans that were just around the corner. Impala references became so common that rappers just said, ''six four,'' and everyone understood the car in question was a 1964 Impala.
In contrast to the Impala's seedy recent past, this new one harks back to those Impalas of the '60s -- a big, stylish American family car you could be proud to park in your driveway. In that respect, the new Impala's a throwback.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FEELING ITS OATS: The 2014 Chevrolet Impala is offered with three powertrains, including an energetic 3.6-liter V-6. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GENERAL MOTORS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SALES FORCE (91%); SEDANS (91%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (76%); RANKINGS (68%)

COMPANY: JOHNSON & JOHNSON (91%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (91%); GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (91%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2013



713 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 151 words

HEADLINE: Tamara Ackland, Devin Harmon

 BODY:
Tamara Rukmini Ackland and Devin Reed Harmon were married Friday evening by the Rev. Lenore Smith-Aman, a deacon of the Christian Center for Spiritual Healing, at Highlands Country Club in Garrison, N.Y. 
The bride, 34, is keeping her name. She teaches first grade at Public School 116 in New York. She graduated from Wheaton College in Norton, Mass., and received a master's in elementary education from Columbia. She is the daughter of the late Shermila Yogaratnam, who lived in Clifton, N.J.
The groom, 32, works at Ivy Wise, an education consulting company in New York, where he gives college admissions counseling to high school students. He graduated from the University of Vermont and received a master's in international affairs from the London School of Economics and a master's in Asian studies from Peking University in Beijing. He is a son of Diana R. Harmon and Barry N. Harmon of Montclair, N.J.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL MOREJON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (87%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (87%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (87%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (71%); ACADEMIC COUNSELING (71%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (71%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF VERMONT (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (65%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (51%) UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2013



714 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1601 words

HEADLINE: 41 Years in the Kitchen Takes Its Toll

BYLINE: By KAREN STABINER

 BODY:
STARTING as a dishwasher at the age of 17, the chef Mark Peel worked his way up at some of the great California restaurants: Ma Maison, Michael's, Chez Panisse, Spago, Chinois and, finally, for more than two decades, Campanile, his own place in Los Angeles.
Those 41 years in the kitchen have brought him considerable fame: Campanile won the James Beard award as outstanding restaurant in the United States in 2001. They have also brought him carpal tunnel syndrome in both wrists and thoracic outlet syndrome in his shoulders, resulting from repetitive stirring, fine knife movements and heavy lifting. He has a bone spur on one foot and a cyst between toes of the other from constantly standing. He has had three hernia operations and lives with a chronically sore back.
Being a professional chef, like being an elite athlete, tends to be a young person's game. When he started out, Mr. Peel thought nothing of shifting a 125-pound stockpot full of hot, sloshing liquid from one burner to the next without calling for help, his arms stretched away from his body, muscles tight to control the motion. It was a recipe for trouble down the line. 
The 16-hour days he once put in at Spago -- seven days a week for seven weeks in a row -- are no longer an option for Mr. Peel, who is now 58. He straightens a sore shoulder at the memory of those days. He can still work like that, he says -- ''just not as often, and not as long.'' Today, he says, he can survive perhaps three days of crazy hours, as long as Day 4 includes sleeping in, to recover.
In September, Mr. Peel will open a new Campanile at Los Angeles International Airport. He closed the 190-seat original last fall after 23 years, 16 of them alongside the chef Nancy Silverton, then his wife, and seven more years on his own. His career track record going into the new project is excellent; his body, the worse for wear.
The new, smaller Campanile will open at the American Airlines terminal, in a licensing agreement with Host International. Mr. Peel will ''train, taste, advise, direct and organize,'' while younger chefs execute the dishes he creates. ''At some point, the mind is willing but the body rebels,'' Mr. Peel says. ''Most chefs over 50 are no longer cooking daily.''
Mr. Peel came of age during an explosion of interest in dining out, and his workload expanded to keep pace. Many in the next generation of young chefs have seen the physical toll on their elders, and they are planning accordingly.
''There's an arc,'' says the chef Jonah Miller, 26, whose awareness of his ''shelf life as an active cook'' informed his decision to open his own restaurant sooner rather than later. That establishment, Huertas, a Northern Spanish restaurant, will open this winter in Brooklyn. It is a nod in equal parts to Mr. Miller's youthful ambition -- he first volunteered in a kitchen when he was 13 -- and the ''need to plan for the time when I'm not physically able to work the line, which for most cooks comes in their late 30s.''
''It's a pretty hard-and-fast rule,'' he says, that chefs eventually step away from the action; he aspires to the natural progression from cook to chef to ''purely a coach and a mentor.''
Mitchell Davis, executive vice president of the James Beard Foundation, agrees that cooks can age quickly. ''Every time I find myself eating in an exciting restaurant, the chef is 28 years old,'' he says.
A chef's early years are arduous, devoted to working the line -- cooking some portion of what lands on the plate, shift after shift. In cities like New York and Los Angeles, where high rents and demanding diners require a chef to ''maximize every minute of the day,'' according to Mr. Davis, it is even harder.
''Cooking on the line is a sport,'' says Mr. Miller, who played basketball and baseball in high school. ''It's regimented and it's continuous. You're always pushing, just like an athlete: the highest quality you can manage in a specific time frame, doing it again and again.''
Chefs are more likely to sustain injuries than the average American worker, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Sprains, strains and tears are the most common complaints, followed by cuts, lacerations and punctures; burns; and fractures, says Martin Kohli, chief regional economist for the bureau. Musculoskeletal injuries like Mr. Peel's carpal tunnel syndrome are also common.
When asked to name chefs who have persevered in the kitchen past their youth despite the physical toll, Mr. Peel, Mr. Miller and Mr. Davis all hesitate for a long moment. Mr. Davis comes up with the New York-based Daniel Boulud and David Bouley, who have reputations for being active in the kitchen longer than their peers. But each example is served with a side order of disclaimer; they are the exceptions who prove the rule.
THESE days, Mr. Peel works in a lower gear -- he prefers advance work to the frantic pace of dinner service. ''I love butchering, meat, fish, poultry, everything; I like the precision,'' he says. ''And I really enjoy sauce making, which requires a specific texture and flavor and density.''
Whatever he does, he factors in time for setup and recovery. He made it to his early 40s with only minor discomfort, but 15 years ago a back spasm laid him flat on Campanile's kitchen floor between courses at a charity event. Since then, he has consulted a chiropractor and a physical therapist. He says he also stretches, thoroughly and religiously, the first thing in the morning and the last thing at night.
The end-of-day stretch is a burden when he'd rather collapse, but he knows the consequences of skipping it. ''There are days, if you don't do it, where you have to ask the next morning, 'Do I really need to wear socks today?' Because it's going to be hard to put them on.''
Mr. Peel depends on his stretches and the occasional recovery day to keep his aches and pains at bay. He doesn't take the time to visit doctors for his chronic conditions -- though rather than tempt fate, he does pay for his own health insurance, having lost his group coverage when Campanile closed.
Mr. Peel's personal life has been affected by his long hours, and he has made a concerted effort to change, though the demands of the job continue to intrude. He feels that his marriage to his first wife suffered, along with his relationship with their three children. In the years since, in conversations with those now-grown children, he says, ''I have alluded to being sorry I wasn't always around.''
He is now married to the comedian and blogger Daphne Brogdon, whom he met when she came to Campanile for a drink after a stand-up routine. Ms. Brogdon doesn't have a 9-to-5 work schedule, so ''we have some days together,'' Mr. Peel says, as well as more time with their 7-year-old daughter and 5-year-old son. ''I try to be home two nights a week, try not to miss special school things, family.''
It works some of the time. ''I really tried to be different this time,'' he says, ''but it's hard to hold to a 'this is sacrosanct' schedule when somebody doesn't show up for work.''
Chef Jonathan Waxman of Barbuto in New York, who was once Mr. Peel's colleague at Michael's, was recently nicknamed ''Chef Obi-Wan'' for his preternatural calm on Season 2 of the Bravo television series ''Top Chef Masters.'' At 63, he, too, has figured out a way to slow down without dropping out.
''I let the kids do the hard work,'' he says. ''Working the line from 6 to 12 no longer interests me, but being in the kitchen during prime time does. The best analogy is the symphony. I'm the conductor. I don't have to carry the trombone anymore.''
''I raise a lot of money for charity,'' he says. ''I mentor people and talk about the philosophy of food. I'm a bit of a cheerleader and a professor.''
RONALD HAYES, associate director of career services at the Culinary Institute of America and the author of ''Creating Your Culinary Career,'' says demographic trends have opened new career opportunities for midlife chefs who want a slower pace, as aging food lovers seek out new living arrangements where they can eat well but don't have to cook.
''As baby boomers age, people are expecting and paying for resortlike accommodations,'' says Mr. Hayes, referring to luxury senior communities where residents expect something better than bland institutional meals. ''People with a high level of restaurant experience are golden for that kind of position, with better money and better hours.''
Large markets like Whole Foods and Trader Joe's offer another option for cooks further down the kitchen hierarchy, according to Mr. Hayes: the chance to prepare restaurant-quality take-home meals without facing a tsunami of 8:30 reservations.
But chefs like Mr. Peel and Mr. Waxman stay put, redefined, because the restaurant kitchen is where they're happy. Mr. Peel has downsized into a more manageable environment to satisfy both his desire to keep cooking and the exacting standards that propelled him to the top. Working at the original 190-seat Campanile could be exhausting; the new one at the airport is 75 seats, and Mr. Peel will leave the daily mealtime hustle to others.
In March, when the owner of the 3Twenty Wine Lounge, a 12-table establishment in Los Angeles offered Mr. Peel a month of Thursdays to reprise the famous grilled-cheese night from the old Campanile, it was a nice way to keep his skills sharp. The volume was lower, but not the quality.
Ten seconds after one of his sandwiches hit the plate, he would bark ''Pick up,'' to make sure that the server got it to the customer while it was hot.
''It's an adrenaline high,'' he said. ''There's nothing more exciting.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: For Mark Peel, 58, the crazy hours and physical strain of life as a professional chef have meant wrist, shoulder and back pain, a bone spur and hernia operations. But he is aiming to age gracefully, with a less strenuous schedule. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); REPETITIVE MOTION DISORDERS (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); MUSCULOSKELETAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (69%); AIRPORTS (67%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (67%); AIRLINES (62%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2013



715 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2580 words

HEADLINE: Restaurants Were His Life

BYLINE: By LIZ ROBBINS; Susan C. Beachy contributed research.

 BODY:
The tales of Colin Devlin's generosity sound like fables. Once, though he was nearly broke and working as a bartender, he pulled $1,000 out of his sock and gave it to a friend starting a restaurant.
When Mr. Devlin opened DuMont, the first of his three pioneering restaurants in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, he offered free meals to loyal customers and new friends, whom he made instantly. He adopted the ugliest, most unwanted dogs; his favorite was Remy, a mutt with a backward paw.
''Everyone fell in love with Colin,'' said Dr. Michael Conroy, 41, his best friend growing up in Philadelphia. ''We had him as some demigod.''
Before dawn on July 25, Mr. Devlin was found 38 miles south of his Pennsylvania farmhouse in the cemetery of Chestnut Hill Church, outside Allentown. A worker restoring the steeple spotted a white BMW sport utility vehicle on the private road inside the cemetery, and then, upon inspection, a body, face down, by the far woods. Mr. Devlin had shot himself in the head, the police said; he was holding a .38 revolver that belonged to him. 
Mr. Devlin was 42. He left a short note in his car, telling his wife, Kristina Devlin, 41, to go on and live her life. He said he would watch over their daughter, Ludivine, 4, and their son, Cole, 3, and apologized to his family, a relative said.
A month earlier, he had closed his Michelin-starred restaurant, Dressler, because it had been steadily losing money. His landlord was also a partner and, according to e-mails between the two men, would not renew the restaurant's lease, in part because of unpaid bills. Mr. Devlin's other restaurants, DuMont and DuMont Burger, seemed successful and crowded, but the Devlin Metro Group, which managed them, was struggling financially.
He and his wife owed more than $19,000 in back taxes to New York State, according to the New York State Tax Department, and there was a lawsuit by a food purveyor pending. They were carrying two mortgages, on the house in Pennsylvania, from which he frequently commuted to the city, and the house he bought for his mother next door. When he went missing from the couple's rented New York apartment on July 24, Ms. Devlin told the police that he had been depressed, and was upset over failing to get a business loan that day.
''He was obviously trying to make his businesses right,'' said Joseph Foglia, 48, Mr. Devlin's business partner, restaurant designer and one of his closest friends. Mr. Foglia was one of a few friends who received an e-mail message from Mr. Devlin the day before he died. He declined to share its contents, but a law enforcement official said that Mr. Devlin asked the friends to make sure his wife and children were taken care of.
''I never saw anyone work harder on anything else,'' Mr. Foglia said. ''I believe he could have fixed it. He would say, 'I want to be happy. I want things to be simpler. I want people around me to be happy.' ''
Mr. Devlin's death shocked the restaurant world and the creative community that had rallied around him to build Williamsburg into a bustling neighborhood and, unintentionally, a global brand. Twelve years ago, he opened DuMont, a homey spot in a Wild West of culinary experimentation, without much attention from Manhattan. Since then, the casual-chic food and bar scene in Williamsburg has become a magnet for young professionals and guidebook-toting tourists seeking the widely exported source of Brooklyn cool. Mr. Devlin, personable and passionate, appeared to be its ambassador. Instead, he became its first high-profile figure to fall.
Suicide is a deeply personal act, ultimately ineffable. Those who study suicide say the reasons people choose to kill themselves are multilayered, and they caution others not to construct easy explanations -- because there are none. Yet some things about Mr. Devlin seem clear.
Interviews with dozens of friends, relatives and former employees offered a picture of a big-hearted man who was frenetic in his enthusiasm, if not in his business dealings. Most spoke about his endearing qualities, but declined to be quoted about the specific pressures in his business and personal life.
Since childhood, he felt tremendously burdened to support people around him, financially and emotionally. He was insecure despite his success and his charm. ''Nobody was less impressed with Colin than Colin,'' Dr. Conroy, now a dermatologist in Columbus, Ohio, said to a standing-room-only crowd of about 400 at Mr. Devlin's funeral Mass on July 31 in Stroudsburg, Pa. ''That's what we loved about him. That's why we're all here.''
By 2007, a year after it opened, Dressler had earned a Michelin star, only the third Brooklyn restaurant to do so. By 2009, Mr. Devlin was in his second marriage, with one child and another on the way. He was always thinking about his next project; maybe one day he would open hotels, he said. But Mr. Devlin acknowledged the challenges.
''Sometimes it seems like we're making money but then it goes right back into the company,'' he said in an interview with the magazine StarChefs, which gave him New York's Rising Stars Restaurateur Award in 2009. ''For me it's a lifestyle, so I've never wanted or needed to take a lot from it.''
But then, Mr. Devlin concluded: ''Beyond the bottom line, if the restaurants weren't here in the morning I wouldn't have a life. It sounds hokey but I believe it.''
Colin Devlin grew up as the oldest boy in an Irish Catholic family in Northeast Philadelphia, with four siblings from his father's first marriage. Mr. Devlin was very young when his father left them, poor, weeks before Christmas. Friends said Mr. Devlin never discussed his absence. His father died last year.
''He was a layered person,'' Dr. Conroy said of Mr. Devlin. ''He had a tough upbringing. He was grit, he was tough, tough, tough.''
And resourceful. Mr. Devlin's career as an entrepreneur began at age 11, when he sold a Philadelphia specialty, water ice -- like Italian ice -- from a red wagon at a local pool. He sold women's vests at a flea market, and started a slapdash painting business with a high school buddy, Terry Scannell.
His mother, Marge Devlin, was a correctional officer at Holmesburg Prison in Philadelphia and instilled duty and discipline in her children. Dr. Conroy's older brother, Jack, ran a prominent Philadelphia catering business, and at 14 Colin worked as a dishwasher and then a server, eventually doing every job in the business.
At Father Judge High School, he was an All-Catholic League defensive end on the football team, despite his six-foot, wiry frame. Mr. Devlin was also a romantic, giving each successive girlfriend a varsity jacket.
He played football for Lycoming College, a Division III school, in 1989, then transferred to La Salle University to study business management while tending bar at union halls. After taking classes at Temple University, he left without a degree, drawn to New York. He got a job as a bartender for the downtown restaurant magnate Keith McNally at Pravda and Balthazar, both in SoHo, starting in 1996.
''Colin was just a natural,'' said Mark Firth, a friend and the recipient of the $1,000 sock money, who tended bar with him at Balthazar. ''He remembered everybody's name.''
On Dec. 31, 1998, Mr. Firth opened Diner, on Broadway in Williamsburg, with a fellow Balthazar alumnus, Andrew Tarlow, igniting a second wave of restaurants in a neighborhood that had few options: Planet Thai, Teddy's, Miss Williamsburg Diner, Oznot's Dish.
Mr. Devlin was a bartender at Diner while he built DuMont on Union Avenue, on the other side of the Brooklyn-Queens Expressway. The name came from a sign that he and one of his sisters, Maggie Heit, had found for $300 at a repair store. He built the bar with reclaimed wood to keep costs low. Mr. Firth brought him $1,000 in his sock to repay the favor.
Soon after opening in 2001, DuMont became a home to artists, first dates and family brunches, featuring the comfort food of his upbringing (burgers and ''DuMac and Cheese'') and sophisticated specials.
He warned his staff that most restaurants failed in their first year. ''Failure is not an option,'' he said then, according to Pamela Marcotte Osborne, who met Mr. Devlin while working at Balthazar and married him in 2002. They separated in 2004.
At first, the place seemed held together with duct tape; the chefs could not use a food processor without blowing a fuse. As the couple subsisted on grape jelly sandwiches, they laughed off the ''Yuppie Go Home'' scrawled on the grating.
''People forget that Brooklyn had a stigma,'' said Gina Vutera, who ran the Rose Live Music club in Williamsburg until last year. ''Colin envisioned and embodied what Brooklyn is today. It wasn't only sexy, it was hip.''
Mr. Foglia, who designed the back garden at DuMont, encouraged Mr. Devlin to form a partnership with Lee Bieber, a friend from Williamsburg who owned real estate. The three men opened DuMont Burger in 2005, and then Dressler, in a space Mr. Bieber owned at 149 Broadway near the famed steak house Peter Luger's. (Mr. Bieber declined to comment for this article.)
Over a year, Mr. Devlin and Mr. Foglia built Dressler with friends and relatives: Mr. Foglia's metalworking buddies created aluminum chandeliers and chair backs that looked vintage but incorporated whimsical animals and people. The food was also fancier than at DuMont, and the prices far higher. This was a destination restaurant.
Frank Bruni of The New York Times gave Dressler two stars in 2006, a rare designation in Brooklyn then, saying that it promised and delivered ''food that's sophisticated without being too clever, in a room that's beautiful without being too flamboyant.''
Mr. Devlin was also starting a new life. In 2007, he married Kristina Greene, a Georgia native who had worked at DuMont Burger. The wedding was at the farmhouse, in Saylorsburg, Pa.
Ms. Devlin said it was too painful to discuss her husband's death for this article. She asked employees at the restaurants not to speak to reporters.
Tax returns show that in 2009 -- in the depths of the financial crisis -- all three businesses seemed to be thriving, according to records provided by a family member. Mr. Devlin held employee picnics at the house in Pennsylvania, with games of soccer and tug-of-war as well as dunking tanks.
But there were hints that the economy was affecting business. Around that time, he had to lay off employees. In the 2009 interview with StarChefs, he spoke about monitoring excess. ''For the first five years that I was growing I didn't worry about the cost; it seemed like I could just keep growing,'' Mr. Devlin said. ''But you need to control costs so you're healthy.''
Even as farm-to-table, informal spots swept Williamsburg, Dressler kept its high prices. Mr. Devlin himself preferred to eat at Kasia's Restaurant, on Bedford Avenue, a holdout Polish diner where he had the same breakfast daily -- eggs over easy and kasha.
Former employees said that Mr. Devlin had his moments of frustration, kicking doors and booting basketballs during pickup games. When a longtime chef, Cal Elliott, left Dressler in 2008 to start his own restaurant in Williamsburg, Rye, Mr. Devlin stopped speaking to him, several people said.
Mr. Devlin's restaurant group was sued by seafood and vegetable purveyors in 2010. When one vendor would not deliver because of outstanding bills, management went to another.
Last August, Dressler's executive chef, Polo Dobkin, left after a decade with Mr. Devlin to try to start his own restaurant. He offered to buy Dressler in March, but Mr. Devlin would not accept the offer, according to their e-mails. (Mr. Dobkin declined to comment.)
Then, Mr. Devlin's longtime bookkeeper left in April. In May, Mr. Devlin gambled that DuMont Burger could help the company at the Great Googa Mooga food festival in Prospect Park. When rain shortened the event, the loss of revenue was devastating. Adding to his stress, an employee slipped on grease; he paid for her arm surgery.
Mr. Devlin looked, his family observed, defeated. In mid-June, a friend who was a Pilates instructor hanged herself, and he attended her funeral. A week later, he closed Dressler.
A manager's log from DuMont, filed three days before Mr. Devlin died, presented a picture of disarray and low morale.
Mr. Foglia told him to concentrate on his new ventures in emerging Brooklyn areas: one near the Barclays Center, the other on Myrtle Avenue in Clinton Hill, which planned to serve comfort food.
''We had this conversation, getting rid of Dressler will make things simpler,'' Mr. Foglia said, adding: ''It's easy to say I'm going to try to live a simpler life and try to edit out all the madness, especially when it's burying you.''
On the afternoon of July 24, the New York police said, Mr. Devlin's car left Manhattan through the Holland Tunnel at 3:14 p.m. Then at 4:18 p.m., the police said, he texted his wife and asked her to take care of their children. A little more than an hour later, he e-mailed several friends, telling them to look after his family. Around 6:30, Mr. Devlin's mother and sisters reported him missing to the police in Pennsylvania. Ms. Devlin did the same in New York.
The couple, she told the police, had a gun in a safe at the farmhouse. Mr. Devlin's sisters searched for him throughout the night. Ms. Devlin stayed in Brooklyn.
The police and the coroner could not say how long Mr. Devlin had been lying dead on the edge of the cemetery. Because they ruled the death a suicide, there was no autopsy. Cpl. James Bruchak of the Pennsylvania State Police said there was no indication of foul play.
Still, the three Devlin sisters were unsettled, especially because he adored his children. ''It seems very unlike him,'' Ms. Heit, 38, said. ''He loved his family so much.''
Four raw days after his death, colleagues and neighbors gathered at Union Pool, a bar down the block from DuMont. At the impromptu memorial, also a fund-raiser for Mr. Devlin's children's college fund, they spoke harshly of a Williamsburg that had become more driven by money and reminisced about his generosity.
''I wish,'' said one woman, ''that I could have paid for a lot of those meals.''
After the funeral on July 31, Mr. Scannell, the high school friend, wanted to look for clues in ''Martin Dressler: The Tale of an American Dreamer,'' the Pulitzer Prize-winning novel by Steven Millhauser that provided the name for Mr. Devlin's restaurant. Mr. Devlin's first wife gave him the book, because he and Dressler, an ambitious restaurateur and hotelier in New York City at the turn of the 19th century, had the same relentless, creative drive.
Like Mr. Devlin, Dressler achieved ''dreamlike good fortune.'' Both saw it slip away.
''That was the way of things in New York: they were there one day and gone the next,'' Mr. Millhauser writes. Indeed, as the flowers that Dressler devotees left in front of the shuttered restaurant dried in the summer sun, a new tenant was being lined up.
At the novel's end, Dressler does not kill himself. Instead, he hires an actor to take his place, leaving his wife. He escapes into a new reality, and walks into the bright sunshine of a growing city.
As Mr. Millhauser writes of Dressler: ''Martin embraced his failure, threw himself into the idea of failure as into a new and soaring creation.''
If only that could have been Mr. Devlin's ending, his friends said. Instead, they buried him atop a hill on his mother's property, overlooking both houses and miles of Pennsylvania cornfields.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: DuMont, above, was the first of Colin Devlin's three restaurants in Williamsburg, Brooklyn. Left, Mr. Devlin at a soccer game he hosted for his workers at his home in Pennsylvania. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
PETER LueDERS) (MB1)
 Friends gathered at Union Pool in Williamsburg, top, for an impromptu memorial after the death of Colin Devlin in late July. Middle row, from left, Mr. Devlin as a boy, a football player (wearing jersey No. 81) and a father. Above, flowers were left at Dressler, a Michelin-starred restaurant, after Mr. Devlin died. It closed a month earlier. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); DOGS (76%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (73%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (72%); SHOOTINGS (72%); RENTAL PROPERTY (69%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%)

COMPANY: METRO AG (53%)

TICKER: MEO3 (FRA) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (53%); NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (53%); NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS (53%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (53%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (53%); SIC5211 LUMBER & OTHER BUILDING MATERIALS DEALERS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); ALLENTOWN, PA, USA (56%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2013



716 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 844 words

HEADLINE: A Different Kind of Division

BYLINE: By ROSS DOUTHAT. 
Nicholas D. Kristof is off today.

 BODY:
THREE months before the 1963 March on Washington, whose 50th anniversary falls this week, officials in Birmingham, Ala., opened fire hoses and loosed dogs on civil rights protesters. Two months before the march, the civil rights organizer Medgar Evers was murdered outside his home in Jackson, Miss. And a few weeks after the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.'s ''I Have Dream Speech'' echoed down the Washington Mall, a bomb ripped open Birmingham's 16th Street Baptist Church, killing four little girls.
Fifty years later, race is still in the headlines; indeed, the ''postracial'' presidency of Barack Obama has (predictably) given us more race-related controversy than the last two administrations combined. Some of these debates are essentially trivial, churned up by a ''no, you're the racist'' grievance factory that runs day and night on cable news. But others -- on voting rights, affirmative action, stop-and-frisk, etc. -- are serious and weighty whatever side you take. 
So America was divided by race in 1963 and it is divided by race today. But it is not divided in anything like the same way. And the case for optimism about racial polarization starts with what the fire hoses and bombs of '63 signify about the difference between the civil rights era and our own.
Then, the major issue facing black America was entirely zero sum: for Dr. King to win, Bull Connor had to lose. There was no potential common ground so long as segregation lasted. Jim Crow had to perish outright for African-Americans to move forward as Americans. And their white supremacist oppressors knew it, which is why they turned to state-sponsored violence and state-sanctioned terrorism to defend their system and way of life.
Today our polarized politics may encourage a zero-sum attitude, but the underlying realities do not. George Zimmerman is not a half-Hispanic Byron De La Beckwith. Voter ID laws are not Jim Crow come again. And the thread of white identity politics running through Obama-era conservatism is just that -- a sense of resentment and grievance, not a supremacist ideology reborn.
The interests of white and black Americans do not always align, any more than the interests of Ohioans and Californians, or senior citizens and younger Americans, or the college educated and the working class. But there is vastly more room to work through major problems together than there was in the Alabama and Mississippi of 1963.
How so? Well, start with that most reliably controversial of race-related issues: criminal justice, where America's drug laws and incarceration rates are often cited by civil rights activists as an example of how structural racism threatens to create a ''new Jim Crow.''
Except that while the actual Jim Crow invariably pitted white, Southern, conservative politicians against civil rights activists, today criminal justice is a place where many conservative politicians have embraced activists' priorities instead. Eric Holder's recent proposals for sentencing reform, for instance, followed a path blazed by Rick Perry in Texas a decade ago. In the Senate, the conservative Republican with the closest ties to the states-rights ideology that once justified segregation, Rand Paul, is also the loudest voice in support of reconsidering the War on Drugs.
Likewise in education policy, another longstanding racial flash point. There the older battles over integration and busing have mostly given way to a debate about competition and teacher standards in which conservative states are often laboratories for reform. From Chris Christie's New Jersey to Perry's Texas (which does a better job educating minority students than many liberal states), the politics of education increasingly produces cross-racial alliances and intraparty debates that look nothing like the civil-rights era divides.
Meanwhile, in the broader socioeconomic landscape, the big story of the last generation in American life is that problems that were seen as specifically ''black problems'' in the 1970s and 1980s -- persistent unemployment, especially for men, family breakdown and social disarray -- are now problems affecting the pan-ethnic working class.
Neither party currently has an agenda that's well tailored to this challenge. But because the problems themselves increasingly cut across racial lines, a successful political response from either party would probably tend to reduce racial polarization -- winning more minority votes for the Republicans or more working-class whites for the Democrats -- and encourage socioeconomic solidarity instead.
Obviously, no such agenda could emerge, and the Obama race wars could continue indefinitely -- with the Republican Party as a vehicle for white identity politics and the Democratic Party as a vehicle for ethnic patronage, with voter ID laws and affirmative action as permanent flash points, and with less racially polarizing issues shunted to the side.
But unlike the racial conflict of 50 years ago, there is nothing necessary about this kind of division. And this week of all weeks, it's fitting to have a different dream.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CIVIL RIGHTS (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); RACE & RACISM (88%); ELECTION LAW (78%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (78%); TERRORISM (76%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (76%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (76%); CONSERVATISM (75%); VOTERS & VOTING (74%); ANNIVERSARIES (73%); MURDER (57%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (54%); SENIOR CITIZENS (50%)

PERSON: MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%); BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (93%); JACKSON, MS, USA (92%) ALABAMA, USA (93%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2013



717 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1110 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Policy by Whisper and Nudge

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
IF you follow the commentary on American foreign policy toward Egypt and the broader Middle East today, several themes stand out: People in the region argue: ''Whatever went wrong, the United States is to blame.'' Foreign policy experts argue: ''Whatever President Obama did, he got it wrong.'' And the American public is saying: ''We're totally fed up with that part of the world and can't wait for the start of the N.F.L. season. How do you like those 49ers?''
There is actually a logic to all three positions.
It starts with the huge difference between cold-war and post-cold-war foreign policy. During the cold war, American foreign policy ''was all about how we affect the external behavior of states,'' said Michael Mandelbaum, the Johns Hopkins University foreign affairs expert. We were ready to overlook the internal behavior of states, both because we needed them as allies in the cold war and because, with the Russians poised on the other side, any intervention could escalate into a superpower confrontation. 
Post-cold-war foreign policy today is largely about ''affecting the internal composition and governance of states,'' added Mandelbaum, many of which in the Middle East are failing and threaten us more by their collapse into ungoverned regions -- not by their strength or ability to project power.
But what we've learned in Bosnia, Afghanistan, Libya, Iraq, Egypt and Syria is that it is very hard to change another country's internal behavior -- especially at a cost and in a time frame that the American public will tolerate -- because it requires changing a country's political culture and getting age-old adversaries to reconcile.
The primary foreign policy tools that served us so well in the cold war, said Mandelbaum, ''guns, money, and rhetoric -- simply don't work for these new tasks. It is like trying to open a can with a sponge.''
To help another country change internally requires a mix of refereeing, policing, coaching, incentivizing, arm-twisting and modeling -- but even all of that cannot accomplish the task and make a country's transformation self-sustaining, unless the people themselves want to take charge of the process.
In Iraq, George W. Bush removed Saddam Hussein, who had been governing that country vertically, from the top-down, with an iron fist. Bush tried to create the conditions through which Iraqis could govern themselves horizontally, by having the different communities write their own social contract on how to live together. It worked, albeit imperfectly, as long as U.S. troops were there to referee. But once we left, no coterie of Iraqi leaders emerged to assume ownership of that process in an inclusive manner and thereby make it self-sustaining.
Ditto Libya, where President Obama removed Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi's top-down, iron-fisted regime, but he declined to put U.S. troops on the ground to midwife a new social contract. The result: Libya today is no more stable, or self-sustainingly democratic, than Iraq. It just cost us less to fail there. In both cases, we created an opening for change, but the local peoples have not made it sustainable.
Hence the three reactions I cited above. People of the region often blame us, because they either will not or cannot accept their own responsibility for putting things right. Or, if they do, they don't see a way to forge the necessary societal compromises, because their rival factions take the view either that ''I am weak, how can I compromise?'' or ''I am strong, why should I compromise?''
As for blaming Obama -- for leaving Iraq too soon or not going more deeply into Libya or Syria -- it grows out of the same problem. Some liberals want to ''do something'' in places like Libya and Syria; they just don't want to do what is necessary, which would be a long-term occupation to remake the culture and politics of both places. And conservative hawks who want to intervene just don't understand how hard it is to remake the culture and politics in such places, where freedom, equality and justice for all are not universal priorities, because some people want to be ''free'' to be more Islamist or more sectarian.
''With the traditional tools of foreign policy, we can stop some bad things from happening, but we cannot make good things happen,'' noted Mandelbaum.
For instance, if it is proved that Syria has used chemical weapons, American officials are rightly considering using cruise missiles to punish Syria. But we have no hope of making Syria united, democratic and inclusive without a much bigger involvement and without the will of a majority of Syrians.
And too often we forget that the people in these countries are not just objects. They are subjects; they have agency. South Africa had a moderate postapartheid experience because of Nelson Mandela and F.W. de Klerk. Japan rebuilt itself as a modern nation in the late 19th century because its leaders recognized their country was lagging behind the West and asked themselves, ''What's wrong with us?'' Outsiders can amplify such positive trends, but the local people have to want to own it.
As that reality has sunk in, so has another reality, which the American public intuits: Our rising energy efficiency, renewable energy, hydraulic fracturing and horizontal drilling are making us much less dependent on the Middle East for oil and gas. The Middle East has gone from an addiction to a distraction.
Imagine that five years ago someone had said to you: ''In 2013, Egypt, Libya, Syria, Tunisia, Yemen and Iraq will all be in varying states of political turmoil or outright civil war; what do you think the price of crude will be?'' You'd surely have answered, ''At least $200 a barrel.''
But it's half that -- for a reason: ''We now use 60 percent less energy per unit of G.D.P. than we did in 1973,'' explained the energy economist Philip Verleger. ''If the trend continues, we will use half the energy per unit of G.D.P. in 2020 that we used in 2012. To make matters better, a large part of the energy used will be renewable. Then there is the increase in oil and gas production.'' In 2006, the United States depended on foreign oil for 60 percent of its consumption. Today it's about 36 percent. True, oil is a global market, so what happens in the Middle East can still impact us and our allies. But the urgency is gone. ''The Middle East is China's problem,'' added Verleger.
Obama knows all of this. He just can't say it. But it does explain why his foreign policy is mostly ''nudging'' and whispering. It is not very satisfying, not very much fun and won't make much history, but it's probably the best we can do or afford right now. And it's certainly all that most Americans want.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Protesters in Giza, Egypt, near Cairo earlier this month. American foreign policy cannot be fully effective unless locals accept responsibility, too. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KHALED ELFIQI/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (SR11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (94%); COLD WAR (92%); FOREIGN POLICY (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); ARMED FORCES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SAN FRANCISCO 49ERS (57%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); EGYPT (93%); SYRIA (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2013



718 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; GETTING STARTED; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1217 words

HEADLINE: The Siren Call of the Adjustable-Rate Loan

BYLINE: By LISA PREVOST

 BODY:
As if first-time home buyers were not having enough trouble getting into the market, now they have to contend with rising interest rates.
After dipping to record lows earlier this year, rates on fixed-rate mortgages have risen considerably in recent months. Though still low by historical standards, the increased rates create yet another hurdle for first-time buyers already contending with higher home prices and tight credit. First-timers typically account for around 40 percent of home purchases, but as of May their share had dwindled to 28 percent, according to a National Association of Realtors report.
The upsurge in rates has breathed new life into adjustable-rate mortgages, or ARMs, which contributed to the housing-market collapse by trapping borrowers in loans they could not afford. The renewed appeal of ARMs lies in the teaser rates offered in the opening years of the loan. The initial rate on a five-year adjustable-rate mortgage, for example, ranged from 3 percent to 3.5 percent as of last week, depending on the lender, while 30-year fixed rates were closer to 4.5 percent.
ARMs can be a smart option for borrowers, under certain circumstances and with a thorough understanding of the terms. Buyers must be prepared for what could happen to their monthly payment once that alluring teaser rate expires. 
''People tend to look at what's cheapest,'' said Marc Schwaber, a New York City-based mortgage professional. ''But that ARM rate that starts in the threes could eventually end up in the nines.''
Here are some pros and cons to consider when deciding between a fixed- and an adjustable-rate mortgage.
Fixed-Rate Mortgage
This is your grandfather's mortgage, the financing vehicle created after the Great Depression to make homeownership accessible to the average working American. A 30-year term is still the most common.
One of the chief benefits of the fixed-rate loan is its predictability. Because the interest rate is fixed for the life of the loan, the borrower's monthly payment for principal and interest will be the same in Year 20 as in Year 1. (The total payment, though, will fluctuate because of changes in property taxes and insurance, which are usually paid incrementally as part of the monthly mortgage.)
''You should be in a fixed-rate loan if you're on a fixed salary, you plan to stay in the house a long time, or you don't want the risk of an ARM,'' said Peter Grabel, a senior mortgage loan originator at Luxury Mortgage, in Stamford, Conn.
The trade-off for stability is a long period of paying interest, with the amount of interest declining over time as your principal balance declines. And equity is slow to accumulate on a 30-year loan, because the borrower pays much more interest than principal in the early years. Opting for a 15-year term, which carries a lower interest rate, can alleviate those disadvantages. But, of course, the shorter term means a significantly higher monthly payment.
A fixed-rate loan does not make good financial sense for those who are able to take advantage of the lower ARM rates, Mr. Grabel said. Among his examples for ARM candidates are borrowers likely to get a big raise or inheritance in the near future, those with enough assets to pay off the mortgage if they had to, and those who plan to move within 10 years.
''You're paying a premium for a 30-year fixed,'' he said. ''It's the safest, but it's like, how much life insurance would you buy?''
Adjustable-Rate Mortgage
Adjustable loans, which are usually amortized over a 30-year term, carry greater risk for the borrower, because the rate may rise after an initial period of fixed interest. Lenders offer various options for the length of that initial period, with 3, 5, 7 and 10 years being the most common. Rates are lower on the shorter ARMs, but ''most people want the longest ARM these days as it's the next best thing to a 30-year fixed,'' Mr. Grabel said.
After that initial period ends, the rate adjusts periodically based on an index like the Cost of Funds Index, or Cofi, or the London interbank offered rate, known as Libor. Lenders set the new rate by taking the index rate and adding a few percentage points, called the margin. So as the index rises or falls, so does your payment.
Mr. Schwaber advises borrowers to find out which index applies to the ARM they are interested in, and then do some quick Internet research to look at how it has performed in the past. HSH.com tracks the performance of a variety of ARM indexes.
A standard, or hybrid, ARM adjusts annually. These loans are usually expressed as 3/1 or 5/1 ARMs, in which the first number represents the years of fixed interest, and the second stands for how often the rate can adjust after that. So, for a 5/1 ARM with a loan amount of $300,000 and an initial rate of 3 percent, the payment for the first five years would be $1,265. In the sixth year, the rate would adjust according to the index and margin. Assuming the rate rose by 2 percent, to 5 percent, the new payment for that year would be $1,559.
Still, the length of time between rate changes may be longer or shorter, depending on the loan, so borrowers should ask about the time frame. Another key consideration is the lifetime cap on the loan. This is the maximum percentage by which the interest rate can increase over the duration of the loan. For example, if the initial fixed rate is 3.5 percent, and the lifetime cap on the loan is six percentage points, then the interest on that loan can never rise above 9.5 percent.
''Consumers need to think about how frequently the interest rate can change, and the maximum amount it can change,'' said T. J. Freeborn, a mortgage professional with Discover Home Loans. ''They need to think, if the rate goes up X amount, can I still afford that monthly payment? You need a good relationship with your mortgage banker, so there aren't surprises down the path about what your reset period will look like.''
Using an ARM can save the borrower thousands in interest payments during the teaser period, because the rate is lower than that of a fixed-rate product. And for the most qualified buyers, ARM rates on jumbo loans, or loans above $417,000, are even lower than rates on conforming loans.
According to Mr. Grabel's calculations, on a $417,000 loan, a seven-year ARM with an initial rate of 3.625 percent would save the borrower more than $20,000 in the first 10 years compared with a 30-year loan at a rate of 4.375 percent.
His estimate assumes, however, that the initial ARM rate stays the same in Years 8, 9 and 10. And given that ARM indexes, too, are at historic lows, that may be an overly optimistic assumption going forward.
''People have to understand that when you have low interest rates, the only way to go is up,'' said Donald Frommeyer, the president of the National Association of Mortgage Brokers. ''So those payments could change.'' Refinancing might be an option, but if interest rates are up significantly, a new mortgage might not provide much relief. Borrowers who are not in a position to take that risk should stick with fixed-rate products. And, as Mr. Frommeyer pointed out, if the days of fixed rates in the threes are over, a fixed rate around 4.5 percent is still ''a pretty great rate for a house'' -- especially compared with the double-digit interest rates of the 1980s.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY PHIL MARDEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE LOANS (92%); REAL ESTATE (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE RATES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); HOME PRICES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (77%); PROPERTY TAX (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%) NEW YORK, USA (74%); CONNECTICUT, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2013



719 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FAIR GAME; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1098 words

HEADLINE: New Jobs! If Only It Were True

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
CREATING jobs is an essential goal today, given our high unemployment rate. But when job programs rely on taxpayer backing, their success or failure should be clearly disclosed.
For example, the United States Department of Agriculture has called its $1.6 billion business and industry loan program a rousing success. Not surprisingly, the department often trumpets the number of jobs that are expected to result from these loans -- figures that it gets from the borrowers themselves. Whether these jobs are actually created, however, is another story.
The loan guarantee program is overseen by the Rural Development unit of the Agriculture Department and is part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. Rural Development provides loan guarantees of as much as 90 percent to banks or other approved lenders that finance the improvement or development of businesses in rural and high-unemployment areas. 
How many jobs were added or saved through the loans is also a crucial measure of the program's success or failure.
A current success story on the agency's Web site is that of Carolina AAC, a company that received $10.4 million in late 2010 to build a concrete manufacturing plant in Bennettsville, S.C.
''This project will create approximately 197 new jobs in Marlboro County,'' the Agriculture Department's Web site says. Such a figure would make Carolina AAC the program's third-largest borrower in terms of jobs created.
But Carolina AAC said in a January 2011 news release that only 36 jobs would be created at the project. And even that has not come to pass. Currently, 10 people work at the company, according to Charles Paterno, its managing member. Troubling for taxpayers is that the government backs 90 percent of the loans and they are in liquidation.
The manufacturing facility is behind schedule, Mr. Paterno said, because a contractor in charge of building it died midway through the project. ''We're three months from producing but we're still on target to create 36 jobs and will ramp up to 50,'' Mr. Paterno said in an interview. Asked about the 197 job number, he said he was unfamiliar with it. The figure might reflect indirect job creation, he said, such as workers at a local sand quarry or crews that would install the cement once it's manufactured.
Singleteary Food Solutions is another borrower under the program. Its $4.36 million in U.S.D.A.-guaranteed loans was expected to create 220 jobs in Wells, Minn., population 2,300. Singleteary was expected to be the second-largest job creator in the program; it also received a Small Business Administration loan for about $4 million.
But the Wells plant never opened. The Agriculture Department loans are in default, and the bank that wrote the guaranteed loan and sold it to investors took back the property in May.
Singleteary Food Solutions, a food processor, employed 30 people at most, according to a news report in The Faribault County Register.
Stephen B. Singleteary, a lawyer from Chicago, is the president of the company. In an interview on Friday, he said he was seeking an additional $5 million in capital so he could restructure the debt and start up production. He said the facility needed far more renovation than he had anticipated.
''Once we got in, we found the infrastructure would not accommodate our process and we had to replace most of the basic things,'' Mr. Singleteary said. ''In a 100,000-square-foot facility, it adds up pretty quick.''
He has until November to come up with the money so he can get the property back, and he remains hopeful. ''When we're fully operational it will exceed 200 jobs,'' he said.
The company that was expected to be the largest job creator under the program was the Peninsula Plywood Group of Port Angeles, Wash. The roughly $2 million loan for its lumber mill was guaranteed by the Agriculture Department in January 2010 and expected to create 334 jobs. The facility opened for production later that year but ran into financial trouble and closed in late 2011. Local news reports said it employed 130 people at most.
The loan has been liquidated and the Agriculture Department paid a loss claim of $958,000.
It's not uncommon for small businesses to fail, and capital nowadays is hard to come by. So some defaults are to be expected.
Asked about the rosy job-creation figures, Lillian Salerno, the administrator in charge of the program, provided this statement: ''Since 2009, the U.S.D.A. Business and Industry Loan Guarantee program has supported more than 3,500 small businesses that have helped bolster the rural economy in communities across the country. The program's success rate is the highest it has been since 2000, and it continues to improve. U.S.D.A., through 47 state offices, continuously works with approved lenders to ensure that each small business has every opportunity to succeed.''
THE agency also provided five success stories where companies tapping into the program created more jobs than anticipated. One is Salm Partners, a food manufacturer in Denmark, Wis. The company received a $16 million loan guarantee to expand its facility and projected in 2010 that it would save 147 jobs and add 25 new ones. Today, the company employs 300 full-time workers and has paid back its loan.
Agency documents indicate that others are concerned with its job-creation numbers. A letter on Jan. 18 from the agency to business program directors of the Rural Development unit noted that the Office of Management and Budget wanted agency performance measures to be rigorously evaluated to improve programs' efficiencies. It is essential that the jobs data reported by the Agriculture Department ''is accurate, consistent, and verifiable,'' the letter said.
The Agriculture Department's office of the inspector general recently questioned the accuracy of the agency's job figures. In a March audit, it identified one borrower that had estimated its loan would create and save 400 jobs. After visiting the borrower, investigators found that the borrower saved two jobs. ''The agency's success in meeting its established performance goals may be overstated,'' the report said.
Jim Brickman, a real estate investor in Dallas and a whistle-blower on problematic S.B.A. loans said, ''The willingness of the U.S.D.A. to tout false job numbers to Congress and the public is absurd and a case study of why the public has lost confidence in government.''
The Agriculture Department's program is certainly well-intentioned, and accentuating its positives is only natural. But with taxpayers backing this $1.6 billion effort, reliable job counts would be preferable.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (92%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (91%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (91%); JOB CREATION (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (87%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (73%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (73%); LOAN DEFAULTS (72%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (72%); CEMENT & CONCRETE PRODUCTION (71%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (70%); WEB SITES (67%); INTERVIEWS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2013



720 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1256 words

HEADLINE: Following King's Path, and Trying to Galvanize a New Generation

BYLINE: By TRIP GABRIEL; Sarah Wheaton, Jada Smith and Ashley Southall contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Half a century after the emotional apex of the civil rights movement, Martin Luther King Jr.'s ''I Have a Dream'' speech, tens of thousands of people retraced his footsteps on Saturday, and his successors in the movement spoke of the still-unmet promise of America, as he did, at the Lincoln Memorial.
The anniversary of the 1963 March on Washington was less a commemoration, speakers proclaimed, than an effort to inject fresh energy into issues of economics and justice that, despite undeniable progress in overcoming racial bias, still leave stubborn gaps between white and black Americans.
The speeches that carried over the Reflecting Pool, which 50 years ago jolted Congress to pass landmark laws, took hard aim at current racial profiling by law enforcement, economic inequality and efforts to restrict voting access. 
Addressing generations too young to remember, the Rev. Al Sharpton, an organizer of Saturday's event, warned young people against the hubris of believing one's middle class success was achieved alone. ''You got there because some unlettered grandmas who never saw the inside of a college campus put their bodies on the line in Alabama and Mississippi and sponsored you up here,'' he said.
A lineup of civil rights heroes, current movement leaders, labor leaders and Democratic officials addressed a vast crowd that stretched east from the Lincoln Memorial to the knoll of the Washington Monument -- well out of range of loudspeakers. Organizers expected 100,000, fewer than half the number who came in 1963 when efforts to dismantle segregation had seized the national attention, often because of racist violence in the South.
Speakers included Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr., who on Thursday sued Texas over a strict voter ID law; Representative John Lewis of Georgia, an organizer of the original 1963 march; and Sybrina Fulton, the mother of Trayvon Martin, the Florida teenager who was shot and killed last year.
''I gave blood on the bridge in Selma, Alabama, for the right to vote,'' Mr. Lewis said in a deep and sonorous rumble. ''I am not going to stand by and let the Supreme Court take the right to vote away from us.''
He and many others called the Voting Rights Act of 1965 a jewel of the civil rights movement that was under attack after the high court struck down the heart of it in June, opening the way for states including Texas and North Carolina to enforce new restrictions on voting access.
Mr. Holder, receiving a roar of welcome from the crowd, said that King's struggle must continue ''until every eligible American has the chance to exercise his or her right to vote unencumbered by discrimination or unneeded procedurals, rules or practices.''
The Martin case, which led to the acquittal of a neighborhood watch volunteer in the killing last month, was also a major touchstone of the day. There were T-shirts with him in a hoodie and the acrid phrase ''American Justice,'' and signs urging ''Support Trayvon's Law'' to repeal stand-your-ground gun measures
''We march because Trayvon Martin has joined Emmett Till in the pantheon of young black martyrs,'' said Julian Bond, the social activist who attended the 1963 march.
Mazi Oyo, a 27-year-old marcher from Brooklyn, said the verdict prompted him for the first time to consider how he is perceived as a black man. Even in his diverse and upper-middle-class Park Slope neighborhood, he said, ''When I go to the store late at night, I have to dress a certain way.''
Etiah Brookins, 36, a marcher from Queens, said she hoped young people drawn to the march because of Mr. Martin's death would discover a new connection to the history of the civil rights movement.
Benjamin T. Jealous, president of the N.A.A.C.P., linked the passage in New York City on Thursday of limits to stop-and-frisk police tactics -- over the strong objections of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg -- to the Martin case.
The program was far more inclusive than five decades ago, with many women speakers, Latinos and openly gay men and lesbians.
''When women succeed, America succeeds,'' said Representative Nancy Pelosi, the House minority leader, who attended the 1963 march. She called for Congress to ''make the minimum wage a living wage.''
Every persuasion of liberal politics was represented in the colorfully attired crowd, with many groups in matching T-shirts. Near the entrance to the Mall, people in Robin Hood caps held signs reading ''End Racism, Heal America, Tax Wall Street.'' A wiry woman energetically sang ''This Little Light of Mine'' next to people who called sex trafficking modern-day slavery. Others wanted to ''ban the bing'' -- end solitary confinement.
Mr. Sharpton, who as chief organizer and president of the National Action Network gave himself the role of keynote speaker, seized the opportunity to turn up the rhetorical heat. In past decades when blacks voted for Presidents John F. Kennedy, Richard M. Nixon, George W. Bush and others, he said, the IDs they showed at polls sufficed. ''Why when we get to Obama do we need some special ID?'' he said to a roar of approval.
''When we leave here, we're going to go to those states'' that have passed strict photo ID laws and other restrictions like Texas and North Carolina, he said. ''And when they ask us for our voter ID, take out a photo of Medgar Evers'' and others ''who gave their lives so we could vote,'' he said. '' 'Look at this photo. It gives you the ID of who we are.' ''
President Obama, who is scheduled to observe the anniversary in a quieter ceremony on Wednesday at the Lincoln Memorial, and who was mentioned by many speakers as the fulfillment of King's dream, was perhaps conspicuous by his absence. Through much of his presidency, Mr. Obama has been reluctant to frame issues in specifically racial terms, sometimes to the frustration of civil rights leaders.
Lately he has taken to reminding people that the 1963 demonstration, officially the ''March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom,'' was as much about fighting for economic equality. He struck the theme on Friday at a town hall-style meeting when he said minorities had made ''enormous strides,'' but even if all discrimination were ended, ''you'd still have a situation in which there are a lot of folks who are poor, and whose families have become dysfunctional, because of a long legacy of poverty.''
His address, at the Lincoln Memorial, will fall on the exact anniversary of the original march, Aug. 28, and he will be joined by Presidents Bill Clinton and Jimmy Carter.
The White House denied he was seeking to avoid sharing a public stage with Mr. Sharpton, a controversial figure, or other civil rights leaders, who on Saturday often portrayed the United States as a country a long way from living up to the promises of its founding fathers.
After the speeches, a procession filed past the Lincoln Memorial to the Martin Luther King Jr. Memorial, then east to the Washington Monument. The route reverses the 1963 procession -- when, of course, there was no King Memorial between those of the two monumental presidents.
It was Edwina Love's second March on Washington. ''I was so proud just to be here'' 50 years ago, she said. ''Overt racism is still prevalent,'' said Ms. Love, 77, though she acknowledged great changes. A student in Greensboro, N.C., during the lunch counter sit-ins, she now eats wherever she chooses ''without being disturbed,'' she said. Ms. Love, who lives outside Washington, hopes the march will galvanize younger generations. ''I'm going to talk to my granddaughter,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Tens of thousands on Saturday commemorated the 50th anniversary of the March on Washington and the ''I Have a Dream'' speech. More photographs and a video at nytimes.com/national. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHER GREGORY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Nicholas Johnson, 11, and his mother, Shannon Taylor, traveled from South Carolina. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Claudia Hanes, from Bowling Green, Ky., waved a flag with President Obama's face on it beside the Reflecting Pool. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CIVIL RIGHTS (92%); RACE & RACISM (90%); ELECTION LAW (89%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (79%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); HATE CRIME (76%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (76%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (75%); SUPREME COURTS (75%); RACIAL PROFILING (75%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (75%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (75%); VIOLENT CRIME (74%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); ANNIVERSARIES (71%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); SUITS & CLAIMS (69%); TRAYVON MARTIN SHOOTING (67%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (63%); ACQUITTAL (60%)

PERSON: MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (92%); AL SHARPTON (58%); JOHN LEWIS (58%); BARACK OBAMA (54%); ERIC HOLDER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOWLING GREEN, KY, USA (59%) ALABAMA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2013



721 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1032 words

HEADLINE: Monopoly Goes Corporate

BYLINE: By MARY PILON. 
A sports reporter at The New York Times and the author of the forthcoming book ''The Monopolists,'' about the hidden history of the game.

 BODY:
IT'S been a rough summer for Monopoly purists.
In July, the board game community became incensed by the introduction of Monopoly Empire, the latest flavor of the iconic game; this one substitutes traditional Atlantic City property names with those of large corporations -- McDonald's, Coca-Cola, Samsung and Nestlé, to name a few. In the latest Monopoly game, players acquire key brands to create corporate empires rather than try to bankrupt their opponents. And the old tokens -- the racecar, thimble and top hat that used to race around the board -- have been replaced by a 2014 Corvette Stingray, an Xbox controller and a Paramount Pictures movie clapboard.
Hardly cosmetic, the changes introduce a whole new animating ideology to a game created to critique, not celebrate, corporate America. Contrary to popular board game lore, Monopoly was invented not by an unemployed man during the Great Depression but in 1903 by a feminist who lived in the Washington, D.C., area and wanted to teach about the evils of monopolization. Her name was Lizzie Magie. 
Seventeen years before women could vote, Ms. Magie, a fiery stenographer, poet, sometime actress and onetime employee of the United States Postal Service's dead-letter office, ginned up a game that mirrored what she perceived to be the vast economic inequalities of her day. She called it the Landlord's Game and saw it as an educational tool and gamy rebellion against the era's corporate titans, John D. Rockefeller Sr., Andrew Carnegie and J. P. Morgan.
Ms. Magie was an ardent follower of Henry George, who advocated a single tax on land. She cleverly designed two sets of rules: one in which the object was to get rich quick, the other as an anti-monopoly game in which all players benefited from wealth created. Historical evidence suggests that the more vice-laden monopolist game resonated with earlier players. ''It is a practical demonstration of the present system of land-grabbing with all its usual outcomes and consequences,'' Ms. Magie told The Single Tax Review in 1902. ''It might well have been called the Game of Life, as it contains all the elements of success and failure in the real world, and the object is the same as the human race in general seem to have, i.e., the accumulation of wealth.''
Early boards, uncovered a generation later by the economist Ralph Anspach's ''Anti-Monopoly'' lawsuit against Parker Brothers, which was acquired by Hasbro in 1991, reveal that modified monopoly games were common and were embraced by early counterculture players. A game dating to Arden, Del., in 1903 has a George Street and New York properties like the Bowery and Central Park on the place on the board many today know as Free Parking. A board played on in 1909 in Altoona, Pa., made nods to its map with Kettle and Lloyd Streets.
From Ms. Magie's patent, the ''monopoly game'' spread among left-wing intellectuals for decades. It was embraced in Arden, a single tax bohemian enclave that attracted Upton Sinclair and the radical scholar Scott Nearing. Rexford G. Tugwell, a Columbia University professor and member of Franklin D. Roosevelt's ''brain trust,'' played and taught the game. Members of the administration of Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia of New York played it, as did Ernest Angell, an attorney and chairman of the board at the American Civil Liberties Union, according to his son, Roger Angell.
Atlantic City Quakers introduced some of the greatest modifications to the early monopoly game. The Quakers, who value silence, scuttled the auction system of property acquisition in the 1930s and instead put fixed sale prices on the board, which made it easier to play with children. And the Quakers replaced drab pawns with miscellaneous objects, later mass-produced by Dowst, a Chicago-based company that created Cracker Jack prizes.
The Quakers' Atlantic City board serves as an odd reflection of the city's overlooked cartography. Atlantic's City's Boardwalk was a spectacle of rolling chairs, theater and fashion, and its pageantry later inspired Walt Disney as he designed modern theme parks. Baltic and Mediterranean Avenues. the cheapest properties on the board, were largely black neighborhoods in Atlantic City when much of the Jim Crow South migrated north, where black citizens staffed gleaming hotels and restaurants that refused to serve them. The Reading Railroad shuttled pleasure seekers between Philadelphia and Atlantic City, and New York Avenue became home to one of the country's earliest gay scenes.
It was a version of this Atlantic City game that Charles Darrow learned to play, and eventually sold the concept to Parker Brothers, which marketed it to the masses in 1935. The game's early social history was then largely forgotten.
Without realizing it, Mr. Anspach's Anti-Monopoly, a game that heralded trustbusters and railed against OPEC during the 1970s, was a return to the game's progressive roots. Mr. Anspach fully researched the game and its origins during the course of a 10-year legal battle that, among other things, called into question whether Parker Brothers had illegitimately monopolized Monopoly. The suit ultimately reached the Supreme Court, and in the end, Mr. Anspach won the right to sell his Anti-Monopoly game.
Today many local ''-opoly'' games are available; unlike the original games, which were hand drawn on oil cloth, these new versions are mass produced (some parts in China) with licenses from Hasbro. While changes to Monopoly's essence (including the recent ousting of the iron token) may cause grumblings, they remind us that board games (like books, movies or video games) reflect an ever-changing national conversation. Milton Bradley's 19th-century Checkered Game of Life had spaces for Intemperance, Suicide and Idleness, and players aspired to ''Happy Old Age,'' not to the plastic mansion at the end of today's game. Cluedo, the British parent to Clue, deployed darker weapons like a hypodermic needle and a bottle of poison and a Reverend Green character who could be accused of murder.
Monopoly, too, will continue its cardboard evolution, even as traditionalists decry Monopoly Empire. The game will likely continue to evolve, as will those who play it.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Landlord's Game, created by the fiery stenographer, poet and feminist Lizzie Magie, was a predecessor of the board game Monopoly. (PHOTOGRAPH BY THOMAS E. FORSYTH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOARD GAMES (91%); TOYS & GAMES (90%); MONOPOLIZATION (89%); PROPERTY TAX (77%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (76%); ELECTRONIC GAME EQUIPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (73%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (72%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); POSTAL SERVICE (51%); SUITS & CLAIMS (50%)

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (58%); NESTLE SA (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (55%)

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (58%); NESN (SWX) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (58%); NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (58%)

PERSON: JAY ROCKEFELLER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (73%) DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2013



722 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1195 words

HEADLINE: Platinum Card And Text Alert, Via Pawnshop

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD and JESSICA SILVER-GREENBERG

 BODY:
Linda Ballard, 61, uses the word ''love'' to describe her banking relationship, lauding the ease of cashing her bimonthly paycheck, the convenience of text alerts about her balance and the features on the platinum card that she was upgraded to in July.
But she is not getting all this from a bank. She is getting this array of services from a pawnshop -- part of an industry that has long had a reputation of taking advantage of vulnerable customers handing over prized possessions in exchange for cash.
As banks zero in on more affluent customers who promise twice the revenue of their lower-income counterparts, close branches in poor areas and remain stingy with credit, pawnshops are revamping their image and stepping into the void to offer financial services.
''The way the banks have tightened up so much on making small loans and making equity loans, we've kind of evolved into, I like to call it the poor man's bank,'' said Robbie Whitten, chief executive of Money Mizer Pawn and Jewelry of Columbus, Ga. 
There are, however, plenty of potential drawbacks, consumer advocates say.
Some loans from pawnshops can come with interest rates as high as 25 percent. And fringe financial operations, the consumer advocates say, can imperil lower-income customers' ability to save for the future. Without a traditional checking or savings account, borrowers often pay more for basic financial transactions like cashing checks, paying bills and wiring money, financial counselors say. And because pawnshops do not seek or report matters affecting credit scores, pawnshop banking makes it hard for customers to build credit history.
''Consumers need to be aware that the products don't always carry the same protections as those you would get from a bank,'' said Tom Feltner, director of financial services at the Consumer Federation of America.
How fast the pawnshop industry is growing is unclear, but the industry association estimates there were 10,000 pawnshops in early 2012, the latest figures available, compared with about 6,400 in 2007. That expansion is, in part, fed by the rising number of Americans whose tarnished credit effectively bars them from the mainstream financial system. The growth has attracted the attention of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, a recently formed regulator that has been scrutinizing pawnshops, along with other nonbank lenders like payday loan operators.
EZCorp, a publicly traded operator of pawnshops, reported that total loan balances swelled 22 percent to $44 million in its most recent quarter.
Another publicly traded lender, Cash America International, told investors in June that the company's fortunes were growing as more ''traditional consumer lenders are exiting the market.''
As a result, pawnshops are offering services like check cashing, Western Union money transfers, bill payment and prepaid cards to customers who are ''getting forgotten in the banking system,'' said Jerry Whitehead of the Pawnshop Consulting Group.
The services are not, generally, big moneymakers for the shops. The main attraction is that they bring in traffic, and many of those shoppers go on to buy items from the pawnshop or to take out a pawn loan themselves -- and that is where the stores make their money.
The basic business of pawnshops is, of course, a financial service. If a man walks in and hands over, say, a watch, the shop will lend him money based on a percentage of the item's value. The customer has a set period of time to pay that back, usually one to four months. If he pays it back in time, and pays the interest, he gets the item back. If he does not, the pawnshop sells the item.
Pawn loans are so profitable simply because of the high interest rates pawnshops can charge. Interest rates vary by state and range from 2.5 percent to 25 percent a month, the industry group the National Pawnbrokers Association estimates. So a 30-day loan on a $150 item would give a pawnshop a profit of up to $37.50, while a four-month loan could mean a profit of $150. Pawnshops may also charge fees for things like storage and lost tickets.
Yet for many customers who have been denied credit because of checkered financial histories, an instant loan from a pawnshop can feel like something of a miracle -- at least at first -- consumer advocates say.
But the high interest rates can plunge borrowers already on precarious financial footing deeper into debt, consumer advocates say.
Emmett Murphy, a spokesman for the pawnbrokers' association, said about 85 percent of loans were paid off, and pawnbrokers would much rather see a loan repaid than deal with selling a pawned item.
La Familia Pawn and Jewelry, a chain based in Winter Park, Fla., that focuses on Hispanic customers, began offering bill-paying services this summer and will add Western Union and prepaid debit cards soon, mostly because customers wanted convenience, said its chief financial officer, Woody Whitcomb.
''Some customers actually asked if we could be their bank, which we can't, because we're not licensed to take deposits,'' Mr. Whitcomb said.
La Familia charges $1.50 for each bill paid and uses the standard Western Union rates, but the point is to get customers using its much more profitable pawn loans.
''The pawn business will always be our bread and butter,'' he said, ''but if we can give customers other reasons to come into our stores, that will increase traffic.''
David Sanchez, 38, who lives in Hanes City, Fla., says he uses his local La Familia shop as ''an interim banking system.'' For money between paychecks, he regularly pawns a gold chain in return for a $100 loan for 30 days, with a $25 fee at the end -- even though he has a checking account and a credit card. Now, he is paying bills and cashing checks at La Familia. ''I really do not go into my bank,'' Mr. Sanchez said.
Pawn America, a Minnesota chain, has gone a step further in emulating banks: building financial centers with a separate entry that abut most of its pawnshops. Go in one way, and you can hock your ring. Enter the adjoining room, and you see ''nice, private teller windows, and that's our financial center. You're going to be served by somebody wearing a white shirt, a tie, very professional,'' said Chuck Armstrong, chief legislative officer.
And its services look awfully similar. Under its Payday America operation, customers can get a one-year line of credit of up to $1,000 without putting down an item. And this year, it introduced a platinum version of its prepaid debit card with express-lane checkout, 5 percent cash back on purchases or 5 percent extra on loans, and free check cashing.
Ms. Ballard, of St. Paul, is a Pawn America customer who received the platinum card in July. She said she was initially wary of the industry.
''The first time I went to a pawnshop, I looked around to see who was looking at me go in,'' she said. Now, though, despite her bank checking account, she cashes her paychecks at Pawn America rather than using direct deposit. And she loves her new platinum card.
She has other financial products, she said, and, ''I would give them all up but that one.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: La Familia Pawn and Jewelry in Orlando, Fla., began offering bill-paying services this summer. Left, making a loan payment at the financial center inside Pawn America in Inver Grove Heights, Minn. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROBERTO GONZALEZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 TIM GRUBER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); CHECK CASHING SERVICES (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); CONSUMER LENDING (89%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (78%); WIRE TRANSFERS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); PREPAID CARDS (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); AFFLUENT MARKET (70%); EXECUTIVES (67%); INTEREST RATES (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%)

COMPANY: WESTERN UNION CO (50%)

TICKER: WU (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, GA, USA (55%) GEORGIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2013



723 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1188 words

HEADLINE: Where Sand Is Gold, the Reserves Are Running Dry

BYLINE: By LIZETTE ALVAREZ

 BODY:
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. -- With inviting beaches that run for miles along South Florida's shores, it is easy to put sand into the same category as turbo air-conditioning and a decent mojito -- something ever present and easily taken for granted.
As it turns out, though, sand is not forever. Constant erosion from storms and tides and a rising sea level continue to swallow up chunks of beach along Florida's Atlantic coastline. Communities have spent the last few decades replenishing their beaches with dredged-up sand.
But in South Florida -- Miami-Dade, Broward and Palm Beach Counties -- concerns over erosion and the quest for sand are particularly urgent for one reason: there is almost no sand left offshore to replenish the beaches.
In these communities, sand is far from disposable; it is a precious commodity. So precious, in fact, that it has set off skirmishes among counties and has unleashed an intense hunt for more offshore sand by federal, state and local officials who are already fretting over the next big storm. No idea is too far-fetched in this quest, not even a proposal to grind down recycled glass and transform it into beach sand. The once-shelved idea is now being reconsidered by Broward County. 
The situation is so dire that two counties to the north -- St. Lucie and Martin -- are being asked to donate their own offshore sand in the spirit of neighborliness.
''You have counties starting wars with each other over sand,'' said Kristin Jacobs, the Broward County mayor, who has embraced the recycled glass idea as a possible stopgap. ''Everybody feels like these other counties are going to steal their sand.''
St. Lucie and Martin Counties are none too keen to sacrifice their sand for the pleasures of South Florida. The last time the idea was mentioned, in 2006, it engendered accusations of subterfuge and raised so much ire that it was dropped. If recent public meetings on the issue held by the Army Corps of Engineers are any measure, little has changed, despite a new study by the corps that says the two counties have enough offshore sand for at least 50 years.
''What happens in 50 years when all that sand is gone?'' asked Frannie Hutchinson, a St. Lucie County commissioner. ''Where are we supposed to go then? I told them to take their sand shovels and sand buckets and go home and come up with a better plan.''
In a state where the lure of pristine beaches is pivotal to a robust economy, hoarding sand is not unlike stocking the basement with toilet paper, water and peanut butter. One never knows when the next storm could sweep away a beach and wreak havoc on beach communities.
''When we got hit with back-to-back hurricanes, we had no beach in front of our infrastructures: A1A was wiped out,'' Ms. Hutchinson said, referring to storms that engulfed a busy beachfront road.
The reason for all this agitation is straightforward: Miami-Dade County is officially out of offshore sand, which is environmentally sound and easily accessible. The last piles will be depleted in February, when sand replenishment is completed on the beach of the affluent village of Bal Harbour.
Broward County is not much better off; its offshore sand is nearly depleted. And Palm Beach County's stocks are dwindling rapidly.
The reasons for the disappearing supply of sand are various. For one, these counties have been refurbishing their beaches for decades. The problem has also been worsened by sea-level rise and the number of jetties, or cuts to build seaports, that have proliferated, which causes sand to pile up on one side of the jetty but not the other.
The scarcity of sand is also a function of geography. There are three reef tracks running alongside Miami-Dade and Broward, which make dredging difficult. And the continental shelf narrows greatly here, meaning the ocean gets too deep too quickly.
So while erosion is a problem along all beaches on the Eastern Seaboard, other counties and states to the north have large areas of ocean they can use to dredge sand. In South Florida, the slice is relatively minuscule.
''We are just limited in the actual amount of sand that's available to us,'' said Stephen Blair, who is in charge of beach restoration for Miami-Dade. ''They have a much bigger area in which to look for sand.''
In South Florida, offshore sand has been essential in bolstering constantly eroding beaches, and healthy beaches are vital to tourism. Guests who routinely pay $400 a night for a Miami Beach hotel room come with expectations. One of them is sand to frolic on.
''They are not inclined to come if there are no beaches to lay on,'' said Jason Harrah, the Army Corps project manager overseeing Miami-Dade beach restoration.
Broward County faces the same problem. ''There is pressure from everybody -- governments, the chambers of commerce,'' said Eric Myers, who is in charge of Broward County beach restoration.
Beaches also safeguard the health of the high-priced cities and towns that abut them. Wide beaches, preferably with dunes and vegetation, protect buildings and roads by serving as buffers to waves churned up by large storms.
''These beaches, people think they are recreational, but they are storm damage reduction,'' Mr. Harrah said. ''They are meant to sacrifice themselves for the loss of property or life. In the event we have that kind of storm, we wouldn't have the means to replenish them.''
Offshore sand has always been the first choice to counter beach erosion. It is inexpensive and does not disrupt reefs or marine life. This is why the Army Corps and the state are hoping that Martin and St. Lucie Counties will come around and free up some of their sand, which could then be dredged and shipped farther south.
The only other option at the moment is buying sand from mines in Central Florida and trucking it in, which is what Broward County is doing for a stretch of its beaches. Doing so is more expensive, reserved for low-volume projects, logistically difficult and largely disliked.
''There would be 20,000 trucks going through South Beach in tourist season, so you can imagine that,'' Mr. Harrah said.
A third option is buying sand from countries in the Caribbean, possibly the Bahamas. Under United States law, the Army Corps must show that domestic sand is not available for economic or environmental reasons before it can use foreign sand.
Broward County is exploring the cost of recycling glass to fill small gaps in its beaches -- it is more costly than offshore sand, but it is not yet clear by how much. Broward would also have to find a nearby facility to process the glass and complete the final phase of its environmental study. Other states have used recycled glass, but mostly for small projects like golf courses.
For now, the idea remains on the table. It is creative, said Ms. Jacobs, the Broward County mayor. It could promote a market for glass, she added.
Broward is looking to finance the last part of its environmental study, and will weigh the costs. The sand has so far proved an excellent mimic of regular sand, which is used to produce glass, after all. ''If we could generate our own sand,'' Ms. Jacobs said, ''it would be fantastic.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, erosion at Haulover Beach Park in Miami-Dade County. Above, Abdullah Kharafi, 3, climbing a wall of sand created by erosion at Miami Beach. An intense hunt for more offshore sand to replenish beaches has set off skirmishes among Florida counties. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANGEL VALENTIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEACHES (90%); COUNTIES (89%); ARMIES (79%); COASTAL AREAS (78%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (75%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (74%); HURRICANES (73%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); TALKS & MEETINGS (67%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (93%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (92%) FLORIDA, USA (95%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2013



724 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1525 words

HEADLINE: Guru of the Long Snap

BYLINE: By SCOTT CACCIOLA

 BODY:
AUBURN, Mass. -- Chris Rubio was dissecting the art of long snapping for the benefit of 23 teenagers and their parents on an unseasonably cool morning last month. He used words like ''balance'' and ''extension'' as he dabbled in the minutiae of a craft that he considers a science.
''What's he going to do after this?'' Rubio asked his audience as one of his campers demonstrated the proper technique for hiking a football between his legs at an alarmingly high rate of speed. ''He's going to sit down on the toilet. There it is. Oh, this is gorgeous.''
Rubio, 38, who has a goatee and the stocky build of a steamer trunk, is one of the country's foremost instructors of an unusual skill. He spends a good chunk of the year traveling the country to stage clinics like this one at Auburn High School, just outside of Worcester, Mass., where he preached the gospel of long snapping to young players whose abilities are being valued by college coaches now more than ever. ''Try sleeping the night before a game without one,'' said Paul Chryst, the coach at Pittsburgh. 
Long snappers have exactly one job: snap the ball on extra points, field goals and punts. And while a long snapper will never win the Heisman Trophy, the role is a trapeze act. The only time anyone notices a snap is when it rockets past the punter or the holder. Anything short of a 100 percent success rate is catastrophic. The very best long snappers, though, can send the ball spiraling in a sharp arc at 52 miles per hour.
''A coach once told me that long snapping is like brain surgery,'' Rubio said during a quiet moment at his camp, a daylong affair that included on-field instruction, a recruiting seminar and film analysis. ''As long as everything goes right, you're good. You mess up one time, you're dead.''
Not so long ago, college coaches would not have dreamed of putting long snappers on full scholarship. A lineman could moonlight at the position. Why waste a scholarship on a long snapper? Conventional wisdom was that coaches were better off recruiting an extra quarterback, or three.
The landscape has changed. Paul Johnson, the coach at Georgia Tech, cited the redshirt sophomore Sean Tobin as the first long snapper he had ever signed to a scholarship out of high school. Johnson knew he would eventually need a replacement for Tyler Morgan, and he could not afford to gamble.
''A bad snap can change the game faster than anything,'' Johnson said in a recent interview.
Boston College Coach Steve Addazio said innovative punting schemes had also underscored the position's importance. More teams have adopted spread formations that put a premium on having a long snapper who can sprint downfield and help cover the return.
''You need a guy who can snap well but is also an athlete,'' Addazio said. ''It's a field-position game. The fewer return yards you give up, the better your starting position is. The better your starting position is, the better chance you have to score.''
Rubio, a former long snapper at U.C.L.A., began his business about 10 years ago with Chris Sailer, his best friend from college. Sailer was the team's place-kicker, so the two have always been especially close. At last month's camp, Sailer instructed his kickers and punters on one side of the field while Rubio used the other. Rubio was prone to describing Sailer's students as morons, though it was a calculated move.
''Rubio does a good job of making long snappers feel important,'' said Clayton Jackson, a Rubio acolyte from Cottonwood Falls, Kan. (population: 903), where he is a senior at Chase County High School. ''Before I got involved, you just felt like you were on your own. You didn't know there were other people who did it. You didn't know there were people who were supportive.''
Rubio is known simply as Rubio. He does not respond to ''Chris.'' (Even his wife calls him Rubio.) His obsession with long snapping is such that he never watches games live on television, he said. Instead, he records them so he can scan them in three minutes. He skips ahead a lot.
''Fourth down, fourth down, fourth down,'' he said.
The ideal long snapper, Rubio said, has long arms and a substantial backside.
''Look at that big old butt,'' Rubio said of one camper. ''All the power comes from the butt. Boom!''
With college scholarships suddenly available, the secret is out: being a good long snapper, or even an adequate one, can pay off. Enter Rubio, who is something of a power broker. Each camper receives a ranking, which Rubio posts on his Web site. Because long snapping is such an esoteric skill, many college coaches lean on Rubio's rankings as a primer for recruiting.
This is not something Rubio attempts to shield from his campers, or from their parents. In fact, he broadcasts it. While his camps are primarily about instruction, he said, they also provide an opportunity to get noticed by someone who has connections. ''Maximum exposure,'' Rubio calls it. One parent asked Rubio if it was too late in the recruiting process for a college to offer a scholarship to his son, a senior.
''Absolutely not,'' Rubio said. ''You're being seen by me now, and coaches are going off my lists.''
Bill Vaughn, whose 14-year-old son, Jake, was attending his second Rubio camp in two weeks, found that other parents were frosty toward him until they learned that Jake was only a high school sophomore. He was not vying for a scholarship, at least not yet.
''After that, they opened up to me a little bit more,'' Bill Vaughn said.
Rubio said campers often asked how frequently they should see him. The short answer: there is no such thing as too much Rubio.
''Right after a lesson, I've got you all cleaned up,'' he said. ''You're a big boat. I'm going to set you off to sea. The longer you wait to come back to me, the more barnacles and crap I need to clean off before I can add the flames and the new engines and stuff like that.''
There is an economic side to the equation, of course. Long snapping is Rubio's livelihood, and he typically charges each of his campers about $300 to attend his camps. Many of the boys who traveled to Auburn came from out of state, and the entire enterprise can get expensive in a hurry. Rubio organizes roughly 35 camps over the course of the year. He also offers private lessons at his home in Lewiston, Idaho.
''When you go to a Rubio camp, you get Rubio,'' Rubio said. ''And that's a big-time thing. If you're paying top dollar, you better get Grade A meat.''
Rubio's path to self-styled guru happened more or less by accident. As a teenager growing up outside Los Angeles, he was a quarterback until he reached high school. The problem, he said, was his size -- specifically, the 270 pounds he was hauling around on his 6-foot-2 frame. His coach turned him into a lineman, but Rubio saw little action as a sophomore. He said he was not particularly enamored with his role or with his coach.
''He was a yeller,'' Rubio said. ''I'm not a yeller.''
The following summer, Rubio was throwing the football around when a friend decided to snap a few from 15 yards. Rubio tried it and liked it. He seemed to have a natural feel for the skill. He spent the next two seasons as his high school's long snapper and drew mild interest from college coaches.
He enrolled at U.C.L.A., where he earned a spot on the team as a walk-on. Everything that Rubio understood about the position was self-taught, he said. He studied video and devised drills for himself in his dorm room. As a sophomore, Rubio began to wonder why Terry Donahue, the team's head coach, had never said a word to him. Did Donahue even know his name? Rubio said he finally worked up the nerve to ask.
''Rubio,'' Donahue told him, ''if I never speak to you again, you've done a fine job.''
Donahue never spoke to him again, a fact Rubio regards as a point of pride.
These days, Rubio markets the entire Rubio experience as entree into the long-snapping fraternity. Each camper gets his e-mail address and cellphone number -- ''If I don't respond right away, I'm either on a plane, sleeping or at a camp,'' he said -- along with an evaluation and that all-important ranking.
The country's top-ranked senior, according to Rubio, is Tanner Carew, a 6-foot-2, 215-pound wizard from La Verne, Calif., who has orally committed to play at Oregon on a full scholarship. Carew said he had attended more Rubio camps than he could remember.
''Colleges look at his rankings,'' Carew said in a telephone interview. ''He knows people. I wouldn't be in this position without him.''
Last month's camp concluded with an accuracy contest. The finals pitted Jackson against Zach Hubbard, a 6-foot-5, 240-pound senior from Tampa, Fla., who had arrived that day hoping to improve his Rubio ranking. Hubbard said his goal was to use long snapping to enhance his college choices and then parlay it into a career.
''I want to make $800,000 doing nothing in the N.F.L.,'' he said.
After ousting Jackson, Hubbard was happy to settle for a Camp Champion T-shirt. Rubio was off to his next stop in Chicago.
College Football Preview: 29.5: Points scored per game by Football Bowl Subdivision teams last season, the fourth consecutive season that scoring increased.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Clayton Jackson, on floor, and Zach Hubbard faced off to determine the long-snapping champion at a Chris Rubio camp last month in Auburn, Mass. Rubio, below, demonstrated how to hold the ball in one of his drills and coached a player on his grip. Mary Jackson, bottom, Clayton's mother, worked with him on another drill. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SAMANTHA ALYN GORESH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ADOLESCENTS (90%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (89%); SPORTS AWARDS (75%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (75%); SPORTS (75%); ATHLETES (75%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (74%); INTERVIEWS (70%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WORCESTER, MA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (78%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2013



725 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINIONATOR; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1387 words

HEADLINE: What Is Economics Good For?

BYLINE: By ALEX ROSENBERG and TYLER CURTAIN. 
Alex Rosenberg is a professor of philosophy at Duke University and the author, most recently, of ''The Atheist's Guide to Reality.'' Tyler Curtain, a philosopher, is an associate professor of English and comparative literature at the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill.

 BODY:
Recent debates over who is most qualified to serve as the next chairman of the Federal Reserve have focused on more than just the candidates' theory-driven economic expertise. They have touched on matters of personality and character as well. This is as it should be. Given the nature of economies, and our ability to understand them, the task of the Fed's next leader will be more a matter of craft and wisdom than of science.
When we put a satellite in orbit around Mars, we have the scientific knowledge that guarantees accuracy and precision in the prediction of its orbit. Achieving a comparable level of certainty about the outcomes of an economy is far dicier.
The fact that the discipline of economics hasn't helped us improve our predictive abilities suggests it is still far from being a science, and may never be. Still, the misperceptions persist. A student who graduates with a degree in economics leaves college with a bachelor of science, but possesses nothing so firm as the student of the real world processes of chemistry or even agriculture. 
Before the 1970s, the discussion of how to make economics a science was left mostly to economists. But like war, which is too important to be left to the generals, economics was too important to be left to the Nobel-winning members of the University of Chicago faculty. Over time, the question of why economics has not (yet) qualified as a science has become an obsession among theorists, including philosophers of science like us.
It's easy to understand why economics might be mistaken for science. It uses quantitative expression in mathematics and the succinct statement of its theories in axioms and derived ''theorems,'' so economics looks a lot like the models of science we are familiar with from physics. Its approach to economic outcomes -- determined from the choices of a large number of ''atomic'' individuals -- recalls the way atomic theory explains chemical reactions. Economics employs partial differential equations like those in a Black-Scholes account of derivatives markets, equations that look remarkably like ones familiar from physics. The trouble with economics is that it lacks the most important of science's characteristics -- a record of improvement in predictive range and accuracy.
This is what makes economics a subject of special interest among philosophers of science. None of our models of science really fit economics at all.
The irony is that for a long time economists announced a semiofficial allegiance to Karl Popper's demand for falsifiability as the litmus test for science, and adopted Milton Friedman's thesis that the only thing that mattered in science was predictive power. Mr. Friedman was reacting to a criticism made by Marxist economists and historical economists that mathematical economics was useless because it made so many idealized assumptions about economic processes: perfect rationality, infinite divisibility of commodities, constant returns to scale, complete information, no price setting.
Mr. Friedman argued that false assumptions didn't matter any more in economics than they did in physics. Like the ''ideal gas,'' ''frictionless plane'' and ''center of gravity'' in physics, idealizations in economics are both harmless and necessary. They are indispensable calculating devices and approximations that enable the economist to make predictions about markets, industries and economies the way they enable physicists to predict eclipses and tides, or prevent bridge collapses and power failures.
But economics has never been able to show the record of improvement in predictive successes that physical science has shown through its use of harmless idealizations. In fact, when it comes to economic theory's track record, there isn't much predictive success to speak of at all.
Moreover, many economists don't seem troubled when they make predictions that go wrong. Readers of Paul Krugman and other like-minded commentators are familiar with their repeated complaints about the refusal of economists to revise their theories in the face of recalcitrant facts. Philosophers of science are puzzled by the same question. What is economics up to if it isn't interested enough in predictive success to adjust its theories the way a science does when its predictions go wrong?
Unlike the physical world, the domain of economics includes a wide range of social ''constructions'' -- institutions like markets and objects like currency and stock shares -- that even when idealized don't behave uniformly. They are made up of unrecognized but artificial conventions that people persistently change and even destroy in ways that no social scientist can really anticipate. We can exploit gravity, but we can't change it or destroy it. No one can say the same for the socially constructed causes and effects of our choices that economics deals with.
Another factor economics has never been able to tame is science itself. These are the drivers of economic growth, the ''creative destruction'' of capitalism. But no one can predict the direction of scientific discovery and its technological application. That was Popper's key insight. Philosophers and historians of science like Thomas S. Kuhn have helped us see why scientific paradigm shifts seem to come almost out of nowhere. As the rate of acceleration of innovation increases, the prospects of an economic theory that tames the economy's most powerful forces must diminish -- and with it, any hope of improvements in prediction declines as well.
SO if predictive power is not in the cards for economics, what is it good for?
Social and political philosophers have helped us answer this question, and so understand what economics is really all about. Since Hobbes, philosophers have been concerned about the design and management of institutions that will protect us from ''the knave'' within us all, those parts of our selves tempted to opportunism, free riding and generally avoiding the costs of civil life while securing its benefits. Hobbes and, later, Hume -- along with modern philosophers like John Rawls and Robert Nozick -- recognized that an economic approach had much to contribute to the design and creative management of such institutions. Fixing bad economic and political institutions (concentrations of power, collusions and monopolies), improving good ones (like the Fed's open-market operations), designing new ones (like electromagnetic bandwidth auctions), in the private and public sectors, are all attainable tasks of economic theory.
Which brings us back to the Fed. An effective chair of the central bank will be one who understands that economics is not yet a science and may never be. At this point it is a craft, to be executed with wisdom, not algorithms, in the design and management of institutions. What made Ben S. Bernanke, the current chairman, successful was his willingness to use methods -- like ''quantitative easing,'' buying bonds to lower long-term interest rates -- that demanded a feeling for the economy, one that mere rational-expectations macroeconomics would have denied him.
For the foreseeable future economic theory should be understood more on the model of music theory than Newtonian theory. The Fed chairman must, like a first violinist tuning the orchestra, have the rare ear to fine-tune complexity (probably a Keynesian ability to fine-tune at that). Like musicians', economists' expertise is still a matter of craft. They must avoid the hubris of thinking their theory is perfectly suited to the task, while employing it wisely enough to produce some harmony amid the cacophony.
Alex Rosenberg is the R. Taylor Cole Professor of Philosophy and chair of the philosophy department at Duke University. He is the author of ''Economics -- Mathematical Politics or Science of Diminishing Returns,'' most recently, ''The Atheist's Guide to Reality.''
Tyler Curtain is a philosopher of science and an associate professor of English and comparative literature the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. He was recently named the 2013 recipient of the Robert Frost Distinguished Chair of Literature at the Bread Loaf School of English, Middlebury College, Vt.
This essay is from The Stone, a philosophy series at nytimes.com/opinionator.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC
 DRAWING (DRAWING BY TUCKER NICHOLS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MATHEMATICS (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); SCIENTIFIC METHOD (78%); CHEMISTRY (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); NOBEL PRIZES (72%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (69%); AWARDS & PRIZES (65%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%) ILLINOIS, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2013



726 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1779 words

HEADLINE: For New York Mayor

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

 BODY:
Christine Quinn, the Democratic Choice
Mayor Michael Bloomberg is almost gone. At year's end there will be nothing more he can do to shape, alter or improve the City of New York. It's the end of 12 years of governing under one man's singular, often inspiring, sometimes maddening priorities, which were as big as a rising ocean and as small as your soda cup. It was a vision that succeeded brilliantly, but incompletely. But don't worry, New York. Mr. Bloomberg's is hardly the only way to run a city, and the excellent news is that there is a candidate who is ready to carry on at least as well as he did. 
She is one of seven Democrats who have been toiling for months in the primary race, standing before voters day and night in a marathon of civic engagement. A common complaint is that this year's candidates look small, like dots on the slopes of Mount Bloomberg. But that isn't fair; all but a few are solid public servants running substantive campaigns. Though the race was crashed, and distracted for a few irritating weeks, by the unqualified Anthony Weiner, it has since sobered up, and voters are paying attention. It is clear by now -- and last Wednesday's debate made it even clearer -- that the best in the group is Christine Quinn.
Ms. Quinn, the City Council speaker, offers the judgment and record of achievement anyone should want in a mayor. Two opponents -- Bill de Blasio, the public advocate, and William Thompson Jr., former comptroller -- offer powerful arguments on their own behalf. But Ms. Quinn inspires the most confidence that she would be the right mayor for the inevitable times when hope and idealism collide with the challenge of getting something done.
Ms. Quinn has been an impressive leader since her days as a neighborhood advocate and her early years on the City Council. We endorsed her for the Council in 1999 as someone ''who can both work within the system and criticize it when necessary'' -- a judgment she has validated many times since. She has shepherded through important laws protecting New Yorkers' health, safety and civil rights, including measures banning public smoking, protecting tenants and small businesses, and battling slumlords. She sponsored the sweeping 2007 legislation that made the city's exemplary campaign-finance laws even stronger. She pushed successfully for a state law making kindergarten mandatory for 5-year-olds -- giving thousands of poor and minority children a better start on their educations.
As speaker, Ms. Quinn has been a forceful counterpart to Mr. Bloomberg, and has turned the Council from a collection of rambunctious, ill-directed egos into a forceful and effective legislative body. In wrestling with budgets she has shown restraint that runs counter to lesser political instincts. She fought, for example, for a Bloomberg plan to keep a year's surplus as a rainy-day fund. There was fierce opposition from Council members who wanted to spend the money. Ms. Quinn was right, and the city had a cushion when the recession hit.
Mr. Bloomberg has raised expectations that hard decisions should be made on the merits -- that the city needs a mayor who is willing to say no. More than with the other candidates, that description fits Ms. Quinn. As an early leader in the campaign, with a target on her back, she has faced anger and derision without wavering. We admire her staunch support for the city's solid-waste management plan, which is good for the whole city but bitterly opposed in some neighborhoods. She has been willing to challenge the mayor's misjudgment and insensitivity, as when he tried to require single adults to prove their homelessness before they were allowed to use city shelters.
Mr. de Blasio has been the most forceful and eloquent of the Democrats in arguing that New York needs to reset its priorities in favor of the middle class, the struggling and the poor. His stature has grown as his message has taken root -- voters leery of stark and growing inequalities have embraced his message of ''two cities.'' He has ennobled the campaign conversation by insisting, correctly, that expanding early education is vital to securing the city's future. And yet, Mr. de Blasio's most ambitious plans -- like a powerful new state-city partnership to make forever-failing city hospitals financially viable, or to pay for universal prekindergarten and after-school programs through a new tax on the richest New Yorkers -- need support in the State Capitol, and look like legislative long shots. Once a Mayor de Blasio saw his boldest ideas smashed on the rocks of Albany, then what?
Mr. Thompson, meanwhile, who nearly defeated Mr. Bloomberg four years ago, has run a thoughtful campaign grounded on the insights he gained in important elective and appointed posts in New York City. A former president of the old Board of Education, Mr. Thompson argues that he is the best candidate to fix the city schools, but his close ties to the United Federation of Teachers, not always a friend of needed reforms, give us pause. The teachers' union is one of the municipal unions itching for retroactive pay raises in contracts that expired under Mr. Bloomberg and need renegotiating.
For all the growing testiness of the campaign, the Democrats share much common ground. All agree on equality, opportunity and fairness. They concede that the best of the Bloomberg years -- the economic diversification and growth, the astounding drop in crime, the transit innovations, the greener and cleaner public spaces, and big plans for the future -- must be preserved. And they agree that the worst must be corrected -- starting with the Police Department's unconstitutional use of stop-and-frisk, which has abused and humiliated hundreds of thousands of innocent New Yorkers.
Ms. Quinn has no specific plan to require the richest New Yorkers to pay more in taxes in service of important civic goals (she says she will raise taxes as a last resort), but neither has she made a long list of unrealistic promises. The biggest challenge has not been talked about much -- next year the new mayor will have to confront a budget crisis with no money to spare and all those expired municipal contracts to settle. The mayor we will need then will not be the police reformer or education visionary, but a skilled and realistic negotiator.
Some positions Ms. Quinn has supported are unwise or objectionable. She has been too strong in supporting Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly, the architect and stoutest defender of stop-and-frisk. She has supported, too blindly, Mr. Kelly's practice of spying on Muslims at prayer, a similar false choice of public safety over the Constitution. She can become mumbly when talking about things that the real estate industry opposes, like changing zoning laws to require construction of affordable apartments. She has a reputation for shouting, but has shown a capacity to listen, and to be persuaded to change her mind -- attributes we will count on seeing more of if she is elected.
We had already made up our own minds in favor of Ms. Quinn, but the Wednesday debate would have clinched it anyway. Candidates were asked what legacy they wanted to leave after two terms. ''More people in the middle class,'' Ms. Quinn said. It was a perfect answer, and she could have left it there. But, Quinn being Quinn, she threw in supporting details. She wants 40,000 more apartments the middle class can afford to live in. She wants to repair crumbling public housing, providing ''quality conditions'' for 600,000 people. She wants to make the school day longer and replace textbooks with electronic tablets. At the buzzer, she threw in: make the city ''climate-change ready.''
A lot of good ideas that, in Ms. Quinn's case, add up to an achievable vision, and one we would be glad to see come to pass.
For Republicans, Joseph Lhota
You might find it odd to see this page endorsing the mayoral candidacy of Joseph Lhota, a Republican who made his mark in politics as right-hand man and chief enabler to Rudolph Giuliani. Mr. Giuliani, a two-term mayor of uncommon nastiness, has seen his once-formidable reputation shrink to a pinpoint, to the things he did on and around one terrible September day more than a decade ago. But Mr. Lhota is more than the sum of his years as Mr. Giuliani's top deputy, and he is the best qualified of the three men seeking the Republican nomination for mayor.
Few people know better than Mr. Lhota how city government works. He was an expert budget director for Mr. Giuliani, and then became deputy mayor for operations.
In 2011 and 2012, he ran the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, which, under his leadership, recovered amazingly quickly from the damage done by Hurricane Sandy.
Mr. Lhota, son of a New York City cop, is not a glad-handing pol, but a practical and efficient one. When The Times's editorial board interviewed candidates for the mayoral endorsement, it asked them to supply one practical idea to improve the quality of life in New York. Some were flustered. Not Mr. Lhota, who gave an instant, excellent answer: park-and-ride lots at the far ends of subway lines, to coax drivers at the city's edges onto mass transit.
Mr. Lhota is running against John Catsimatidis, billionaire grocer, and George McDonald, founder of The Doe Fund, which gives homeless New Yorkers a job and a bed. Mr. McDonald has had an admirable career, though not one that remotely qualifies him to run New York City, and we wish he would do better at hiding his contempt for some of his opponents. When he called Anthony Weiner a ''self-pleasuring freak'' and got to the brink of a shoving match, he inspired audiences to boo him, not Mr. Weiner, which was quite a feat.
Being mayor requires a thick skin, good humor and the ability to show or feign graciousness. Mr. Catsimatidis, an affable man, is good at that. He likes to call his fund-raisers ''friend-raisers,'' and it doesn't sound ludicrous. He also promises to make this city of eight million people a cleaner, well-run, thriving place, but we won't take him seriously until he shows he can do that at Gristedes.
Mr. Lhota has had to live down his reputation as Mr. Giuliani's enforcer, as when he shamefully threatened to cut off funds to the Brooklyn Museum over artwork that offended the administration. He surely knows and possibly regrets that his loyalty to his old boss has complicated his current ambitions. Asked recently by The Times to name his favorite mayor, Mr. Lhota said Fiorello La Guardia. If he embodies the traits he admires in the Little Flower -- ''He took off his jacket, he rolled up his sleeves, and he took care of all New Yorkers,'' Mr. Lhota said -- he could do well in City Hall.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); CITIES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (71%); LEGISLATION (70%); CIVIL RIGHTS (68%); SMOKING (60%); BANKING & FINANCE (60%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%); ANTHONY D WEINER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2013



727 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2013
National

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; TEXAS MONTHLY; Pg. 23B

LENGTH: 868 words

HEADLINE: When Hill Country Feels Too Much Like Shreveport

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER KELLY. 
ckelly@texasmonthly.com

 BODY:
By most standards, the new film ''Ain't Them Bodies Saints'' should be a source of pride for Texas' growing film industry. This thriller, which stars Rooney Mara, Casey Affleck and Ben Foster, is set in Central Texas; was written and directed by the Dallas-based David Lowery; and its producers include Toby Halbrooks, also of Dallas, and James M. Johnston, of Fort Worth.
Acquired by IFC Films at this year's Sundance Film Festival, the movie opened in limited release earlier this month, to mostly favorable reviews and is expected to expand to more than 100 theaters nationwide, making it one of the highest-profile Texas titles of the year. 
Yet one detail nags.
With the exception of a few sequences that were shot in Meridian, Austin and Dallas, ''Ain't Them Bodies Saints'' was filmed mostly in Shreveport, La. That state's generous film-production incentive program rewarded ''Ain't Them Bodies Saints'' nearly $1 million in tax credits -- in effect, allowing Mr. Lowery to make a $4 million film for $3 million. Texas' film-incentive program, the producers said, offered a fraction of that.
''For us, the artistic choice was to shoot in Texas,'' said Mr. Johnston. ''But looking at the numbers, there wasn't a choice.''
Situations like these have long frustrated Texas entertainment-industry professionals, though things may be changing. Earlier this year, the Texas Legislature approved a spending bill that would give $95 million to the state's production-incentive program in the 2014-15 budget, nearly tripling the $32 million that was in the 2012-13 budget.
Heather Page, director of the Texas Film Commission, said that the success of such recent filmed-in-Texas efforts as Ethan and Joel Coen's ''True Grit'' and TNT's reboot of ''Dallas'' had helped make the case for increasing the program's budget.
''We have been able to collect and show real economic data to leadership and legislators that shows how communities across this state experience clear and meaningful economic benefits from film, television and commercial productions,'' Ms. Page said in an e-mail.
The program, however, may still not be able to help Texas compete with states like Louisiana, Georgia and New York.
The calculus of determining incentives is complicated. Generally, low-budget movies can get refunds of 10 to 17 percent of what they spend on production and salaries in Texas. (Big-budget movies get a more generous rate.) The additional financing approved for 2014 will not change that rate but will expand the number of projects that can be rewarded.
This is far less than the 30 percent to 35 percent offered by Louisiana and New York. ''Texas has a very fair and generous incentive program, but it just can't compete,'' Mr. Johnston said. ''In Louisiana, if you spend the money, there are a few hoops you have to jump through, but you get 30 percent back.''
For higher-profile efforts, like ''Dallas'' or the NBC series ''Revolution,'' which has been shooting its second season in Austin, municipally financed film commissions like the Dallas Film Commission will often step in to sweeten the pot. But for independent projects, like ''Ain't Them Bodies Saints,'' local incentive deals can be harder to come by or complicated to patch together.
One additional complication is a 2007 clause that allows the Film Commission to reject a project if it includes ''inappropriate content or content that portrays Texas or Texans in a negative fashion.'' Exactly how such determinations are made -- and according to what standards -- is unclear.
In July, Machete's Chop Shop, a production company that backed Robert Rodriguez's 2010 film ''Machete,'' sued the Texas Film Commission and its director, claiming that the commission had used the clause to renege on more than $2 million in promised incentives.
According to the lawsuit, in 2009 the commission approved the script of ''Machete,'' a freewheeling action movie that satirizes anti-immigration attitudes in Texas. But once the film opened, according to the suit, the commission denied the funds. It was the first time the clause, which is rarely invoked, had been exercised after a film had finished shooting.
''We filed the lawsuit so that we can have judicial guidance on how the process is supposed to work,'' said Bob Tyler, the Austin-based lawyer for Machete's Chop Shop. ''The Texas Film Commission, filmmakers and investors all need predictability when making a decision to invest in Texas.'' (Mr. Rodriguez, whose sequel ''Machete Kills'' opens Oct. 11 and was filmed in Austin, issued a statement in July saying that he was not involved in the lawsuit.)
The Texas Film Commission, which is part of Gov. Rick Perry's office, declined to comment on the lawsuit or about broader questions about whether the clause might squelch artistic expression. Filmmakers were also reluctant to go on the record, out of concern that their projects might suffer negative repercussions. But one New York-based producer, who requested anonymity, echoed a common concern about the possibility that incentive funds might be based on the film commission's ideological or political judgments.
''Am I taking a chance by shooting there?'' he asked, referring to Texas. ''The truth is, you are.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Casey Affleck in the film ''Ain't Them Bodies Saints,'' set in Texas but shot mostly in Louisiana. (PHOTOGRAPH BY IFC FILMS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE INDUSTRY (91%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (90%); BUDGETS (89%); FILM DIRECTORS (89%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); APPROPRIATIONS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); FESTIVALS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); TAX LAW (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHREVEPORT, LA, USA (93%); DALLAS, TX, USA (91%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (73%) TEXAS, USA (97%); LOUISIANA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2013



728 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1000 words

HEADLINE: Public Policies, Made to Fit People

BYLINE: By RICHARD H. THALER. 
Richard H. Thaler is a professor of economics and behavioral science at the Booth School of Business at the University of Chicago. He has informally advised the Obama administration.

 BODY:
I HAVE written here before about the potential gains to government from involving social and behavioral scientists in designing public policies. My enthusiasm comes in part from my experiences as an academic adviser to the Behavioral Insights Team created in Britain by Prime Minister David Cameron.
Thus I was pleased to hear reports that the White House is building a similar initiative here in the United States. Maya Shankar, a cognitive scientist and senior policy adviser at the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy, is coordinating this cross-agency group, called the Social and Behavioral Science Team; it is part of a larger effort to use evidence and innovation to promote government performance and efficiency. I am among a number of academics who have shared ideas with the administration about how research findings in social and behavioral science can improve policy. 
It makes sense for social scientists to become more involved in policy, because many of society's most challenging problems are, in essence, behavioral. Using social scientists' findings to create plausible interventions, then testing their efficacy with randomized controlled trials, can improve -- and sometimes save -- people's lives, all while reducing the need for more government spending to fix problems later.
Here are three examples of social science issues that have attracted the team's attention:
THE 30-MILLION-WORD GAP One of society's thorniest problems is that children from poor families start school lagging badly behind their more affluent classmates in readiness. By the age of 3, children from affluent families have vocabularies that are roughly double those of children from poor families, according to research published in 1995.
The research found that one of many reasons that poor children often have difficulty learning to read is that they suffer at home from what might be called a ''word deficiency.'' The caregivers of these children simply don't speak or read to them as often as those in better-off families. The study estimated that by age 3, a poor child would have heard 30 million fewer words than a child growing up in a family of higher socioeconomic status.
Until recently, this word gap has been hard to address. One promising new approach is being tested by Dr. Dana Suskind, a professor of surgery and pediatrics at the University of Chicago. Parents or caregivers who want to improve their children's language skills can be coached to improve their interactions with them. (For example, interactive exchanges are better than soliloquies.)
New technologies, like the digital language processor developed by the LENA Research Foundation, whose work focuses on language problems in young children, can aid in this effort by letting parents receive feedback on the frequency and nature of their verbal interactions with their children. (Think of it as a box score for those interactions.) Providence, R.I., has won a $5 million grant from the Bloomberg Philanthropies for a Providence Talks program to use these kinds of techniques to improve school readiness for low-income children.
In this domain, the team's role is multifaceted. There is no silver bullet for closing the word gap, but by encouraging more trials nationwide, providing evaluation expertise and distributing results, we can help give poor children their best chance to succeed.
DOMESTIC VIOLENCE The team will primarily lend support and expertise to federal agency initiatives. One example concerns the effort to reduce domestic violence, a problem for which there is no quick fix. But a good place to start is to ensure that each component of a victim's support system works as well as it can. One such component is the National Domestic Violence Hotline, which victims can call for advice and support. Like other call-in centers, it can become busy and put callers on hold. Many victims hang up before they've had a chance to speak with a counselor.
In this case, the Administration for Children and Families is building an alliance of call centers to collaborate on experimental trials to see how best to keep callers on the line long enough to get assistance. Avoiding long periods of silence with callers, and offering an estimate of the waiting time, can help achieve that goal. So can composing the initial message in a way that maximizes the chances that a caller won't hang up.
HEALTH COMPLIANCE One reason for high health care costs is that patients fail to follow their treatment regimen.
A good way to approach this problem is via a behavioral assessment, identifying obstacles to that compliance. As Sendhil Mullainathan, a Harvard economist, discussed in this space recently, one such obstacle is the co-payment, the patient's share of a treatment's cost. He sensibly suggests that for some highly effective treatments, there should be no co-payment at all. That's a good place to start.
A thorough assessment could also uncover other factors that reduce patients' adherence to best medical practices. If forgetting to take a medicine is the problem, a variety of interventions can help -- from changing the medication's design (a once-a-day dose is easier to remember than one taken three times a day) to using technology that reminds patients to take their pills.
Similarly, offering phone or text reminders of medical appointments can reduce no-shows and ensure that lab tests are done on time. Information technology makes these mental crutches easy to use, and is the focus of the team's collaboration with the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology.
All of these examples show that the role of behavioral science in policy isn't for the government to tell people how to think or act. It is to help them achieve their own goals. Parents want their children to excel, callers to a victims' hot line want help, and sick people want to get well. Offering aids is like providing an alarm clock: it may help people get to an appointment on time, but no one is forcing them to use it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC POLICY (92%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (91%); ACADEMIC COUNSELING (90%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (90%); CHILDREN (89%); POOR POPULATION (87%); FAMILY (86%); SCIENCE POLICY (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY POLICY (57%)

PERSON: DAVID CAMERON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%) RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2013



729 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1217 words

HEADLINE: Likely to Succeed

BYLINE: By ANNIE MURPHY PAUL. 
Annie Murphy Paul is the author of the forthcoming book ''Brilliant: The Science of How We Get Smarter.''

 BODY:
THE SMARTEST KIDS IN THE WORLDAnd How They Got That Way
By Amanda RipleyIllustrated. 306 pp. Simon & Schuster. $28.
''If you want the American dream, go to Finland.'' These blunt words from a British politician, quoted by Amanda Ripley in ''The Smartest Kids in the World,'' may lead readers to imagine that her book belongs to a very particular and popular genre. We love to read about how other cultures do it better (stay slim, have sex, raise children). In this case, Ripley is offering to show how other nations educate students so much more effectively than we do, and her opening pages hold out a promising suggestion of masochistic satisfaction. ''American educators described Finland as a silky paradise,'' she writes, ''a place where all the teachers were admired and all the children beloved.'' 
The appeal of these books, which include ''French Women Don't Get Fat,'' ''Bringing Up Bébé'' and ''Battle Hymn of the Tiger Mother'' (excerpted in The Wall Street Journal under the headline ''Why Chinese Mothers Are Superior''), comes from the opportunity to wallow enjoyably in envy and self-loathing -- and then to close the cover, having changed nothing. We're Americans, after all. We're not really going to do it the Chinese way or the French way, superior as they may be.
But Ripley, a contributor to Time magazine and The Atlantic and an Emerson fellow at the New America Foundation (where I am also a fellow), has a more challenging, and more interesting, project in mind. Yes, she travels to Finland to observe the ''Nordic robots'' who achieve such remarkably high scores on international tests -- and to South Korea and Poland, two other nations where students handily surpass Americans' mediocre performance. In the best tradition of travel writing, however, she gets well beneath the glossy surfaces of these foreign cultures, and manages to make our own culture look newly strange.
In reporting her book, Ripley made the canny choice to enlist ''field agents'' who could penetrate other countries' schools far more fully than she: three American students, each studying abroad for a year. Kim, a restless 15-year-old from rural Oklahoma, heads off to Finland, a place she had only read about, ''a snow-castle country with white nights and strong coffee.'' Instead, what she finds is a trudge through the cold dark, to a dingy school with desks in rows and an old-fashioned chalkboard -- not an iPad or interactive whiteboard in sight. What Kim's school in the small town of Pietarsaari does have is bright, talented teachers who are well trained and love their jobs.
This is the first hint of how Finland does it: rather than ''trying to reverse engineer a high-performance teaching culture through dazzlingly complex performance evaluations and value-added data analysis,'' as we do, they ensure high-quality teaching from the beginning, allowing only top students to enroll in teacher-training programs, which are themselves far more demanding than such programs in America. A virtuous cycle is thus initiated: better-prepared, better-trained teachers can be given more autonomy, leading to more satisfied teachers who are also more likely to stay on.
Kim soon notices something else that's different about her school in Pietarsaari, and one day she works up the courage to ask her classmates about it. ''Why do you guys care so much?'' Kim inquires of two Finnish girls. ''I mean, what makes you work hard in school?'' The students look baffled by her question. ''It's school,'' one of them says. ''How else will I graduate and go to university and get a good job?'' It's the only sensible answer, of course, but its irrefutable logic still eludes many American students, a quarter of whom fail to graduate from high school. Ripley explains why: Historically, Americans ''hadn't needed a very rigorous education, and they hadn't gotten it. Wealth had made rigor optional.'' But now, she points out, ''everything had changed. In an automated, global economy, kids needed to be driven; they need to know how to adapt, since they would be doing it all their lives. They needed a culture of rigor.''
Rigor on steroids is what Ripley finds in South Korea, the destination of another of her field agents. Eric, who attended an excellent public school back home in Minnesota, is shocked at first to see his classmates in the South Korean city of Busan dozing through class. Some wear small pillows that slip over their wrists, the better to sleep with their heads on their desks. Only later does he realize why they are so tired -- they spend all night studying at hagwons, the cram schools where Korean kids get their real education.
Ripley introduces us to Andrew Kim, ''the $4 million teacher,'' who makes a fortune as one of South Korea's most in-demand hagwon instructors, and takes us on a ride-along with Korean authorities as they raid hagwons in Seoul, attempting to enforce a 10 p.m. study curfew. Academic pressure there is out of control, and government officials and school administrators know it -- but they are no match for ambitious students and their parents, who understand that passing the country's stringent graduation exam is the key to a successful, prosperous life.
Ripley is cleareyed about the serious drawbacks of this system: ''In Korea, the hamster wheel created as many problems as it solved.'' Still, if she had to choose between ''the hamster wheel and the moon bounce that characterized many schools in the United States,'' she would reluctantly pick the hamster wheel: ''It was relentless and excessive, yes, but it also felt more honest. Kids in hamster-wheel countries knew what it felt like to grapple with complex ideas and think outside their comfort zone; they understood the value of persistence. They knew what it felt like to fail, work harder and do better. They were prepared for the modern world.'' Not so American students, who are eased through high school only to discover, too late, that they lack the knowledge and skill to compete in the global economy.
The author's third stop is Poland, a country that has scaled the heights of international test-score rankings in record time by following the formula common to Finland and South Korea: well-trained teachers, a rigorous curriculum and a challenging exam required of all graduating seniors. In the city of Wroclaw, Ripley meets up with Tom, a bookish teenager from Pennsylvania, and discovers yet another difference between the schools in top-performing countries and those in the United States. In Tom's hometown high school, Ripley observes, sports were ''the core culture.'' Four local reporters show up to each football game. In Wroclaw, ''sports simply did not figure into the school day; why would they? Plenty of kids played pickup soccer or basketball games on their own after school, but there was no confusion about what school was for -- or what mattered to kids' life chances.''
It's in moments like these that Ripley succeeds in making our own culture and our own choices seem alien -- quite a feat for an institution as familiar and fiercely defended as high school. The question is whether the startling perspective provided by this masterly book can also generate the will to make changes. For all our griping about American education, Ripley notes, we've got the schools we want.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Amanda Ripley (PHOTOGRAPH BY BROOKE BREADY) (BR22) DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY MARC ROSENTHAL) (BR1
BR22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (88%); STUDY ABROAD PROGRAMS (76%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (75%)

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); FINLAND (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2013



730 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1206 words

HEADLINE: Escaping the Past

BYLINE: By NORMAN RUSH. 
Norman Rush is the author of ''Whites,'' ''Mating'' and ''Mortals.'' His new novel, ''Subtle Bodies,'' will be published next month.

 BODY:
A MARKER TO MEASURE DRIFTBy Alexander Maksik
222 pp. Alfred A. Knopf. $24.95.
Can the literary novel ever really get its arms around the problem of human evil? It keeps trying -- a difficult assignment for the poor beast. In any case, an undaunted Alexander Maksik has brought his skills to this very problem. His second novel, ''A Marker to Measure Drift,'' recounts a season of homeless exile in the life of a 24-year-old Liberian woman fleeing an episode of gruesome violence incidental to the overthrow of the tyrant Charles Ghankay Taylor, in 2003. Maksik has produced a bold book, and an instructive one.
''Marker'' is an aftermath novel. Jacqueline, its heroine, suffers from unbearable suppressed memories, from remorse over failures to have anticipated the bloody destiny ordained for her family. The dangers and indignities of flight and destitution, stark as they are, weigh less than her mental torment. Maksik is, of course, hardly the first American writer to set a tale in the context of African brutality. The grim fact is that for some of the more absolute forms of malevolence -- communal violence gone mad, for one -- Africa has been a recurrent theater. 
Despite the consensus view that the continent has, in the last 20 years, risen brilliantly in terms of G.D.P. growth, explosive gains in elite income, improved infrastructure and better governance, outbreaks of mass violence continue in conflicts taking place at the edges of public consciousness. Think of Uganda, Nigeria, Sudan, the Democratic Republic of Congo. Susan Minot's new novel, ''Thirty Girls,'' to be published next year, concerns a victim of the crazed insurgency led by Joseph Kony in Uganda. Mark Lee's 1998 novel ''The Lost Tribe'' deals with an unnamed Central African republic most likely based on Uganda. Dave Eggers's 2006 novel ''What Is the What'' dramatizes the fate of one of the Sudanese Lost Boys. Philip Caputo set his 2005 novel ''Acts of Faith'' in Sudan, where the unending civil war seemed to be coming to an end. It is returning in fire. The subject renews itself, alas, and the geography accommodating violence expands: the faith-based slaughters proceeding in Syria, Afghanistan and Iraq (still!) await their literary anatomists.
Maksik writes, credibly, across the boundaries of gender and, in this book, race. He has written before from a woman's point of view. One narrator of his first novel, ''You Deserve Nothing,'' is a young Frenchwoman who determinedly seduces her instructor at an international school in Paris. The book received praise as an evocation of disordered passions, as an erotic fantasia along the lines of James Salter's novel ''A Sport and a Pastime.'' (Later, it came to light that the book was apparently a roman à clef, when the humiliated woman Maksik seems to have based his heroine on accused him of violations of confidence.)
By way of contrast, the heroine of ''A Marker to Measure Drift'' is a blameless young woman who has been rescued from death almost happenstantially by her French journalist lover as he scrambles to leave a Monrovia falling into the hands of an armed rabble of murderous teenagers. Thereafter permanently abandoned by her Frenchman, penniless, she is forced to cobble together an existence, sleeping in caves or unfinished buildings, in the crevices of the tourist milieu on the island of Santorini.
''Marker'' is a study of scarred consciousness struggling to come to terms with the violence done to it in a moment of cataclysmic horror. Jacqueline needs to relive and transmit the truth of her descent into hell if she is to renew the desire to keep living. (A classic realization of the drive to disarm evil by retelling may be found in António Lobo Antunes's novel ''The Land at the End of the World,'' based on the author's experiences as an army medic in Angola during Portugal's last colonial war.)
In a way, Jacqueline's struggle stands as a metaphor for the literary novel itself when it engages enormity. Readers can't help wanting ''the one bright book of life'' to end at least consolingly, if not straight-up happily. There is a homiletic bias to the stories novelists tend to tell best. Maksik finds his own way of squaring the circle of disaster and hope, signaled late in the book by a shift from past to present tense.
Is Maksik's grueling depiction of a woman in torment successful as a work of fiction? I think it is. The point of view is convincing. As for any idiosyncrasies the reader may be looking for in Jacqueline's voice as a child of Liberia, they are few -- as might be expected, given her background as a thoroughly westernized member of the country's ruling elite who has been educated in Britain. Her place of refuge, outdoor Santorini, is keenly described, the details of the setting jaggedly selected, in the same way they might impress themselves on a harried, homeless young woman. The mechanics of trying to stay fed and sheltered are given plausibly enough. Maksik's narrative style, using short, declarative sentences and sentence fragments, fits the story's tenor and pace.
The sustained representation of Jacqueline's search for release, for haven, has moments of bleak poetry: ''She couldn't say that she was leaving, that she had somewhere to be. If she did she'd have to walk in the direction of that place and there was no place.''
Jacqueline is afflicted with flashbacks, not of the violence in her past, but of moments that should have been forewarnings. Illusory images of her father and mother accompany her. They dispense irrelevant advice. It's a bad dream Jacqueline inhabits, but Maksik makes the reader share it. The novel is a tense read. Will this unprotected woman, haplessly wandering, fall prey to predators of the European kind? That's a concern. She's also careless about where she leaves her passport.
''A Marker to Measure Drift'' isn't constructed to go deep into the heart of darkness, the wellsprings of the terrible killing in West Africa. Maksik brings us to the scene, ultimately, but not through it. The story ends there.
The question of complicity on the part of Jacqueline's family in Charles Taylor's reign of terror comes up in a serpentine way at different points. ''Later,'' Maksik writes, ''she listened to the BBC as the U.N. unsealed Taylor's indictment: murder, torture, rape, sexual slavery, terrorism, looting, the unlawful recruitment of child soldiers. . . . Her father looked at her and smiled a cold smile, a smile that meant, What I'm about to say is the last we'll speak of it. . . . He said, 'That's Ghankay. Exceptional men have exceptional habits.' ''
It is of course made evident that the degree of guilt Jacqueline faces serves only to make her suffering worse. Those who destroyed Taylor were achieving revenge, after all.
A piety frequently turns up in reviews of contemporary novels set in violent African venues: that such works can't help raising consciousness, leading to moral pressure, leading to change. How much truth there is in that I don't know. We keep hearing it. It's a hope. And I'm sure this hope resides in the heart of Alexander Maksik, who has illuminated for us, with force and art, an all too common species of suffering -- grievous, ugly and, unfortunately, a perennial.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ANA PARINI) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (93%); LITERATURE (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); RELIGION (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SUDAN (91%); UGANDA (90%); AFRICA (79%); IRAQ (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (79%); LIBERIA (72%); NIGERIA (70%); SYRIA (69%); AFGHANISTAN (67%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2013



731 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2242 words

HEADLINE: Sunday Dialogue: Blocking Health Reform

 BODY:
Readers discuss Republican efforts to undercut Obamacare.
To the Editor:
For three years now, Democrats have implored states to develop health insurance exchanges, while Republicans have tried equally hard to block them. They will soon open, but in 33 states without their own, people will be served by a federal exchange.
Exchanges are insurance ''stores'' for individuals and small employers. They will offer four standardized levels of coverage -- platinum, gold, silver and bronze -- beginning January 2014, when much of the Affordable Care Act takes effect. Exchanges will also determine whether uninsured households are poor enough to qualify for Medicaid (free) or, if earning above the federal poverty line, for premium subsidies.
How will these exchanges improve health insurance? First, they will provide individual consumers something new: one-stop shopping with a side-by-side comparison of health plans. By standardizing coverage, patient cost-sharing, pricing, quality and service metrics, exchanges make informed choice of health plans easy. 
Second, they will steer competition in socially beneficial directions. By empowering price-sensitive shoppers with information, they will put pressure on premiums. This can be further enhanced by the exchange's own effort, à la Walmart, to press health plans to improve price, quality and service in return for ''shelf space'' -- that is, access to the stores' customers.
Mitt Romney, the Republican standard-bearer in 2012, was so smitten with this conservative policy tool that as governor he made exchanges the centerpiece of Massachusetts's landmark health reform. It remains very popular here.
So why do most Republican politicians now oppose exchanges? Arguing that Obamacare is a fiasco and that the federal government will mismanage exchanges, Republicans plan to campaign on health reform's failure. By blocking states from developing their own exchanges and threatening to defund the federal exchange, they hope to make their own dire prediction come true.
JON KINGSDALE Boston, Aug. 19, 2013
The writer, managing director of the Wakely Consulting Group, helped establish the exchanges in Massachusetts.
Readers React
Having watched this continuing controversy over the Affordable Care Act, I've come to believe that what so bothers, and even terrifies, Republicans is that this plan could both work and become popular. If that comes to pass, they will be seen as obstructionists and the party that cares little for the health and well-being of average Americans.
If the G.O.P. is so sure that the health care law will be a fiasco, wouldn't a better strategy be to just let this disaster happen and then say ''we told you so, but you wouldn't listen''?
By continuing to rail against the health care law, the Republicans seem far from certain that the law will fail. Better to kill it now and not run the risk of its success.
DENNIS BLAKESLEE Madison, Wis., Aug. 21, 2013
There are two key reasons the insurance exchanges are likely to get off to a rocky start. First, the Affordable Care Act was passed during a brief period of Democratic supremacy over almost universal Republican opposition. Republicans have no interest in the success of what they call Obamacare. They control many of the levers of government and can do much to impede the health law.
Second, this complex law relies on persuading young people to take the positive step to buy insurance that has been heavily overpriced for them in order to underprice insurance for older people. The stick to encourage them to sign up is a trivial fine starting at $95. These are the same young people who are already burdened by Social Security and Medicare taxes to finance benefits for their elders that they do not expect to receive equally in their old age, and who often feel that health insurance is an unaffordable luxury.
The low initial penalties will most likely mean that while the old and the sick will quickly sign up for coverage, the young and the healthy will hang back, creating a death spiral of higher insurance premiums to cover the old and the sick, which will further discourage the young and the healthy from signing up.
JAMES G. RUSSELL Alexandria, Va., Aug. 21, 2013
The Affordable Care Act can succeed. Massachusetts proved that it can. A Republican governor and a Democratic Legislature passed health reform much like Obamacare. Yes, there were problems at the start. There always are when a complex law is put into effect. But business, labor, medical professionals and other organizations worked together to solve them.
Rollout of the Affordable Care Act will not be problem-free. But with cooperation, those problems, too, can be solved.
Unfortunately, opponents of the law are pursuing a destructive line of attack. Some state legislators are barring administrators from doing anything to carry out the law. Some members of Congress seem ready to close the government or to send the country into fiscal default in their effort to deny funding for health reform.
Many problems will be caused not by the admittedly complicated new law but by those officials who are recklessly trying to make the law fail and who seem to have forgotten that law-abiding citizens obey the law.
HENRY J. AARON Washington, Aug. 21, 2013
The writer is a vice chairman of the executive board of the D.C. Health Exchange and a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution.
All members of Congress enjoy the benefits of a health insurance exchange, where they and their families can shop for heavily tax-subsidized private health insurance. Employees of enterprises that sponsor health insurance also enjoy the benefit of such exchanges. The state-based insurance exchanges called for in the Affordable Care Act are no different. I cannot see any harm in them.
It is puzzling why Republicans now busy themselves trying to sabotage the implementation of exchanges for the individual and small-group markets. It is all the more puzzling because Senator Tom Coburn proposed a bill in May 2009 that called for insurance exchanges, as did earlier Republican bills in the 1990s. They did so because exchanges make good economic sense.
UWE REINHARDT Princeton, N.J., Aug. 21, 2013
The writer is a professor of economics and public affairs, Princeton University.
I have some direct experience using the Massachusetts health exchanges. I have found that they offer only very expensive options to those over 50 who do not qualify for subsidies. If someone needs an expensive prescription drug, that adds even more to the cost. I will admit that the plans require no waiting period, but the Massachusetts exchanges have done nothing to make plans affordable to those not relying on government handouts.
JOHN O'REILLY Cambridge, Mass., Aug. 21, 2013
The writer is a benefits consultant.
I have had a small company for 35 years. Up until 15 years ago, we paid the health care premiums for all employees. Then the insurance companies began raising rates, making this impossible. One year the rate increase was 39 percent. Currently only 4 of our 10 employees can afford the company insurance.
Now we have been notified that our rates for 2014 will be reduced 11 percent to 15 percent. And those who cannot afford that will be helped to enroll in the exchanges under the Affordable Care Act. How can anyone think that this is not the direction our country should be taking?
PAT HURD Chandler, Ariz., Aug. 21, 2013
The Affordable Care Act and the health insurance exchanges are making important repairs to our broken system, and we certainly shouldn't go back to the old system. But the law still leaves insurance companies in charge: with high premiums, high deductibles and co-payments, and too much control over which doctors or hospitals we can go to and what care we get.
We can do better. Instead of patchwork repairs, we can cover everyone, provide better coverage and save billions. How? Through publicly sponsored, single-payer health coverage, like an improved version of Medicare but for everyone.
Congress is nowhere near accepting that. But many states are more forward-looking. Under the health care law, states can build alternative systems. Vermont has enacted a law to build a single-payer system.
The country must not go backward, and the states can move us forward.
RICHARD N. GOTTFRIED New York, Aug. 21, 2013
The writer, a member of the New York State Assembly, is chairman of its Health Committee and the sponsor of a single-payer bill.
As a freelance writer and editor, I am one of the people the Affordable Care Act was supposed to help, but I don't foresee its insurance exchanges doing that.
I buy health insurance through a group of self-employed people, so I already get ''one-stop shopping with a side-by-side comparison of health plans.'' That means I get an informed choice among several increasingly costly and inadequate for-profit plans. I now pay more for a high-deductible plan (''bronze'') that covers next to nothing than I did for partial coverage (''silver'' or ''gold'') in 2009.
Maybe Obamacare's subsidies will help, but we don't know yet how much they'll be. We'd be much better off with Medicare for everyone than with this Rube Goldberg scheme written to satisfy the insurance lobby.
STEVEN WISHNIA
New York, Aug. 21 2013
I am half of a married couple in our mid-50s. We have never had a medical issue, don't smoke, don't drink, don't take drugs -- prescription or otherwise -- and take care with our diet and exercise. We have advanced degrees in business and are self-employed. And uninsured.
Every couple of years, we try to find a health insurance policy to buy. The process is such a tangle of indecipherable blather, impossible-to-compare features and insane costs that we abandon the effort. Affordability is not the issue; horror at the ridiculously inflated prices -- well documented in The Times -- is.
I applaud what Mitt Romney and Mr. Kingsdale accomplished in Massachusetts. I wish that President Obama's original vision for Obamacare hadn't been obliterated by our can't-do Congress. It will take our country that much longer to work out the kinks.
In the meantime, the exchanges begin to create a relationship between cost and service. They create an opportunity for consumers to avoid needless markups and enjoy premium service. Call me giddy with anticipation -- Obamacare is making me feel great already.
GIOVANNA FINAMORE Miami Beach, Aug. 21, 2013
The new insurance exchanges will not only improve health insurance, as Mr. Kingsdale notes, but they will also provide compelling evidence of how states perform as laboratories of democracy. Each state exchange will be different, in transparent and measurable ways. Even the federal exchanges will differ across states, depending on how cooperative each state is, how many insurers are operating in the state and how many people in the state lack insurance, among other things.
By systematically collecting information about each state exchange, and then separating out the factors that are beyond the governors' and legislators' control, we can hold state political leaders accountable. We can also figure out which insurance exchange designs work best, so that governors and state legislators who want to help their citizens can improve their exchanges in the years ahead.
TOM BAKER Philadelphia, Aug. 21, 2013
The writer is a professor of law and health sciences at the University of Pennsylvania Law School and the co-director of the Health Insurance Exchange Research Group of Penn's Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics.
The Writer Responds
Given the depth of the partisan divide over health reform, voters will likely be asked to render a verdict on the Affordable Care Act in 2014. While the chances of defunding it before then are slim, dramatic opposition now will influence that verdict in several ways.
First, as Mr. Aaron suggests, unremitting opposition actually impedes implementation. In Michigan, for example, even the Republican governor could not persuade Republican state legislators to support development of their own exchange. Apparently, they prefer to oppose any health insurance exchange rather than champion one run by their own state under Republican rule.
Second, as Mr. Russell points out, the success of popular insurance market reforms depends ''on persuading young people to ... buy insurance.'' Our success in Massachusetts suggests that this behavior was due far more to popular acceptance of the notion that everyone (who can afford it) should buy coverage than to any penalty for not doing so. This is a mind-set, not a cost-benefit decision.
For the first six months under Massachusetts' mandate, there was no penalty, and even now most tax filers without insurance are exempt from fines. By castigating reform in advance, opponents discourage enrollment -- who feels morally obliged to sign up for failure?
Third, as the contrasting experiences of Mr. O'Reilly and Mr. Hurd suggest, there will be plenty of insurance stories in 2014, good and bad. We are naturally inclined to note and accept evidence that reinforces our prejudices, and to dismiss or undervalue facts that do not fit our assumptions. Democrats and Republicans are competing now to sensitize voters to the narratives that each party will repeat in the next election.
The shame on Republicans is not that they fight for their preferred solution, but that they fight any solution. As Mr. Reinhardt suggests, they even oppose their own solutions.
JON KINGSDALE Boston, Aug. 23, 2013

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY RON REGÉ JR.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); MEDICAID (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (78%); WRITERS (73%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (78%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2013



732 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; IT'S THE ECONOMY; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1198 words

HEADLINE: 'Orange' Is the New Green

BYLINE: By ADAM DAVIDSON. 
Adam Davidson is co-founder of NPR's ''Planet Money,'' a podcast and blog.

 BODY:
After furiously binge-streaming all 13 episodes of ''Orange Is the New Black,'' the Netflix comic drama about a former Connecticut debutante serving a 15-month jail sentence for laundering drug money, I devoured, equally eagerly, the book from which it was adapted. Then I took my obsession to what some might consider the extreme: I attended the American Correction Association's 143rd Congress of Correction outside Washington.
I was compelled by a scene from both the show and the book that played over and over in my head. While in prison, the protagonist, Piper Kerman (Chapman on the show), desperately wanted to buy shower shoes to avoid bathroom mold and a radio to play while jogging. Yet it took weeks for the bureau of prisons to process the check that allowed her to buy anything at the commissary and months before the radio was even in stock. This is not the greatest of prison problems, sure, but it raises a surprisingly complex economic question: Why do prisons and other government agencies occasionally not follow basic economic incentives? Considering budget shortfalls, shouldn't they want to sell whatever they possibly can? 
The prison-commissary business is a strange corner of the retail market. In roughly half of prisons, the commissary is operated by a private contractor. This means that while the prisoner may be the end-user who hands her money over for shower shoes or a radio, it's the prison staff (the warden or the purchasing department, perhaps) that decides which commissary company will be on premises and what products prisoners can choose from. Ken Johnson, a director of operations for the Trinity Services Group, put it too me bluntly: ''The institution is our customer, not the prisoner.''
Partly as a result, prisons must follow contradictory incentives. Many want the money that's generated by a well-stocked commissary operation. It also functions as a ''behavior-modification tool,'' one official told me, that can keep inmates ''fat and happy'' and can be used as leverage to discourage inmate infractions. On the other hand, prisons must restrict what can be sold. Too much junk food can invite vermin, and unrestricted shopping could be construed as indulgent. (Prisons typically limit inmates' purchasing power; I heard restrictions ranging from $40 to $200 a week.) Also, nothing can be sold with alcohol in it, which means hand sanitizers and a lot of mouthwashes and shampoos are banned. (Many also outlaw fresh fruit, which can be turned into prison hooch.) And, of course, many items could be turned into a weapon. One company at the convention, OraLine, offers ''secure'' oral-care products, like soft, bendable toothbrushes. Chewing gum and even Gummi Bears are often banned, too, because they can be used to plug up locks.
Every commissary operation balances these issues in its own way. Sandra Amoia, the superintendent of Groveland Correctional Facility in upstate New York, explained that the state's policy is to run the commissary with a paid staff and to sell goods at cost. As a result, her prison loses money. Tony Wilkes, chief of corrections for Davidson County, Tenn., told me that he didn't want to make money off the prisoners. Mark Flowers, director of prisons for Colorado, on the other hand, told me prison-commissary profits are quite useful and finance a host of inmate-welfare programs.
As I listened to wardens explain their incentives, I kept feeling that there was something oddly familiar. Prison commissaries are simply one extreme example of an economic arrangement that I think of as the third-party decider. There are lots of businesses in which the person selecting a product or service is not the person who will actually use it. And these are often the more frustrating parts of our economy. Employees may be the end-users of 401(k) plans and health-insurance policies, but corporate human-resource managers are often the ones who decide which company -- Fidelity, Vanguard, Charles Schwab -- is able to offer those plans to employees. Years ago, I came across the materials that a few 401(k) companies used to market their services, and I was surprised by how much more space was devoted to how the providers could make life easier for the H.R. people who had to file all the paperwork than to the details that 401(k) end-users would actually care about, like the expenses that the funds charge.
''Orange Is the New Black'' coincidentally reflects the television industry's shift away from the third-party-decider economy. In the traditional broadcast environment, the customer is not the viewer but the advertiser, the one fronting the cost. The viewer's attention, in effect, is the TV network's product and the programming itself is a form of distraction to lull viewers into watching. This model often creates incentives for broad, unobjectionable fare that will appeal -- or at least not repel -- the largest number of viewers. Netflix, however, predicates its model around the actual end-user, or the person watching the show. As a result, the company needs to provide content that the viewer deems worthy of $7.99 a month.
A central benefit of capitalism is that it provides constant feedback from consumers to producers. The U.S. government and many state and local bodies have turned toward privatization as a way to bring the efficiencies of the market into governmental services, but the prison commissary suggests that this isn't as simple as it appears. Private businesses are generally quite good at meeting their customers' needs. The question is what their customers need. Or more precisely, who their customers are. Are they the taxpayers, the prisons or the prisoners?
The industry leader in prison commissaries is the Keefe Group, a company that generally avoids the press. When I arrived at its convention booth and announced I was a reporter, two staff members insisted I leave. Keefe's business model includes offering private-label snack items like Brushy Creek shredded beef, something called Zippy Cakes Monster Iced Buneez and City Cow cheese products (''Cheese with an attitude'' is its slogan). I didn't get a chance to try them, and I'm not sure I want to.
By contrast, at a nearby booth, I met a representative from Aramark, the food-services giant, which is trying to transform the industry around a novel idea -- focusing on what the end-users, the prisoners, want. Aramark's strategy argues that better serving the prisoners' needs will lead to more sales, even if the upfront costs may be a little higher. The company conducts focus groups of offenders to improve its commissary products and services, and Aramark sells more name-brand snacks, like Doritos and Snickers, that prisoners say they want. (Kerman confirmed to me that prisoners far prefer the name-brand stuff, even if it costs them more.) Yet Aramark, so attentive to consumers' needs, does worse in the marketplace than Keefe. How can that possibly be? Because the people choosing the company aren't the ones using the products.
Deep thoughts this week:
1. The prison economy has conflicting incentives.
2. But the biggest problem is who makes the decisions.
3. And that is true with many industries outside jail, too.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JASPER RIETMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SENTENCING (90%); PRISONS (90%); ORAL CARE PRODUCTS (87%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); MONEY LAUNDERING (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); JAIL SENTENCING (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); HAND SANITIZERS (69%); ORAL HYGIENE (62%)

COMPANY: NETFLIX INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF PRISONS (56%)

TICKER: NFLX (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (58%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2013



733 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 3314 words

HEADLINE: 'I Behaved Abominably'

BYLINE: By ALEX WITCHEL

 BODY:
It was the fifth take, or maybe the seventh or maybe the ninth. Down in the bowels of Langley, or at least in its reasonable facsimile in Charlotte, N.C., where Showtime's ''Homeland'' is shot, Saul Berenson, currently the acting director of the C.I.A., was talking to a new hire, a young analyst, Fara Sherazi. Abu Nazir, the mastermind terrorist, was still dead. They were chasing someone else now. There's always someone else.
Mandy Patinkin, who plays Saul, was the model of concentration. He spoke softly, thoughtfully, almost to himself. Nazanin Boniadi, who plays Fara, had blown her lines twice, two scenes in a row. She had a lot of technical information to impart and her character had been up all night, wanting to impress her boss. She was rushing. After the second time she went awry, Patinkin looked at her kindly. ''You can go slower,'' he said. ''Remember, I'm an old man.'' 
At 60, that is hardly true. Though for Patinkin, getting older has actually meant getting wiser, which for most people is something like winning the lottery. And he needed to win it. If temperamental actors are referred to as ''handfuls,'' Mandy -- as he is known in the business, not quite Cher, but close -- is the motherlode. He is a man whose abilities and doubts have waged torturous battle for nearly four decades: The Tale of Two Mandys has played as a sideshow to his actual work. Preternaturally talented as both an actor and a singer, Patinkin attended Juilliard but never graduated; he has released seven solo albums, won a Tony Award as Che Guevara in ''Evita'' and a Tony nomination as the pointillist artist Georges Seurat in Stephen Sondheim and James Lapine's Pulitzer Prize-winning ''Sunday in the Park With George'' (his voice is ''a gift from God,'' Sondheim has said), but cannot read music. Cast in the CBS hit ''Chicago Hope'' in 1994, he won a best actor Emmy for playing the thorny Dr. Jeffrey Geiger. But while working in L.A., he was so distressed at being separated from his family in New York that he quit. (During his brief run on the show, he also famously confronted Don Ohlmeyer, of NBC, about his ''poor sportsmanship'' in programming a rerun of the ''ER'' pilot opposite them for one night.) In 2005, CBS made Patinkin the lead in ''Criminal Minds,'' a series about F.B.I. criminal profilers, but he was so disturbed by its content that after the second season he went AWOL. As the executive producer said at the time, he was ''the father who goes out for a carton of milk and then just never comes home.'' (Patinkin did write personal apology notes to his cast mates, wishing them luck and actually returned to film a final scene.)
Lapine, who directed him in ''Sunday'' and by his account, happily several times since, told me: ''Mandy was a handful on that show, but he's not neurotic, oddly enough. He's myopic. He would lose himself so much in the work, and he was playing an obsessive, which goes hand in hand. He doesn't do things by halves -- to prepare, he took a drawing class at the Art Students League of New York. He's just unbelievably intense, maniacally focused. He was never mean, but that intensity may not always be to other actors' tastes.''
When Patinkin reins himself in, he can be magnificent. The ''Do Less'' Mandy is who Rob Reiner directed in the classic film ''The Princess Bride.'' Playing a world-renowned swordsman wounded by the villainous Six Fingered Man, Patinkin's now-iconic greeting -- ''Hello. My name is Inigo Montoya. You killed my father. Prepare to die'' -- is a model of restraint, building in force like a symphony movement as he gains the strength to avenge his father's death. His Georges Seurat, brilliantly talented yet so distant and driven that he couldn't connect emotionally with the mother of his child, who leaves him, was heartbreaking. Less Mandy is best Mandy, always has been.
The other Mandy is the ''Too Much'' Mandy, a sight perhaps less pleasing. This Mandy doesn't just wear his heart on his sleeve, he slices it up and serves it on Triscuits. During a Broadway concert, to highlight the troubles in the Middle East, he ended the show by propping Israeli and Palestinian flags on a table and singing the Israeli national anthem in Hebrew, followed by an angry version of ''You've Got to Be Carefully Taught'' from ''South Pacific.'' Then the flags were knocked on their sides while the pianist slammed the keys to sound like an explosion. Patinkin followed that with ''Children Will Listen'' from ''Into the Woods.'' (Post-9/11, he scrapped the flag bit and sang both songs softly, as a lullaby.) On a lighter note, he toured ''Mamaloshen,'' a concert all in Yiddish in which he led the audience in the hokeypokey, also in Yiddish. If you've ever pondered the ultimate meaning of ''oy,'' this is it.
Theater and concert audiences have always indulged his excesses -- his wild range from baritone to falsetto, his eagerness to wring each lyric dry, the slightly unhinged quality he can take on when the music overcomes him -- and, make no mistake, these are integral to his power as a performer. But that he is working again in television, not just working, but co-starring in a smash hit, whose character is its own smash hit, is nothing short of a miracle. For ''Homeland'' junkies, the synergy of Patinkin playing Saul Berenson is on a par with James Gandolfini playing Tony Soprano: 1 plus 1 equals 10. You can't trust the brainwashed Brody to be a reliable narrator, you can't trust brilliant, bipolar Carrie, either, but you can trust Saul, the daddy of the show, its moral center. Until, of course, he's not. The lesson of ''Homeland'' is that every good guy is a bad guy and every bad guy is a good guy. It's probably only a matter of time.
''Mandy is obviously verging on legend,'' Claire Danes, who plays Carrie, told me by phone. ''He has that ineffable, magical something that's impossible to identify, so it's a great thrill to work with him. Carrie and Saul are a surprising pair. Carrie is an erratic, amped-up, staccato person, and he is so level. Mandy is a really musical person, and he plays with that in the way he delivers the lines.''
During the eight hours I spent on the set, I never saw Patinkin without a script in his hand, running his lines repeatedly whenever he wasn't shooting. With this level of immersion, it is not surprising that he became overwhelmed by the predominance of rape and murder in ''Criminal Minds,'' though he might have anticipated as much going in.
''I cannot tell you how many times I was warned about his checkered past in television,'' said Alex Gansa, the co-creator of ''Homeland.'' ''But this role was written for him. I've been his biggest fan since 'Sunday in the Park'; that performance was indelible. And I was convinced that the creative environment we try to foster would allow him to thrive. Mandy is a tremendously generous, compassionate, soulful guy, and the message of 'Criminal Minds' was not commensurate with his worldview. You have to admire that. Look, he's an artist, and all artists are eccentric in some way.''
There was no sign of that on the set. Patinkin was focused, utterly disciplined. Shooting began at 10:30 a.m., a three-and-a-half-page scene, and by 4:45 p.m. they were still at it. The reasons were mostly technical -- sound, lights, camera angles. The repetition was mind-numbing. At the end of one excellent take, no one spoke to the actors, though I heard a voice on the headset say: ''Can you see the crease in that white lampshade back there? I can't stand it. I'm going to spin it.''
During the next take, Patinkin stopped in the middle of a line. ''I'm sorry,'' he said. ''I'm blank. I don't know what I'm saying.'' They did it again. And again. The Saulness of the scene intensified as Patinkin used his exhaustion and frustration to shade the character's words, mood and posture.
By 7:30 p.m. they were still at it, only without the air-conditioning, which was making too much noise. The director called, ''Action!'' Saul slumped over his desk, phone in hand. ''Which circuit court in Maryland?'' he asked, for maybe the 12th time. Patinkin looked up and froze. ''No. Sorry.'' He reached for the script, stared at it and sighed. ''I was right,'' he said.
The following day I met Patinkin back at the set. We had planned to talk in Saul's office, but the lights weren't working, so we settled into a production office instead. He wore a spanking white T-shirt, long shorts and sneakers. When he poured cold water into his hot green tea, his hand shook. The prospect of discussing his past seemed to make him nervous. He knows the damage he did to himself with ''Criminal Minds''; once he left it, he didn't work in television for four years. He has blown his shot at redemption so often, he seemed loath to do it again. (At the time of our interview, he was not yet Emmy-nominated.)
Trying to get at the root of Patinkin's behavior is not easy. He speaks by the yard and can be hard to follow. His 33-year marriage to the actress Kathryn Grody is a happy one and he talks lovingly of his sons, Isaac, 31, and Gideon, 27. But he has been open through the years about his depression, his attempts at therapy and his bad experiences treating his symptoms with medication, which he no longer takes. (Before a Broadway concert in 2002, Patinkin ingested so many Klonopin, under a doctor's supervision, that he went blank 20 minutes in and had to start over.) He has also spoken freely about surviving prostate cancer at 52, the same age his father was when he died of pancreatic cancer. And he is a passionate advocate for organ donation, having received two corneal transplants to combat keratoconus, a degenerative disease.
To play Saul Berenson, he has drawn on all his highs and lows. He also met with a former C.I.A. agent and his two grown daughters to discuss their lives growing up. ''What I'm interested in is an emotional system,'' he said. ''When were you afraid? Why? Did you pray? Shake? Sweat? The way I like to work is to attach personal experiences to what I'm doing, so it helps tremendously if I can write my own play under what the writer has written. Saul's heart is in his head. He dreams for the greater good of the world. Saul is now 60 years old, as I am, and he has had a full life in his business, as I have, and he doesn't know how long he gets to be around, as I don't. He recognizes the gift of youth personified by his child in this piece, who is Carrie. He believes that both the savantlike and intellectual qualities of Carrie's nature are the greatest single hope for humanity. He believes so deeply in her possibilities.''
The more I spoke with Patinkin about his own father, the more it seemed he was channeling the man, whom he loved deeply. Lester Patinkin died when his son was 19. Saul's decency, intellect, compassion and hidden demons seem to resonate with Patinkin's memories of his father even as the characterization seems something like a wish -- to create a man he never had the chance to know better.
Lester ran People's Iron and Metal Company, a Chicago-based junk business, founded by his father, Max. The defining event in his life was a diving accident he suffered at 20, breaking his neck in Lake Michigan. ''A few years later during World War II, he was in San Antonio,'' Patinkin said, ''and the tube that brings the spinal fluid to the brain was closing from this neck injury. He was having these tremendous headaches, and they were going to have to insert a fake tube. It was a primitive operation, and during the surgery, they touched the wrong thing, so my father was paralyzed for three years. He teaches himself how to walk and talk. He comes home, and days later the girl he was engaged to, who he was in love with, her mother said: 'He's damaged goods. Let him go.' ''
Eventually, Lester married Doralee Sinton, and they had a daughter, Marsha, then Mandy. In spite of his efforts at rehabilitation, Lester was physically compromised for the rest of his life. ''If you'd say, 'What was your father's greatest pain?' it's that he couldn't play catch with me because he couldn't control his right hand,'' Patinkin recalled. ''He was worried that he would throw the ball too hard and too fast and he'd hurt me. I remember when my aunts and uncles would say, 'You don't know your father,' meaning before the brain accident. My little kid-ness was going, 'What do you mean I didn't know my father?' He was a great man. He taught himself how to walk again, to write with his left hand. My father was a hero.''
When Lester became ill with cancer, his wife and his relatives decided to tell him he had hepatitis instead. ''Cancer was a death sentence then,'' Patinkin said. ''I'm instructed to follow these orders, so I'm never able to talk the truth to my father at the end.'' Patinkin grew teary. ''He did his own research and was clearly cognizant of the fact that none of the pieces fit,'' he went on. ''It just destroyed me. I was forced to lie to my father by doctors and relatives. I made that choice and agreed with them, and I will never, ever get over it. If I hear a lie in my life with my children, with my wife, my work, my audiences, I want to annihilate myself, vaporize myself and wipe myself off the face of the earth.'' He mopped the sweat from his face. ''Never again will I subject myself to not trying my damnedest to tell the truth. That's my gift and my curse.''
Now that Patinkin's mother is 88, the two are able to discuss that period. ''We talk about the struggles we went through, the mistakes we made as parents,'' he said. ''Because with all love toward my mother, I heard her being critical of my father, relatives, friends. My father was the quiet one in the family, he was passive, whether it was his nature or what happened with his injury, I will never know. But my mother was the voice, she had to run the show. I have the strength from my mother, the survivability. I have wonderful qualities from my mother -- but please, Mother, forgive me -- I heard judgment constantly about my father. She questioned him enjoying investing in the stock market, little investing, he wasn't rich, buying the kids AT&T. I just heard the voice saying, 'Not good enough, not good enough, not good enough.' ''
Even though Patinkin stresses that his mother always supported his career choice, he still had trouble hearing direction as something other than criticism. ''I struggled with letting in other people's opinions,'' he said. ''During 'Chicago Hope,' I never let directors talk to me, because I was so spoiled. I started off with people like Milos Forman, Sidney Lumet, James Lapine, unbelievably gifted people. So there I was saying, 'Don't talk to me, I don't want your opinion.' I behaved abominably. I don't care if my work was good or if I got an award for it. I'm not proud of how I was then, and it pained me.''
Perhaps the biggest humiliation of Patinkin's career was being fired by Mike Nichols from the movie ''Heartburn'' and being replaced by Jack Nicholson as Meryl Streep's co-star. ''I didn't listen to myself,'' Patinkin said. ''I listened to all the relatives who said: 'Yes, you win Tony awards, but how's the movie career going? Are you a big movie star yet?' I was in 'Sunday in the Park,' I was having this extraordinary life with Joe Papp in the Public Theater, but nothing was O.K., because I wasn't a big movie star yet.
''I'm ambivalent about doing 'Heartburn,' but my agent, Sam Cohn, pushes Mike Nichols to hire me. We're at the table read, and Mike leans in and says, 'How do you feel about blue contact lenses?' And I was like, 'What?' We got to the first shot, which was on 81st Street at Pizzeria Uno, the cameras were across the street, Meryl and I were in the window playing the scene, and I remember Mike said, 'Just try to imagine a golf ball running down your leg,' to try to get me to lighten up and laugh. That was right after we did a scene in bed, naked. This was the first day, a scene in bed, naked'' -- he looked stricken, still -- -- ''and now a golf ball running down my leg, and the next day I was fired. I thought my life was over. They hired Jack Nicholson, who they wanted from the beginning.''
Reached by phone, Nichols said: ''I loved Mandy then, and I love him now. It was awful to have to replace him, but on film I couldn't see the chemistry I wanted. I don't know how many days it was, but to save the damn thing, I had to move fast to get Jack. Mandy was, of course, devastated, and I've felt awful about it all my life.''
Patinkin's work on ''Criminal Minds'' seems to echo his ''Heartburn'' experience, though on the TV show, he fired himself. ''It wasn't the right fit,'' he said. ''I made a choice I didn't want to make. I pushed myself, thinking I needed more fame, more economic security. One of the greatest gifts that 'Homeland' has given me is it's affirming on a daily basis. I'm always with the script, walking around with this stuff 24/7, so my head's in a good place. The role is about listening, and when you don't listen to yourself, you get in trouble. I wasn't listening to myself in 'Heartburn,' I listened to the parental figure of Sam and the culture at large saying, 'You've got to be in a movie, this is going to make you,' and it wasn't who I was. Yes, I did 'Yentl' and 'Dick Tracy,' but I felt, and I still feel a little bit today that I'm really not successful, because I didn't become a movie star. The irony is half of those movie stars are all trying to be in television shows like this.''
He sipped his tea. ''My grandpa Max the junkman would say in Yiddish, 'The wheel is always turning.' What he meant was how to behave toward people. The person on the bottom of the wheel, you better be nice to, because at some point you're going to be on the bottom. When 'Criminal Minds' came along, I had just survived the discovery that I had prostate cancer, so I guess I had that vulnerability. I'll never forget sitting on the bed in my cousin's house in L.A. reading the first script, and I schmoozed myself, I brainwashed myself, thinking, It won't be like that as it goes along. I didn't listen to any piece of myself, and I paid the price. I never expected to work in television again.''
His words came in a rush. ''If you ask me, 'You're 60, what's one of the best things you've picked up?' Two things I would say. One is stop trying to be Superman. Allow yourself to make mistakes and serve the team. I spent so many of my younger days thinking it had to be about me, you had to hear me, you had to see me. The other thing is, and it's a double-edged sword because I live to work, I love it, is that all my life, no matter what happened, I wanted to capitalize on it, turn it into something to move me forward, make my career better. Where do I need to go? As opposed to 'Are you even for one second where you are? Are you seeing anything you're doing?'
''I don't want this moment to end. I don't want this day to end. I was tired yesterday, I didn't want it to end. I want every joy of every day and every struggle of every day. I always say to Kathryn: 'How could I not know some of these things when I was younger? I see other people who are younger, and they get certain opportunities, and they don't struggle.' And she goes back to a standard phrase in our family, which is 'Comparison leads to violence.' ''
At that point, we discovered the lights were back on in Saul's office so we went inside. On an easy chair sat two Winnie-the-Pooh bears. The large one was meant to be Saul, he said, protecting Carrie, the smaller one. I walked around the room, looking at photographs of Saul posing with his wife, Mira. Patinkin picked up one I had missed, of him with the 88-year-old actor, Alvin Epstein, engaged in animated conversation. ''I wanted you to see this,'' he said, his face bright with possibility. ''Just in case Saul has a father, I'm hoping he can play him.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mandy Patinkin in Charlotte, N.C., on the soundstage for ''Homeland.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY GRAEME MITCHELL) (MM26-MM27)
 Patinkin, 5, with his father, Lester, in 1957 in Chicago. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARSHA PATINKIN) (MM29) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (87%); NETWORK TELEVISION (85%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (72%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (71%); THEATER & DRAMA (70%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (69%); MUSICAL THEATER (68%); RECORD RELEASES (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (88%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2013



734 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section M2; Column 0; T: Women's Fashion Magazine; T MAGAZINE; Pg. 176

LENGTH: 901 words

HEADLINE: Much Ado About Nothing

BYLINE: By DAVID NETTO

 BODY:
With his modest nature, Tom Scheerer often finds himself acting the role of bemused bystander in the opulent and self-promoting world of interior design. As a decorator, he has forged a career doing rooms that are relaxed to the point of being hard to categorize as decorated; this is the idea, an observation he would take as a high compliment. There is a Scheerer style, involving limed pecky cypress, Saarinen tables and Thonet bentwood chairs, but it is actually more of a philosophy than a style. ''Elegance,'' he says, ''is really about economy.''
While this is not what every rich person looking to do up a house wants to hear, it's an important message in today's world of restaurant kitchens and million-dollar audio/visual installations. It's about celebrating real life, and remembering that the chicest thing of all, when you can have whatever you want, is to be yourself. A room by Scheerer is a magnificent, tailored and cheerful thing, but most important, a plain thing. 
Slide Show: Scheerer's Personal BestsScheerer's own homes throughout the years speak to his talent of creating consistently inviting interiors. Here, he sheds light on the art of living well.
For all this humble talk, the time has come -- as it seems it must for all decorators these days -- for a book. Unlike some who shall not be named, Scheerer richly deserves one, and ''Tom Scheerer Decorates'' is a highly personal exploration of the vanishing art of great American design, as pioneered by Van Day Truex, Billy Baldwin and Albert Hadley. Scheerer, 58, is perhaps its most expert proponent today. He says he's excited about the book not as a monument to his work but because it will make his job simpler: ''If I have a book, rather than taking all this time to explain myself, I can just put it on the table. It helps with credibility.''
There are no credibility issues, at least to those in the know. After attending architecture school at Cooper Union, Scheerer began his career in partnership with Jeffrey Bilhuber in 1986. ''We did a Southampton show house and that was it,'' he recalls. That project was a pool house in the style of an 18th-century military tent, like the one at Drottningholm Palace in Sweden. Rarely has Scheerer done something so fanciful since then, but throughout his work there is a love -- vibrations here of Cecil Beaton -- of the Baroque. It is used in concentrated bursts against deliberately severe contexts, like overscaled sconces with fringed shades, or mantels in the form of a Cape Dutch scrolled gable. Scheerer's most exuberant moment as a decorator came in response to scale, with the undulating hand-painted palm trees he commissioned a few years ago for the vast living room of the Lyford Cay Club. The room caused a sensation and set a new standard for the vitality and relevance of American aristocratic decorating. Slim Aarons didn't live long enough to shoot this one, but he would have deemed it worthy.
Behind every great decorator there is a house that started it all, and Scheerer's family home on the ocean in East Hampton stands as a beacon of blue-blood gentility to this day. All the changes that have come to West End Road in the form of central air-conditioning and automatic gates have left the Scheerer house unchanged; a visit there is an education in what American chic used to be. (The first thing you see is a Ping-Pong table in the front hall.) Scheerer's grandfather bought the house, which had been built by the sportswriter Ring Lardner, for about $20,000 in 1945; his mother, Idoline, still fills its nine bedrooms with family every weekend in the summer, and Tom usually cooks for everyone. Asked if this weathered and unpretentious masterpiece of Old East Hampton, to which nothing has been done in decades, was the house that taught him about houses, he confirms that it is. He also confirms that he added the chic and suspiciously hip rattan rug we are standing on.
Scheerer has never worked for another designer, let alone a famous one. His mentors have come to him through books like those by Billy Baldwin and David Hicks -- and by looking. Despite growing up in some very stylish, if laid-back, environments, like any cosmopolitan soul he has made a point of seeing what else is out there. Surprisingly, two of his favorite apartments are conspicuous and glittering gems of 1980s New York. ''The Gutfreund apartment is pretty fantastic,'' he says, referring to Henri Samuel's swan song at 834 Fifth Avenue. ''But the best apartment I ever saw was Joan and Lewis Lapham's, full of Kent furniture and paintings by Francis Bacon.''
To any prospective clients looking for a home that mirrors themselves, Scheerer has some words of advice: ''Look at a floor plan of a David Adler house and compare it to a fancy house today -- there's such a discrepancy.'' The lesson is one for decorators and clients alike: don't build so big; don't mistake complication for quality; and don't try so hard.
While the book will undoubtedly cement Scheerer's reputation as one of the true American greats, he's taking it in stride. ''I don't worry too much about the competition, or what else is going on,'' he says. ''I'm a soft-sell person. I've probably had two projects in my life with budgets of more than $1.5 million.'' But every few years, he adds,''somebody interesting comes along, and if you do a good job, you end up working with the same people forever.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: MAN AT WORK: Tom Scheerer, in his Union Square office in Manhattan, with vintage Ingo Maurer light fixtures destined for a client's kitchen in Dallas.
CITY LIFE: Scheerer's studio apartment in Gramercy Park. He designed the oak and rush headboard (right). The sculpture in a plexiglass box (left) is by Alexander Liberman. A lithograph by Ben Nicholson and a gouache by Elaine de Kooning hang above. ''I've been nurturing the Dr. Seuss-like Madagascar palms for over 10 years!'' he says.
ART APPRECIATION: A collection of paintings and collages by Scheerer, in his office. He finds a vintage frame and then makes the artwork to fit. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KYOKO HAMADA
LIZZIE HIMMEL
MICHAEL MUNDY
SIMON UPTON/THE INTERIOR ARCHIVE
PIETER ESTERSOHN/ART DEPT
 WILLIAM WALDRON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIOR DECORATING (90%); RESTAURANTS (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (67%) NEW YORK, USA (67%) SWEDEN (72%); UNITED STATES (67%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2013



735 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3130 words

HEADLINE: The Audacious Pragmatist

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM; Kitty Bennett contributed research.

 BODY:
SHORTLY before Ben S. Bernanke was nominated as chairman of the Federal Reserve in 2005, he paid a return visit to Stanford, where he started his academic career in 1979. In a speech, he recalled that he and his wife, Anna, had rented a house with friends because he was certain that local real estate prices would fall. Instead, prices in the Bay Area doubled, then doubled again.
''Since then,'' Mr. Bernanke told his audience, ''I've developed a view that central bankers should not try to determine fundamental values of assets.''
Indeed, Mr. Bernanke's academic work, largely at Princeton, helped shape the conventional wisdom that central banks couldn't spot asset bubbles and shouldn't try to pop things that looked like bubbles. In his first speech as a Fed governor in 2002, he reiterated that trying to judge the sustainability of rapid increases in housing or stock prices was ''neither desirable nor feasible.'' 
Over the next several years, he said repeatedly that he saw no clear evidence of a housing bubble. And in 2004, the Bernankes paid a hefty $839,000 for a town house on Capitol Hill in Washington.
It took a great recession to change his mind. The recession, prompted by the collapse of the housing bubble that Mr. Bernanke -- and most other experts -- failed to see coming, ended an era of minimalism in central banking. And there is no better marker than the views of Mr. Bernanke, the world's most influential central banker, who now argues that the Fed needs to consider a range of previously unthinkable actions, including trying to pop bubbles when necessary, because sometimes the cost of doing nothing is worse.
Mr. Bernanke, who plans to step down in January after eight years as Fed chairman, will be remembered for helping to arrest the collapse of the financial system in 2008. This shy, methodical economist who had been expected to serve as the keeper of Alan Greenspan's flame -- to preserve the Fed's hard-won success in moderating inflation -- emerged under pressure as perhaps the most innovative and daring leader in the Fed's history.
But what Mr. Bernanke did after the crisis may prove to have even more enduring influence. For almost three decades, the Fed focused on moderating inflation in the belief that this was the best and only way to help the economy. In the wake of the crisis, Mr. Bernanke forged a broader vision of the Fed's responsibilities, starting experimental, incomplete campaigns to reduce unemployment and to prevent future crises.
The Bernanke Fed has failed to fully achieve its goals. Growth is still tepid, unemployment still too high, inflation still too low. Some critics continue to warn -- so far, incorrectly -- that its efforts will unleash inflation or destabilize financial markets.
Yet many of the Fed's experiments are already being emulated by other central banks. And Mr. Bernanke's many admirers say it is hard to imagine that anyone else could have done more under the circumstances to restore the economy. Fortunately, they say, his lifelong study of central banking under stress meant that he not only knew the available options but also understood that those options weren't enough. And he had the credibility necessary to persuade a hidebound institution to change quickly.
''It's hard to say that the Fed has accomplished what could have or should have been accomplished,'' said Michael Woodford, an economist at Columbia University. ''Yet in the context of the difficulty of the challenges, the likelihood is that few other central bankers could have been as bold as Ben has been.''
Throwing Stuff at the Wall
Mr. Bernanke was a rising star at Princeton in 1994 when he persuaded 953 people to elect him to a second job -- as a member of the Montgomery Township Board of Education. ''I did think he was a little crazy'' to add that second role, said Mark Gertler, a New York University economist who was a frequent academic collaborator with Mr. Bernanke during the 1990s.
But the move was instead an early sign of Mr. Bernanke's restlessness with the theoretical world of academia and his nascent interest in public service. And the experience helped to prepare him for larger things.
For six years, he spent several nights a month in the library of the local high school, usually dressed in a sport coat with elbow patches, calmly contributing to heated debates about building new schools in his rapidly growing community.
''When I met him he was shy and awkward,'' Professor Gertler said. ''It developed his ability to moderate meetings and interact with people.''
It is obligatory to say that Ben Shalom Bernanke was born in 1953 in Augusta, Ga., was raised in one of the few Jewish families in the small town of Dillon, S.C., and went to Harvard at the urging of friends despite the uneasiness of his parents.
But the trajectory of his adult life really began to take shape at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where his doctoral adviser, Stanley Fischer, introduced him to the work of Milton Friedman and Anna Schwartz on the causes of the Great Depression of the 1930s. In Mr. Bernanke's Fed office hangs an old photograph of four central bankers who, through their failures in office, helped to make that depression so great.
Mr. Fischer also inculcated the view that government, in moderation, could improve economic outcomes -- a pragmatic middle ground in the wars between the Keynesian belief in active management and the hands-off absolutism of rational expectations theory. Mr. Bernanke is a pragmatist by nature. A baseball fan, he cheered for the Boston Red Sox until the Nationals came to Washington in 2005. He now attends Nationals games regularly.
In 2002, when Glenn Hubbard, then chairman of President George W. Bush's Council of Economic Advisers, called to gauge his interest in becoming one of the Fed's seven governors, Mr. Bernanke jumped at the chance. He had expected to be an ''academic lifer'' -- he still seems most comfortable when talking with college students -- but he found that he liked the practical challenges and potential impact of public service.
After his nomination was announced, he sent an e-mail to some former colleagues on the school board, according to Laurie Navin, one of the recipients.
Mr. Bernanke related that President Bush had asked him whether he had ever served in an elected position.
''It may mean nothing here, but I served on my local school board,'' Mr. Bernanke said he told the president. ''And Bush said: 'It's good enough for me. You're in.' ''
Three years later, Mr. Bush made Mr. Bernanke the first modern Fed chairman who had ever held elective office.
In his public speeches during his time as a governor, Mr. Bernanke gave a two-year master class on monetary policy, reinforcing the perception that he had the intellectual heft to succeed Mr. Greenspan. But Mr. Bernanke won the job in part by impressing Mr. Bush in a different way, according to people briefed on the selection process.
During a brief stint in the White House as an economic adviser, Mr. Bernanke had distinguished himself by his willingness to answer the president's questions by saying, ''We don't really know, but here's how I think about it.''
As the financial system began to fall apart on his watch, it became clear that Mr. Bernanke had other valuable qualities: an ability to remain calm under pressure and a deep historical understanding of economic crises. Shortly after joining the Fed in 2002, he promised Mr. Friedman and Ms. Schwartz that the central bank would not repeat its mistakes of the 1930s.
''You're right, we did it,'' he said at the time. ''We're very sorry. But thanks to you, we won't do it again.''
Now he urged his colleagues and staff members to set aside their habitual care and find new ways for the Fed to pump money into the financial system. Mr. Bernanke sometimes invoked President Franklin D. Roosevelt's marching orders to throw a lot of stuff at the wall and see what stuck.
''We rolled out 12 new products in 12 months,'' recalled the former Fed governor Kevin Warsh, who worked closely with Mr. Bernanke during the crisis period. ''The Federal Reserve hadn't rolled out a single new product in a generation. But he said the Fed had to operate fundamentally differently to get through this. Because Ben was in some ways the dean of the academy in monetary policy, he realized how little we knew.''
Mr. Bernanke said later that the crisis in the fall of 2008 was ''the worst financial crisis in global history, including the Great Depression.'' He had not seen it coming; he had done nothing to soften the initial impact. But he kept his promise to Mr. Friedman and Ms. Schwartz.
It was a monumental achievement. It was also incomplete. Almost eight million Americans had lost their jobs.
Constrained by Reality
There was a time when Mr. Bernanke seemed to know exactly how a central bank should jolt a country out of an economic malaise.
In a swaggering 1999 paper, he accused Japan's central bank of lacking the will to take obvious steps to revive that nation's economy. One prescription, which earned him the nickname ''Helicopter Ben,'' was that the Bank of Japan should agree to offset a large tax cut by buying an equivalent amount of government debt, a strategy that Mr. Bernanke compared to a ''helicopter drop of newly printed money.''
The point, which he repeated at his first meeting of the Fed's policy-making committee in 2002, was that central banks had plenty of ways to stimulate growth even after flooring the gas by cutting short-term rates to zero.
''I'm not one who worries about zero bounds,'' Mr. Bernanke declared.
Yet in the five years since the Bernanke Fed hit that zero bound in December 2008, it has not taken the drastic steps that Mr. Bernanke recommended to Japan. Instead, it has relied on two of what Mr. Bernanke once described as the least potent options available to a central bank: declaring that the Fed intends to keep short-term rates near zero until unemployment declines, and ''quantitative easing'' -- buying large quantities of Treasury securities and mortgage-backed securities to accelerate job growth.
''During the crisis, it was clear that they were pulling out all of the stops to try to find a solution, and once the financial system stabilized and the problem was merely 10 percent unemployment, then they moved more slowly,'' said Laurence Ball, an economist at Johns Hopkins University, who wrote in a 2012 paper that Mr. Bernanke has lacked the courage of his convictions.
Mr. Bernanke has said that critics misunderstand the context of his writings. He was arguing that central banks always have the power to prevent deflation, as the Fed has done in recent years. He did not initially embrace the idea that the Fed should act with comparable force to spur job creation. That case was made by others, including Charles Evans, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, who called for officials to act as if their hair were on fire.
But even as he grew increasingly concerned about unemployment, and pressed for stronger action, friends and colleagues say Chairman Bernanke found himself constrained in ways that Professor Bernanke did not anticipate, and that his academic critics still don't seem to appreciate: by political realities, internal opposition and a heightened awareness of consequences.
Several of his most potent prescriptions, like the helicopter drop, require the cooperation of fiscal authorities. But Congress in recent years has shown little interest in helping to stimulate the economy. Instead, the Fed's efforts have been undermined by repeated rounds of federal spending cuts.
The Fed has also struggled to anticipate those cuts -- one reason that its stimulus campaign was only slowly expanded to its present scale. Mr. Bernanke has acknowledged that the Fed did not do enough in the first years after the crisis.
Perhaps most important, internal resistance has increased with each expansion of the Fed's stimulus campaign as officials fret that the economic benefits are shrinking even as the chances increase that something will go wrong.
''He came in as a brilliant academic -- a very smart guy with a very deep background in monetary economics -- but it was as an academic,'' said Donald Kohn, who served as the Fed's vice chairman under Mr. Bernanke until 2010. ''And one of the things that necessarily happens to you when academic theory meets the real world is you become more aware of the limitations of the theory and the models and how you need to operate in the real world that may not function the way your models suggest that it should function.''
Mr. Kohn added that, in his view, Mr. Bernanke rose to these challenges.
Last autumn, after months of quiet campaigning, Mr. Bernanke won support for two experiments that made job creation the clear focus of Fed policy. The Fed announced in September that it would buy $40 billion a month in mortgage bonds until the labor market outlook improved ''substantially.'' In December, it said it would hold short-term rates near zero at least so long as the jobless rate remained above 6.5 percent.
Mr. Bernanke spoke of the Fed's ''grave concern'' about unemployment, a problem that he said should concern every American.
But many of the officials who supported the program did so tentatively, and their growing unease drove the decision for Mr. Bernanke to announce in June that the Fed intended to reduce its bond-buying before the end of the year.
Central Bank Straight Talk
On an unusually warm day in January 2012, Mr. Bernanke walked into a room filled with reporters, sat down behind a desk dressed with the Fed board of governors seal and announced that the Fed wanted inflation to be about 2 percent a year -- the first time the Fed had detailed its economic objectives so specifically.
It was a moment of his own construction. For two decades, he had been perhaps the foremost proponent of the idea that central banks could increase the power of their actions by speaking clearly about their intentions.
As a member of the board of governors, he argued publicly for the Fed to adopt an inflation target despite the opposition of Mr. Greenspan, the powerful chairman, who believed that talking about the future would constrain the Fed's flexibility.
Mr. Greenspan had quickly marginalized other academics sent to the Fed to counterbalance his dominance, but his impending retirement made it necessary to talk about other ways of running the Fed, and Mr. Bernanke carefully presented his approach as a method of bottling Mr. Greenspan's magic.
That was merely politic. Mr. Bernanke believed that making the Fed more predictable would improve its performance. He wanted it to spend more time operating on autopilot. He wanted to reduce the chairman's importance.
''The thing I think he'll be known for, if it lasts, is depersonalizing the institution,'' Professor Gertler said. ''The idea is that the Fed has a systematic response to the economy. It's not the hunch of the chairman; it's communicating to the public clear rules of thumb for monetary policy.''
Yet by the time Mr. Bernanke was able to achieve his goal, his purpose had changed. Stabilizing inflation, which he described in his first speech as Fed chairman as the primary goal of monetary policy, no longer seemed enough. Indeed, announcing the target seemed to make it easier for the Fed to suggest that it wouldn't mind if inflation rose a little above 2 percent during its campaign to spur job creation.
Paradoxically, by emphasizing communication through innovations like regular news conferences, which he introduced in April 2011, Mr. Bernanke in some ways increased the chairman's role rather than submerging it in the institution. And the emphasis on transparency remains more popular with academics than with policy makers whose roots are in the markets.
Paul A. Volcker, the former Fed chairman, has argued that transparency can encourage investors to become overconfident about the path of policy, resulting in undue risk-taking, basically because people aren't very good at minding the difference between a forecast and a promise.
When Mr. Bernanke sought earlier this year to shake some speculative excess from financial markets by announcing that the Fed intended to reduce the volume of its bond purchases, some argued that he was being forced to fix a problem created by his own communications policy.
''I think transparency in central banking is kind of like truth-telling in everyday life,'' Mr. Bernanke said in response. ''You've got to be consistent about it.''
In the weeks after his initial remarks, Mr. Bernanke and other Fed officials made the same points over and over again until they felt that they had been heard. If the Fed pulled back later this year, they said, it would be doing so only because it was finally starting to achieve its goals.
'I'm Sure You'll Miss Us'
Mr. Bernanke told The New York Times in the spring of 2010 that he had accepted a second term as Fed chairman for two reasons.
''First I wanted to see through the process of financial regulatory reform, which will have long-lasting impacts on our economy,'' he said. ''Second, I felt that I could play a useful role in managing the exit from our extraordinary policies, including our highly accommodative monetary policies.''
As he prepares to step down, the work of regulatory reform is a long way from finished and the Fed's exit remains entirely in the future.
Nonetheless, Mr. Bernanke is already starting to let the weight of the last eight years slip from his shoulders. In June, he delivered a lighthearted baccalaureate address at Princeton, looking more comfortable wearing medieval robes in a Gothic chapel than he has often looked in new suits.
''I wrote recently to inquire about the status of my leave from the university,'' he joked, ''and the letter I got back began, 'Regrettably, Princeton receives many more qualified applicants for faculty positions than we can accommodate.' ''
In July, Mr. Bernanke did not bother suppressing a snort of laughter when a senator, thanking him for his service at what may well have been his last Congressional hearing as the Fed chairman, added, ''And I'm sure you'll miss us.''
And, this past week, he skipped the annual late-summer gathering of central bankers at Jackson Hole, Wyo., where he had spoken in each previous year of his chairmanship.
''It really seemed that the burden of dealing with the crisis, just the way he would carry himself when you would see him, it looked like a tremendous weight,'' Professor Woodford said of Mr. Bernanke.
''And I hope that either because the economy recovers or he can hand off his job to someone else, I'm hoping that he does indeed become much more lighthearted again.''
And who knows? Someday, he might even be able to sell his town house for a profit.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In October 2005, President Bush nominated Ben Bernanke to succeed Alan Greenspan as chairman of the Federal Reserve. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Ben S. Bernanke outside his office. He says the Fed needs to consider a range of previously unthinkable actions, because the cost of inaction can be worse. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARY F. CALVERT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU4)
Henry M. Paulson Jr., then the Treasury secretary, and Ben Bernanke testifying on Capitol Hill on Sept. 23, 2008. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES) (BU5) DRAWING (DRAWING BY MINH UONG/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU1)
CHARTS: Bernanke's Legacy From Crisis to Recovery: After the financial system imploded in 2008, The Fed undertook a series of unprecedented measures. Today, while business has improved and investors have benefited from a rising stock market, the unemployment rate remains too high.
The credit crisis and bailouts
Interest rates and stimulating the economy (Sources: Bureau of Labor Statistics (unemployment rate)
 Bloomberg (stock market)) (BU4-BU5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENTRAL BANKS (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); HOUSING BUBBLE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INFLATION (89%); RECESSION (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); HISTORY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (76%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (65%); GOVERNORS (54%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (93%); HENRY PAULSON (58%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2013



736 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section M2; Column 0; T: Women's Fashion Magazine; T MAGAZINE; Pg. 202

LENGTH: 1276 words

HEADLINE: Aloof, Icy, Playful, Curious, Remote, Opaque, Funny, Shy, Distant, Nice, Impenetrable, Guarded, Unreadable, This is Rooney Mara

BYLINE: By DAVID AMSDEN

 BODY:
Rooney Mara is not known for giving off the warmest of first impressions. Standoffish, aloof, icy, remote, guarded, distant, opaque, steely, impenetrable, unreadable: such tend to be the words used by journalists to describe their encounters with the actress, a less than inviting list of adjectives that I decide to lob at her the moment we meet in Manhattan. I figure my little ignoble stunt will put Mara on the defensive, stir up some deep-seated insecurities, maybe even provoke a flash of anger, all in the name of exposing some new, hidden dimension of the actress to the world.
''Yeah,'' Mara says when I finish. ''I kind of have a bad reputation, don't I?''
Slide Show: The Mysterious Rooney Mara 
Her tone is so unruffled that she may as well be remarking on the weather in a city she doesn't care to visit. And from there? Silence. Mara fixes me with the same unblinking, glacier-eyed stare she deploys so penetratingly on screen -- most notably in her breakout role, as the cyberpunk Lisbeth Salander, in David Fincher's 2011 adaptation of ''The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo.'' Finally, sensing victory in my discomfort, a sly grin springs up on Mara's elfin, alabaster face.
''Isn't mystique and the unknown,'' she asks, ''part of what keeps you drawn to someone?''
Well, yes. Then again, in our confessional age the desire to conceal has been largely eclipsed by the urge to reveal. Today, the sort of actors who once complained about the tabloids now take to Twitter and Instagram to produce their own self-centric versions, carefully curating their personas, forever setting the record straight, always ensuring that we are fed a steady and quasi-intimate diet of everything from their eating habits to handbag preferences to what they look like (gasp!) without makeup. Mara, in this landscape, represents a disarming and refreshing outlier: she may not win people over in the way of Jennifer Lawrence, who never fails to come across as an irrepressible dervish of Kentucky Fried Fun, but she also doesn't risk exhausting us with the robotic eagerness to please of an Anne Hathaway. Should I or anyone else choose to reinforce the chilly stereotypes of Mara already laid out for public consumption -- well, go right ahead, is her attitude, one she began honing long before she became famous. ''In high school, people thought I was stuck-up because I didn't talk to anyone,'' she says of growing up in Bedford, N.Y., a bucolic suburb of the city. ''It was just because I was shy and scared, but I think because I'm super-self-possessed that it doesn't come across as scared so much as stuck-up. I would hear what people thought and be like, 'No! I'm actually nice!' '' She laughs, rolls her eyes. ''But now people can think whatever they want.''
Indeed, in person Mara is quite friendly, punctuating many sentences with laughter and exuding an eager curiosity about subjects ranging from Philip Roth's novels to her newfound addiction of binge watching the Swedish pop star Robyn's latest music video. ''She doesn't take any interactions for granted, and she won't hide it if something isn't worth her time,'' Fincher says. ''But once you get to know her you realize she's a playful girl, very funny, with a biting wit.'' True, yet Mara seems to prefer that you don't know this about her, recognizing that so long as people get her wrong it means that, as an actress, she is doing something right: remaining a slate so blank that just about any idea can be convincingly projected onto her. Her much-documented transformation for ''Dragon Tattoo'' (the motorcycle riding! the pierced nipple!) justly earned her a Best Actress Oscar nomination, and in the wake of that success Mara spent the better part of last year shooting four films back to back, a dizzying run during which she got to showcase her chameleon-like ability to mold herself into a variety of disparate characters while collaborating with a fantasy list of directors. First there was ''Side Effects,'' Steven Soderbergh's Hitchcockian thriller about the pharmaceutical industry, in which Mara turned in a nuanced performance as the manipulative, pseudo-depressive wife of a fallen banker. Right after that wrapped she made her way to the Los Angeles set of ''Her,'' Spike Jonze's take on sci-fi scheduled to come out in November, in which she portrays the ex-wife of a writer who falls in love with his computer's operating system. Then she was off to shoot two films in Texas: the just-released ''Ain't Them Bodies Saints,'' by the newcomer David Lowery, and Terrence Malick's still-untitled meditation on love and obsession set against the backdrop of Austin's music scene.
Even before she had a career, Mara, who keeps a secret list of characters she'd like to play and people she hopes to work with, had a precociously clear idea of how she wanted to be seen in the industry. She became interested in acting at a young age, when her mother took her and her sister, Kate, to Broadway musicals and introduced the two to classic movies. ''My sister started acting when she was young,'' Mara says of the elder Kate, who's currently starring in the Netflix political thriller ''House of Cards.'' ''But I just knew I didn't want to be a child actor. I knew I wanted to go to school and wanted to start when I was older, so I would be taken seriously.'' The topic of her family, however, is one that retriggers Mara's desire to keep certain facets of her life hidden behind veils. ''I hate it when people ask me about my family -- my football family,'' Mara says of the clan known in sports circles as the founding and current owners of the Pittsburgh Steelers (on her mother's side) and the New York Giants (on her father's), an N.F.L. legacy from which she is eager to extricate herself. ''It has no relevance to acting.''
Mara's latest decision -- to stop working for a while when she is in her prime of what can be a maddeningly narrow window for women in film -- is further evidence of how the 28-year-old actress values the idea of staying shrouded in a bit of mystery. ''I haven't worked since last Thanksgiving and I have no plans on working anytime soon,'' she tells me. ''After a movie I always feel a little lost. While you're doing it you feel like you're having some sort of revelation, like it's real, and then its over and you're like, 'That was not real.' '' Mara acknowledges that this hiatus is something of a gamble but to talk to those close to her is to learn that her ambition is tempered by her instincts toward self-preservation. ''She doesn't operate from a place of fear,'' Jonze says. ''She's looking at the whole picture, and wants to figure out how to live her life.''
These days that means leaving Los Angeles to spend time in New York. Talking about the possibilities of a summer spent unemployed, Mara becomes downright giddy, far from the frosty creature she's typically portrayed as. ''What's something I could learn? What's a new skill I could acquire?'' she wonders aloud, before launching into a to-do list of achievements she hopes to rack up by summer's end: learning a new language, probably French or Spanish; getting a sewing machine and teaching herself how to quilt; maybe dabbling in embroidery; finishing a novel she's been struggling to get through. But more than anything, she tells me, she has become fixated on the idea of learning ballroom dance. She explains that, like acting, dancing would force her to shed her naturally reticent husk. ''I have hidden rhythm -- like, I'm a crazy dancer when I'm alone -- but I'm a little too shy to let it come out in public.'' Mara pauses, and then adds, ''But, let me tell you, it's going to come out.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Céline top, $5,500
(212) 535-3703. Comme des Garçons Comme des Garçons shorts, $320
(212) 604-9200.
Calvin Klein Collection dress and jacket, price on request
(212) 292-9000. Opposite: Hermès cape, $7,500
hermes.com. Dries Van Noten sweater, $695
Opening Ceremony, (212) 219-2688. Limi Feu pants, $292
lagarconne.com.
Jil Sander sweater, $1,740
(212) 925-2345. Haider Ackermann shorts, $3,140
mytheresa.com. Alexander Wang headband (on neck), $400 (sold as two-piece set with snood)
alexanderwang.com. Hair by Paul Hanlon at Julian Watson Agency.Makeup by Diane Kendal for Marc Jacobs Beauty. Manicure by Megumi Yamamoto for Chanel Beauté. Stylist assistants: Carlos Nazario and Allegra Versace. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID SIMS
STYLED BY JOE McKENNA
LOCATION SCOUT: JOHN HUTCHINSON
TAILOR: LARS NORD
PHOTO ASSISTANTS: NATHAN JENKINS, EDWARD MULVAHILL, SAM ROCK
POSTPRODUCTION: SKN
LOCATION: HUDSON HIGHLANDS STATE PARK, NYSPARKS.COM
HAIR ASSISTANT: KEISUKE TERADA
 MAKEUP ASSISTANT: SUSIE SOBOL.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (78%); NUTRITION (62%)

PERSON: MARC JACOBS (59%); JENNIFER LAWRENCE (58%); ANNE HATHAWAY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2013



737 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINIONATOR; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1895 words

HEADLINE: How Technology Wrecks the Middle Class

BYLINE: By DAVID H. AUTOR and DAVID DORN

 BODY:
In the four years since the Great Recession officially ended, the productivity of American workers -- those lucky enough to have jobs -- has risen smartly. But the United States still has two million fewer jobs than before the downturn, the unemployment rate is stuck at levels not seen since the early 1990s and the proportion of adults who are working is four percentage points off its peak in 2000.
This job drought has spurred pundits to wonder whether a profound employment sickness has overtaken us. And from there, it's only a short leap to ask whether that illness isn't productivity itself. Have we mechanized and computerized ourselves into obsolescence?
Are we in danger of losing the ''race against the machine,'' as the M.I.T. scholars Erik Brynjolfsson and Andrew McAfee argue in a recent book? Are we becoming enslaved to our ''robot overlords,'' as the journalist Kevin Drum warned in Mother Jones? Do ''smart machines'' threaten us with ''long-term misery,'' as the economists Jeffrey D. Sachs and Laurence J. Kotlikoff prophesied earlier this year? Have we reached ''the end of labor,'' as Noah Smith laments in The Atlantic? 
Of course, anxiety, and even hysteria, about the adverse effects of technological change on employment have a venerable history. In the early 19th century a group of English textile artisans calling themselves the Luddites staged a machine-trashing rebellion. Their brashness earned them a place (rarely positive) in the lexicon, but they had legitimate reasons for concern.
Economists have historically rejected what we call the ''lump of labor'' fallacy: the supposition that an increase in labor productivity inevitably reduces employment because there is only a finite amount of work to do. While intuitively appealing, this idea is demonstrably false. In 1900, for example, 41 percent of the United States work force was in agriculture. By 2000, that share had fallen to 2 percent, after the Green Revolution transformed crop yields. But the employment-to-population ratio rose over the 20th century as women moved from home to market, and the unemployment rate fluctuated cyclically, with no long-term increase.
Labor-saving technological change necessarily displaces workers performing certain tasks -- that's where the gains in productivity come from -- but over the long run, it generates new products and services that raise national income and increase the overall demand for labor. In 1900, no one could foresee that a century later, health care, finance, information technology, consumer electronics, hospitality, leisure and entertainment would employ far more workers than agriculture. Of course, as societies grow more prosperous, citizens often choose to work shorter days, take longer vacations and retire earlier -- but that too is progress.
So if technological advances don't threaten employment, does that mean workers have nothing to fear from ''smart machines''? Actually, no -- and here's where the Luddites had a point. Although many 19th-century Britons benefited from the introduction of newer and better automated looms -- unskilled laborers were hired as loom operators, and a growing middle class could now afford mass-produced fabrics -- it's unlikely that skilled textile workers benefited on the whole.
Fast-forward to the present. The multi-trillionfold decline in the cost of computing since the 1970s has created enormous incentives for employers to substitute increasingly cheap and capable computers for expensive labor. These rapid advances -- which confront us daily as we check in at airports, order books online, pay bills on our banks' Web sites or consult our smartphones for driving directions -- have reawakened fears that workers will be displaced by machinery. Will this time be different?
A starting point for discussion is the observation that although computers are ubiquitous, they cannot do everything. A computer's ability to accomplish a task quickly and cheaply depends upon a human programmer's ability to write procedures or rules that direct the machine to take the correct steps at each contingency. Computers excel at ''routine'' tasks: organizing, storing, retrieving and manipulating information, or executing exactly defined physical movements in production processes. These tasks are most pervasive in middle-skill jobs like bookkeeping, clerical work and repetitive production and quality-assurance jobs.
Logically, computerization has reduced the demand for these jobs, but it has boosted demand for workers who perform ''nonroutine'' tasks that complement the automated activities. Those tasks happen to lie on opposite ends of the occupational skill distribution.
At one end are so-called abstract tasks that require problem-solving, intuition, persuasion and creativity. These tasks are characteristic of professional, managerial, technical and creative occupations, like law, medicine, science, engineering, advertising and design. People in these jobs typically have high levels of education and analytical capability, and they benefit from computers that facilitate the transmission, organization and processing of information.
On the other end are so-called manual tasks, which require situational adaptability, visual and language recognition, and in-person interaction. Preparing a meal, driving a truck through city traffic or cleaning a hotel room present mind-bogglingly complex challenges for computers. But they are straightforward for humans, requiring primarily innate abilities like dexterity, sightedness and language recognition, as well as modest training. These workers can't be replaced by robots, but their skills are not scarce, so they usually make low wages.
Computerization has therefore fostered a polarization of employment, with job growth concentrated in both the highest- and lowest-paid occupations, while jobs in the middle have declined. Surprisingly, overall employment rates have largely been unaffected in states and cities undergoing this rapid polarization. Rather, as employment in routine jobs has ebbed, employment has risen both in high-wage managerial, professional and technical occupations and in low-wage, in-person service occupations.
So computerization is not reducing the quantity of jobs, but rather degrading the quality of jobs for a significant subset of workers. Demand for highly educated workers who excel in abstract tasks is robust, but the middle of the labor market, where the routine task-intensive jobs lie, is sagging. Workers without college education therefore concentrate in manual task-intensive jobs -- like food services, cleaning and security -- which are numerous but offer low wages, precarious job security and few prospects for upward mobility. This bifurcation of job opportunities has contributed to the historic rise in income inequality.
HOW can we help workers ride the wave of technological change rather than be swamped by it? One common recommendation is that citizens should invest more in their education. Spurred by growing demand for workers performing abstract job tasks, the payoff for college and professional degrees has soared; despite its formidable price tag, higher education has perhaps never been a better investment. But it is far from a comprehensive solution to our labor market problems. Not all high school graduates -- let alone displaced mid- and late-career workers -- are academically or temperamentally prepared to pursue a four-year college degree. Only 40 percent of Americans enroll in a four-year college after graduating from high school, and more than 30 percent of those who enroll do not complete the degree within eight years.
The good news, however, is that middle-education, middle-wage jobs are not slated to disappear completely. While many middle-skill jobs are susceptible to automation, others demand a mixture of tasks that take advantage of human flexibility. To take one prominent example, medical paraprofessional jobs -- radiology technician, phlebotomist, nurse technician -- are a rapidly growing category of relatively well-paid, middle-skill occupations. While these paraprofessions do not typically require a four-year college degree, they do demand some postsecondary vocational training.
These middle-skill jobs will persist, and potentially grow, because they involve tasks that cannot readily be unbundled without a substantial drop in quality. Consider, for example, the frustration of calling a software firm for technical support, only to discover that the technician knows nothing more than the standard answers shown on his or her computer screen -- that is, the technician is a mouthpiece reading from a script, not a problem-solver. This is not generally a productive form of work organization because it fails to harness the complementarities between technical and interpersonal skills. Simply put, the quality of a service within any occupation will improve when a worker combines routine (technical) and nonroutine (flexible) tasks.
Following this logic, we predict that the middle-skill jobs that survive will combine routine technical tasks with abstract and manual tasks in which workers have a comparative advantage -- interpersonal interaction, adaptability and problem-solving. Along with medical paraprofessionals, this category includes numerous jobs for people in the skilled trades and repair: plumbers; builders; electricians; heating, ventilation and air-conditioning installers; automotive technicians; customer-service representatives; and even clerical workers who are required to do more than type and file. Indeed, even as formerly middle-skill occupations are being ''deskilled,'' or stripped of their routine technical tasks (brokering stocks, for example), other formerly high-end occupations are becoming accessible to workers with less esoteric technical mastery (for example, the work of the nurse practitioner, who increasingly diagnoses illness and prescribes drugs in lieu of a physician). Lawrence F. Katz, a labor economist at Harvard, memorably called those who fruitfully combine the foundational skills of a high school education with specific vocational skills the ''new artisans.''
The outlook for workers who haven't finished college is uncertain, but not devoid of hope. There will be job opportunities in middle-skill jobs, but not in the traditional blue-collar production and white-collar office jobs of the past. Rather, we expect to see growing employment among the ranks of the ''new artisans'': licensed practical nurses and medical assistants; teachers, tutors and learning guides at all educational levels; kitchen designers, construction supervisors and skilled tradespeople of every variety; expert repair and support technicians; and the many people who offer personal training and assistance, like physical therapists, personal trainers, coaches and guides. These workers will adeptly combine technical skills with interpersonal interaction, flexibility and adaptability to offer services that are uniquely human.
David H. Autor is a professor of economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. David Dorn is an assistant professor of economics at the Center for Monetary and Financial Studies in Madrid.
This is an essay from The Great Divide, a series on inequality, at nytimes.com/ opinionator.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Robot arms welded a vehicle on the assembly line at a General Motors plant in Lansing, Mich., in 2010. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BILL PUGLIANO/GETTY IMAGES) (SR6-SR7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRODUCTIVITY (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (84%); WORKFORCE DEMAND (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); CROP PRODUCTION (76%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (74%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (70%); WRITERS (68%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LANSING, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2013



738 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2013
Correction Appended 
National

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 1147 words

HEADLINE: Making Some Effort, but North Texas Continues to Run the Water

BYLINE: By NEENA SATIJA. 
nsatija@texastribune.org

 BODY:
DALLAS -- On the northern edge of this city known for excessive water use, where residents have been subject to watering restrictions for more than a year, a cozy home on less than half an acre has one of the greenest lawns in town.
The house is the first in North Texas to receive the Environmental Protection Agency's WaterSense endorsement, its stamp of approval for water efficiency. It is the only such home in the country that is open to the public for tours and demonstrations -- a fitting location, since the Dallas-Fort Worth region is one of the nation's fastest-growing and thirstiest areas.
In a place where green lawns decked with water-hungry plants like St. Augustine grass and holly bushes are status symbols, Dotty Woodson, a water resource specialist with the Texas A&M University System's agriculture education arm, said visitors are amazed to learn that the home's lush palisades zoysia grass needs watering only once a week in the summer.
''The first thing they say is, 'Well gosh, here it is August and look at how much we have in bloom!' '' Ms. Woodson said. (The Texas A&M University System is a corporate sponsor of The Texas Tribune.) 
But such outreach programs have yet to make a sizable dent in the high household water consumption in North Texas. Environmentalists say that the region must do more to conserve water before spending the tens of billions of dollars officials say is needed to build proposed new reservoirs or pipelines.
''Really, it's a matter of ethics and attitude,'' said Mary E. Kelly, a principal at the Austin environmental analysis firm Parula. ''Can we keep taking water somewhere else if we're not conserving as much as we should?''
North Texas officials object strongly to the ''water hog'' label that is often applied to the region, pointing out that the Dallas-Fort Worth area houses a quarter of the state's population and is a major corporate and industrial center.
''We've got more restaurants per capita than the other big cities,'' said Denis Qualls, a planner for Dallas' water utility service. ''We've got more industry, more hotel rooms. It's a huge, huge economic engine for the state, and to support that, there has to be adequate water supply.''
Still, even the region's residential suburbs are among the state's biggest water users, with mega-mansions that can drain more than 1,000 gallons a day on average. Critics say a flurry of reservoir building in the region decades ago created a perception of cheap, unlimited water that drove wasteful habits -- a myth that is unraveling in the face of extreme drought, aging infrastructure and exponential population growth.
North Texas' water demands are currently about 600 billion gallons a year and is expected to almost double by 2060, but so far the search for new sources has come up short. The billionaire T. Boone Pickens's plan to sell water to Dallas from the Texas Panhandle fizzled, and he found customers elsewhere. (Mr. Pickens is a major donor to the Tribune.)
Concerns over wildlife habitats derailed plans for a massive reservoir in East Texas. Most recently, the United States Supreme Court struck down North Texas' effort to buy water from Oklahoma reservoirs after that state resisted. The next big idea -- the proposed $3.4 billion Marvin Nichols Reservoir -- has met fierce opposition from environmentalists and rural communitiesin northeast Texas who say that 70,000 acres would be lost to the reservoir, including farms, forest and wildlife habitat.
All this has left critics asking: Will the region finally get serious about conserving water, or will it simply build its way out of the problem?
Local officials say that both are required, and that they are trying to strike the right balance.''You'll never eliminate the need for a major water supply for the Metroplex,'' said David Marshall, the engineering services director for the Tarrant Regional Water District, a wholesale supplier to dozens of North Texas entities including the City of Fort Worth. But through conservation, he said, ''we'll definitely delay it. The conservation has really exceeded my expectations.''
As with the rest of the state, North Texas has focused its conservation efforts on landscaping, the use of big-budget advertising campaigns, and replacement programs for water-using appliances and lawn-watering equipment. The results are notable: the Tarrant district says its customers have saved 72.3 billion gallons since 2007, which would support five years of population growth.
Dallas and Fort Worth say their homes and businesses use about 10 percent less water than they did a decade ago.
But the region started water conservation efforts in earnest in 2000, long after cities like San Antonio, which has managed to greatly cut water demand as its population grows, did.
Ron Kaiser, a professor at Texas A&M, said that through conservation, North Texas could probably come close to eliminating the need for projects like the Marvin Nichols Reservoir. ''But that will require fundamental changes in attitudes and policy and land use,'' he said. ''And those things don't happen overnight. It's small and incremental.''
Nonetheless, change has been happening, albeit slowly. After much debate last year, Dallas restricted lawn watering to twice a week year round, rather than limiting it to drought conditions. Fort Worth hopes to do the same by 2014.
But in contrast to areas stricken with more severe drought, North Texas cities are hesitant to enforce restrictions. All told, Dallas fined 11 water users for violations in the past two years, according to its water utility.
''A great deal of what they spend is on fliers,'' as opposed to real investment in conservation strategies, said Kenneth Cook, whose company, Banyan Water, works with commercial property owners in Texas to reduce water consumption. He said his clients in North Texas regularly flout the restrictions and have no incentive to conserve.
''It's less than 1 percent of their operating costs, so what the heck?'' Mr. Cook said of his customer's water bills.
In the meantime, North Texas officials say they have plenty of water to sustain growth in the coming decades. But the long-term path is less clear. The Tarrant district spent $6 million suing Oklahoma for water and says that the Supreme Court defeat leaves it with enough supply to reach 2040.
Many suburban and exurban developers enjoying booming business outside the central cities are choosing to depend on their own water supplies, rather than on distant public promises.
Just a few miles from the WaterSense house, the residential, retail and office development Austin Ranch nourishes its dozens of acres with treated well water and storm water. The wells cost $5 million each.
It was worth it, said Mr. Cook, whose company provides services for the development. ''Nobody's going to call them and say, 'You can only water on Wednesdays and Fridays.' ''

CORRECTION-DATE: September 1, 2013

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about water use in North Texas misstated the cost for wells in the Austin Ranch development. The wells cost $500,000 each, not $5 million each.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A Dallas house the E.P.A. cited for its water efficiency boasts grass that needs water only once a week. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRANDON THIBODEAUX FOR THE TEXAS TRIBUNE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (90%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); WATER CONSUMPTION (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (76%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (74%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (74%); APPROVALS (73%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (73%); WATER & WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT (73%); RESTAURANTS (70%); WATER & SEWER SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (69%); WATER QUALITY (67%); SPONSORSHIP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: TEXAS A & M UNIVERSITY (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (94%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (74%) TEXAS, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2013



739 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1298 words

HEADLINE: Hidden Truths

BYLINE: By STEVEN B. SMITH. 
Steven B. Smith is the Alfred Cowles professor of political science at Yale and the author of the forthcoming book ''Modernity and Its Discontents.''

 BODY:
CRISIS OF THE STRAUSS DIVIDEDEssays on Leo Strauss and Straussianism, East and West
By Harry V. Jaffa with Thomas L. Pangle, John A. Wettergreen, Robert P. Kraynak, Michael P. Zuckert and Leo StraussIllustrated. 277 pp. Rowman & Littlefield. $49.95.THE ENDURING IMPORTANCE OF LEO STRAUSSBy Laurence Lampert345 pp. University of Chicago Press. $55.
When Leo Strauss died in 1973 he was virtually unknown outside the tiny academic circle that he inhabited. Forty years later his name and influence are known almost everywhere. His books and articles have been translated into nearly every European language and several Asian ones. Web sites -- both pro and con -- are devoted to him. International conferences debate his thought and legacy.
Like all serious teachers, Strauss developed followers, and like all disciples these have split over the meaning of their teacher's work. Was Strauss on the side of the ancients or the moderns? Was he a defender of biblical revelation or philosophical rationality? Was he, as he often said, a ''friend of liberal democracy'' or its most severe critic? What we are experiencing, to cite Harry V. Jaffa's witty paraphrase of Lincoln, is nothing less than a ''crisis of the Strauss divided.'' 
Jaffa is almost single-handedly the creator of what has become known as West Coast Straussianism, so called because its epicenter is Claremont McKenna College in California. At the core of the West Coast doctrine is the study of the American regime, a topic to which Strauss devoted little explicit attention, but to which Jaffa and his followers have given primacy. The West Coasters have created a synthesis of Strauss's defense of the classical doctrine of natural right -- the view that there is a single immutable standard of justice -- with the wisdom of the American founding fathers, supplemented by Lincoln and Churchill (recently names like Calvin Coolidge and Clarence Thomas have been added to the list). Contra Strauss, the West Coasters have developed their own theory of American exceptionalism, arguing that the framers uniquely combined features of classical prudence with biblical morality.
''Crisis of the Strauss Divided'' consists of 19 essays, the most revealing of which is the semi-autobiographical ''Straussian Geography.'' Here Jaffa describes his early education as an English major at Yale, where, he says, he ''read nothing but good books,'' but adds that his real education began only after meeting Strauss, a German-Jewish émigré, at the New School for Social Research in the years around World War II. Jaffa describes this meeting as a conversion experience. ''Saul on the road to Damascus was not more stunned, nor more transformed than I,'' he writes. Almost 70 years after their first encounter, Jaffa is still able to speak about it with a combination of boyish enthusiasm and a convert's zeal.
Jaffa's peculiar genius -- and I use that word advisedly -- was to apply Strauss's understanding of political philosophy as the study of high statesmanship to the theory and practice of American politics. Before Jaffa, the dominant approach in political science had been set by the ''progressive'' school that treated political ideas in quasi-Marxist terms as rationalizations for economic interests. Jaffa's masterwork, ''Crisis of the House Divided'' (1959),was an in-depth reading of the Lincoln-Douglas debates that showed what was at stake was nothing less than the highest principles of justice. The two antagonists were carrying on in an American setting the same debates that animated the great philosophical tradition, with Lincoln upholding the case of ancient natural right. For Jaffa, there could be no clearer evidence of continuity between the ancients and the moderns.
West Coast Straussianism can be dated approximately to Jaffa's role in Barry Goldwater's presidential campaign of 1964. He was the author of Goldwater's famous tagline: ''Extremism in the defense of liberty is no vice'' and ''moderation in the pursuit of justice is no virtue.'' Yet Jaffa was no orthodox conservative. He attacked right-wingers like the political philosopher Willmoore Kendall and Chief Justice William Rehnquist. Far more than most conservatives, he insisted that the principle of equality is the cornerstone of the American republic.
But family quarrels are often the worst. William F. Buckley once quipped of Jaffa that if you think disagreeing with him is difficult, agreeing with him is more so. This comes out in his unbecoming polemics with fellow Straussians Thomas Pangle and Walter Berns. These articles display a streak of meanness and vanity that do no credit to their author and far exceed the issues at stake.
East Coast Straussianism, by contrast, lacks a geographical center or a single dominating presence, but Laurence Lampert's book, ''The Enduring Importance of Leo Strauss,'' provides an extreme illustration of the tendency. East Coasters have often emphasized the German philosophical roots of Strauss's thought. In Lampert's account, the ''enduring importance'' of Strauss must be completely severed from politics. Strauss's major discovery was the particular ''art of writing'' by which the great ancient and medieval philosophers sought to communicate their teachings to posterity.
Like Jaffa, Lampert believes Strauss overstated the difference between the ancients and the moderns. He, too, argues that in their quest for truth, thinkers from Plato onward have more in common than the apparent differences among them would seem to suggest. But while Jaffa's Strauss synthesized the thought of pre-Enlightenment Jerusalem and Athens, Lampert's Strauss is a Nietzschean for whom the modern Enlightenment is not only irreversible but desirable. ''Far from being a tool for the restoration of pre-Enlightenment practices or beliefs,'' Lampert writes, Strauss's writings serve ''the advancement of learning that Nietzsche advocated.''
Lampert insists on continuity between ancient and modern philosophy. He also closes Strauss's gap between philosophy and poetry. The most provocative chapter of the book is devoted to Seth Benardete, who was often said to be Strauss's greatest protégé. He was a brilliant, original and deeply obscure classicist who published a string of translations and commentaries on Homer, Herodotus, Plato and the Greek tragedians.
In one of his last books, ''The Bow and the Lyre,'' Benardete developed the thesis, only vaguely intimated by Strauss, that the philosophical tradition begins not with Plato but with Homer. Lampert uses Benardete's insight to argue that philosophy and poetry are not really in opposition, as Strauss had maintained, but that philosophy is itself a form of poetry, whose task is to shape new gods and new worlds.
What to make of these books and the Strauss wars they express? Both authors pay elaborate obeisance to Strauss while taking enormous liberties with his texts. I am not exactly a neutral in this debate, having once described myself as inhabiting ''the far East Coast'' world of Straussian geography. I meant by that to endorse Strauss's special combination of philosophical radicalism and political moderation.
Strauss described himself as a skeptic for whom all alleged answers to philosophical problems were fundamentally contestable. From this perspective, Jaffa and Lampert are rival dogmatists. If Jaffa's Strauss often sounds like a political zealot who sanctifies Jaffa's own reading of America, Lampert's sounds disarmingly like Nietzsche's self-description as ''the last unpolitical German.'' Both could stand being reminded of Strauss's statement: ''Moderation will protect us against the twin dangers of visionary expectations from politics and unmanly contempt for politics.'' This still seems like good advice for those who will listen.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Leo Strauss (PHOTOGRAPH FROM THE LEO STRAUSS CENTER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); RELIGION (88%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (75%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (74%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (70%); LIBERALISM (67%); WORLD WAR II (62%)

PERSON: CLARENCE THOMAS (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%) WEST USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (92%); SYRIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2013



740 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2013

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 1029 words

HEADLINE: Disruptions: A Blogger Mocks the Denizens of Silicon Valley

BYLINE: NICK BILTON


HIGHLIGHT: Sam Biddle of Valleywag takes aim at those he finds very rich and very self-absorbed. And some find him gratuitous and simply cruel. 

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO - Sam Biddle may have one of the easiest jobs in technology journalism. That is, easy if you have the stomach for his line of work.
Every morning, he wakes up in his Brooklyn apartment, checks Twitter on his smartphone, searches for social media posts percolating from Silicon Valley, and begins to write, his style combining Page Six dishiness with snark and surprising insight.
In other words, his style is pure Gawker. 
Mr. Biddle, 26, is the latest blogger for Gawker Media's Valleywag, the tech industry gossip dartboard that recently reopened for business after a four-year hibernation. His job, which he has been at since April, is to note just how self-absorbed the tech industry in Silicon Valley and San Francisco (and occasionally New York) can be. And he does not seem to care whom he offends.
His latest items are about both the famous and obscure-but-noxious personalities of tech. They include: "Revealed: Sheryl Sandberg's Unpaid Intern Disgrace," "AOL CEO Tim Armstrong Fires Employee for Taking His Picture" and "Startup Stud Hates Homeless People, Ugly Girls, and Public Transit."
"There is a basic calculation where you add money and lack of self-awareness, and the higher those two values are, the better and easier my job is," Mr. Biddle said in an interview. And Silicon Valley, he added, has a lot of both.
On any day, Mr. Biddle, who first joined Gawker Media in 2010 as an intern, said he can pull from a near-endless supply of industry follies. But his real specialty borrows from generations of satirists and gossip writers: He picks a few juicy targets and - some might say, cruelly - goes after them over and over again.
"The Morins are really a gift from heaven," he said. The Morins he is referring to are Brit Morin, founder of Brit & Company, a do-it-yourself arts and crafts Web site, and her husband, Dave Morin, the co-founder of Path, a mobile social network.
Mr. Biddle has accused Mrs. Morin, among other things, of continually "plagiarizing" work on other Web sites. And he has questioned, with exaggerated bafflement, why Mrs. Morin received $6 millionin financing for her start-up.
Mr. Biddle has also made Mr. Morin a punching bag, reporting that he bought new usersfor his start-up to artificially inflate growth and spammed people alreadyon the service by sending unwanted messages to their phone contacts. Mr. and Mrs. Morin declined to comment.
Valleywag began in February 2006 with Nick Douglas, a recent college graduate, at the helm. The site has had several other lead writers, including Nick Denton, Gawker Media's owner. But when traffic waned (not surprisingly, with the recession that took some air out of the tech industry), it was folded into Gawker.
John Cook, editor of Gawker, said he and Mr. Denton decided to restart Valleywag after seeing a return of excessive spending and obnoxious behavior in the Valley and a "lot of indications of dumb money," like the $6 million given to Ms. Morin's start-up.
"The Valley is a target-rich environment for someone who is looking to expose profligacy, ego and self-regard," Mr. Cook said. "There's just so much cluelessness about wealth and privilege, and there's so much completely unearned money changing hands."
This time, Valleywag may have some staying power. The obscure young tech executives Valleywag wrote about when it started, like Mark Zuckerberg and Sheryl Sandberg of Facebook, have, Mr. Cook said, "become household names."
Then there is Sean Parker, co-founder of Napster, whose long public relationseffort to explain his multimillion-dollar wedding in a redwood grove helped find him a regular spoton Valleywag's front page.
If you're not familiar with Mr. Parker, he is the character played with considerable Svengali-like charm by Justin Timberlake in the movie "The Social Network."
Mr. Biddle has another favorite target: other writers who cover the tech industry.
He has gone to great lengths to ruffle Sarah Lacy, a former writer for Businessweek and editor at TechCrunch who is the founder of a technology blog called PandoDaily that - in Mr. Biddle's estimation - does the bidding of the industry it covers. He called Ms. Lacy a "free-market monster" after she wrote a post criticizing a strike by local transit workers; he taunted her for defending the tech industry, and he chided her for becoming part of the stories she covers, considered improper for traditional journalists.
Ms. Lacy says those criticisms are nonsense. Unsurprisingly, she doesn't think much of what Mr. Biddle is doing. "If Gawker thinks the Valley press isn't uncovering stories, then go do it, because so far I haven't seen it from Valleywag," Ms. Lacy said.
Ms. Lacy and others question how Mr. Biddle can accurately report on Silicon Valley while he is based in New York. It's a common complaint: that Mr. Biddle knows little about the industry he enjoys mocking. And they say he hardly practices the high values of journalism that he preaches. "Not calling people before you write about them is not noble," Ms. Lacy said.
"Valleywag's mission was to expose criminality, hypocrisy and corruption, but it isn't doing any of that," said Paul Carr, a contributor to PandoDaily and another occasional target for Mr. Biddle. "Instead you have a guy in New York pointing to Silicon Valley from thousands of miles away saying: 'Look at that rich guy. Isn't he rich? That rich guy is a loser.' "
Mr. Biddle and other former Valleywag writers argue that being based in New York, and not Silicon Valley, allows him to avoid going native and becoming too chummy with those he writes about in the way tech bloggers like Ms. Lacy have.
But no matter where he is, Mr. Biddle understands that a job at Valleywag can be like a job as a crash-test dummy.
"There was a worry before I started this that I was going to burn every bridge I had," Mr. Biddle said. "But I realize now that there are some bridges that are worth burning."

        
Daily Report: Pentagon Becomes Source of Support for Silicon Valley
        
Big Data Analysis Adds to Guest Worker Debate
        
Tech Pushes to Keep Its Spoils in Immigration Bill
        
Daily Report: Other Nations Offer Visas to Compete With Silicon Valley
        
Gawker Hopes to Transform the Blog

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); WRITERS (89%); SOCIAL MEDIA (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (77%); SMARTPHONES (77%); INTERVIEWS (73%); MOBILE MEDIA (72%); PLAGIARISM (63%); HOMELESSNESS (52%) Biddle, Sam; Blogs and Blogging (Internet); Computers and the Internet; Gawker Media; Gossip; Silicon Valley (Calif); Valleywag; Internet

ORGANIZATION: Gawker Media; Valleywag

PERSON: TIM ARMSTRONG (51%) Biddle, Sam

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%) Silicon Valley (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2013



741 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2013

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 1012 words

HEADLINE: Sign-Language Interpreter Uses Newfound Fame to Advocate for the Deaf

BYLINE: VIVIAN YEE


HIGHLIGHT: Lydia Callis, who rose to unexpected fame interpreting Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg&#8217;s statements during Hurricane Sandy, is approaching city organizations about expanding their accommodations for hearing-impaired people. 

 BODY:
For a week or so around the end of October, Lydia Callis seemed to be everywhere: On television, standing just to Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's right as he, then she, urged New Yorkers to stay indoors while they waited out Hurricane Sandy. On Twitter, where admirers gushed that they could watch her "for hours." And on "Saturday Night Live" - in caricature form, anyway - in a skit even Mr. Bloomberg could not resist mentioning.
Less visible these days, but no less busy, Ms. Callis now wants to capitalize on the unexpected fame she gained as a sign-language interpreter to improve the state of services for the deaf and hard of hearing in New York, which she calls surprisingly dismal for a city with a significant deaf population and a large number of interpreters. 
The first fruit of her efforts has been modest: she now leads a regular series of deaf- and hard-of-hearing-oriented tours at the New York Public Library's flagship building on Fifth Avenue, which has begun to offer more deaf-oriented events and to hire interpreters for other events. And she has been meeting with officials at other institutions to get them to recognize what she says is the hearing world's lack of awareness about the needs of the deaf - an ignorance that was underscored recently when deaf customers of Starbucks accused the coffee chain in a lawsuit of discriminating against them at two of its Manhattan locations.
With her gesticulations, wide eyes and endlessly elastic facial expressions, Ms. Callis rose to fame during Hurricane Sandy and its aftermath as millions of New Yorkers tuned in to the emergency briefings that were broadcast on what seemed like every channel. 
She was called hypnotic, mesmerizing and full of "pizazz." But she said the attention paid to her showed how little most people understand the deaf population and American Sign Language, which often depends on facial expressions and animated gestures to lend emphasis and emotion to communication.
"I was like, when is it over? Seriously, when is this going to die down? Wow, people just really don't know much about the deaf community," she said, recalling the time her fiancé traveled to Italy and found her notoriety had spread to perhaps the most gestural people on earth. But her celebrity also meant access to the institutions she felt had the most to learn.
There are 170,928 people with hearing difficulties in the city, according to census data, although advocates for the deaf have said the number is higher. While several well-known facilities in the city are deaf-accessible, including Yankee Stadium and Citi Field, the mayor's office often receives requests for better accommodations at outdoor city festivals, in theaters and in taxis, Mr. Calise said. 
He said the city had fielded several inquiries from other cities about Ms. Callis's consistent presence at Mr. Bloomberg's side after Hurricane Sandy. 
"People with deafness, the hard of hearing, are a forgotten disability because you don't see it," Mr. Calise said. With ambassadors like Ms. Callis, "people see it, and it's a little bit more front and center," he added.
Ms. Callis was born into a deaf family, and signing was her first language; not until she began preschool did she begin to adopt English. She grew up interpreting for her mother and three deaf siblings, but decided to become an interpreter only eight years ago. To that end, Ms. Callis founded an interpreting company of her own, LC Interpreting Services, and also freelances through other agencies. 
Brigid Cahalan, who oversees outreach services at the library, said the initial tours received enough interest that she decided to offer them regularly this past spring. The library also plans to offer more events dedicated to the deaf, like a series of talks with deaf authors, and to provide more interpreting and closed-captioning at other events.
When she looked for interpreters for the tours, she was surprised and pleased to see that Ms. Callis had signed up for every single slot.
"Obviously, there was an eagerness here, so I was happy," Ms. Cahalan added.
Eagerness may be an understatement, though Ms. Callis said her efforts have been stymied so far by the twin roadblocks of budget difficulties and indifference.
Advocates for the deaf have long struggled with a lack of awareness about deafness, said Jeffrey Wax, the director of the emotional health program at the Center for Hearing and Communication. Getting interpreters can be costly and time-consuming, he said, and it can be hard to gauge how often an interpreter will be needed, leading many institutions to engage interpreters on an ad hoc basis instead of hiring one full time.
Ms. Callis says American Sign Language is often mistakenly characterized as a foreign language. It is, she said, merely an alternate way of communicating. But it is also not an exact simulation of English; in part because the deaf do not hear inflections, ambient conversation and noise, idioms and jokes are often different in sign language.
Though many found her interpreting style during Mr. Bloomberg's news conferences amusingly exaggerated, Ms. Callis said that she was simply reflecting the gravity of Mr. Bloomberg's delivery.
"People truly have a hard time wrapping their heads around it, and that's when the deaf community suffers," she said, leaning forward and opening her eyes wider as if to underscore her point. "People just don't know. Look how far we came with gay rights - but then we can't get access for deaf people!"
"It's 2013," she said. "It's about time."
The City Room column on Monday about Lydia Callis, a sign-language interpreter for Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, misstated the number of people with hearing disabilities in New York City in 2012. It was 170,928 - not 800,000, which was the approximate number of people in the city who had some type of disability.

        
National Park Sites Are Free This Week, but Two Remain Closed
        
City Jobs Lost in Storm Are Returning, but Unemployment Rate Is Flat
        
Week in Pictures for Nov. 9
        
Aug. 29: Where the Candidates Are Today
        
The Ad Campaign: Speaking in Support of Weiner

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: DEAFNESS (94%); HURRICANE SANDY (90%); HURRICANES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); TRANSLATORS & INTERPRETERS (90%); DISABLED PERSONS (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (89%); MAYORS (78%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (73%); CELEBRITIES (73%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (72%); CENSUS (70%); COFFEE & TEA STORES (69%); LITIGATION (69%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (69%); LIBRARIES (67%); SUITS & CLAIMS (66%); TALKS & MEETINGS (66%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (62%) Callis, Lydia; Deafness; Disabilities; Hurricane Sandy (2012); New York City; Sign Language; People & Neighborhoods

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (52%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (52%); C (BMV) (52%); 8710 (TSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%) Callis, Lydia

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2013



742 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1128 words

HEADLINE: Shoeshines Keep Wall Street in the Black (or Maybe Brown)

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: In-house shoeshine service has proved resilient, surviving the rise of technology and even the 2008 financial crisis, which snuffed out many of Wall Street&#8217;s quirks. 

 BODY:
Mauricio Dias was being courted by Wall Street.
After losing his job at the investment bank Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette when it was sold to Credit Suisse, he received a phone call from the office of Hamilton E. James, the executive who had orchestrated the sale, Mr. Dias said. Mr. James was starting a new role as the No. 2 at the Blackstone Group, a big investment firm, and wanted Mr. Dias to join him.
 Mr. Dias, now a 10-year stalwart at Blackstone, is no banker with a briefcase, however. He carries a shoeshine box.
Inside New York's investment houses, a vestige of old Wall Street lives on. Gone are the days when offices were filled with smoke and secretaries were the only women in sight. But in-house shoeshine service has proved remarkably resilient, surviving the rise of technology and even the turmoil of the 2008 financial crisis, which snuffed out many of Wall Street's quirks. 
Mr. Dias, 52, is at the top of the heap in the shoeshine world. He charges $6 for a shine in Blackstone's offices, while the Dr. Shine shoeshine parlor in the building's lobby charges $3. Not counting the tip.
"He's a V.I.P.," said Gotardo Cortez, 38, a co-owner of Dr. Shine. A spokesman for Blackstone declined to comment.
Though they are not bank employees, Wall Street's shoeshine workers are privy to the hidden dramas of trading floors and executive suites. At JPMorgan Chase, for example, a shoeshine worker said that Jamie Dimon, the bank's powerful chief executive - who favors Ferragamo loafers - typically offers $10 for a shoeshine, "the same thing the guys on the trading floor pay."
But the modern shoeshine business has changed since the old days, reflecting the evolution of Wall Street firms from private partnerships to large, public corporations. Senior traders from Bear Stearns recall the days when they could put their feet up on a shoeshine box brought to their desks and banter with their colleagues as the deed was done. But that changed after JPMorgan took over the firm in 2008.
At JPMorgan, Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley, teams of workers now collect shoes and take them elsewhere to be shined, leaving traders to work in stocking feet. Though many bank employees appreciate the efficiency of that updated method - harried traders sometimes claim they do not even have time to use the restroom - some longtime employees see it as an affront.
"They've turned it into a sterile thing," said James J. Dunne III, the senior managing principal of the investment bank Sandler O'Neill & Partners. "That's where Wall Street has gotten more like a department store."
The subject of shoeshines is a sentimental one for many Wall Street denizens, but perhaps none more so than Mr. Dunne, for whom a shoeshine was his introduction to the industry in September 1978.
A few months out of college and just days into an investment bank job, Mr. Dunne was sitting at his desk at L. F. Rothschild, Unterberg, Towbin and marveling at the shoeshine worker. He thought, "Who would pay to get a shoeshine?"
He soon found out. Mark H. Rosen, his immediate boss, told Mr. Dunne to "chill out a little bit," Mr. Dunne said. Johnny B., the shoeshine worker, proceeded to work his magic on Mr. Dunne - courtesy of Mr. Rosen.
"It was just a wonderful, warm welcoming. It was about more than just get-that-spreadsheet-done," Mr. Dunne, now 56, said. "There was a very human aspect to it."
The annals of Wall Street lore are brimming with tales of shoeshine workers and their customers - the biggest tippers, the overheard stock tips. And, of course, there is the one told by Joseph P. Kennedy Sr., the high-flying financier who was the first chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
A master of the market, Mr. Kennedy had the foresight to sell his stock holdings before the crash of 1929. He later told a reporter - perhaps not entirely seriously - that he realized the market was overheated when, on a visit to a shoeshine parlor on Wall Street, he heard from the worker snapping a cloth across his shoes "what was going to happen to various stocks and offerings on the market that day" - and the worker was "entirely correct."
Ticker tape has long since given way to computer screens, but the shoeshine has remained.
"There was always a shoeshine guy who came around," said John H. Gutfreund, who joined Salomon Brothers as a trainee in 1953 and rose to become its chief executive in the 1980s.
Mr. Gutfreund, 83, recalled paying $2 or $3 to get his shoes shined at his desk. "Anybody who wanted a shoeshine got it," he said.
Traditionally, the relationships between shoeshine workers and their firms have been supported by custom - and amenable security guards - rather than official edict. But one of the firms to formalize the arrangement was Goldman Sachs.
In the mid-1990s, when Jon S. Corzine was the chief executive of Goldman, employees on the fixed-income floor asked him to allow shoeshine workers to come to the office on a regular basis, a person familiar with the matter said.
Mr. Corzine approved the request.
Today, a handful of uniformed contract workers - known internally as "shoeshine technicians" - patrol Goldman's headquarters at 200 West Street, with a daily routine that reflects a corporate sense of efficiency. They handle a trading floor in sections, whisking away shoes to be shined and leaving traders to work in socks. One shoeshine parlor in Manhattan, Eddie's Shoe Repair, aims to capitalize on this shift by offering a classic experience that has become increasingly rare inside banks.
Employees of firms like Barclays, Morgan Stanley and Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch trek to the shop in Rockefeller Center for a 15-minute shoeshine and the opportunity to banter with the owner, Hugo Ardaix, who says the banks' own shoeshine workers skimp on quality.
"It's like a lot of things on the Street: it's not as personal as it used to be," said one senior employee of a big bank who spoke on the condition of anonymity because of a company policy against speaking to the news media. "In the past, the trading floors were smaller, the firms were smaller and the service providers were people you saw pretty much every day. You got to know them."
For Mr. Dunne of Sandler O'Neill, that first shoeshine in 1978 led to many more. He and Mr. Rosen would often treat each other to a shine, including in the years after Mr. Rosen joined his friend at Sandler.
But the tradition ended the morning of Sept. 11, 2001, when Mr. Rosen, working at Sandler's offices in the World Trade Center, was killed.
Now, the ritual has a more tragic resonance.
"There is not a time," Mr. Dunne said, "that I have ever gotten a shine when I've not thought about him."

        
An Appreciation of Leather and Polish Shoeshines
        
Justice Dept. Again Signals Interest to Pursue Financial Crisis Cases

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); EXECUTIVES (77%); RETAILERS (73%) Banking and Financial Institutions; Shoes and Boots; Financial Services; Investment Banking

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (93%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (92%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (91%); SANDLER O'NEILL + PARTNERS LP (60%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (56%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (53%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (93%); JPM (LSE) (93%); 8634 (TSE) (93%); BX (NYSE) (92%); CSGN (SWX) (91%); CS (NYSE) (91%); GS (NYSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (93%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (60%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%)

PERSON: JAMES DIMON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2013



743 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1264 words

HEADLINE: We're All Still Hostages to the Big Banks

BYLINE: By ANAT R. ADMATI. 
Anat R. Admati, a professor of finance and economics at the Stanford Graduate School of Business, is the author, with Martin Hellwig, of ''The Bankers' New Clothes: What's Wrong With Banking and What to Do About It.''

 BODY:
STANFORD, Calif. -- NEARLY five years after the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers touched off a global financial crisis, we are no safer. Huge, complex and opaque banks continue to take enormous risks that endanger the economy. From Washington to Berlin, banking lobbyists have blocked essential reforms at every turn. Their efforts at obfuscation and influence-buying are no surprise. What's shameful is how easily our leaders have caved in, and how quickly the lessons of the crisis have been forgotten.
We will never have a safe and healthy global financial system until banks are forced to rely much more on money from their owners and shareholders to finance their loans and investments. Forget all the jargon, and just focus on this simple rule.
Mindful, perhaps, of the coming five-year anniversary, regulators have recently taken some actions along these lines. In June, a committee of global banking regulators based in Basel, Switzerland, proposed changes to how banks calculate their leverage ratios, a measure of how much borrowed money they can use to conduct their business. 
Last month, federal regulators proposed going somewhat beyond the internationally agreed minimum known as Basel III, which is being phased in. Last Monday, President Obama scolded regulators for dragging their feet on implementing Dodd-Frank, the gargantuan 2010 law that was supposed to prevent another crisis but in fact punted on most of the tough decisions.
Don't let the flurry of activity confuse you. The regulations being proposed offer little to celebrate.
From Wall Street to the City of London comes the same wailing: requiring banks to rely less on borrowing will hurt their ability to lend to companies and individuals. These bankers falsely imply that capital (unborrowed money) is idle cash set aside in a vault. In fact, they want to keep placing new bets at the poker table -- while putting taxpayers at risk.
When we deposit money in a bank, we are making a loan. JPMorgan Chase, America's largest bank, had $2.4 trillion in assets as of June 30, and debts of $2.2 trillion: $1.2 trillion in deposits and $1 trillion in other debt (owed to money market funds, other banks, bondholders and the like). It was notable for surviving the crisis, but no bank that is so heavily indebted can be considered truly safe.
The six largest American banks -- the others are Bank of America, Citigroup, Wells Fargo, Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley -- collectively owe about $8.7 trillion. Only a fraction of this is used to make loans. JPMorgan Chase used some excess deposits to trade complex derivatives in London -- losing more than $6 billion last year in a notoriously bad bet.
Risk, taken properly, is essential for innovation and growth. But outside of banking, healthy corporations rarely carry debts totaling more than 70 percent of their assets. Many thriving corporations borrow very little.
Banks, by contrast, routinely have liabilities in excess of 90 percent of their assets. JPMorgan Chase's $2.2 trillion in debt represented some 91 percent of its $2.4 trillion in assets. (Under accounting conventions used in Europe, the figure would be around 94 percent.)
Basel III would permit banks to borrow up to 97 percent of their assets. The proposed regulations in the United States -- which Wall Street is fighting -- would still allow even the largest bank holding companies to borrow up to 95 percent (though how to measure bank assets is often a matter of debate).
If equity (the bank's own money) is only 5 percent of assets, even a tiny loss of 2 percent of its assets could prompt, in essence, a run on the bank. Creditors may refuse to renew their loans, causing the bank to stop lending or to sell assets in a hurry. If too many banks are distressed at once, a systemic crisis results.
Prudent banks would not lend to borrowers like themselves unless the risks were borne by someone else. But insured depositors, and creditors who expect to be paid by authorities if not by the bank, agree to lend to banks at attractive terms, allowing them to enjoy the upside of risks while others -- you, the taxpayer -- share the downside.
Implicit guarantees of government support perversely encouraged banks to borrow, take risk and become ''too big to fail.'' Recent scandals -- JPMorgan's $6 billion London trading loss, an HSBC money laundering scandal that resulted in a $1.9 billion settlement, and inappropriate sales of credit-card protection insurance that resulted, on Thursday, in a $2 billion settlement by British banks -- suggest that the largest banks are also too big to manage, control and regulate.
NOTHING suggests that banks couldn't do what they do if they financed, for example, 30 percent of their assets with equity (unborrowed funds) -- a level considered perfectly normal, or even low, for healthy corporations. Yet this simple idea is considered radical, even heretical, in the hermetic bubble of banking.
Bankers and regulators want us to believe that the banks' high levels of borrowing are acceptable because banks are good at managing their risks and regulators know how to measure them. The failures of both were manifest in 2008, and yet regulators have ignored the lessons.
If banks could absorb much more of their losses, regulators would need to worry less about risk measurements, because banks would have better incentives to manage their risks and make appropriate investment decisions. That's why raising equity requirements substantially is the single best step for making banking safer and healthier.
The transition to a better system could be managed quickly. Companies commonly rely on their profits to grow and invest, without needing to borrow. Banks should do the same.
Banks can also sell more shares to become stronger. If a bank cannot persuade investors to buy its shares at any price because its assets are too opaque, unsteady or overvalued, it fails a basic ''stress test,'' suggesting it may be too weak without subsidies.
Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the Federal Reserve, has acknowledged that the ''too big to fail'' problem has not been solved, but the Fed counterproductively allows most large banks to make payouts to their shareholders, repeating some of the Fed's most obvious mistakes in the run-up to the crisis. Its stress tests fail to consider the collateral damage of banks' distress. They are a charade.
Dodd-Frank was supposed to spell the end to all bailouts. It gave the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ''resolution authority'' to seize and ''wind down'' banks, a kind of orderly liquidation -- no more panics. Don't count on it. The F.D.I.C. does not have authority in the scores of nations where global banks operate, and even the mere possibility that banks would go into this untested ''resolution authority'' would be disruptive to the markets.
The state of financial reform is grim in most other nations. Europe is in a particularly dire situation. Many of its banks have not recovered from the crisis. But if other countries foolishly allow their banks to be reckless, it does not follow that we must do the same.
Some warn that tight regulation would push activities into the ''shadow banking system'' of money market funds and other short-term lending vehicles. But past failures to make sure that banks could not hide risks using various tricks in opaque markets is hardly reason to give up on essential new regulations. We must face the challenge of drawing up appropriate rules and enforcing them, or pay dearly for failing to do so. The first rule is to make banks rely much more on equity, and much less on borrowing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT CRISIS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); HOSTAGE TAKING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); US DODD FRANK ACT (78%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (77%); BONDS (74%); MUTUAL FUNDS (74%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (69%); ANNIVERSARIES (68%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (91%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (85%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (85%); JPM (LSE) (85%); 8634 (TSE) (85%); WFC (NYSE) (84%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BASEL, SWITZERLAND (90%); BERLIN, GERMANY (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (69%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); SWITZERLAND (90%); GERMANY (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2013



744 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 228 words

HEADLINE: Economic Reports for the Week of Aug. 26

 BODY:
ECONOMIC REPORTS Data to be released this week include durable goods orders for July (Monday); the Standard & Poor's/Case-Shiller home price index for June (Tuesday); pending home sales for June, and weekly mortgage applications (Wednesday); revised second-quarter gross domestic product, and new weekly unemployment claims (Thursday); and personal income and spending for July, the Institute for Supply Management survey of Chicago purchasing managers for August, and the University of Michigan consumer confidence survey for August (Friday). 
CORPORATE EARNINGS Companies scheduled to report results include TiVo and Tiffany (Tuesday); Accor (Wednesday); Campbell Soup, Krispy Kreme, Salesforce.com, Carrefour, L'Oréal, Pernod Ricard and Vivendi (Thursday); and Hermès International (Friday).
OVERSEAS On Tuesday, the Ifo Institute will report on its index of Germany's business climate in July, and Mercedes-Benz will open its first production plant in China.
On Wednesday, Brazil's central bank will issue its decision on the nation's benchmark interest rate, and the new governor of the Bank of England, Mark J. Carney, is set to deliver his first policy address.
On Thursday, Japan will report on retail sales in July, Germany will report on unemployment in August, and Spain will report on revisions in its estimate for its gross domestic product in the second quarter.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (79%); ECONOMIC POLICY (79%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (79%); DURABLE GOODS (79%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (76%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); INTEREST RATES (72%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); MORTGAGE LOANS (57%); RETAIL SALES (57%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (69%); PERNOD RICARD SA (67%); L'OREAL SA (67%); SALESFORCE.COM INC (57%); ACCOR SA (55%); HERMES INTERNATIONAL SCA (54%); VIVENDI (54%); BANK OF ENGLAND (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%)

TICKER: RI (PAR) (67%); OR (PAR) (67%); OR (BIT) (67%); CRM (NYSE) (57%); AC (PAR) (55%); RMS (PAR) (54%); VIV (PAR) (54%); VIV (BIT) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (67%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (67%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (67%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (67%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (55%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (55%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (55%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (55%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (55%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (55%); NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2337 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' SUITS, SKIRTS, & COATS (54%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (54%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (54%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (54%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (52%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) GERMANY (86%); BRAZIL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2013



745 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1011 words

HEADLINE: Southern Capital Seeks Limits on the Homeless

BYLINE: By ALAN BLINDER

 BODY:
COLUMBIA, S.C. -- In South Carolina's capital, officials declare that their tree-lined Main Street, clogged with shops, banks, restaurants and hotels, is evidence that a long-sought economic revival has arrived.
But mere blocks north, a dozen or so of the county's approximately 1,500 homeless people sit on a short wall near an empty parking lot, waiting for private shelters to open. They sporadically shout curses at passers-by while they smoke cigarettes and endure the summer humidity.
With business owners sounding increasingly worried about the threat they believe the homeless pose to Columbia's economic surge, the City Council approved a plan this month that will essentially evict them from downtown streets. 
The unanimous vote epitomized how Columbia's dueling realities -- a rush of self-confidence among political and business leaders and continuing poverty for others -- have become driving forces of public policy.
Among metropolitan areas in the South, the nation's fastest-growing region, Columbia is late to a boom period.
New Orleans rebounded after Hurricane Katrina and became a hub for start-up companies. Raleigh, N.C., has logged significant job gains. Greenville, S.C., transformed its downtown, earning the admiration of Columbia. And in Nashville, an investment company recently introduced an exchange-traded fund exclusively featuring area businesses.
In Columbia, which has branded itself ''the new Southern hot spot,'' residents say the city's time has come.
They point to plans for the 181-acre campus that once housed the state's mental hospital and will, over the next two decades, become a mixed-use development with an annual economic impact of more than $1 billion. Speculation is rampant that a minor-league baseball team will relocate to Columbia. Less flashy projects also abound, including the conversion of a vacant office building into housing for University of South Carolina students, some of the more than 780,000 people who live in the metropolitan area.
But business owners are warning that rising homelessness in Richland County -- up 43 percent in two years, according to the South Carolina Coalition for the Homeless, an increase many blame on an absence of affordable housing options and a sluggish national economy -- is imperiling the area's prospects.
''People are afraid to get out of their cars when they see a homeless person,'' said Richard Balser, who owns a luggage store downtown. ''They haven't been a problem. They just scare people.''
Others offered more dire assessments. One executive cautioned the City Council in an e-mail that ''our staff members and our guests no longer feel safe'' and that it is ''virtually impossible for us, or anybody, to create a sustainable business model.''
Comments like those have galvanized city officials, whose controversial plan was widely supported by business leaders.
''If we don't take care of this big piece of our community and our society, it will erode the entire foundation of what we're trying to build in this city,'' said Councilman Cameron Runyan, who wrote the proposal and has suggested moving Columbia's homeless shelter as far as 15 miles from downtown. ''What I see is a giant risk to business.''
Mr. Runyan has also cited a report from the police that showed increases in crime last year among the homeless, including assault and trespassing.
City officials have clashed about what precisely the Council approved during a marathon meeting, but Mr. Runyan said the intent of his strategy was to increase enforcement of existing vagrancy laws and offer the homeless three options: accept help at a shelter, go to jail or leave Columbia.
Although those options were not detailed in Mr. Runyan's emergency proposal, he said they were ''implicit.'' They are included in his permanent plan, which the Council will consider later.
Opponents of the emergency plan, which will keep the city's 240-bed shelter open two months longer than the previous November-to-March schedule, have said it would do little more than degrade Columbia's neediest.
''You've got to get to the root of the problem: why we're homeless,'' said Jaja Akair, a homeless man who spoke during a City Council session that stretched past 3 a.m. ''You can't just knock us to the side like we're a piece of meat or a piece of paper.''
Turning to executives in the audience, Mr. Akair said: ''Try giving us a shot. I guarantee you some of us would run your business better than you do.''
Other critics have warned that they are considering court challenges to the plan, which will take effect in September.
This summer, cities like Tampa, Fla., and Portland, Ore., have pursued aggressive policies against the homeless. But Maria Foscarinis, the executive director of the National Law Center on Homelessness and Poverty, characterized Columbia's plan in an e-mail as ''an extreme, highly disturbing example.''
Although Ms. Foscarinis's group found in 2011 that cities were increasingly enacting prohibitions against activities like panhandling and loitering, researchers have questioned the efficacy of such tactics.
''These kinds of proposals are happening more and more around the country,'' said Robert Adelman, a sociologist at the University at Buffalo. ''But to me, all of these ordinances and policies just redistribute homeless persons. They don't solve the problem of homelessness. You can't jail people out of homelessness.''
Columbia's efforts to support the wishes of local businesses have not been limited to the homeless initiatives. City leaders are also asking the courts to stop plans for a federal halfway house that would be near the widely anticipated mixed-use development on Bull Street, a project led by the same man credited with revitalizing Greenville's downtown.
''We've got to make sure that every single thing we do focuses on continuing to attract advancement,'' Mayor Steve Benjamin said. ''Nothing can be a distraction.''
But Lori Brown, who owns a fabric store on Main Street, wondered if the city had misplaced its efforts. ''People complain more about parking,'' Ms. Brown said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Homeless people waiting for a meal and a place to stay at the Oliver Gospel Mission in Columbia, S.C. ''What I see is a giant risk to business,'' said Cameron Runyan, above, a member of the City Council. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANNE MCQUARY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMELESSNESS (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); STARTUPS (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); LUGGAGE & LEATHER GOODS STORES (78%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (76%); EVICTION (76%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (76%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (76%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (75%); APPROVALS (73%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (73%); HURRICANES (71%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (71%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (69%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (69%); HURRICANE KATRINA (67%); EXCHANGE TRADED FUNDS (65%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (64%); CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY (63%); BASEBALL (62%); RELOCATIONS (62%); PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBIA, SC, USA (99%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%); GREENVILLE, SC, USA (79%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (79%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (99%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, SC, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2013



746 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 922 words

HEADLINE: Stream of Talent Continues to Flow From Cuba, With or Without Permission

BYLINE: By BEN STRAUSS

 BODY:
From coast to coast this summer, the major league baseball season has had a strong Cuban influence.
In Los Angeles, the rookie Yasiel Puig helped spur the Dodgers to their remarkable midseason turnaround. Oakland's Yoenis Cespedes won the Home Run Derby with a dizzying display at Citi Field. And Jose Fernandez of the Miami Marlins has emerged as one of the best young pitchers in the game.
Now, the slugging first baseman Jose Abreu is reported to have left Cuba, and he may soon be available to major league teams, the latest in a steady stream of talent heading to the United States. 
Since Cuba's Fidel Castro-led revolution, which ended in 1959, players have had to defect to play in the majors, and those who do are barred from returning to Cuba. For an island nation of 11 million people, each player lost is a blow to the relatively shallow talent pool of the domestic league, known as the National Series, and to the national team, the pride of Cuban sport.
With more and more players leaving the country, the Cuban government tried an experiment this summer, allowing a player -- Alfredo Despaigne, a 27-year-old outfielder considered by many to be the best hitter in Cuba -- to compete in the Mexican League.
In Cuba, athletes are amateurs, and Despaigne is believed to be the first Cuban star since Castro took over to be given permission to play abroad and earn a salary in the prime of his career. It is an effort to lift the flagging National Series -- which stocks the national team -- and help stem the tide of defections by loosening restrictions on players.
''This is very important to us,'' the longtime Cuban baseball writer Sigfredo Barros said by telephone from Havana. ''Our players are not like Dominicans, who leave and come back home. The temptation to leave is very, very big.''
Whether this strategy can be effective remains in question. The size of the contracts signed by Cuban defectors, who are free agents and can sidestep Major League Baseball's draft, is staggering for those from a country where most live on about $20 per month.
Puig signed for seven years and $42 million. Cespedes has a contract for four years and $36 million. Cincinnati signed Aroldis Chapman for six years and $30.25 million, and Jorge Soler, a 21-year-old outfielder, is in the Chicago Cubs' system with a deal worth $30 million over nine years. Once Abreu clears the requisite immigration hurdles, he could command more than $50 million on the open market. (Fernandez left Cuba when he was 15 and was thus subject to the draft.)
Other factors have led to the increase in defections, including continued economic hardship in Cuba and relaxed travel regulations. The visibility of the success of the Cubans in the major leagues has been helped by improved Internet access across Cuba. Cuban players know they can thrive in the majors. Chicago White Sox shortstop Alexei Ramirez, who left Cuba in 2007, said, ''When I first started playing, I didn't know about anything outside Cuba.''
Dayan Viciedo, an outfielder who signed with the White Sox after he defected in 2008, said that he was surprised when he learned of Despaigne's opportunity and that he hoped it signaled a change in government policy.
''If guys can go play in Mexico or the Dominican or Venezuela and make some money, it could make a difference in the decision to come here,'' he said through an interpreter.
Despaigne will keep 80 percent of his salary, with the rest going to Cuba's National Institute of Sport. Arrangements like that, Viciedo worried, may undermine any progress. ''If the players are getting their full value, then it is a better deal,'' he said.
Ramirez said money was only part of the equation. ''The best league and the best players are here, not in Mexico,'' he said. ''Good players will always want to play against the best.''
In Mexico this summer, Despaigne played 33 games for the Piratas de Campeche and hit well, posting a .338 average with eight home runs. He is not the first Cuban permitted to play professionally elsewhere since Castro took power, but in the past, the privilege has been a reward after a successful career with the national team, Peter Bjarkman, of the Web site BaseballdeCuba.com, said.
Pedro Lazo, the career leader in wins in the National Series, pitched for Campeche last season, and Orestes Kindelan, Antonio Pacheco and Omar Linares previously played in Japan. Despaigne was joined at Campeche by Michel Enriquez, a veteran infielder, and outfielder Yordanis Samon. Both were released soon after they arrived because of injuries and poor play.
When Despaigne left for Mexico, there was concern in Cuba that he might not return, said Barros, the Cuban baseball writer. The fears were unfounded, although Despaigne has said that he was approached about defecting. Still, as evidence that the new policy will surely not be a cure-all, two members of the national team -- in addition to Abreu -- defected this summer: pitchers Odrisamer Despaigne and Misael Siverio.
Barros would like to see more players return to Mexico next summer, and ultimately play freely in the United States, he said, because it would be a benefit for the players and the Cuban economy. For that to happen, Cuba would need to allow the players to travel, and the United States, in turn, would have to ease its embargo and the restrictions on taking money back to Cuba.
''That would be better than Mexico,'' Barros said. ''It would be the best if our players could play in the United States and bring the money home. It would help everyone so much.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Outfielder Alfredo Despaigne at the World Baseball Classic in March. This summer, he played in Mexico. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ADAM PRETTY/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); ATHLETES (90%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (73%); IMMIGRATION (50%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (84%); LOS ANGELES DODGERS (84%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

PERSON: FIDEL CASTRO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (57%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (57%); ILLINOIS, USA (51%) CUBA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2013



747 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BITS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1010 words

HEADLINE: Barbs for Silicon Valley And Some Who Cover It

BYLINE: By NICK BILTON

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO -- Sam Biddle may have one of the easiest jobs in technology journalism. That is, easy if you have the stomach for his line of work.
Every morning, he wakes up in his Brooklyn apartment, checks Twitter on his smartphone, searches for social media posts percolating from Silicon Valley, and begins to write, his style combining Page Six dishiness with snark and surprising insight.
In other words, his style is pure Gawker. 
Mr. Biddle, 26, is the latest blogger for Gawker Media's Valleywag, the tech industry gossip dartboard that recently reopened for business after a four-year hibernation. His job, which he has been at since April, is to note just how self-absorbed the tech industry in Silicon Valley and San Francisco (and occasionally New York) can be. And he does not seem to care whom he offends.
His latest items are about both the famous and obscure-but-noxious personalities of tech. They include: ''Revealed: Sheryl Sandberg's Unpaid Intern Disgrace,'' ''AOL CEO Tim Armstrong Fires Employee for Taking His Picture'' and ''Startup Stud Hates Homeless People, Ugly Girls, and Public Transit.''
''There is a basic calculation where you add money and lack of self-awareness, and the higher those two values are, the better and easier my job is,'' Mr. Biddle said in an interview. And Silicon Valley, he added, has a lot of both.
On any day, Mr. Biddle, who first joined Gawker Media in 2010 as an intern, said he can pull from a near-endless supply of industry follies. But his real specialty borrows from generations of satirists and gossip writers: He picks a few juicy targets and -- some might say, cruelly -- goes after them over and over again.
''The Morins are really a gift from heaven,'' he said. The Morins he is referring to are Brit Morin, founder of Brit & Company, a do-it-yourself arts and crafts Web site, and her husband, Dave Morin, the co-founder of Path, a mobile social network.
Mr. Biddle has accused Mrs. Morin, among other things, of continually ''plagiarizing'' work on other Web sites. And he has questioned, with exaggerated bafflement, why Mrs. Morin received $6 million in financing for her start-up.
Mr. Biddle has also made Mr. Morin a punching bag, reporting that he bought new users for his start-up to artificially inflate growth and spammed people already on the service by sending unwanted messages to their phone contacts. Mr. and Mrs. Morin declined to comment.
Valleywag began in February 2006 with Nick Douglas, a recent college graduate, at the helm. The site has had several other lead writers, including Nick Denton, Gawker Media's owner. But when traffic waned (not surprisingly, with the recession that took some air out of the tech industry), it was folded into Gawker.
John Cook, editor of Gawker, said he and Mr. Denton decided to restart Valleywag after seeing a return of excessive spending and obnoxious behavior in the Valley and a ''lot of indications of dumb money,'' like the $6 million given to Ms. Morin's start-up.
''The Valley is a target-rich environment for someone who is looking to expose profligacy, ego and self-regard,'' Mr. Cook said. ''There's just so much cluelessness about wealth and privilege, and there's so much completely unearned money changing hands.''
This time, Valleywag may have some staying power. The obscure young tech executives Valleywag wrote about when it started, like Mark Zuckerberg and Sheryl Sandberg of Facebook, have, Mr. Cook said, ''become household names.''
Then there is Sean Parker, co-founder of Napster, whose long public relations effort to explain his multimillion-dollar wedding in a redwood grove helped find him a regular spot on Valleywag's front page.
If you're not familiar with Mr. Parker, he is the character played with considerable Svengali-like charm by Justin Timberlake in the movie ''The Social Network.''
Mr. Biddle has another favorite target: other writers who cover the tech industry.
He has gone to great lengths to ruffle Sarah Lacy, a former writer for Businessweek and editor at TechCrunch who is the founder of a technology blog called PandoDaily that -- in Mr. Biddle's estimation -- does the bidding of the industry it covers. He called Ms. Lacy a ''free-market monster'' after she wrote a post criticizing a strike by local transit workers; he taunted her for defending the tech industry, and he chided her for becoming part of the stories she covers, considered improper for traditional journalists.
Ms. Lacy says those criticisms are nonsense. Unsurprisingly, she doesn't think much of what Mr. Biddle is doing. ''If Gawker thinks the Valley press isn't uncovering stories, then go do it, because so far I haven't seen it from Valleywag,'' Ms. Lacy said.
Ms. Lacy and others question how Mr. Biddle can accurately report on Silicon Valley while he is based in New York. It's a common complaint: that Mr. Biddle knows little about the industry he enjoys mocking. And they say he hardly practices the high values of journalism that he preaches. ''Not calling people before you write about them is not noble,'' Ms. Lacy said.
''Valleywag's mission was to expose criminality, hypocrisy and corruption, but it isn't doing any of that,'' said Paul Carr, a contributor to PandoDaily and another occasional target for Mr. Biddle. ''Instead you have a guy in New York pointing to Silicon Valley from thousands of miles away saying: 'Look at that rich guy. Isn't he rich? That rich guy is a loser.' ''
Mr. Biddle and other former Valleywag writers argue that being based in New York, and not Silicon Valley, allows him to avoid going native and becoming too chummy with those he writes about in the way tech bloggers like Ms. Lacy have.
But no matter where he is, Mr. Biddle understands that a job at Valleywag can be like a job as a crash-test dummy.
''There was a worry before I started this that I was going to burn every bridge I had,'' Mr. Biddle said. ''But I realize now that there are some bridges that are worth burning.''
E-mail: bilton@nytimes.com
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sam Biddle, a writer for Gawker's Valleywag site, skewers the wealth and self-absorption of Silicon Valley. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (89%); SOCIAL MEDIA (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (78%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (77%); SMARTPHONES (77%); INTERVIEWS (73%); MOBILE MEDIA (72%); PLAGIARISM (63%); HOMELESSNESS (51%)

PERSON: TIM ARMSTRONG (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2013



748 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Sports Desk; REMOTE CONTROL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3126 words

HEADLINE: Louisville's Made-for-TV Sports Boom

BYLINE: By STEVE EDER, RICHARD SANDOMIR and JAMES ANDREW MILLER

 BODY:
LOUISVILLE, Ky. -- In February, the president of the University of Louisville, James R. Ramsey, traveled to Florida to meet with donors and alumni.
Dr. Ramsey is an economist, and he led off on the dismal side of the ledger, from the challenges facing the economy to dwindling government financing for higher education, including a sharp drop in aid from the State of Kentucky.
But about halfway through his PowerPoint presentation, Dr. Ramsey declared that for all the gloom, things were not so bad at Louisville. Average test scores for incoming freshmen were way up, as was the university's graduation rate. The research budget had quintupled since 1998.
Louisville's athletic department was on a roll, too, what with a recent invitation to join the Atlantic Coast Conference, the football team's victory in the Sugar Bowl and its coach's decision not to pursue job opportunities with rival universities. 
''U. of L. is on an upward trajectory,'' one of Dr. Ramsey's slides proclaimed. ''Even ESPN is talking about us!''
What ESPN was not saying was that Louisville's rise, both academically and athletically, was in large part the product of its partnership with the sports television giant.
Over the past dozen years, to feed its unending appetite for live football, ESPN has made Louisville Cardinals midweek games a mainstay in prime time. In turn, Louisville has made exposure on ESPN the centerpiece of a campaign to rise above its commuter-school roots and become a powerhouse in college sports.
''If it wasn't for ESPN, we would be a fraction of what we are today,'' Tom Jurich, Louisville's longtime athletic director, said in an interview in his office on April 1 as the university savored its latest basketball success: the men's and women's teams were each on the way to the Final Four. The men went on to win the N.C.A.A. title.
''We owe them so, so much,'' Mr. Jurich said of ESPN. ''They were willing to take a chance on us.''
Louisville's ascent is a case study of how an institution of higher learning can become all but inextricably conjoined with ESPN, an institution of higher profits. It illustrates not only ESPN's power to make kings among athletic programs, but how profoundly its presence can affect an entire university and its institutional priorities.
Some people on campus wonder if those priorities have become a bit skewed.
''We worry that the university gets too much identified with the athletics,'' said Tom Byers, an English professor and a self-described big fan of Louisville sports. ''I would love it if we competed with professors with the same kind of financial resources. But that's not the world we live in.''
What ESPN offered Louisville, beyond millions of dollars in fees for television rights, was prime-time exposure on the leading sports network, putting Cardinals football in front of national audiences of fans, donors, recruits and prospective students.
The cost to Louisville? It had to be ready to play whenever ESPN could fit the Cardinals into its schedule.
''Louisville came to us and said, 'We'll play anyone, anywhere, anytime,' '' said Mark Shapiro, a former head of programming and production at ESPN. Indeed, ''anytime, anywhere'' became Mr. Jurich's motto in his early years as athletic director.
When he took over in 1997, the athletic department struggled on an annual budget of about $14 million and attracted little outside attention for sports other than men's basketball. Today, the budget has swollen to about $77 million, and it will increase significantly with the move to the A.C.C. in 2014.
The arrangement has also been a boon to ESPN. The Cardinals' prime-time games quickly became ratings winners, convincing others that playing at midweek, while unconventional, could be a blessing in the form of exposure.
''It was a programmer's dream,'' Mr. Shapiro said. ''We already had N.F.L. on Sunday nights, N.H.L. and M.L.B. on multiple nights, Thursday night college football. We were all filled up. So I said, 'How about Tuesday nights?' They seized it, and over time their results have been spectacular.''Football as a Foundation
When John W. Shumaker became president of Louisville in 1995, he met with the university's trustees to chart a way forward. While the university was ''respectable,'' they agreed, it could be much more. It could be a player. And sports could be its window to the world.
Louisville was still a youngster as far as public universities went, having shed its roots as a small, private college to join the Kentucky state system in 1970. Even its academic strengths in medicine, business and engineering were not widely known beyond a campus bordered by brownfields and railway ruins.
On the sports side, the men's basketball program was running on the fumes of its two national championships won in the 1980s under the Hall of Fame coach Denny Crum. The athletic department, which had recently joined the new Conference USA, was vastly underfinanced, its teams housed in outdated facilities. Some teams were saddled with penalties because of N.C.A.A. infractions.
Mr. Shumaker's grand plan, in a nutshell, looked like this: If the athletic program took hold, Louisville could move to a bigger, better conference with a better television deal, putting the whole university -- academics and athletics -- on a wider national stage.
The key to the whole thing was football. In the economics of big-time college athletics, football is the alpha and the omega -- generally by far the most profitable sport, because of the size of the crowds, the sponsorships and the lucrative television agreements. Perhaps two dozen elite universities make enough money from football, and to a lesser degree basketball, to subsidize their entire athletic departments. What Louisville had to do first, Mr. Shumaker decided, was replace the ''not very attractive'' and decidedly second-tier Cardinal Stadium, which opened in 1957, just after the graduation of Johnny Unitas, Louisville's greatest football star.
By the time Mr. Jurich arrived from Colorado State in late 1997, Louisville was in the final stages of building a $63 million, 42,000-seat, state-of-the-art stadium, with naming rights sold to the Papa John's pizza chain, a prominent Louisville-based business. Mr. Jurich's task was to put together a better, more watchable football team to go with it. The 1997 team had gone 1-10, finishing last in Conference USA. The university had only five postseason bowl appearances in its history.
Mr. Jurich quickly hired a new coach -- John L. Smith, known for his high-scoring, pass-happy offense. ''First to 49 points wins,'' Mr. Smith liked to joke.
It was fast-break football, made for television. And it was just what ESPN was waiting for.
In the early 2000s, the network, ever expansive, was looking to broaden its college football offerings beyond the traditional Saturday and the increasingly, if grudgingly, accepted Thursday. Most big-name, major-conference universities, though, were not interested in hosting midweek games, given the extensive setup and the disruption to classes and campus life.
What ESPN needed for a new Tuesday night franchise were teams that craved exposure but knew they would not get it on Saturday afternoons flooded with more than 100 games. Conference USA jumped. Before the 2001 season, it signed an eight-year ESPN agreement, reportedly worth about $80 million, that included at least 10 televised games each year, including games on Tuesdays and Wednesdays.
Universities were not required to participate, and some bristled at the scheduling as sacrilege that took away from the ''purity'' of the game.
But Louisville, with its national ambitions and with little campus life to disrupt -- only about 2,000 of nearly 15,000 undergraduates lived in dormitories -- was more than happy to play at midweek.
On Oct. 16, 2001, Southern Mississippi visited Papa John's Cardinal Stadium for what was billed as the first regular-season college football game on a Tuesday night. Louisville won, 24-14.
''I think that tonight, with two of our marquee teams playing on national television, it gave our conference very significant national exposure and gave Southern Miss and Louisville great national exposure,'' Mike Slive, the Conference USA commissioner at the time, told The Clarion-Ledger, in Jackson, Miss. Mr. Slive is now the commissioner of the Southeastern Conference.
That game was one of five regular-season contests that Louisville played on ESPN or ESPN2 in 2001. The next year, the Cardinals appeared six times during the season, including a Tuesday game, three Thursday games and a Saturday game starting at 9:30 p.m. ''They loved putting John L. Smith on,'' Mr. Jurich said of the coach, who led the Cardinals to a 41-21 overall record and bowl games in each of his five seasons.
There were inherent challenges in running a football program that rarely played on Saturday. To keep the Cardinals tuned up, Mr. Smith, a believer in regimen, essentially banished the regular calendar and created his own. No matter when his team played, he decreed that the next day would be Sunday, with signs in the locker rooms to reinforce the point.
''It was really crazy, but it was fun and exciting,'' Mr. Smith said. ''From where we started to where we left, it was well worth it.''
True, alumni grumbled about having to go to the campus on weeknights. ''Some of the fans and the press were critical and thought we were violating all the norms,'' recalled Mr. Shumaker, who left the university in 2002.
But while the new calendar unsettled some hometown fans, it also won new ones across the country.
''We became America's team at midweek,'' Mr. Jurich said.
That familiarity also created a far wider, and deeper, pool of recruits. ''All of a sudden we were able to recruit the Deion Branches and Elvis Dumervils and those types of guys,'' Mr. Smith said, referring to two players he coached at Louisville who went on to the N.F.L.
In 1999, Stefan LeFors, a high school quarterback in Louisiana, saw the Cardinals play a wild overtime game against Army on ESPN and decided to send a tape of himself to the Louisville coaches.
''That was my only reason Louisville was on my list,'' said Mr. LeFors, who ended up as the starting quarterback under a new coach, Bobby Petrino, who was hired after Mr. Smith left for Michigan State after the 2002 season.
Under Mr. Petrino, the new weeknight tradition continued, and so did the team's ascent. On Nov. 2, 2006, Louisville fans, wearing black in solidarity, packed Papa John's Cardinal Stadium for what was then the biggest football game in modern Cardinals history: a Thursday prime-time clash with West Virginia. The Cardinals were undefeated and ranked No. 5 nationally; the Mountaineers were No. 3. Louisville won, 44-34.
A week later, the Cardinals traveled to Rutgers for another Thursday night game. They lost in the closing moments, but by season's end, the reversal was complete: in less than a decade, Louisville had gone from near-winless obscurity to a 12-1 season, including a conference championship and an Orange Bowl victory.
Without question, ESPN's investment had paid off. The back-to-back November games still rank among the top 20 in total viewers for a college football game on ESPN. No longer did the network have to entreat schools to play on weeknights.
''As we cleared more homes, bigger conferences saw more dollars and better exposure,'' said Loren Matthews, a former ESPN executive who died in March. He added: ''Schools would say: 'We'll play on any night. Do you want us to start at 9, or do you want us to start at 6?' ''Better Conferences, Bigger Venues
Central to Louisville's transformation plan was the belief that success on the field and brand recognition on television would make the university a highly sought prize in the wave of realignment sweeping college athletic conferences. The Big East, a ''better'' conference, eventually came calling, and in 2005, Louisville moved up. Last year, with the Big East crumbling, Louisville moved up yet again, to an even better conference, the A.C.C.
Better mostly meant richer. Last year in the Big East, Louisville received about $4 million from television rights. The move to the A.C.C., which becomes effective next summer, is likely to quadruple that, with roughly $16 million from the conference's agreement with ESPN.
Television revenue is only part of it, though. The re-engineered football team and a reinvigorated basketball program under Rick Pitino, who arrived in 2001, have allowed Louisville to press local corporations and other private donors for larger sums to support the athletic department and help finance what university promotional materials describe as a $256 million ''athletic building boom.'' (Those 2012 promotional materials also catalog Louisville's achievements during seven years in the Big East, including 53 conference championships, 122 all-Americans, 10 Olympians and a College World Series.)
''Anytime a donor base is feeling good, you've got to capitalize on that excitement,'' said Mark Jurich, the athletic department's chief fund-raiser, a former Louisville baseball player and the athletic director's son.
Louisville has capitalized to the extent that swaths of campus can seem a bit like a corporate-branded sports theme park.
First came Papa John's Cardinal Stadium, built on the site of the old South Louisville Rail Yard and renovated in 2010 at a cost of $72 million, with 13,000 new seats and rows of lucrative suites. For its workouts, the football team has the Trager Indoor Center (Republic Bank). The baseball team plays at Jim Patterson Stadium (local entrepreneur and philanthropist). There are the Musselman Golf Center, the G. Garvin Brown III Rowing Center and the Ralph Wright Natatorium.
The men's and women's basketball teams play at the $238 million KFC Yum Center in downtown Louisville. The arena, which is owned by the state and the city, opened in 2010 and would rank among the largest N.B.A. venues.
The building continues: next year, the men's and women's soccer teams will move into a $16.2 million stadium and training complex. A major donor to the complex is Dr. Mark Lynn, the owner of a chain of optometry practices whose four children attended the university.
''When I see the University of Louisville on ESPN and getting the name recognition, it makes you proud,'' said Dr. Lynn, who has committed $5 million to the project. ''It is not just good to see and fun to watch. You feel very proud you are a part of that university.''
Athletic acclaim, of course, was never supposed to be an end in itself at Louisville. The idea was to jump-start a transformation of the university as a whole. These days, the 30-second advertising spots shown during ESPN telecasts of Cardinals games announce the university's academic advances to the world: the students who perform better, graduate more often and more readily choose to live on campus. The 36 total Fulbright scholarships in 2010, 2011 and 2012 -- more, university officials point out, than the total at Dartmouth or M.I.T. The swelling research budget and the fivefold increase, since 1998, in the number of endowed professorships and chairs. All of this helped by the donations that have increasingly poured in, about $1 billion since 2004.
In the annals of ESPN and college sports, Louisville's story is clearly the story of a winner.
Still, the national debate about the role of college athletics is hardly silent here. There are those who are ambivalent, who love their Cardinals but are disquieted by the growing professionalization, the way sports can seem to suffuse the place.
Partly, it is an optics problem -- all the new buildings in an era of relentlessly declining state subsidies and rising costs. (To be fair, that new construction is financed by donations, and the athletic department, a separate nonprofit entity, brings in enough revenue to largely pay for itself, aside from a few million dollars from students and the university. Lately, the department has also sent money back to the university -- $350,000 annually, plus a one-time $2 million donation to finance a pay raise for the faculty and staff, whose salaries had been frozen.)
''Like many academics, I'm a little uneasy about the big business of college athletics,'' said Mr. Byers, the English professor.
Mr. Byers has been here for 33 years. He remembers carrying his young son outside to celebrate after the men's basketball team won the N.C.A.A. championship in 1986. He says the people in the athletic department, particularly Mr. Jurich, are among the best at what they do and seem to care deeply about the student-athletes.
Still, he said: ''It is a little frustrating that when that side seems to be thriving, we on the other side are so dependent on the state and are dealing with cutbacks. I'd love it if the academics side could go to the athletics side, just once, and shake them and get some of that money.''
Others on campus point out that the construction boom has left some campus buildings behind. Last October, mold spores were found in one of the dorms, Miller Hall.
''You've got all this construction money going to athletics,'' said Rae Hodge, a recent editor of the student newspaper, The Louisville Cardinal. ''But the mold condition was so bad students had to move out.''
Joseph Steffen, a biology professor for 30 years and the chairman of the faculty senate, said there had been a ''bifurcated response'' among his colleagues.
Some, he said, ''clearly see this as detracting from the academic side.'' Others, he said, understand that athletic success, televised nationally on ESPN, ''gets our name in the news, gets us into places where perhaps others don't go, and gets us recognition from nonathlete students who might want to come here.''
He added: ''You see the student groups and student activity and the band. All of that gets a little extra revved up when they know they are going to have that national exposure.''
Ten years ago, when Louisville was just beginning to see the fruits of its partnership with ESPN, Mr. Jurich arranged to have a 60-foot-long banner put up next to a row of abandoned soybean silos facing Interstate 65, welcoming visitors to ''The Ville, the Best College Sports Town in America.''
To a lot of people, even a lot of people in Louisville, it was magical thinking. With the University of Kentucky down the road in Lexington, Louisville was not even the best sports town in the state.
Today, it looks more like a prophecy fulfilled.
Said Mr. Jurich, ''I don't think anyone could have looked at the crystal ball and said that would have happened.''
Anytime, Anywhere: Louisville's willingness to play football games on weeknights, at ESPN's urging, began a turnaround that led to huge rewards for the university and the network.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Louisville football, aided by money for TV rights, is thriving. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AUSTIN LASSELL/THE LOUISVILLE CARDINAL) (A1)
A banner along Interstate 65 welcoming visitors to ''The Ville, the Best College Sports Town in America.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Coach Charlie Strong, left, was featured when ESPN's ''College GameDay'' spring bus tour reached campus. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHER GREGORY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D4)
Papa John's Cardinal Stadium was part of a spate of construction at Louisville. The football team's rise was aided by Tuesday night games on ESPN. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDY LYONS/GETTY IMAGES)
Tom Jurich, Louisville's athletic director, said of ESPN, ''We owe them so, so much.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHER GREGORY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D5) CHARTS: A Surge In Coverage: ESPN's coverage of Louisville football increased sharply starting in 2000, partly because Louisville agreed to shift its schedule to meet ESPN's programming needs (Source: University of Louisville) (D4)
The Rise of Weekday College Football: Established programs from conferences like the Big Ten, the SEC and the Big 12 already have national exposure, so there is little incentive for them to change their schedules. But teams that want that exposure are increasingly seeking it on weekdays, which offer more open airtime and less competition. (Source: sports-reference.com)
 In 2012, Louisville played two regular-season games on weekdays and its season opener on a Sunday. (CHART BY KEVIN QUEALY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (91%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SPORTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (78%); BUDGETS (77%); CASE STUDIES (75%); BASKETBALL (75%); EDUCATION FUNDING (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); GRADUATION RATES (71%); SPORTS FANS (69%)

COMPANY: ESPN INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF LOUISVILLE (93%); ATLANTIC COAST ATHLETIC CONFERENCE (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (94%) KENTUCKY, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2013



749 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1506 words

HEADLINE: Making Choice To Halt at Door Of Citizenship

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

 BODY:
Jonathan Wajskol, an Italian graphic designer who moved to the United States about three decades ago, has a life with the hallmarks of an immigrant success story: graduate studies at an American university; a successful international firm with partners in Milan and Beijing; and a residence in Greenwich Village that he shares with his wife and two children.
One thing he does not have, however, is American citizenship -- and that is a deliberate choice. Mr. Wajskol has a green card, but he has never applied for citizenship and is not interested. His reasons, he said, go to the heart of his identity.
''I would feel that if I get the American citizenship, I would feel a little less Italian,'' he explained. ''I really don't feel American.'' 
For many people around the world, a United States passport is a near-sacred goal, and given half a chance to get one, they would hungrily seize it. In Washington, the partisan debate over immigration has become mired, in part, over whether to provide a path to citizenship for the estimated 11 million undocumented immigrants in the United States.
But even as legions here and abroad pin their hopes on becoming American, and the country wrestles with emotionally fraught questions over who should have that right, there is a seemingly contradictory truth: that millions of people who are in the country legally, and stand on the threshold of citizenship, never take that next step.
According to some estimates, about 40 percent of all people who hold green cards, the gateway to citizenship, do not naturalize.
Of those, many may want to apply but are deterred by a variety of reasons, including the $680 application fee or the requirement that most applicants must prove they can read, write and speak basic English, immigrants' advocates said. Some countries -- including Japan, China and Iran -- generally do not permit their citizens to acquire a second nationality, forcing a difficult choice.
But alongside those potential applicants, there is a vast population of green card holders who have everything they need to naturalize, including the language skills, money, sufficient time of residence in the United States, permission from their native countries and a clean criminal record. All they lack is the desire.
They simply do not want it -- or want it enough -- and cite various reasons, including an overriding patriotism for their native country, disaffection for the policies of the United States government, even simple fecklessness.
''So often in textbooks about immigration, the cover illustration is the naturalization ceremony with the American flag and a group of immigrants, highly diverse by race,'' said Alan Hyde, a Rutgers University professor who teaches immigration law and was a co-author of a recent study about why some people do not naturalize. ''So much that is written on immigration just assumes that they come, they assimilate, they get green cards and they naturalize.''
But, he added, a different reality exists for so many other immigrants -- those who do not want to naturalize. ''Most people don't know it's a distinctive feature of America,'' Mr. Hyde said.
For Mr. Wajskol (pronounced VYE-skole), whose wife and children are American citizens, the question of naturalization bubbled up from time to time. He even filled out the paperwork, he said. But he never followed through.
''I don't have an Italian name, so as it is, I have a slight identity crisis,'' he said. ''Being American would taint my Italianness a little bit more.''
If he has one misgiving about his position, he said, it would be that he cannot fully participate in the American electoral process. Only citizens have the right to vote in federal elections and in most local elections.
But aside from that, Mr. Wajskol said: ''I really have everything that I need. I am treated pretty much just like a citizen.''
Lawful permanent residents are eligible to apply for naturalization after meeting certain requirements, including a minimum length of residency, which for most candidates is five years.
In the meantime, they have many of the same rights and obligations as citizens, including permission to work. They are also bound by largely the same tax rules.
But in addition to limited or no voting rights, lawful permanent residents cannot make their home in a foreign country or remain outside the United States for extended periods of time, except in specific circumstances. They are ineligible, in many cases, for Civil Service jobs and certain government assistance. They can sponsor fewer types of family members for visas than can citizens. And they can be deported for violating any of a wide variety of laws.
Still, none of these disadvantages has been enough to compel many lawful permanent residents to stand and take the oath of allegiance.
Xiaoning Wang, who was born in Beijing and moved to New York City in 1994, owns ChinaSprout, a company that distributes Chinese cultural and educational products. She has a green card yet no urge to naturalize.
''I love New York, I love the United States, I love everything here and the opportunity that I have in this country,'' said Ms. Wang, who is married to a German and has German nationality. ''I just don't see the advantage'' of being naturalized, she added.
The number of naturalizations in the United States has fluctuated in recent years. After reaching a record high of nearly 1.05 million in 2008, the number plunged to about 620,000 in 2010 but started climbing again, topping 757,000 last year, according to federal statistics.
Still, that number is a mere fraction of the total population eligible to apply for naturalization. Of the estimated 13.3 million green card holders living in the United States at the beginning of 2012, about 8.8 million were eligible to naturalize, according to a recent Homeland Security Department report.
A Homeland Security study in 2008 estimated that cumulative naturalization rates among lawful permanent residents who had held green cards at least 20 years was about 60 percent.
Guy McLeod and his wife are British citizens and have two American-born children but no plans to naturalize. Like Mr. Wajskol, Mr. McLeod cited reasons involving national identity.
''Ultimately we're European,'' explained Mr. McLeod, an employment recruiter who lives with his family in Rhode Island. ''If you were an American going to Europe and you weren't an economic refugee or a political refugee, why would you suddenly say, 'I'm going to become a Frenchman'?''
But sometimes the reasoning for shunning citizenship is not particularly existential. Carla Greeb, a Brazilian citizen who moved to the United States in 2000, said the process of getting her green card was so arduous -- it took three years -- that she never again wants to set foot in 26 Federal Plaza, the Manhattan office of United States Citizenship and Immigration Services.
''I don't want to go back there for my whole life!'' she exclaimed. ''I got traumatized!''
Alain De Beaufort, a Colombian with a green card, moved to the United States six years ago and married an American; they now have two American-born children and live in Brooklyn.
For a while, he said, laziness thwarted any vague interest in naturalizing. But his ennui has given way to a more profound reason: a growing disillusionment with the United States, particularly its foreign policy.
When he was growing up in Latin America, the United States and the idea of American citizenship were very attractive, he said. But in recent years, he said, he has opposed aspects of American foreign policy, including practices at the Guantánamo detention center and the expanded use of drones for targeted strikes. As a result, his view of the country has shifted.
''It's not as glamorous to be a U.S. citizen anymore,'' said Mr. De Beaufort, a writer and restaurant server. ''It doesn't seem to be that cool anymore.''
But Mr. De Beaufort allowed that the conveniences of citizenship might eventually trump his idealism. Indeed, while the people who naturalized in 2012 spent a median of seven years with a green card before naturalizing, according to the federal government, some waited much longer.
And from time to time even the most stalwart nationalists from other countries can find their positions crumble overnight.
Claudine Moore, who was born and raised in Britain and moved to the United States in 1999, said that for years, much as she enjoyed living in this country, she had no interest in becoming an American citizen. ''I'm very much attached to my Britishness and my love and pride in being British,'' explained Ms. Moore, founder of C. Moore Media, an international public relations firm based in New York.
But as Barack Obama began to emerge as a possible candidate for the Democratic nomination in the 2008 presidential campaign, she changed her mind and applied to naturalize -- just to vote for him.
Her sister, who is married to an American citizen, was moved to do the same thing. ''Her husband didn't persuade her,'' Ms. Moore said, ''but the prospect of a black president did!''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Becoming Americans, 154 people took the oath of allegiance in a ceremony Aug. 16 at 26 Federal Plaza in Manhattan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
''I really don't feel American,'' Jonathan Wajskol said.
 Claudine Moore became a citizen to vote for President Obama. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (91%); CITIZENSHIP (91%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (90%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (89%); NATURALIZATION (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); WRITERS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (78%); TEXTBOOKS (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (73%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (73%) UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (90%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2013



750 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; EDUCATION; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1061 words

HEADLINE: Germany Backtracks on Tuition

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER F. SCHUETZE

 BODY:
Oliver Tessenow feels upset. In his five years of undergraduate and graduate studies at Leibniz University Hanover, he has had to pay tuition, but as he prepares to leave next year with a master's degree in education, the university plans to abolish the fees.
''We are annoyed that they haven't been abolished already,'' Mr. Tessenow said of the university's charges, which began in 2006 and come to about &#x20ac;1,000 a year, or $1,300. 
While fees are an increasingly heavy burden on students in places like England, Ireland, the United States and parts of Canada -- and fee-paying campuses are proliferating around the world in emerging education markets -- Germany is going the other way.
Introduced to inject additional financing into an overstretched public education system, tuition never caught on in a country where open education is seen as a key to social and economic progress.
''Politicians know they can't talk about tuition fees without losing votes,'' said Felix Grigat, , editor of a Forschung & Lehre, the monthly trade magazine of the German Association of University Professors and Lecturers. ''We simply don't have the tradition'' of paying privately to attend a public school.
Under the German Constitution, the 16 state governments control and finance higher education. After a federal court decision in 2005 opened the way, eight states -- all in the former West Germany -- took advantage of the opportunity to introduce modest tuition charges, with universities promising to use the money to improve teaching, expand services and modernize infrastructure.
Still, the concept of paying for education remained deeply unpopular with students and the general public, and most states that introduced fees threw them out again in short order, starting with Hesse, in 2008.
Most recently, Baden-Württemberg and the city-state of Hamburg abandoned tuition charges last autumn. Among the remaining holdouts, Bavaria, normally a bastion of fiscally conservative politics, will do away with them this year. A poll commissioned by the public broadcaster Bayerischer Rundfunk found that 72 percent of Bavarians backed abolition.
Lower Saxony, home to Leibniz University Hanover, will be the last to fall into line when it drops its fees at the start of the 2014-15 academic year.
Though the fees are low by North American or British standards, opponents say they have acted as an economic barrier to some students. Mr. Tessenow, for one, said the extra &#x20ac;1,000 a year charged by Hanover was one hurdle too many: ''There are enough barriers besides the fees,'' he said.
According to Malte Hübner, an economist with the German Council of Economic Experts, the introduction of tuition in Germany might have caused an estimated 20,000 potential students, representing 6.8 percent of all university entrants, to forgo enrollment in 2007.
''Initially there was this deterrent effect, but it would probably have subsided after a while,'' Mr. Hübner said.
Still, while the introduction of fees might have turned off some students, it appears to have had little impact on the growth of Germany's student population as a whole, which has risen by roughly half a million since 2006.
In returning to free university access for its citizens, Germany will be rejoining some of Europe's most economically and socially advanced countries, including Denmark, Norway and Sweden. Still, there is a difference: Germany, with its approximately 2.5 million active students, has by far the largest higher education budget to finance. By comparison, Britain, which has roughly an equal number of students, raised annual tuition caps last year to £9,000, or $14,000.
In France, where some 2.3 million students attend post-secondary institutions, most public universities charge a few hundred euros per year. Tuition fees at the elite grandes écoles, however, tend to be a good deal higher.
Though the German debate around tuition seems to have abated for now, academics and administrators predict that rising demands on the university system will eventually bring the fees back.
''Once austerity measures hit, people will realize that state funding is insufficient,'' said Horst Hippler, president of the German Rectors' Conference, an association of state and state-recognized universities. ''The states are simply not rich enough,'' to shoulder the full cost burden, he said.
Mr. Hippler characterized the retreat from fee payments as a temporary response to ideology and politics.
If students saw what they were getting for their money, they would gladly make their financial contribution, he said. ''The student fees that were put into place would never deter anyone from studying,'' he said.
At Leibniz University Hanover, where Mr. Tessenow has been studying, student fees made up about 4 percent of the university budget in 2011, according to the administration. About 60 percent of that money was used to hire teaching and laboratory staff, with much of the rest going toward improvements in equipment and lecture halls, according to the university.
''Besides all the other measures, like the additional laboratory equipment, student work places, new books and more, the student fee contributions have been especially indispensable because they have noticeably ameliorated actual academic supervision,'' said Mechtild von Münchhausen, a university spokeswoman.
To protest undergraduate tuition fees, however, the university's student union, like many others in Germany, refused to attend administrative meetings in which the additional income was allocated.
Mr. Tessenow, who is active in the union, said the only visible signs that his tuition fees were spent on improving his education were stickers that read ''Financed by Student Fees'' on some library books.
Still, Ms. von Münchhausen said, while the &#x20ac;14 million that student fees brought to the university was a small part of the overall budget, it made a disproportionately effective contribution to improvements in teaching because -- unlike additional money provided directly by the state -- it was not tied directly to increasing the number of study spots.
Student stipends and low-interest loans -- both fairly new concepts in Germany -- ensure that anyone can attend the university despite the fees, she said.
''In Germany, historically, people have not learned that studying costs something,'' Ms. von Münchhausen said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TUITION FEES (92%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); POLITICS (88%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); CONSERVATISM (72%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (68%); POLLS & SURVEYS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAMBURG, GERMANY (79%) LOWER SAXONY, GERMANY (79%); HESSE, GERMANY (79%) GERMANY (95%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ENGLAND (57%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2013



751 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1352 words

HEADLINE: Adrift On the Nile

BYLINE: By BILL KELLER

 BODY:
IN May 2011, when the promise of the Arab Spring was still fresh and exhilarating, President Obama went to the State Department to proclaim an important reorientation of American policy in the Middle East. For decades America had defined its interests in utilitarian terms: regional stability, countering terrorism and nuclear proliferation (and, in the cold war years, Soviet influence), defending Israel's security, assuring the free flow of oil and other commerce. That often meant alliances of convenience with brutal authoritarians.
''But the events of the past six months show us that strategies of repression and strategies of diversion will not work anymore,'' the president said. The uprisings in Egypt and Tunisia and Libya had affirmed ''that we have a stake not just in the stability of nations, but in the self-determination of individuals. The status quo is not sustainable.'' Without renouncing our commitment to those old interests, the president embraced a supplementary set of ''core principles'': supporting universal rights, encouraging political and economic reforms, opposing violence and oppression. 
''Our support for these principles is not a secondary interest,'' he insisted. ''Today I want to make it clear that it is a top priority that must be translated into concrete actions and supported by all of the diplomatic, economic and strategic tools at our disposal.''
In the excruciating test that Egypt has become, the president has largely failed to live up to his own eloquently articulated standard. In the two years since his speech -- and most shamefully in the eight weeks since the army's coup -- America has seemed not just cautious (caution is good) but timid and indecisive, reactive and shortsighted, stranded between our professed commitment to change and our fear of chaos. One of the administration's most acute critics, Vali Nasr of the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies, goes so far as to suggest that United States policy is, whether by design or inertia, coming full circle: back to a pre-Arab Spring, Islamophobic, order-at-all-costs policy that puts us in the cynical company of Saudi Arabia and Russia. Is it any wonder that the generals in Egypt feel they can get away with murder -- or, for that matter, that Syria's Assad thinks he can call our bluff and poison his people with impunity?
It has become the conventional wisdom in Washington that the United States has no ''leverage'' in Egypt. That is at best an excuse for not trying very hard, at worst a self-fulfilling prophecy. Of course, ''leverage'' does not mean that supplying a few F-16 fighter planes buys you the compliance of a foreign army. (Witness Pakistan.) And, of course, Egypt's fate is, and must be, in Egyptian hands. But we have serious strategic interests in a democratic Egypt, as the president himself asserted with such fervor, and we have influence. We should have used our influence earlier. We can and should use it now.
During the last great democratic opening, when the Soviet Union lost its grip, the states that were newly liberated did not transform themselves unaided from Communist vassals into model democracies. The United States and Western Europe offered infusions of money, expertise and, just as important, a new status: the prospect, if the novice democracies met certain tests, of membership in the great clubs of civilized nations, NATO and the European Union. It took years, and not all of the former Soviet republics have made the transition, but we helped midwife some thriving new democracies.
I get that this is different. Egypt is not Poland, Europe's economy is not as robust as it was then, and Americans have lost their appetite for overseas engagement. There is no Middle East equivalent of NATO or the E.U. And there is a gloomy sense that Egypt may already be in a kind of death spiral.
But with a little leadership the U.S. could have mobilized a united Western front, embraced the standards Obama laid out in 2011, and offered Egypt's factions incentives to stay on a path toward political reconciliation and economic growth. There was a halfhearted effort led by France in 2011 to create a sort of collective support system for Arab Spring democracy; the so-called Deauville Partnership never got much beyond the stage of rhetoric. I'm told a more ambitious proposal for a concerted Arab Spring initiative was debated within the Obama administration in 2012 but was rejected because it might have been a distraction from President Obama's all-about-the-middle-class re-election campaign.
It is late for Egypt, but maybe not too late. The president could still join forces with European allies, some of which seem more willing than we are to stand up to the generals. Europe has pledged $6.7 billion to Egypt, and the U.S. gives about $1.5 billion, most of it military. Imagine if the West suspended all that aid and deposited it into a kind of trust fund, to be disbursed to help Egypt's recovery if it kept on a course away from violent repression and intolerance and toward inclusion and the rule of law.
You will hear several arguments for continuing to supply aid to the military regime, in spite of the slaughter in the streets, in spite of the generals' apparent intention to disenfranchise not only the Muslim Brotherhood, the party that won the first free elections, but, as David Kirkpatrick reported in Sunday's Times, dissenters of any stripe. The money, we are told, keeps the lines of communication open. It helps assure Egypt's adherence to the Camp David accords and cooperation against terrorists. We get an E-ZPass through the Suez Canal and automatic permission for our military aircraft to transit the region. If we stop our aid, the Saudis and the Arab Emirates will just replace it.
There is something to each of these worries, but less than meets the eye. Egypt's rulers behave out of self-interest. They cooperate with the U.S. -- and with Israel -- against terrorists because they fear terrorists, a mutual concern that has only become more acute with the alarming rise of extremist attacks in Sinai.
''It's not as if aid gets cut off and Egypt says, 'We're going to war with Israel,' '' said Nathan Brown, a Middle East scholar at George Washington University and the Carnegie Endowment. ''Egypt's attitude toward Islamic terrorism -- right now, they're on the same page as Fox News.''
Sure, if aid is suspended gulf states will send money in the short term, but Egypt has no desire to become a permanent ward of the petro-monarchs. The military is thoroughly enmeshed in Egypt's impoverished economy, and desperately wants the Western investment, trade and tourism that bring growth and jobs.
One real risk of suspending aid is that the Egyptians who most share our values -- the more secular, more moderate young Egyptians who deplore the Muslim Brotherhood and seem to support the military coup -- will feel that we have abandoned them. This is an intensely nationalistic moment in Egyptian history and a popular backlash against America is a real worry in the short run. But the truth is, the Egyptian moderates already blame us -- for standing by while the Morsi presidency played Islamist winner-take-all. In the short run, we are not going to be popular in Egypt.
There is a strong moral argument and a strong legal argument for refusing to bless the military's repression, but there is also a persuasive pragmatic reason. The current course is, in the president's phrase, not sustainable.
''The behavior of the Egyptian military is driving the country farther down the path of instability,'' said Tamara Cofman Wittes, director of the Saban Center for Middle East Policy at the Brookings Institution. ''And it's going to make Egypt less able to cooperate with us on counterterror and other regional security concerns because it will be more enmeshed in its own domestic strife.''
''We have to think through strategically what's going to be in our long-term national interests,'' the president told CNN last week, speaking of his options in Egypt and Syria. He might start by going back and reading his own speech.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY R.O. BLECHMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); 2011 SYRIAN UPRISING (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ARMIES (77%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (77%); COLD WAR (77%); COUPS (74%); TERRORISM (72%); COUNTERTERRORISM (72%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (63%); POISONINGS (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); BASHAR AL-ASSAD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NILE RIVER (71%) UNITED STATES (95%); EGYPT (94%); ISRAEL (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); SYRIA (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2013



752 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 820 words

HEADLINE: Canadian Documents Suggest Shift on Pipeline

BYLINE: By IAN AUSTEN

 BODY:
OTTAWA -- Ever since President Obama said in June that a litmus test for the proposed Keystone XL oil pipeline from Canada was whether it would ''significantly'' worsen global warming, Canadian government officials have insisted it would not.
They reasoned that because the pipeline would not have any major effect on rate of development of Canada's oil sands, as a State Department environmental review concluded in March, it would not significantly raise the amount of carbon emitted. 
But documents obtained by a Canadian environmental group suggest that the staff at Natural Resources Canada viewed Keystone XL as an important tool for expanding oil sands production. The documents were released to the Pembina Institute, a group based in Calgary, Alberta, after a request made under Canada's Access to Information Act.
Briefing notes prepared for the natural resources minister, Joe Oliver, before a trip to Chicago to promote Keystone XL in March, noted that ''in order for crude oil production to grow, the North American pipeline network must be expanded through initiatives, such as the Keystone XL Pipeline project.''
Clare Demerse, director of federal policy for Pembina, said in an interview on Saturday that expanding crude oil production in Canada is synonymous with developing the oil sands. Canada has 168 billion barrels of oil sands reserves compared to about 4.1 billion barrels of conventional oil reserves.
''This is the heart of the debate right now,'' she said. ''The documents certainly suggest that Natural Resources saw Keystone as essential to increasing oil sands production until the State Department concluded otherwise.''
Indeed, in late April, before Mr. Oliver took his pipeline campaign to Washington, the wording about growth in crude production vanished from largely similar briefing notes. It was replaced by a section noting that the State Department's environmental assessment ''also concluded that 'approval or denial of the proposed project is unlikely to have a substantial impact on the rate of development in the oil sands or the amount of heavy crude oil in the Gulf Coast area.' ''
The apparent change in Canada's position underscores how approval of the pipeline from the Obama administration is a major priority for the Conservative government, a strong champion of the oil sands, which have brought billions of dollars into the economy. Blocking the pipeline has become an equally important priority for many environmentalists who view the oil sands as a particularly dirty source of oil.
In a statement, Mr. Oliver did not address questions about the apparent change in the government analysis of the pipeline's effect on oil sands production. But, he said: ''We agree with the U.S. State Department that should Keystone XL not be approved, alternative modes of transporting natural resources, including rail, would likely deliver the crude intended for the Keystone XL market.''
The proposed pipeline would carry about 800,000 barrels a day of heavy crude oil from tar sands in Alberta across the Great Plains to Gulf Coast refineries.
Canada has the world's third-largest oil reserves after Venezuela and Saudi Arabia, but most of them are found in bitumen, a gooey, tar-like substance mixed with sand and other minerals that must be strip mined or steamed and pumped out of the ground.
In June, President Obama laid out his crucial test for approval of the $7 billion project. ''Allowing the Keystone pipeline to be built requires a finding that doing so would be in our nation's interests,'' he said at Georgetown University. ''Our national interest would be served only if this project does not significantly exacerbate the problem of carbon pollution.''
Because removing and processing bitumen from the oil sands and converting it into crude oil generates far more greenhouse gas emissions than conventional oil production, that would seem to be a tall order.
But Canadian politicians have repeatedly pointed to the State Department's environmental review to support their case that the pipeline would meet Mr. Obama's condition.
That study also predicted that Canada and its oil industry partners would probably continue to develop the oil sands even if Keystone XL were not built. And it stated that building or not building the pipeline would have no significant effect on demand for heavy crude in the United States.
''This is not going to create an environmental impact,'' Mr. Oliver told reporters shortly after the president's June speech. ''That's what the U.S. State Department itself had concluded in a 3,500-page report, which was the second major independent comprehensive study that they had done on this subject.''
Although the State Department is leading the pipeline review, its conclusions about growth and other issues have been challenged by the Environmental Protection Agency as well as environmentalists, and have also been contradicted by some financial analysts.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL SANDS (92%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (91%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); APPROVALS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS PIPELINE CONSTRUCTION (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); FREEDOM OF INFORMATION (70%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBERTA, CANADA (79%) CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2013



753 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 599 words

HEADLINE: Reading Tweets From Iran

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

 BODY:
Social media are an unorthodox, but useful, way to start to get a sense of Iran's new president, Hassan Rouhani. In a flurry of English-language posts on Twitter since his election in June, Mr. Rouhani has given reason to hope that he is serious about resolving disputes with the United States and other major powers, most urgently about Iran's nuclear program.
''We don't want further tension. Both nations need 2 think more abt future & try 2 sit down & find solutions to past issues & rectify things,'' he, or somebody writing in his name, said on June 17. On the nuclear program, he commented: ''Our program is transparent, but we can take more steps to make it clear to world that our nuclear program is within intl regulations.'' 
This seemingly reasonable outlook -- refreshing after the ugly, confrontational approach of his predecessor, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad -- has been reinforced by other recent moves. The most significant is Mr. Rouhani's appointment of Mohammad Javad Zarif as foreign minister. In addition to being educated in the United States and serving many years as Iran's ambassador at the United Nations, Mr. Zarif has been at the center of several rounds of secret negotiations over the years to try to overcome decades of enmity between the two countries.
Mr. Zarif is also being considered to lead a new round of nuclear negotiations with the major powers, replacing the conservative Saeed Jalili, who made things worse when he was in that job. At his first news conference, President Rouhani parried questions about possible direct talks with Washington -- which will be essential at some point for any deal to be concluded -- but said he was ready to ''seriously engage and interact with other parties.''
It would be naïve to assume that the path to ending Iran's isolation is now clear. Hostilities between America and Iran have hardened since the 1979 Islamic revolution. For some time after the covert nuclear program was discovered in 2002, Iranian officials shrewdly played a weak hand to divide the international community and avoid sanctions. It seems likely that Mr. Rouhani, with his benign demeanor, seductive tone and more ''moderate'' message, will be more focused, serious and skillful in negotiations than Mr. Ahmadinejad, but still unyielding in Iran's core demand to retain significant nuclear capability.
Even so, there are strong forces propelling both sides toward a deal.
Harsh sanctions imposed by the United States, Europe and the United Nations since 2009 have devastated Iran's economy, which Mr. Rouhani is desperate to revive. Although there is no evidence that Iran has produced a nuclear weapon, its program has steadily advanced, prompting both President Obama and Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel to warn of possible military action. At a time when the Middle East and South Asia are in turmoil, there are also many regional issues that could benefit from American-Iranian cooperation, including Afghanistan and Syria.
President Rouhani is sending strong signals that he will dispatch a pragmatic, experienced team to the table when negotiations resume, possibly next month. That's when we should begin to see answers to key questions: How much time and creative thinking are he and President Obama willing to invest in a negotiated solution, the only rational outcome? How much political risk are they willing to take, which for Mr. Obama must include managing the enmity that Israel and many members of Congress feel toward Iran?
And finally: Do the two sides have the courage to resolve a conflict that has been decades in the making?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); SOCIAL MEDIA (79%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (79%); CONSERVATISM (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (71%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (71%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (60%); RELIGION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%)

PERSON: HASSAN ROUHANI (93%); SAEED JALILI (76%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2013



754 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 598 words

HEADLINE: Federal Courts in Crisis

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

 BODY:
Observers of the federal court system cannot recall the last time such a thing has happened, if it ever has. Chief judges in 86 of the 94 Federal District Courts around the country -- more than half of them Republican appointees -- have now joined to sound an alarm about the grave damage to the nation's justice system caused by years of flat financing followed by Washington's lunatic across-the-board budget cuts known as sequestration. Their urgent plea to stop starving federal courts of adequate resources to fulfill the judiciary's constitutional responsibilities deserves a response from Congress.
In a letter sent earlier this month to leaders of the House and the Senate and the Judiciary and Appropriations committees in both chambers, the judges described themselves as ''the boots on the ground in our nation's federal trial courts.'' They offered a detailed, firsthand view of the judiciary's ''unprecedented financial crisis'' and its ''devastating impact on court operations nationwide.'' 
The judiciary's current staffing level, the letter said, is the lowest it has been since 1999 despite a significant increase in the workload. Congress's $350 million reduction in the federal judiciary's budget for fiscal 2013 has slowed the processing of civil and bankruptcy cases and forced many courts to stop conducting criminal trials on all or some Fridays.
The cuts have also ''put public safety at risk'' by reducing the number of probation and pretrial services officers available to supervise defendants awaiting trial and people released into the community after serving time in prison for serious crimes. The judges expressed particular concern about the crippling reductions in the funds available for drug, mental health and sex-offender treatment programs and for drug testing and electronic and GPS monitoring of offenders.
The letter correctly highlights the negative effect of this year's $50 million cut to the network of high-quality federal defender offices across the country. Many experienced lawyers representing indigent defendants have been laid off, and the salaries of the remaining defenders have been effectively reduced by a requirement that they take up to 20 unpaid furlough days. ''We are deeply concerned that the cuts in federal defender offices will severely undermine and weaken a program that has taken years to build,'' the judges wrote.
With no end to Washington's partisan budget standoff in sight, the executive committee of the Judicial Conference of the United States, which sets policy for the federal judiciary, recently took emergency steps to try to minimize further cuts to the federal defender program in the fiscal year that begins on Oct. 1, temporarily reducing the hourly rates for private court-appointed lawyers by $15 an hour and deferring some of the payments for their work to fiscal 2015.
These moves were necessary. But they will make it harder to recruit able private lawyers to do indigent criminal defense work.
The nation's independent federal court system, though hardly perfect, is central to American democracy and the rule of law. Its current crisis was created by Washington politicians, and Washington politicians hold the power to solve it. The letter from the judges asks that Congress approve the $496 million increase in funding for the judiciary recently approved by the Senate Appropriations Committee even if a continuing budget resolution is enacted this fall keeping government spending at its current level.
That would be the reasonable thing to do, even though reason is in short supply in today's Washington.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); JUDGES (90%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); PUBLIC DEFENDERS (88%); LAWYERS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ELECTRONIC MONITOR SENTENCING (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); BUDGET CUTS (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); LAYOFFS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (67%); MENTAL HEALTH (62%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2013



755 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1416 words

HEADLINE: Surveillance Revelations Shake U.S.-German Ties

BYLINE: By ALISON SMALE; Scott Shane, Eric Schmitt and Mark Mazzetti contributed reporting from Washington.

 BODY:
BERLIN -- Continuing revelations, based on documents leaked by Edward J. Snowden, of sweeping American digital surveillance around the world are rattling the close ties between the United States and Germany.
In a country scarred by Nazi and Communist pasts, the issue is prompting not just a debate about privacy and data protection, but also demands from German officials that the Berlin-Washington security partnership be put on a new footing.
The latest of the Snowden revelations came on Sunday, when the German newsmagazine Der Spiegel published a report, citing documents Mr. Snowden obtained while he worked as a contractor for the National Security Agency, that said the agency had succeeded in tapping into videoconferences at the United Nations in New York, into the European Union's mission to the United Nations, and into other diplomatic missions around the world.
Evidence that the United States has been spying extensively on its allies as well as on its enemies has been among the most significant revelations from Mr. Snowden, along with widespread government surveillance of the telephone and digital communications of American citizens without warrants. 
The Der Spiegel article on Sunday was not the first to reveal American eavesdropping at the United Nations, which many diplomats have assumed for years was taking place. But it added extensive new detail to what had previously been reported, and it may compound the frictions developing between the United States and its allies over the issue -- especially with Germany, where Chancellor Angela Merkel is in the midst of an election campaign.
Top German officials traveled to Washington this month to press an unusual demand: to negotiate a new formal agreement with the United States that neither side will spy on the other.
The initiative was confirmed in two sittings of the German parliamentary committee in charge of overseeing the country's intelligence agencies. Ronald Pofalla, who runs Ms. Merkel's Chancellery, told the committee on Aug. 12 that the two countries were working on just such an agreement. He gave no details, and none leaked out afterward in German media reports.
Neither side will say anything official about the proposed accord. Observers on both sides of the Atlantic say that even if such an agreement proves to be feasible, it will probably have to wait until after the German elections on Sept. 22.
It was not known whether Der Spiegel planned to publish further revelations from Snowden documents before then. Opinion polls in Germany suggest that Ms. Merkel's strong standing with voters has not been damaged by the issue, nor has it displaced the weather or vacations as topics of summer conversation here.
But in the eyes of a skeptical, privacy-minded German public, at least, Der Spiegel's report may have undercut the significance of the proposed accord by noting that the eavesdropping described in the Snowden documents would have violated agreements that the United States has made.
The report said that the N.S.A. succeeded last year in cracking an encrypted video teleconferencing system at the United Nations, and even stumbled across Chinese spies who were apparently invading the same communications system. The magazine also published a floor plan, evidently from N.S.A. files, of the third floor of the European mission to the United Nations on Third Avenue in New York, showing the locations of offices and computer servers. Der Spiegel suggested that the spying on allies and the United Nations made President Obama's defense of surveillance programs as a counterterrorism effort seem misleading at best.
For the German government, the whole affair is frustrating. One senior official who spoke on the condition of anonymity argued that Ms. Merkel had generally done a good job of keeping foreign affairs and controversy out of domestic politics, only to have Mr. Snowden's revelations capture world attention just as she was preparing to receive Mr. Obama in Berlin in June, depart on vacation in July and open the final stage of her election campaign in August.
With Mr. Obama at her side on June 19, Ms. Merkel, who is said by several well-informed people to have very much wanted the president to come to Berlin before the election, kept the emphasis on cooperation. She cited a well-known instance in which a tip from American intelligence helped thwart a potential terrorist attack in Germany.
By early July, however, United States-German ties were under strain once more, after Der Spiegel, citing documents obtained through Mr. Snowden, reported that American intelligence agencies regularly examined huge volumes of digital information traveling in and out of Germany.
Exasperated officials on both sides lamented privately that security restrictions kept them from being able to offer more details to back up general reassurances that the German public was not under sweeping surveillance by the United States.
Ms. Merkel sent at least two high-level delegations to Washington to press for the new accord. It seems that prompted Mr. Obama to say at his Aug. 9 news conference ''to others around the world'' that he wanted ''to make clear once again that America is not interested in spying on ordinary people.''
The weekly newspaper Die Zeit noted in its latest edition that the political storm in Germany appeared to be calming down, though Mr. Snowden continued to draw praise from respected figures like the writer Hans Magnus Enzensberger, who called him a ''hero of the 21st century'' in a television interview last week.
But the same day, the British police detained David Miranda, the partner of Glenn Greenwald, the journalist who has been a main conduit for Mr. Snowden's revelations. The Guardian, which has published articles by Mr. Greenwald, then revealed that British intelligence agents had overseen the destruction of computer hard drives at the newspaper's offices.
The two incidents ignited fresh outrage in Germany, where data protection laws are strict, and jealously guarded by officials and consumers alike.
Journalists like Mathias Müller von Blumencron, a former editor of the online edition of Der Spiegel, and Stefan Schulz, of the online edition of Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung, said that the election campaign had blunted what could have been a more full-throated discussion of government surveillance, cooperation with the United States and the balance between civil rights and security needs in Western democracy. ''If we had had this discussion last year,'' with the elections less imminent, ''it could have been more fruitful,'' Mr. Schulz said.
Germany's privacy laws and public sensitivity to privacy issues have made it an attractive base for hacker activists like Jacob Appelbaum and for Laura Poitras, the documentary filmmaker who helped bring Mr. Greenwald and Mr. Snowden together. A political movement called the Pirate Party won seats in Parliament in 2011 on a platform focused on Internet freedom.
Mr. Schulz noted that groups like the Pirate Party and the Chaos Computer Club in Berlin had been talking for years about the technical possibility of widespread government surveillance in Germany.
And the German news media questioned the wisdom of The Guardian in allowing the authorities into its offices. Something is wrong, Die Zeit argued in an editorial, when a country like Britain -- whose closeness to the United States has been stressed in coverage of the affair -- forgets the difference between journalism and terrorism.
While the debate has continued, Ms. Merkel has been out campaigning. At a stop Friday evening in the Ruhr-area town of Recklinghausen, a group of about 40 jeering Pirate Party members waved a large banner proclaiming that ''citizens' rights are not negotiable'' and saying ''never again a surveillance state!''
''We hope we got more attention for our concerns,'' said Claudia Steimann, 40, a Pirate activist. ''The chancellor almost never says anything about politics, or what she wants to do.''
Certainly Ms. Merkel's main opponents, the Social Democrats, have found it hard to make hay of the Snowden affair. One of their leaders, Frank-Walter Steinmeier, had Mr. Profalla's job running the Chancellery in 2002 when German and American agencies tightened their cooperation after the Sept. 11 attacks, which were planned partly on German soil. Mr. Steinmeier was later foreign minister in Ms. Merkel's first coalition government. Peer Steinbrück, her current challenger, was finance minister in that same cabinet.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ESPIONAGE (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (88%); INTERNET PRIVACY (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); DATA PROTECTION LAWS (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (76%); PUBLISHING (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (72%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (72%); DATA SECURITY (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%)

PERSON: EDWARD SNOWDEN (92%); ANGELA MERKEL (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (94%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); GERMANY (96%); EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (59%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (58%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2013



756 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1299 words

HEADLINE: As Corporate Giant Stretches, Seattle Finds Its Downtown Being Reshaped

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON and NICK WINGFIELD

 BODY:
SEATTLE -- Often a corporation with a grand dream to reshape a city wants tax breaks in return. Not Amazon.
When Amazon executives showed up last year for the first meetings about their proposal to build a new headquarters here -- three towers that would draw thousands of workers downtown -- city officials were taken aback. Not by the scope of the plan, but by the simplicity of the discussion. The executives said they were ready to break ground immediately on what would be one of the biggest development projects in city history.
''It was not a hard-boiled negotiation,'' said Marshall Foster, the director of city planning. ''They basically walked in and said, 'We think this is the site.' '' A shovel-ready company that clear and confident, and with the cash to back it up, ''doesn't happen very often,'' Mr. Foster added.
Jeffrey P. Bezos, Amazon's founder and chief executive, has a reputation for the grand gesture, a knack for seizing an opportunity that can remake a landscape. His purchase of The Washington Post this month for $250 million cash, a bet that others might have shied away from, is a case in point. 
Here, in his company's hometown, Mr. Bezos has put his chips on the idea of Seattle and urban America itself. The first headquarters tower is already under construction, and the company currently occupies 14 smaller buildings nearby.
The result in South Lake Union, previously a low-rise, low-rent warehouse district with ties to the city's gritty maritime past, is a flood of cash, construction detours and dust. Increases to the city's tax base aside, some people are apprehensive about whether the growth could outstrip the city's ability to keep up.
''South Lake Union was a place that people drove through, not to,'' John Schoettler, Amazon's director of global real estate and facilities, said in an interview. ''Once we started development there, everything started to spring up around us.''
The once-empty streets are flooded at lunchtime with Amazon workers, easily identified by their blue employee badges. Fleets of food trucks have arrived, offering Thai, tacos and other fare. On a nice day, workers take their lunches to a park next to the Museum of History and Industry, which was recently renovated with a $10 million contribution from Mr. Bezos.
The company already has about 15,000 employees in Seattle, mostly highly paid engineers, managers and programmers, out of a global work force of about 97,000, according to people familiar with its head count who were not authorized to discuss a figure that the company does not share publicly. The new towers have a capacity for 12,000, giving the company room for nearly 30,000 workers in Seattle, which has a population of 635,000.
''Nobody else in the downtown area has ever had this kind of impact,'' said Matt Griffin, a 35-year veteran of the Seattle economic scene and the managing partner at the Pine Street Group, a real estate marketing and development company.
But the Amazon effect only starts with its own big numbers. The thousands of new employees, recently hired or anticipated, have also caught the attention of apartment developers. Last year, Seattle issued more new residential building permits than in any year since at least 1984, when the current system of record-keeping began.
Many of those new apartments are within walking or biking distance of Amazon. Service businesses and start-up technology companies, meanwhile, have sought nearby addresses. Northeastern University, based in Boston, set up a remote campus last year across the street from Amazon's current buildings.
''I think they've single-handedly defined a whole region,'' said Bryan Trussel, the chief executive of Glympse, an Internet start-up with offices next to Amazon. ''Now everyone wants to be there.''
The setting is significant. In casting its lot in the center of a congested, bustling city, Amazon has rejected the old model of the suburban company campus that is typical of Silicon Valley and the technology ring road around Boston. The old way is perhaps most vividly exemplified by Microsoft. Its offices, and most of its 42,000 local employees, are about 18 miles from downtown Seattle, in the suburb of Redmond.
But it was, perhaps paradoxically, Microsoft money that made Amazon's torrid growth in the neighborhood possible. In the early 1990s, Paul Allen, Microsoft's billionaire co-founder, agreed to help finance the creation of a 61-acre public park starting in South Lake Union, a project that was eventually killed by voters. As a result, Mr. Allen's investment firm, Vulcan, ended up being a big landowner in the area, eventually selling or leasing many of its buildings to Amazon.
Other technology companies are moving into urban spaces. Twitter and Dropbox, the social networking and online storage services, have made San Francisco home, while Tumblr and Etsy, blogging and shopping sites, are in New York. Google has huge urban spaces from Paris to Pittsburgh.
The appeal of cities to potential employees is part of the reason for the shift. An urban setting, with access to good restaurants, nightclubs and cultural attractions, has become as important a recruiting tool as salary or benefits for many companies.
But most of those urban pioneers are still small, at least in their real estate and staffing needs. Twitter, one of the largest, employs about 1,500 workers in San Francisco.
Amazon, by contrast, is both local and global. By encouraging its employees to live within walking distance, it could help Seattle meet its goals for energy efficiency and conservation, city officials said. As part of its development agreement, Amazon also plans to buy a new streetcar for the light rail line that runs past its properties and pay for a stretch of dedicated bicycle lane.
Mr. Schoettler, Amazon's real estate director, said environmental considerations were an important factor in the company's decision to remain in Seattle, along with the type of employee that an urban location attracts.
''The energy and excitement from employees being in an urban environment -- I hear it daily,'' said Mr. Schoettler, who walks to work. ''A lot of people don't even have a car. They want that urban experience right there.''
By contrast, Microsoft's private bus line, called the Connector, is a common sight snaking through neighborhoods in Seattle and other local communities. Of the company's 42,012 employees in the Puget Sound region, nearly half are registered to ride, a spokeswoman for the company said in an e-mail.
Amazon's transformative rush presents challenges for Seattle. Officials must manage the de facto city-within-a-city that is emerging around the company, with a surge of new restaurants, apartment complexes and commercial buildings.
The new headquarters has limited parking, putting pressure on mass transit, which was crimped this year by a financing stalemate in the State Legislature. The city wants low-cost housing in the Amazon zone, but soaring rents and real estate prices, city officials said, will make that goal difficult to achieve. The company's business model, and tactics in avoiding state sales taxes in many states, also presents a challenge to retailers.
And the company's mostly young work force may want to raise children here, requiring a new public school where none exist. The city has allocated $5 million for an elementary school, but planners are wrestling with a chicken-or-egg dilemma. A school built now could sit empty, they said, but waiting until the need arises might be too late if young families start moving elsewhere.
''As the city grows -- and again, it's a good problem to have, one that other cities don't -- we have to keep investing in all of our places,'' Mayor Mike McGinn said. ''How do we make sure we preserve the things that make the city special?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An artist's rendering of Amazon's planned headquarters in Seattle, which would draw thousands of workers. Jeffrey P. Bezos, left, Amazon's founder, has a reputation for the grand gesture. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NBBJ
 MATTHEW RYAN WILLIAMS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAPS: Other businesses are moving near the new Amazon offices. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); CITIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); INTERVIEWS (74%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (70%); HISTORY (70%); MOBILE FOOD SERVICES (60%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (55%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (55%)

PERSON: JEFFREY P BEZOS (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (97%) WASHINGTON, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2013



757 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1130 words

HEADLINE: Keeping Wall St. in the Black (or Maybe Brown)

BYLINE: By WILLIAM ALDEN

 BODY:
Mauricio Dias was being courted by Wall Street.
After losing his job at the investment bank Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette when it was sold to Credit Suisse, he received a phone call from the office of Hamilton E. James, the executive who had orchestrated the sale, Mr. Dias said. Mr. James was starting a new role as the No. 2 at the Blackstone Group, a big investment firm, and wanted Mr. Dias to join him.
Mr. Dias, now a 10-year stalwart at Blackstone, is no banker with a briefcase, however. He carries a shoeshine box.
Inside New York's investment houses, a vestige of old Wall Street lives on. Gone are the days when offices were filled with smoke and secretaries were the only women in sight. But in-house shoeshine service has proved remarkably resilient, surviving the rise of technology and even the turmoil of the 2008 financial crisis, which snuffed out many of Wall Street's quirks. 
Mr. Dias, 52, is at the top of the heap in the shoeshine world. He charges $6 for a shine in Blackstone's offices, while the Dr. Shine shoeshine parlor in the building's lobby charges $3. Not counting the tip.
''He's a V.I.P.,'' said Gotardo Cortez, 38, a co-owner of Dr. Shine. A spokesman for Blackstone declined to comment.
Though they are not bank employees, Wall Street's shoeshine workers are privy to the hidden dramas of trading floors and executive suites. At JPMorgan Chase, for example, a shoeshine worker said that Jamie Dimon, the bank's powerful chief executive -- who favors Ferragamo loafers -- typically offers $10 for a shoeshine, ''the same thing the guys on the trading floor pay.''
But the modern shoeshine business has changed since the old days, reflecting the evolution of Wall Street firms from private partnerships to large, public corporations. Senior traders from Bear Stearns recall the days when they could put their feet up on a shoeshine box brought to their desks and banter with their colleagues as the deed was done. But that changed after JPMorgan took over the firm in 2008.
At JPMorgan, Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley, teams of workers now collect shoes and take them elsewhere to be shined, leaving traders to work in stocking feet. Though many bank employees appreciate the efficiency of that updated method -- harried traders sometimes claim they do not even have time to use the restroom -- some longtime employees see it as an affront.
''They've turned it into a sterile thing,'' said James J. Dunne III, the senior managing principal of the investment bank Sandler O'Neill & Partners. ''That's where Wall Street has gotten more like a department store.''
The subject of shoeshines is a sentimental one for many Wall Street denizens, but perhaps none more so than Mr. Dunne, for whom a shoeshine was his introduction to the industry in September 1978.
A few months out of college and just days into an investment bank job, Mr. Dunne was sitting at his desk at L. F. Rothschild, Unterberg, Towbin and marveling at the shoeshine worker. He thought, ''Who would pay to get a shoeshine?''
He soon found out. Mark H. Rosen, his immediate boss, told Mr. Dunne to ''chill out a little bit,'' Mr. Dunne said. Johnny B., the shoeshine worker, proceeded to work his magic on Mr. Dunne -- courtesy of Mr. Rosen.
''It was just a wonderful, warm welcoming. It was about more than just get-that-spreadsheet-done,'' Mr. Dunne, now 56, said. ''There was a very human aspect to it.''
The annals of Wall Street lore are brimming with tales of shoeshine workers and their customers -- the biggest tippers, the overheard stock tips. And, of course, there is the one told by Joseph P. Kennedy Sr., the high-flying financier who was the first chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
A master of the market, Mr. Kennedy had the foresight to sell his stock holdings before the crash of 1929. He later told a reporter -- perhaps not entirely seriously -- that he realized the market was overheated when, on a visit to a shoeshine parlor on Wall Street, he heard from the worker snapping a cloth across his shoes ''what was going to happen to various stocks and offerings on the market that day'' -- and the worker was ''entirely correct.''
Ticker tape has long since given way to computer screens, but the shoeshine has remained.
''There was always a shoeshine guy who came around,'' said John H. Gutfreund, who joined Salomon Brothers as a trainee in 1953 and rose to become its chief executive in the 1980s.
Mr. Gutfreund, 83, recalled paying $2 or $3 to get his shoes shined at his desk. ''Anybody who wanted a shoeshine got it,'' he said.
Traditionally, the relationships between shoeshine workers and their firms have been supported by custom -- and amenable security guards -- rather than official edict. But one of the firms to formalize the arrangement was Goldman Sachs.
In the mid-1990s, when Jon S. Corzine was the chief executive of Goldman, employees on the fixed-income floor asked him to allow shoeshine workers to come to the office on a regular basis, a person familiar with the matter said.
Mr. Corzine approved the request.
Today, a handful of uniformed contract workers -- known internally as ''shoeshine technicians'' -- patrol Goldman's headquarters at 200 West Street, with a daily routine that reflects a corporate sense of efficiency. They handle a trading floor in sections, whisking away shoes to be shined and leaving traders to work in socks. One shoeshine parlor in Manhattan, Eddie's Shoe Repair, aims to capitalize on this shift by offering a classic experience that has become increasingly rare inside banks.
Employees of firms like Barclays, Morgan Stanley and Bank of America Merrill Lynch trek to the shop in Rockefeller Center for a 15-minute shoeshine and the opportunity to banter with the owner, Hugo Ardaix, who says the banks' own shoeshine workers skimp on quality.
''It's like a lot of things on the Street: it's not as personal as it used to be,'' said one senior employee of a big bank who spoke on the condition of anonymity because of a company policy against speaking to the news media. ''In the past, the trading floors were smaller, the firms were smaller and the service providers were people you saw pretty much every day. You got to know them.''
For Mr. Dunne of Sandler O'Neill, that first shoeshine in 1978 led to many more. He and Mr. Rosen would often treat each other to a shine, including in the years after Mr. Rosen joined his friend at Sandler.
But the tradition ended the morning of Sept. 11, 2001, when Mr. Rosen, working at Sandler's offices in the World Trade Center, was killed.
Now, the ritual has a more tragic resonance.
''There is not a time,'' Mr. Dunne said, ''that I have ever gotten a shine when I've not thought about him.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A morning rush at Eddie's Shoe Repair in Rockefeller Center. (A1)
 The owner of Eddie's Shoe Repair says the Wall Street banks skimp on shoeshine services. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (77%); RETAILERS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (93%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (92%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (91%); SANDLER O'NEILL + PARTNERS LP (60%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (56%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (52%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (93%); JPM (LSE) (93%); 8634 (TSE) (93%); BX (NYSE) (92%); CSGN (SWX) (91%); CS (NYSE) (91%); GS (NYSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (93%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (60%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%)

PERSON: JAMES DIMON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2013



758 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 776 words

HEADLINE: A Blazing Giant Stirs California To High Alert

BYLINE: By MAX WHITTAKER and MAGGIE ASTOR; Max Whittaker reported from Yosemite National Park, and Maggie Astor from New York.

 BODY:
YOSEMITE NATIONAL PARK, Calif. -- A wildfire near Yosemite National Park -- already one of the biggest in California's history -- continued to grow on Sunday, prompting mandatory evacuation orders for some residents and raising anxiety among officials because of the potential threat to a major source of San Francisco's water and power supplies.
The so-called Rim Fire had burned about 134,000 acres as of late Sunday -- about 9,000 acres more than it had the previous day -- making it the 14th largest fire since California began keeping records on wildfires in 1932 and the second largest in Tuolumne County. 
Officials said that firefighters had contained about 7 percent of the fire, which began just over a week ago, and that it had caused no loss of life or significant property damage. And although the fire has burned some acreage in Yosemite, the most visited area of the park, the Yosemite Valley, is not threatened so far, officials said.
Despite its size, the fire has not threatened population centers or heavily trafficked parts of Yosemite, but it was more the potential of the fire than the actual damage so far that spurred officials into action. Officials said that the fire tripled in size from Wednesday to Thursday and then doubled again from Thursday to Friday.
Even though the spread of the fire had slowed by Sunday, officials said that it was still growing, and that they worried that strong winds could whip the blaze into unpredictable directions and further endanger firefighters.
''We've had success to the west,'' said Jerry Snyder, a spokesman for the federal Forest Service, ''but the north is still expanding.''
Nearly 3,000 firefighters are involved, some brought in from as far away as Florida, officials said, and the Forest Service has deployed nine helicopters.
State and local officials prepared for the possibility of home evacuations and disruptions to public utilities. The weekend began with a declaration by Gov. Jerry Brown of a state of emergency for San Francisco County.
Many eyes were on the status of public utilities in the Bay Area, about 140 miles west of Yosemite. The San Francisco Public Utilities Commission said on Sunday that the fire had not affected the Hetch Hetchy Reservoir, which supplies water to 2.6 million customers. That reservoir accounts for 85 percent of San Francisco's water supply, but the commission emphasized in a statement that it also had ''a large supply'' of water stored in local reservoirs.
''We are monitoring water quality every minute of each day to ensure its quality and safety,'' the utility said.
Tuolumne County officials announced that all schools would be closed on Monday and Tuesday, mere days after the school year began. Most schools in the county opened on Wednesday.
''We felt it's the safest for the kids to close the schools,'' said Joseph A. Silva Jr., the Tuolumne County schools superintendent, citing both the air quality and the amount of equipment, like fire trucks and bulldozers, around the schools closest to the fire. He said the decision was made in conjunction with the multiagency incident command for the Rim Fire, a public health officer and the county's Air Pollution Control District.
The fire has also caused economic concerns in Tuolumne County, which stretches from about 30 miles west of Yosemite almost to the eastern edge of the park. Because a majority of the county's land area is inside the park, its economy is heavily reliant on tourism.
One store owner, Dan Vaughn of Pinecrest General Store, told The Sacramento Bee that sales had dropped by 95 percent since the fire began.
Residents in Pine Mountain Lake, on the southwestern side of the fire, were being allowed to return to their homes on Sunday afternoon after a mandatory evacuation order. As that was happening, four or five homes in a sparsely populated area to the southeast of the fire were put under a mandatory evacuation order, Mr. Snyder said, and residents of Tuolumne City and Ponderosa Hills to the northwest were under an evacuation advisory as the fire continued to spread in that direction.
As of Sunday afternoon, the fire had destroyed 23 structures, including at least 4 homes, officials said. But there were no reports of deaths or injuries.
The largest wildfire in California's history was the 273,246-acre Cedar Fire in October 2003, which killed 15 people. The largest in Tuolumne County was the Stanislaus Complex Fire in August 1987, which burned 145,980 acres and killed one person.
The fear is that the current fire may eclipse the county's record before being knocked down.
''You can look for the size to change upward,'' said Mr. Snyder of the Forest Service.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Inmate firefighters hiked amid glowing forest on Highway 120 on Sunday as the Rim Fire burned along the remote northwest edge of Yosemite National Park in central California. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAE C. HONG/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Smoke obscured O'Shaughnessy Dam at Hetch Hetchy Reservoir, which supplies San Francisco with water. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIONAL PARKS (90%); FIRES (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); FOREST FIRES (89%); DISASTER RELIEF (78%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (78%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); COUNTIES (77%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (76%); HELICOPTERS (50%); POLLUTION MONITORING (50%)

PERSON: JERRY BROWN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2013



759 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2013
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1258 words

HEADLINE: Muriel Siebert, a Determined Trailblazer For Women on Wall Street, Dies at 80

BYLINE: By ENID NEMY; Catherine Rampell contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Muriel Siebert, who became a legend on Wall Street as the first woman to buy a seat on the New York Stock Exchange and the first woman to head one of the exchange's member firms, died on Saturday in Manhattan. She was 84.
The cause was complications of cancer, said Jane H. Macon, a friend and board member of Ms. Siebert's firm, the Siebert Financial Corporation.
Ms. Siebert, known to all as Mickie, cultivated the same brash attitude that characterized Wall Street's most successful men. She bought her seat on the exchange in 1967, but to her immense anger, she remained the only woman admitted to membership for almost a decade.
She was one of the pioneers in the discount brokerage field, as she transformed Muriel Siebert & Company (now a subsidiary of Siebert Financial) into a discount brokerage in 1975, on the first day that Big Board members were allowed to negotiate commissions. 
She also was the first woman to be superintendent of banking for New York State, appointed by Gov. Hugh Carey in 1977. She served five years during a rocky time when banks were tottering and interest rates were skyrocketing.
Ms. Siebert was known, to her delight, as a scrapper who refused to acknowledge defeat. She donated millions of dollars from her brokerage and securities underwriting business to help other women get their start in business and finance.
When she was honored for her efforts in 1992, Ms. Siebert used the luncheon celebration to warn that it was still too soon for women to declare victory in the battle for equality on Wall Street.
''Firms are doing what they have to do, legally,'' she said. ''But women are coming into Wall Street in large numbers -- and they still are not making partner and are not getting into the positions that lead to the executive suites. There's still an old-boy network. You just have to keep fighting.''
She continued fighting the old-boy network all her life. She was one of the first women, in the early 1970s, to fight to end the sexist practices then prevalent in Manhattan social clubs, spurred by an experience she had at the Union League Club. She had arrived there for a board luncheon meeting of the Sales Executive Club and was not allowed in the elevator.
''I had to go through the kitchen and walk up the back stairs,'' she recalled. She was so angry during the meeting that her male colleagues asked what was wrong. When the lunch was finished, they tried to take her down in the elevator with them. When she was again rebuffed, they joined her in walking down the stairs and through the kitchen.
That experience, and other similar episodes, led her to testify before government bodies about the discriminatory policies of many New York clubs. In time, women were permitted to become members. This was particularly important because of the deal-making and networking done at these clubs.
Ms. Siebert also successfully lobbied in 1987 to get a ladies' room on the seventh floor of the New York Stock Exchange, near the entrance to the luncheon club she frequented. She accomplished this in her typical fashion. She warned the exchange's chairman that if a ladies' room was not on the floor by the end of the year, she would arrange for a portable toilet to be delivered. The room was installed, and women no longer had to trek down a flight of stairs.
She once explained her strategy for dealing with obstacles: ''I put my head down and charge.''
Muriel Faye Siebert was born in Cleveland on Sept. 12, 1928, the second of two daughters of Irwin Siebert, a dentist, and his wife, Margaret. She attended Western Reserve University for two years but left in 1952 before graduating because her father became ill.
She came to New York in 1954, she once said, ''with $500, a Studebaker and a dream.'' She was hired as a $65-a-week trainee in the research department at Bache & Company.
''The way it worked, everybody who was already there got to give the new kid one of their junk industries,'' she told The New York Times in 1992. ''I got airlines, I got motion pictures -- things nobody wanted in those days.''
She changed jobs three times because she said men doing the same work were being paid more than she was. She also discovered when job hunting that when the New York Society of Security Analysts sent out her résumé under the name Muriel Siebert, she received no inquiries, but when the society later distributed it under the name M.F. Siebert, the results were quite different.
She eventually decided to strike out on her own and become the first woman to purchase a seat on the New York Stock Exchange. She was turned down by the first nine men she asked to sponsor her application before a 10th agreed.
The exchange told her that if she was admitted, her seat would cost $445,000, and in an unprecedented move, the exchange insisted that she get a bank to lend her $300,000 of the total price. The banks, in turn, refused to lend her the money unless the exchange admitted her. ''There would be no loan until I was accepted, and I couldn't be accepted without the loan,'' she said.
After nearly two years she got the loan, from Chase Manhattan, and she was elected to the New York Stock Exchange on Dec. 28, 1967. It proved to be a historic day but one that was not soon repeated. ''For 10 years,'' Ms. Siebert said, ''it was 1,365 men and me.''
She continued to encounter resistance, and not only because she was a woman. Ms. Siebert also encountered anti-Semitism, which at the time, she said, was not uncommon in the trust departments she dealt with.
In 1969, she founded Muriel Siebert & Company, becoming the first woman to own and operate a brokerage firm that was a member of the New York Stock Exchange. On May 1, 1975, after the federal government did away with fixed commissions for brokers, Ms. Siebert declared her company a discount brokerage firm.
Two years later she put her company in a blind trust and accepted Governor Carey's appointment as state superintendent of banking. Her five-year term was controversial, as she took the lead in engineering mergers and acquisitions. But in the end she liked to say that no New York bank failed during her tenure.
In addition to the Albany post, she directed New York City's Municipal Credit Union, its Urban Development Corporation and its Job Development Authority.
In 1983, Ms. Siebert returned to Muriel Siebert & Company after losing a bid for the Republican nomination for the United States Senate; she was beaten by Assemblywoman Florence M. Sullivan, who was then defeated by Daniel Patrick Moynihan, the Democratic candidate.
In 1996, she took her firm public through an unorthodox merger with J. Michaels, a Brooklyn chain of furniture stores. As part of the arrangement, she liquidated the assets of J. Michaels and named the holding company the Siebert Financial Corporation, of which she owned a 97.5 percent share; the remaining 2.5 percent was former J. Michaels stock and was publicly held.
Ms. Siebert, who never married or had children, is survived by a sister, Elaine Siebert.
Ms. Siebert, who was often sought out for pungent quotes as a market pundit and occasional critic of Wall Street practices, produced an autobiography in 2002, ''Changing the Rules: Adventures of a Wall Street Maverick.''
In 2007, she celebrated the 40th anniversary of buying a seat on the New York Stock Exchange by ringing the closing bell.
Ms. Siebert often appeared in public with Monster Girl, her longhaired Chihuahua, and a successor, Monster Girl 2. She claimed affinities with Monster Girl, noting that they were ''not intimidated by the big dogs.''

CORRECTION-DATE: August 27, 2013 

 CORRECTION:
An obituary on Monday about Muriel Siebert, the first woman to buy a seat on the New York Stock Exchange, using information from a spokeswoman, misstated Ms. Siebert's age and year of birth. She was 84, not 80, and she was born on Sept. 12, 1928, not 1932. The error also appeared in the headline and in a front-page capsule summary. (Ms. Siebert had given her birth year as 1932 during her career.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Muriel Siebert, pictured in 2002, was one of the pioneers in the discount brokerage field. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS Jr./THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); WOMEN (90%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); MEN (77%); DEATHS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (77%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (73%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (69%); DISCOUNT BROKERS (69%); INTEREST RATES (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%)

COMPANY: SIEBERT FINANCIAL CORP (95%); MURIEL SIEBERT & CO INC (85%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%)

TICKER: SIEB (NASDAQ) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (95%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (95%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (95%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (95%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2013



760 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 962 words

HEADLINE: Full Time, Part Time, Good Jobs, Bad

BYLINE: NANCY FOLBRE


HIGHLIGHT: Shorter hours or part-time work can be preferable for those dealing with family care and household duties, but such jobs needn&#8217;t represent second-class work, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Nancy Folbre is professor emerita of economics at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst. 
The term "part-time jobs" is beginning to make Americans anxious. Many workers currently in such jobs would strongly prefer - and in many cases desperately need - more hours of employment to pay their bills. Policy makers worried about implementation of the Affordable Care Act point to features that could make part-time employment more attractive for both employers and workers.
The anxiety is somewhat misdirected. While full-time jobs generally pay better, offer more benefits, and promise more room for advancement than part-time jobs, the quality of a job is not necessarily determined by the average weekly hours put into it. 
Nor is it clear that the United States economy as a whole would suffer from an increase in the percentage of part-time jobs - as long as those who wanted more full-time employment were able to find it.
Today, as in the past, women are more likely than men to be employed for fewer than 35 hours a week - not because they prefer leisure to labor, but because they take considerably more responsibility than men for family care and household work. 
As more women have entered the paid labor force, they have reduced their hours of unpaid work, and men have taken on a larger share. But it remains difficult for many two-earner families responsible for young children or other dependents to put in a combined 80 or more hours of paid employment a week and sustain a meaningful family life.
Many women choose to work fewer than 40 hours a week not because they prefer leisure to labor, but because they make family care a priority over earned income. Some men now reduce their hours of paid employment or drop out of the labor force for the same reason.
Last month, about 8.3 million workers were in part-time jobs for "economic reasons" (primarily not being able to find full-time work) while 19.1 million offered "non-economic reasons" as an explanation (not a very accurate label, since it includes factors like a lack of affordable child care or of a partner willing to share care responsibility).
Both sets of workers might prefer different circumstances, and many women experience lower lifetime income as a result of their choices. But part-time employment itself is not the problem.
To drive this point home, consider the following question. What's the difference between an economy in which men all work about 40 hours a week for pay, relying on women to stay home and tend to family needs, and an economy in which most men and women work about 30 hours a week for pay, sharing responsibilities for family care?
The second economy enjoys more gender equality, more time for joint participation in family life, and more total hours of paid employment. Why should we view it as less desirable or less efficient than the first?
As Janet Gornick and Marcia Meyers explain their book "Families That Work," several European countries have implemented policies designed to improve part-time employment - and general flexibility in employment hours - as part of a larger policy effort to support family commitments.
The policy tools include requirements that part-time jobs be paid at the same hourly rate as comparable full-time jobs in the same establishment, with benefits pro-rated accordingly.
Many countries, including Germany, Britain and the Netherlands, also give full-time workers the right to request part-time work without changing jobs, occupations or employers. Such policies tend to reduce the pay penalty for part-time work.
In the United States, by contrast, the large supply of married women and single mothers seeking part-time employment has made it easy for employers to designate such jobs as low-pay, no-benefit positions.
Drawing sharp lines between primary workers who are employed full time and secondary workers who are employed part-time makes it easier to treat some workers as cheap disposables without undermining the morale of others.
In some sectors of the economy, like retail trade, employers favor part-time contracts because scheduling flexibility allows them to accommodate peak shopping times and keep sales workers "fresher" on the job. Variability and unpredictability in hours - which often goes along with short shifts - can neutralize any "family-friendly" advantage.
Yes, some part-time jobs are really bad jobs. But that description fits a growing share of full-time jobs as well. The National Employment Law Project points out that job losses in the Great Recession were concentrated in the mid-wage occupations, while most of the jobs added in its aftermath are in low-wage occupations.
The Affordable Care Act will make it possible for more low-wage workers to get the health insurance they and their families need. Under current rules, however, employers will not be required to cover workers employed less than 30 hours a week, who will be eligible for public subsidies.
The extent to which employers will respond to this incentive remains to be seen. But there's a simple way to address the problem. The United Food and Commercial Workers union is pushing for a Part-Time Worker Bill of Rights that would require employers to pro-rate health insurance benefits for workers employed less than 30 hours a week, and also extend other benefits like eligibility for unpaid family leave. Representative Jan Schakowsky, Democrat of Illinois, has introduced legislation to this effect in Congress.
The bill could improve the quality of part-time jobs. It could also increase the likelihood that people work part time by choice, rather than by necessity.

        
Working Parents, Wanting Fewer Hours
        
Yes, the Sequester Is Affecting the Job Market
        
Comparing the World's Glass Ceilings
        
The Rise of Part-Time Work
        
Who Works the Longest Days

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (90%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); WOMEN (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); FAMILY (89%); AVERAGE WORK WEEK (78%); WOMEN WORKERS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); GENDER EQUALITY (67%); CHILDREN (66%); CHILD CARE (64%) Labor and Jobs; Part-Time Employment; United States Economy; Women and Girls; Working Hours; Today's Economist

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2013



761 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 2000 words

HEADLINE: Morning Agenda: A Blockbuster Biotech Deal

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Amgen agrees to buy Onyx Pharmaceuticals for about $10.4 billion. | Muriel Siebert, the first woman to buy a seat on the New York Stock Exchange, has died at 80. | Inside New York&#8217;s investment houses, shoeshine service has proved remarkably resilient. | Pawnshops are looking to fill a void left by banks. 

 BODY:
Amgen, the world's biggest biotechnology company, is gaining access to three anticancer treatments with a deal on Sunday to buy Onyx Pharmaceuticals for about $10.4 billion in cash, Andrew Pollack and Michael J. de la Merced report in DealBook. Amgen is offering $125 a share in cash through a tender offer for Onyx's shares. The deal is expected to close at the beginning of the fourth quarter, subject to regulatory approval.
The takeover is the latest within the health care industry, one of the busiest sectors for deal makers. And Amgen's purchase ranks among the five biggest takeovers of a biotechnology company, according to data from Standard & Poor's Capital IQ. In addition, it is one of the two biggest takeovers in Amgen's history, trailing only the company's $17 billion deal for Immunex in 2002.
MURIEL SIEBERT, WALL STREET TRAILBLAZER, DIES AT 80 | Muriel Siebert, who was the first woman to buy a seat on the New York Stock Exchange and the first woman to lead one of the exchange's member firms, died on Saturday in Manhattan, The New York Times reports. She was 80. 
"Ms. Siebert, known to all as Mickie, cultivated the same brash attitude that characterized Wall Street's most successful men," Enid Nemy writes in The Times. "She bought her seat on the exchange in 1967, but to her immense anger, she remained the only woman admitted to membership for almost a decade." She was a pioneer in the discount brokerage field, and she also was the first woman to be superintendent of banking for New York State, appointed by Gov. Hugh Carey in 1977.
SHOESHINES KEEP WALL ST. IN THE BLACK | Inside New York's investment houses, a vestige of old Wall Street lives on. Gone are the days when offices were filled with smoke and secretaries were the only women in sight. But in-house shoeshine service has proved remarkably resilient, surviving the rise of technology and even the turmoil of the 2008 financial crisis, which snuffed out many of Wall Street's quirks.
But the modern shoeshine business has changed since the old days, reflecting the evolution of Wall Street firms from private partnerships to large, public corporations. At JPMorgan Chase, Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley, teams of workers now collect shoes and take them elsewhere to be shined, leaving traders to work in stocking feet. Though many bank employees appreciate the efficiency of that updated method - harried traders sometimes claim they do not even have time to use the restroom - some longtime employees see it as an affront.
"They've turned it into a sterile thing," said James J. Dunne III, the senior managing principal of the investment bank Sandler O'Neill & Partners. "That's where Wall Street has gotten more like a department store."
One shoeshine parlor in Manhattan, Eddie's Shoe Repair, aims to capitalize on this shift by offering a classic experience that has become increasingly rare inside banks. A DealBook reporter goes to Eddie's to experience a Wall Street-style shoeshine firsthand.
ON THE AGENDA | Data on durable goods orders for July is out at 8:30 a.m. The Burning Man festival kicks off in the Black Rock Desert in Nevada, an event that historically has attracted a Silicon Valley crowd. Jeffrey Gundlach, chief executive of DoubleLine Capital, is on CNBC at 12 p.m.
BANKING SERVICES FROM A PAWNSHOP | "As banks zero in on more affluent customers who promise twice the revenue of their lower-income counterparts, close branches in poor areas and remain stingy with credit, pawnshops are revamping their image and stepping into the void to offer financial services," Stephanie Clifford and Jessica Silver-Greenberg report in DealBook.
"There are, however, plenty of potential drawbacks, consumer advocates say. Some loans from pawnshops can come with interest rates as high as 25 percent. And fringe financial operations, the consumer advocates say, can imperil lower-income customers' ability to save for the future. Without a traditional checking or savings account, borrowers often pay more for basic financial transactions like cashing checks, paying bills and wiring money, financial counselors say."
 | Contact: @williamalden | E-mail
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions »
Telefonica's Bid for KPN Unit Gains Support of Major Shareholder | Telefónica, the Spanish telecommunications giant, increased its offer for E-Plus, the German unit of KPN, on Monday, securing the support of América Móvil, KPN's biggest shareholder. REUTERS
Indian Firm to Pay $2.6 Billion to Build Its Stake in African Gas Project | ONGC Videsh, a unit of the India's state-run Oil and Natural Gas Corporation, says it will acquire a 10 percent stake in a natural gas project in Mozambique from Anadarko Petroleum in an all-cash deal. DealBook »
Pritzker Organization Said to Be Buying TMS | An investment firm run by Thomas Pritzker is buying TMS International, a provider of services to steel mills, for about $1 billion, including debt, The Wall Street Journal reports, citing unidentified people familiar with the matter. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Market Operators BATS and Direct Edge Are Said to Be in Merger Talks | BATS Global Markets and Direct Edge are in talks to merge, potentially creating one of the biggest stock market operators in the country, a person briefed on the matter told DealBook on Friday. DealBook »
Constant Acquisition at Microsoft, and One Deal That Didn't Close | Steven A. Ballmer, as the chief of Microsoft, led one of the most prolific deal-making streaks in technology over the past two decades. But his record is as notable for its misses as its hits. DealBook »
With Ballmer's Exit, a Chance for Reinvention at Microsoft | The departure of Steven A. Ballmer as chief executive of Microsoft, announced on Friday, is "paving the way for a generational change at the once-dominant technology company and giving it an opportunity to reinvent itself for a world dominated by mobile devices, social media and other technologies that have eluded its influence," Nick Wingfield writes in The New York Times. NEW YORK TIMES
Microsoft Needs a Catch-Up Artist | "Being the next chief executive of Microsoft isn't going to be an easy task for anyone," Michael A. Cusumano, a professor at the Sloan School of Management at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, told The New York Times. NEW YORK TIMES
Next Microsoft Chief Should Pare the Menu | Whoever becomes the next chief executive of Microsoft should narrow the company's focus, Robert Cyran of Reuters Breakingviews writes. REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS
INVESTMENT BANKING »
Goldman Said to Put Employees on Leave After Glitch | The Financial Times reports: "Goldman Sachs has put four senior technology specialists on leave after an embarrassing trading glitch that is likely to cost the bank tens of millions of dollars." FINANCIAL TIMES
How to Make the Financial System Safer | "We will never have a safe and healthy global financial system until banks are forced to rely much more on money from their owners and shareholders to finance their loans and investments," Anat R. Admati, a professor of finance and economics at the Stanford Graduate School of Business, writes in an opinion essay in The New York Times. NEW YORK TIMES
Financial Shenanigans on the Big Screen | Leonardo DiCaprio, who portrays Jordan Belfort in the upcoming movie "The Wolf of Wall Street" (directed by Martin Scorsese), tells New York magazine that the memoir on which the film is based "personified America's addiction to obtaining wealth at all costs, and that hasn't changed." NEW YORK
Bank of America to Review Intern Working Conditions | Bank of America announced on Friday that it was reviewing the working conditions of its junior employees after a 21-year-old intern died recently in London. DealBook »
Wall Street Turns Out to Support the Apollo Theater | "Of all the boards I've been on, I'd say this is the one I'm doing for fun. I grew up on soul music, and I got sucked in by Dick Parsons," the hedge fund manager Paul Tudor Jones said, referring to Richard D. Parsons, a former chairman of Citigroup. BLOOMBERG NEWS
French Bank Said to Plan Islamic Bond Program in Malaysia | Société Générale would become the second major European bank to issue Islamic bonds, known as sukuk, and the first to do so in Asia, according to Reuters. REUTERS
PRIVATE EQUITY »
ING to Sell South Korean Insurance Unit for $1.7 Billion | The deal is the latest in a string of divestments in Asia for the ING Group, which is trying to raise money to repay a 2008 bailout by the Dutch government. DealBook »
Clayton Dubilier Said to Raise $3 Billion for Latest Fund | 
BLOOMBERG NEWS
HEDGE FUNDS »
U.S. Short-Seller Takes Aim at Chinese Vegetable Producer | The Glaucus Research Group has accused the China Minzhong Food Corporation of fabricating sales and doctoring financial statements, leading to a 48 percent fall in Minzhong's stock before trading was suspended on Monday. DealBook »
Hedge Funds Win Ruling in Argentina Bond Case | A group of hedge funds secured a victory in a federal appeals court in a case that could affect international bond markets, parts of the banking system and the nation of Argentina. DealBook »
I.P.O./OFFERINGS »
Goldman Plays Two Roles in a Planned I.P.O. | Goldman Sachs, one of the lead underwriters of the planned initial public offering of FireEye, has also made a $10 million loan to the company's founder that is secured by his stake in the company, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
A Lack of Technology I.P.O.'s | "There have been just 22 tech and Internet listings this year, raising $3.2 billion, the slowest annual pace in four years," The Wall Street Journal writes. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Dutch Bank ABN Amro Takes Step Toward an I.P.O. | The announcement comes five years after the Dutch government bailed out ABN Amro after a consortium of European banks acquired the firm for around 72.2 billion euros, or $99 billion. DealBook »
VENTURE CAPITAL »
Computer Security Company HyTrust Raises $18.5 Million | HyTrust, which provides security products for cloud computing, announced on Monday that it had raised $18.5 million in financing from investors including Intel Capital and Fortinet. NEWS RELEASE
A Prospective Buyer Tries to Justify a Tesla | "It's not yet practical as an only car," Adam Jonas, a managing director and the leader of Morgan Stanley's global auto research team, told James B. Stewart, a columnist for The New York Times. "You have to treat it as a toy and be completely cool if it doesn't work. But there's still tremendous potential." NEW YORK TIMES
LEGAL/REGULATORY »
After Mishaps, Nasdaq Loses Standing to Rivals | The reputation of the market operator has suffered from recent technical problems and poor communication with other members of the industry. DealBook »
Nasdaq Chief Defends Handling of Trading Halt | As the Nasdaq opened without a hitch on Friday, Robert Greifeld said the market operator needed to work on its "defensive driving" to deal better with mistakes by others. DealBook »
JPMorgan Said to Limit Business With Foreign Banks | JPMorgan Chase "is looking to scale back its dealings with banks outside the U.S., according to a memo and people close to the situation, as it tries to reduce risk and shore up controls in a period of heightened regulatory scrutiny," The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Obama Says Law School Should Be Two Years, Not Three | President Obama urged law schools to consider cutting a year of classroom instruction, wading into a hotly debated issue inside the beleaguered legal academy. DEALBOOK
Trump University Made False Claims, Lawsuit Says | The New York State attorney general's office filed a civil lawsuit on Saturday accusing Trump University, Donald J. Trump's for-profit investment school, of engaging in illegal business practices. DealBook »
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); WOMEN (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TENDER OFFERS (77%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (72%); APPROVALS (71%); INVESTMENT BANKING (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (64%); HEALTH CARE (56%); DISCOUNT BROKERS (50%) Morning Agenda

COMPANY: AMGEN INC (92%); SIEBERT FINANCIAL CORP (84%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (82%); SANDLER O'NEILL + PARTNERS LP (60%); ONYX PHARMACEUTICALS INC (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); MORGAN STANLEY (54%)

TICKER: AMGN (NASDAQ) (92%); SIEB (NASDAQ) (84%); JPM (NYSE) (82%); JPM (LSE) (82%); 8634 (TSE) (82%); ONXX (NASDAQ) (58%); GS (NYSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (82%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (82%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (82%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2013



762 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 2000 words

HEADLINE: Morning Agenda: A Blockbuster Biotech Deal

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Amgen agrees to buy Onyx Pharmaceuticals for about $10.4 billion. | Muriel Siebert, the first woman to buy a seat on the New York Stock Exchange, has died at 80. | Inside New York&#8217;s investment houses, shoeshine service has proved remarkably resilient. | Pawnshops are looking to fill a void left by banks. 

 BODY:
Amgen, the world's biggest biotechnology company, is gaining access to three anticancer treatments with a deal on Sunday to buy Onyx Pharmaceuticals for about $10.4 billion in cash, Andrew Pollack and Michael J. de la Merced report in DealBook. Amgen is offering $125 a share in cash through a tender offer for Onyx's shares. The deal is expected to close at the beginning of the fourth quarter, subject to regulatory approval.
The takeover is the latest within the health care industry, one of the busiest sectors for deal makers. And Amgen's purchase ranks among the five biggest takeovers of a biotechnology company, according to data from Standard & Poor's Capital IQ. In addition, it is one of the two biggest takeovers in Amgen's history, trailing only the company's $17 billion deal for Immunex in 2002.
MURIEL SIEBERT, WALL STREET TRAILBLAZER, DIES AT 80 | Muriel Siebert, who was the first woman to buy a seat on the New York Stock Exchange and the first woman to lead one of the exchange's member firms, died on Saturday in Manhattan, The New York Times reports. She was 80. 
"Ms. Siebert, known to all as Mickie, cultivated the same brash attitude that characterized Wall Street's most successful men," Enid Nemy writes in The Times. "She bought her seat on the exchange in 1967, but to her immense anger, she remained the only woman admitted to membership for almost a decade." She was a pioneer in the discount brokerage field, and she also was the first woman to be superintendent of banking for New York State, appointed by Gov. Hugh Carey in 1977.
SHOESHINES KEEP WALL ST. IN THE BLACK | Inside New York's investment houses, a vestige of old Wall Street lives on. Gone are the days when offices were filled with smoke and secretaries were the only women in sight. But in-house shoeshine service has proved remarkably resilient, surviving the rise of technology and even the turmoil of the 2008 financial crisis, which snuffed out many of Wall Street's quirks.
But the modern shoeshine business has changed since the old days, reflecting the evolution of Wall Street firms from private partnerships to large, public corporations. At JPMorgan Chase, Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley, teams of workers now collect shoes and take them elsewhere to be shined, leaving traders to work in stocking feet. Though many bank employees appreciate the efficiency of that updated method - harried traders sometimes claim they do not even have time to use the restroom - some longtime employees see it as an affront.
"They've turned it into a sterile thing," said James J. Dunne III, the senior managing principal of the investment bank Sandler O'Neill & Partners. "That's where Wall Street has gotten more like a department store."
One shoeshine parlor in Manhattan, Eddie's Shoe Repair, aims to capitalize on this shift by offering a classic experience that has become increasingly rare inside banks. A DealBook reporter goes to Eddie's to experience a Wall Street-style shoeshine firsthand.
ON THE AGENDA | Data on durable goods orders for July is out at 8:30 a.m. The Burning Man festival kicks off in the Black Rock Desert in Nevada, an event that historically has attracted a Silicon Valley crowd. Jeffrey Gundlach, chief executive of DoubleLine Capital, is on CNBC at 12 p.m.
BANKING SERVICES FROM A PAWNSHOP | "As banks zero in on more affluent customers who promise twice the revenue of their lower-income counterparts, close branches in poor areas and remain stingy with credit, pawnshops are revamping their image and stepping into the void to offer financial services," Stephanie Clifford and Jessica Silver-Greenberg report in DealBook.
"There are, however, plenty of potential drawbacks, consumer advocates say. Some loans from pawnshops can come with interest rates as high as 25 percent. And fringe financial operations, the consumer advocates say, can imperil lower-income customers' ability to save for the future. Without a traditional checking or savings account, borrowers often pay more for basic financial transactions like cashing checks, paying bills and wiring money, financial counselors say."
 | Contact: @williamalden | E-mail
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions »
Telefonica's Bid for KPN Unit Gains Support of Major Shareholder | Telefónica, the Spanish telecommunications giant, increased its offer for E-Plus, the German unit of KPN, on Monday, securing the support of América Móvil, KPN's biggest shareholder. REUTERS
Indian Firm to Pay $2.6 Billion to Build Its Stake in African Gas Project | ONGC Videsh, a unit of the India's state-run Oil and Natural Gas Corporation, says it will acquire a 10 percent stake in a natural gas project in Mozambique from Anadarko Petroleum in an all-cash deal. DealBook »
Pritzker Organization Said to Be Buying TMS | An investment firm run by Thomas Pritzker is buying TMS International, a provider of services to steel mills, for about $1 billion, including debt, The Wall Street Journal reports, citing unidentified people familiar with the matter. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Market Operators BATS and Direct Edge Are Said to Be in Merger Talks | BATS Global Markets and Direct Edge are in talks to merge, potentially creating one of the biggest stock market operators in the country, a person briefed on the matter told DealBook on Friday. DealBook »
Constant Acquisition at Microsoft, and One Deal That Didn't Close | Steven A. Ballmer, as the chief of Microsoft, led one of the most prolific deal-making streaks in technology over the past two decades. But his record is as notable for its misses as its hits. DealBook »
With Ballmer's Exit, a Chance for Reinvention at Microsoft | The departure of Steven A. Ballmer as chief executive of Microsoft, announced on Friday, is "paving the way for a generational change at the once-dominant technology company and giving it an opportunity to reinvent itself for a world dominated by mobile devices, social media and other technologies that have eluded its influence," Nick Wingfield writes in The New York Times. NEW YORK TIMES
Microsoft Needs a Catch-Up Artist | "Being the next chief executive of Microsoft isn't going to be an easy task for anyone," Michael A. Cusumano, a professor at the Sloan School of Management at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, told The New York Times. NEW YORK TIMES
Next Microsoft Chief Should Pare the Menu | Whoever becomes the next chief executive of Microsoft should narrow the company's focus, Robert Cyran of Reuters Breakingviews writes. REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS
INVESTMENT BANKING »
Goldman Said to Put Employees on Leave After Glitch | The Financial Times reports: "Goldman Sachs has put four senior technology specialists on leave after an embarrassing trading glitch that is likely to cost the bank tens of millions of dollars." FINANCIAL TIMES
How to Make the Financial System Safer | "We will never have a safe and healthy global financial system until banks are forced to rely much more on money from their owners and shareholders to finance their loans and investments," Anat R. Admati, a professor of finance and economics at the Stanford Graduate School of Business, writes in an opinion essay in The New York Times. NEW YORK TIMES
Financial Shenanigans on the Big Screen | Leonardo DiCaprio, who portrays Jordan Belfort in the upcoming movie "The Wolf of Wall Street" (directed by Martin Scorsese), tells New York magazine that the memoir on which the film is based "personified America's addiction to obtaining wealth at all costs, and that hasn't changed." NEW YORK
Bank of America to Review Intern Working Conditions | Bank of America announced on Friday that it was reviewing the working conditions of its junior employees after a 21-year-old intern died recently in London. DealBook »
Wall Street Turns Out to Support the Apollo Theater | "Of all the boards I've been on, I'd say this is the one I'm doing for fun. I grew up on soul music, and I got sucked in by Dick Parsons," the hedge fund manager Paul Tudor Jones said, referring to Richard D. Parsons, a former chairman of Citigroup. BLOOMBERG NEWS
French Bank Said to Plan Islamic Bond Program in Malaysia | Société Générale would become the second major European bank to issue Islamic bonds, known as sukuk, and the first to do so in Asia, according to Reuters. REUTERS
PRIVATE EQUITY »
ING to Sell South Korean Insurance Unit for $1.7 Billion | The deal is the latest in a string of divestments in Asia for the ING Group, which is trying to raise money to repay a 2008 bailout by the Dutch government. DealBook »
Clayton Dubilier Said to Raise $3 Billion for Latest Fund | 
BLOOMBERG NEWS
HEDGE FUNDS »
U.S. Short-Seller Takes Aim at Chinese Vegetable Producer | The Glaucus Research Group has accused the China Minzhong Food Corporation of fabricating sales and doctoring financial statements, leading to a 48 percent fall in Minzhong's stock before trading was suspended on Monday. DealBook »
Hedge Funds Win Ruling in Argentina Bond Case | A group of hedge funds secured a victory in a federal appeals court in a case that could affect international bond markets, parts of the banking system and the nation of Argentina. DealBook »
I.P.O./OFFERINGS »
Goldman Plays Two Roles in a Planned I.P.O. | Goldman Sachs, one of the lead underwriters of the planned initial public offering of FireEye, has also made a $10 million loan to the company's founder that is secured by his stake in the company, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
A Lack of Technology I.P.O.'s | "There have been just 22 tech and Internet listings this year, raising $3.2 billion, the slowest annual pace in four years," The Wall Street Journal writes. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Dutch Bank ABN Amro Takes Step Toward an I.P.O. | The announcement comes five years after the Dutch government bailed out ABN Amro after a consortium of European banks acquired the firm for around 72.2 billion euros, or $99 billion. DealBook »
VENTURE CAPITAL »
Computer Security Company HyTrust Raises $18.5 Million | HyTrust, which provides security products for cloud computing, announced on Monday that it had raised $18.5 million in financing from investors including Intel Capital and Fortinet. NEWS RELEASE
A Prospective Buyer Tries to Justify a Tesla | "It's not yet practical as an only car," Adam Jonas, a managing director and the leader of Morgan Stanley's global auto research team, told James B. Stewart, a columnist for The New York Times. "You have to treat it as a toy and be completely cool if it doesn't work. But there's still tremendous potential." NEW YORK TIMES
LEGAL/REGULATORY »
After Mishaps, Nasdaq Loses Standing to Rivals | The reputation of the market operator has suffered from recent technical problems and poor communication with other members of the industry. DealBook »
Nasdaq Chief Defends Handling of Trading Halt | As the Nasdaq opened without a hitch on Friday, Robert Greifeld said the market operator needed to work on its "defensive driving" to deal better with mistakes by others. DealBook »
JPMorgan Said to Limit Business With Foreign Banks | JPMorgan Chase "is looking to scale back its dealings with banks outside the U.S., according to a memo and people close to the situation, as it tries to reduce risk and shore up controls in a period of heightened regulatory scrutiny," The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Obama Says Law School Should Be Two Years, Not Three | President Obama urged law schools to consider cutting a year of classroom instruction, wading into a hotly debated issue inside the beleaguered legal academy. DEALBOOK
Trump University Made False Claims, Lawsuit Says | The New York State attorney general's office filed a civil lawsuit on Saturday accusing Trump University, Donald J. Trump's for-profit investment school, of engaging in illegal business practices. DealBook »
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); WOMEN (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TENDER OFFERS (77%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (72%); APPROVALS (71%); INVESTMENT BANKING (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (64%); HEALTH CARE (56%); DISCOUNT BROKERS (50%) Morning Agenda

COMPANY: AMGEN INC (92%); SIEBERT FINANCIAL CORP (84%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (82%); SANDLER O'NEILL + PARTNERS LP (60%); ONYX PHARMACEUTICALS INC (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); MORGAN STANLEY (54%)

TICKER: AMGN (NASDAQ) (92%); SIEB (NASDAQ) (84%); JPM (NYSE) (82%); JPM (LSE) (82%); 8634 (TSE) (82%); ONXX (NASDAQ) (58%); GS (NYSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (82%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (82%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (82%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2013



763 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1036 words

HEADLINE: Justice Dept. Again Signals Interest to Pursue Financial Crisis Cases

BYLINE: PETER J. HENNING


HIGHLIGHT: The United States attorney general is likely to pursue charges under a civil statute that has become the Justice Department&#8217;s favorite tool of late. It remains to be seen whether the public will be satisfied with such action, the author writes. 

 BODY:
Patience is a virtue, and waiting for cases from the financial crisis has certainly called for such a temperament. In a recent interview, Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. indicated that the wait might be over, but it is unlikely to satisfy those who have found the Justice Department's response to be tepid at best.
"My message is, anybody who's inflicted damage on our financial markets should not be of the belief that they are out of the woods because of the passage of time," Mr. Holder said in an interview with The Wall Street Journal last week. "If any individual or if any institution is banking on waiting things out, they have to think again." 
The attorney general has hinted at future cases before. Over three years ago, in January 2010, he told the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission that 
the Justice Department is using every tool at our disposal - including new resources, advanced technologies and communications capabilities, and the very best talent we have - to prevent, prosecute and punish these crimes. And by taking dramatic action, our goal is not just to hold accountable those whose conduct may have contributed to the last meltdown, but to deter such future conduct as well.
It is certainly questionable whether there has been any "dramatic action" involving the financial crisis, at least on the criminal front. The government already had to significantly revise downward the number of cases that it had boasted of bringing in 2012 related to distressed homeowners - the very type of inflating of numbers that it has accused others of doing.
The latest talk about impending cases does not appear to involve criminal charges. In his recent interview, Mr. Holder chose his words carefully and did not talk of prosecutions, instead only saying that "significant matters" would be brought.
The hesitancy over criminal actions, however, does not seem to be influenced by the statute of limitations. Mail and wire fraud statutes can incorporate older conduct into a broader scheme, and securities fraud can be prosecuted up to six years after the last act. 
But pursuing criminal cases from the financial crisis gets increasingly difficult, especially against individuals, because unlike a good bottle of wine, evidence does not age well. Memories dim and the chance of finding the "smoking gun" e-mail or recording that can help implicate a defendant in a fraudulent scheme becomes less likely with the passage of time.
Mr. Holder will more likely pursue charges under a civil statute that has become the Justice Department's favorite tool of late against banks: 12 U.S.C. 1833a. The statute provides for civil penalties for violations "affecting a financial institution" of up to $5.5 million or the amount the defendant gained from the misconduct.
Congress enacted this provision in 1989 during the savings and loan crisis as part of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act to give prosecutors another tool to pursue cases involving fraud and other misconduct at banks.
The law is a hybrid: it requires prosecutors to establish that criminal conduct occurred while using the lower civil burden of proof to establish the violation. That makes it easier for the Justice Department to make its case and can even allow a court to make a favorable ruling based solely on written evidence without a trial.
Section 1833a contains other favorable measures for the government. The law extended the statute of limitations for a host of banking crimes to 10 years from the usual 5-year period, so the Justice Department faces little time pressure in pursuing cases involving the mortgage market during the lead up to the financial crisis.
The statute only requires that the violation affect a financial institution, a term that has been broadly construed in recent district court decisions. Last week, Judge Jed S. Rakoff of Federal District Court in Manhattan rejected a challenge by Bank of America to a lawsuit involving the sale of faulty mortgages by its Countrywide Financial subsidiary. He found that the financial institution affected by the fraud could be Bank of America itself, so that even a self-inflicted wound could be the basis for pursuing a civil penalty action.
The range of potential violations is quite broad in the statute, covering more than just frauds. In a lawsuit filed on Aug. 6 against Bank of America related to its sale of $850 million worth of mortgage-backed securities, prosecutors charged that the bank made false statements in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1014 by not disclosing that the loans packaged for sale had not been properly evaluated. This is a much easier case because it does not require proving intent to defraud, only that the bank knew it had not made complete disclosure of material information.
Whether the public will view cases brought under Section 1833a as significant is a different issue. Unlike a criminal prosecution, civil filings - many of which are ultimately settled - result only in the payment of money, giving the impression that the punishment is just another cost of doing business.
And at some point you wonder whether more lawsuits against Bank of America, JPMorgan Chase (which has disclosed that its own mortgage-backed securities offerings are being scrutinized by the Justice Department) and other big banks are particularly meaningful. When cases are filed for discrete acts, it is hard to see how they have much effect on the banks beyond making another payment or the public perception that misconduct is being successfully redressed.
The Justice Department has already filed a number of lawsuits under the 1989 act, and if past practice continues, then it is unlikely any individuals will be named in the cases Mr. Holder said will be filed. Unlike a claim against a corporation in which the conduct of a range of employees can be aggregated to show a violation, proving an individual committed a crime is much more difficult.
So the question is whether a stream of civil actions naming various banks for their role in the financial crisis will be the type of "dramatic action" that deters future misconduct.

        
After Financial Crisis, Prosecutors Navigate Tricky Waters
        
A How-To Guide for Banks Facing Libor Settlements

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (94%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (93%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (92%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); BANK FAILURES (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (87%); WRITERS (79%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); MISCONDUCT (75%); SAVINGS & LOANS (74%); FINES & PENALTIES (72%); WIRE FRAUD (72%); MAIL FRAUD (61%) Banking and Financial Institutions; Fines (Penalties); Frauds and Swindling; Holder, Eric H Jr; Justice Department; Mortgages; Securities and Commodities Violations; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory; White Collar Watch

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Justice Department

PERSON: ERIC HOLDER (90%) Holder, Eric H Jr

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2013



764 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2013

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 844 words

HEADLINE: How Surveillance Changes Behavior: A Restaurant Workers Case Study

BYLINE: STEVE LOHR


HIGHLIGHT: How does surveillance affect behavior? A new study of employee monitoring software in restaurants suggests that when employees know their actions are being watched, it can significantly alter behavior &#8212; and increase sales. 

 BODY:
Surveillance is certainly much in the news lately. Most notably, of course, there is the continuing outcry over the National Security Agency's call-tracking program, disclosed in the documents leaked by Edward Snowden.
But surveillance even surfaced as a subject in last week's televised debate among the Democratic candidates for mayor in New York. The office seekers were asked whether New York City should have more surveillance cameras. Six of the seven, card-carrying liberals all, replied without hesitation, yes. (Only Anthony Weiner said no.)
Most of the public discussion of surveillance technology and its use revolves around the question: Is it spooky or reassuring? 
But another issue is the effect of surveillance on behavior. And a new research paper, published on Saturday, shows in detail how significant the surveillance effect can be. 
The paper, "Cleaning House: The Impact of Information Technology Monitoring on Employee Theft and Productivity," is the work of three academics: Lamar Pierce, an associate professor at the Olin Business School at Washington University in St. Louis; Daniel Snow, an associate professor at the Marriott School at Brigham Young University; and Andrew McAfee, a research scientist at the Sloan School of Management at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
The researchers measured the impact of software that monitors employee-level theft and sales transactions, before and after the technology was installed, at 392 restaurants in 39 states. The restaurants were in five "casual dining" chains. The paper does not name the five, but it cites examples of the casual dining category including Applebee's, Chili's and Olive Garden.
Employee theft and fraud is a big problem, estimated at up to $200 billion a year across the economy. In the restaurant industry, analysts estimate the losses from employee theft at 1 percent of revenue. That does not seem like a lot, but restaurant profit margins are slender, typically 2 to 5 percent. So cutting down on theft can be an important contributor to a restaurant's financial health.
Most of the restaurant industry pays its servers low wages and they depend on tips. Employee turnover is high. In that environment, a certain amount of theft has long been regarded as a normal part of the business.
Unethical behavior runs the gamut. There is even a how-to book on the subject, published in 2004, "How To Burn Down the House: The Infamous Waiter and Bartender's Scam Bible by Two Bourbon Street Waiters." A simple example is a bartender's not charging for a round of drinks, and urging the customers to "take care of me" - with a large tip. Other tactics are more elaborate.
But monitoring software is now available to track all transactions and detect suspicious patterns. In the new study, the tracking software was NCR's Restaurant Guard product, and NCR provided the data. The software is intentionally set so that a restaurant manager gets only an electronic theft alert in cases that seem to clearly be misconduct. Otherwise, a manager might be mired in time-consuming detective work instead of running the restaurant.
The savings from the theft alerts themselves were modest, $108 a week per restaurant. However, after installing the monitoring software, the revenue per restaurant increased by an average of $2,982 a week, or about 7 percent. 
The impact, the researchers say, came not from firing workers engaged in theft, but mostly from their changed behavior. Knowing they were being monitored, the servers not only pulled back on any unethical practices, but also channeled their efforts into, say, prompting customers to have that dessert or a second beer, raising revenue for the restaurant and tips for themselves.
"The same people who are stealing from you can be set up to succeed," said Mr. Pierce of Washington University.
In the research, the data sets were sizable. For example, there were more than 630,000 transactions by servers tracked and collected each week over the course of the project.
But more significant, the researchers say, is what the data analysis might contribute to fields of study like social psychology and behavioral economics - and the business discipline of human resources management.
In human resources, much emphasis is placed on employee selection: if you pick the right people, they will do the right thing. Instead, this research suggests that the surveillance effect on employee behavior is striking.
"What's surprising is the weird effectiveness of the intervention, once the monitoring technology is in place," said Mr. McAfee of M.I.T.
Not surprisingly, NCR is delighted by the results. "It validates the customer data we've seen," said Jeff Hindman, a vice president at NCR. "But this is done by outside experts with the academic standards and statistical rigor they bring to the analysis."

        
Daily Report: 'Digital Inequality' Holds Back Millions in U.S.
        
Daily Report: Amazon Runs Up Against Germany's Labor Culture
        
OpenTable Begins Testing Mobile Payments
        
A New Role for Amazon: An Engine for Jobs
        
The Money Side of Driverless Cars

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); CASE STUDIES (90%); SPYWARE (90%); EMPLOYEE PRIVACY (90%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (90%); LARCENY & THEFT (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (88%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (87%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (87%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (86%); CASUAL DINING RESTAURANTS (86%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (86%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (79%); NATIONAL SECURITY (79%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (79%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (77%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (75%); PRODUCTIVITY (74%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (74%); ETHICS (74%); EMPLOYEE TURNOVER & RETENTION (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); SCIENCE NEWS (72%); MAYORS (71%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (70%); COMPANY PROFITS (70%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (63%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (57%) Labor and Jobs; NCR Corporation; Restaurants; Robberies and Thefts; Waiters and Waitresses; Data

ORGANIZATION: NCR Corporation

PERSON: EDWARD SNOWDEN (73%); ANTHONY D WEINER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (75%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2013



765 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1205 words

HEADLINE: Wage Stagnation and Market Outcomes

BYLINE: JARED BERNSTEIN


HIGHLIGHT: With a persistent lag in income growth for most Americans, the government should not only provide relief through tax policy and a safety net, but also do more to promote full employment, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Jared Bernstein is a senior fellow at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities in Washington and a former chief economist to Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. 
A new paper from the Economic Policy Institute provides both diagnosis and prescription of what is arguably the fundamental problem of the United States economy in recent years: wage stagnation. I'll briefly describe the findings, but given that these trends have persisted for a long time, it's more important to think about solutions, particularly ones that go beyond conventional wisdom.
From the report:
Between 2002 and 2012, wages were stagnant or declined for the entire bottom 70 percent of the wage distribution. In other words, the vast majority of wage earners have already experienced a lost decade, one where real wages were either flat or in decline. 
This lost decade for wages comes on the heels of decades of inadequate wage growth. For virtually the entire period since 1979 (with the one exception being the strong wage growth of the late 1990s), wage growth for most workers has been weak. The median worker saw an increase of just 5 percent between 1979 and 2012, despite productivity growth of 74.5 percent - while the 20th percentile worker saw wage erosion of 0.4 percent and the 80th percentile worker saw wage growth of just 17.5 percent.
As the chart below shows, it's not only real wages that have lagged far behind productivity (or barely outpaced inflation), it's average compensation (wages plus benefits) as well. The chart shows indexes of two related compensation measures plotted against productivity growth. After growing a bit in the early 2000s, they're both about where they were 10 years ago.
The arithmetic of national income accounting is such that when average compensation lags behind productivity growth, as has been the norm in recent years, income is redistributed from paychecks to profits. That's a characteristic of growing inequality and flows quite simply from the observation that the economy's growth has to be going somewhere. If it's not flowing much to wages and benefits, it must be flowing to profits (this is the point of another new report from the institute). 
Why is this happening?
Economists typically cite globalization and technological change, both of which increase the earnings prospects of skilled workers relative to the less skilled. But that's far from the whole story. The E.P.I. report shows that the real wages of college-educated workers have been flat over the last decade as well, though workers with advanced degrees have done better.
Also, the college wage premium - the wage advantage held by college-educated workers over the less educated - grew much more slowly over the last decade compared to the prior 20 years, posing a challenge to the notion that skills can either explain or solve wage stagnation. To be clear, there is little question that more educated workers are likelier to capture some of the economy's growth than those with lesser skills or training. But the wage data show that upgrading skills alone is an incomplete solution.
In fact, we need to think about solutions to this problem is a new way. To explain, let me introduce some terminology. The primary distribution is the income, wage and wealth status of households generated by market outcomes, before taxes and all kinds of other policies kick in to help those on the short end of those outcomes (i.e., transfer policies, like food stamps or unemployment insurance). The secondary distribution is the income distribution after taxes and transfers.
Of course, policy plays a role in market outcomes. The primary distribution is not some pristine, meritocratic outcome devoid of political or policy influence. Trade policy, for example, creates winners and losers; the tax system itself, by favoring investment income over wage income, tilts market outcomes.
Still, the distinction is important. Consider this: when it comes to economic policy, the difference in recent years between Democrats and Republicans, or most liberals versus conservatives, is that the former are willing to alter the secondary distribution through more progressive taxes and transfers. The latter are content to leave market outcomes alone.
But neither wants to alter the primary distribution.
This poses a serious problem. To accept market outcomes as given, and then try to offset the structural imbalances embedded therein through tax and transfer policy alone, is a fundamentally limited strategy. As those outcomes become increasingly unequal, as has been the case over the last three decades, such a strategy implies yearly increases in redistribution through the tax code and transfer system, something our political system will not support even once we return to functional politics. The uniquely influential role of money in American politics limits this strategy even further.
To punt on the primary distribution as a target of economic policy is to give up the match, to cede the field to those in the top few percent for whom the current structure of economic incentives and rewards is working just fine, thank you.
Conversely, to take aim at the primary distribution right now would start from the premise that left to its own devices, the market will most likely create jobs of quantity and quality inadequate to lift the living standards of many middle- and lower-income families. And I'm not just thinking of the unemployed and underemployed here. A key factor behind the E.P.I. wage findings is the absence of full employment: the benefits of growth flow away from those with the least bargaining power. Slack labor markets rob working families of a reliable source of more equitable distribution (this observation is particularly germane in our largely deunionized workplaces).
Which policies would promote full employment? In the near term, there would be more fiscal stimulus (instead of the fiscal drag we're getting), and the Federal Reserve would not be planning to unwind its monetary stimulus too soon. But in terms of aiming at the primary distribution, we need to be willing to think of the government as the employer of last resort, ready to step up direct hiring or subsidized employment programs in slack times.
Much the way the Fed becomes the lender of last resort when credit markets freeze, there is a role for the government to become the employer of last resort when the market persistently fails to create enough jobs.
I'll have a lot more to say about this and similarly bold interventions in weeks to come, but the broader point is this: it is, of course, essential to preserve and protect the safety net and other measures that help offset the inequities of the primary distribution, but it is not enough. In fact, if, in times of rising inequality, we abandon the primary distribution as a target of economic policy, we place far too much stress on our safety net programs.
Progressive economic policy must aim to improve the primary distribution, and the pursuit of full employment labor markets is a great place to start.

        
Japan's Women to the Rescue
        
Snapshots of Upwardly Mobile Areas
        
Hidden Costs of the Minimum Wage
        
College Premium: Better Pay, Better Prospects
        
Are Immigrants Taking Your Job? A Primer

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); PRODUCTIVITY (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (79%); INFLATION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (76%); TRENDS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); FACTORY WORKERS (75%) Economic Policy Institute; Labor and Jobs; Productivity; Wages and Salaries; Today's Economist

ORGANIZATION: Economic Policy Institute

PERSON: JARED BERNSTEIN (74%); JOE BIDEN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2013



766 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Ross Douthat)

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1266 words

HEADLINE: What Joseph Bottum Wants

BYLINE: ROSS DOUTHAT


HIGHLIGHT: On the conservative Catholic&#8217;s case for same-sex marriage. 

 BODY:
Joseph Bottum's essay in Commonweal making what's advertised (and what the Times has covered) as "a conservative Catholic's case for same-sex marriage" is so deliberately discursive - to the point of obscuring, at times, exactly what kind of argument the former First Things editor is making - that it's hard to know exactly where a response would best begin. But I thought I would pluck out the following passage, which is an aside in the essay but a suggestive one, I think, in terms of understanding both Bottum's personal motivations in writing this piece and some of the larger issues in play as well. He's writing here about anti-Catholicism in American life, and he pauses to note how surprising it would be, from the vantage point of earlier eras and debates, that the church's attitude toward homosexuality would have ended up giving fuel to an anti-Catholic fire: 
... Well through the nineteenth century, the church often seemed as much a refuge as those who felt same-sex desire were likely to find. There are reasons that Oscar Wilde, for example, returned to the church after his public trials, and they involve his aesthetic sense of the capacious Catholic understanding of sin and grace in a fallen world: the beauty of European Catholic medievalism, matched with a sophisticated, confessional-trained understanding of the real pressures under which human beings labor.
In Protestant America, however, a word like sophisticated (to say nothing of confessional) was more a denunciation than mild praise of practical wisdom ...
Bottum doesn't elaborate on this contrast, but it bears elaboration: In the longstanding, not-unjustified stereotypes of Western religious conflict, Roman Catholicism was generally seen as far more accommodating and tolerant - or, alternatively, more decadent and lax - than its Protestant rivals on matters related to the human body and the human heart. The structure of Catholicism, with its elevation of religious life in all its varied forms above the family unit, was always friendlier to what today we might call non-heteronormative aspirations, male and female, than many other churches (and, indeed, than many other civilizations). The emphasis that the church's sacramental life placed on the cycle of confession-sin-repentance, as Bottum notes, tended to create a moral economy in which fallenness was taken for granted, and wider latitude extended to people who persisted in their sins than was sometimes the case in the sterner, Calvin-influenced precincts of Christendom. (The old Protestant image of Jesuitical confessors performing elaborate logical contortions to minimize the gravity of moral faults had - and has - some basis in reality.) And then of course the deeply carnal nature of Catholic liturgy and art and culture created a broad religio-aesthetic landscape in which a wide diversity of enfleshed desires could be projected, expressed, sublimated, channeled, fulfilled.
This historical and cultural backdrop helps explain several things about how the gay marriage debate has played out among American Catholics. (And elsewhere, as well.) First, it's probably one of the reasons why Catholics as a demographic have tilted somewhat more strongly in favor of same-sex marriage than other major Christian groups. (White Catholics are as likely to support gay wedlock as the most liberal Protestant sub-group, Mainline Protestants, and while churchgoing Catholics still tend to oppose same-sex unions, the margin is much narrower than among churchgoing white evangelicals or black Protestants.) Particularly for Catholics whose attachment to their faith is more cultural than doctrinal, the combination of Catholicism's traditional air of realism about human sexuality and the drift of contemporary culture has made the path from tolerance to acceptance to affirmation seem like a relatively natural one to take. (The fact that Catholic arguments against gay marriage tend to be more abstract and intellectualized than the more strictly biblical emphasis in many Protestant churches has no doubt played a role as well.)
Second, it helps explain the sense of sharp betrayal among some gay Catholic writers - I'm thinking most of all of Andrew Sullivan, but there are others - when the church's leadership did not follow that tolerance-acceptance-affirmation path, not only maintaining the traditional prohibitions and the traditional moral language but also taking a clear political stance against the cause of same-sex wedlock. I have always thought that Sullivan's expectations-cum-demands of his church were historically and theologically unreasonable, but psychologically and culturally they make more sense: If you grew up gay and Catholic in a culture that went from being intensely anti-gay (often in a specifically Protestant way) to being suddenly and sweepingly pro-gay, the Catholic Church itself might feel like a family member who had once offered a safe haven in a hostile world, but then when that hostility diminished and disappeared, insisted that you stick with the view from their spare bedroom rather seeing what the new world had to offer.
Finally, I think it helps explains where Bottum's wandering, complicated essay is coming from, at least in part. Its author has never been a zealous culture warrior or an eager political scrapper; as long as I've been reading him, he's chiefly been a literary Catholic, a poet and critic and essayist with a sideline in history and philosophy. And coming from that place, especially, there is something that is frustrating-to-the-point-of-exasperation about the role that the Catholic Church has been cast in in so many of our post-sexual revolution debates: As some vast edifice of puritanism, handing down "thou shalt nots" and drowning the varied colors of the world in whites and blacks. That is obviously how any religion that preaches a rigorous moral message will sometimes be perceived, but to anyone who knows Catholic history intimately and has experienced Catholic culture from the inside it is a peculiarly ill-fitting caricature. And the more aesthetically and culturally-minded that Catholic, the more ridiculously frustrating it seems that their faith of all faiths (the faith of Italy! of France!) should be cast as the enemy of bodily pleasure - that their church, with its wild diversity of weirdo, "dappled" saints, should be seen as a purely conformist and repressive enterprise - and that the religion of Wilde and Waugh and Manley Hopkins and so many others would be dismissed as simply and straightforwardly homophobic.
That's how I read Bottum's essay, at least in part: As a literary Catholic's attempt to wrench the true complexity of his faith back out of the complexity-destroying context of contemporary political debates. He's writing as someone who loves his church, and wants everyone else to love it as he does - and I don't blame him for imagining that perhaps, just perhaps, ceasing to offer public resistance on the specific question of gay marriage would liberate the church from some the caricatures that the culture war has imposed upon it, and enable the world to see its richness with fresh eyes.
I don't think it would actually work that way, for a variety of reasons, some of which are suggested by other threads in Bottum's essay. But I'll let those lie for the purposes of this post, and just close with sympathy for the impulse that animates his essay, if not the conclusions that it draws.

        
The Influence of Andrew Sullivan
        
Libertarian Populism and Its Critics
        
Abortion in America and Europe
        
Pope Francis in Context
        
Love in the Time of Hookups

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (96%); RELIGION (95%); GAYS & LESBIANS (93%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (93%); MARRIAGE (92%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (92%); CONSERVATISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (89%); FAMILY (72%) Christians and Christianity; France; Homosexuality; Italy; Marriages; Protestant Churches; Roman Catholic Church; Same-Sex Marriage, Civil Unions and Domestic Partnerships; Sex; Sullivan, Andrew; Wilde, Oscar

ORGANIZATION: Roman Catholic Church

PERSON: Sullivan, Andrew; Wilde, Oscar

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (86%) France; Italy

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2013



767 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 688 words

HEADLINE: Obama Honors Soldier for Bravery Under Fire, and Afterward

BYLINE: PETER BAKER


HIGHLIGHT: Back in the United States after losing too many comrades in Afghanistan, Staff Sgt. Ty Michael Carter has become a symbol of the courage not only to face the enemy, but to face what comes next. 

 BODY:
For generations, soldiers have been honored at the White House for valor under fire. And no one questions the heroism of Staff Sgt. Ty Michael Carter, who raced through a hail of bullets to rescue a wounded comrade and helped keep Taliban fighters from overrunning a combat post in Afghanistan.
But when Sergeant Carter, 33, was awarded the Medal of Honor by President Obama on Monday, he was venerated not just for his actions on the battlefield but also for those after the shooting was over. Back in the United States after a war that killed too many comrades, Sergeant Carter has become a symbol of the courage not only to face the enemy, but to face what comes next. 
"Ty has spoken openly, with honesty and extraordinary eloquence, about his struggle with post-traumatic stress - the flashbacks, the nightmares, the anxiety, the heartache that makes it sometimes almost impossible to get through a day," Mr. Obama said before draping the medal around his neck. But with the help of the Army, the president said, Sergeant Carter received treatment and now stands as a repudiation of the stigma many soldiers feel.
"Let me say it as clearly as I can to any of our troops or veterans who are watching and struggling," Mr. Obama said. "Look at this man. Look at this soldier. Look at this warrior. He's as tough as they come, and if he can find the courage and the strength to not only seek help but also to speak out about it, to take care of himself and to stay strong, then so can you."
The president paid tribute to heroism in the last war even as he contemplated the next one. The ceremony in the East Room of the White House came on a day when Mr. Obama was reviewing potential military responses to a chemical weapons attack by the Syrian government that killed hundreds of civilians.
Mr. Obama, who pulled the last American troops out of Iraq and is winding down the war in Afghanistan, is not considering sending ground troops like Sergeant Carter to Syria, but he is confronting the prospect of other military action in a region from which he has spent much of his presidency trying to disengage.
Sergeant Carter, a married father of three from Antioch, Calif., was the fifth living member of the military to receive the Medal of Honor for actions in the Afghanistan war. He was the second to receive it for actions in the battle of Kamdesh recounted in a book by Jake Tapper of CNN, "The Outpost: An Untold Story of American Valor." Mr. Obama honored former Sgt. Clinton Romesha in February.
When Combat Outpost Keating, manned by about 50 American troops, was attacked from all sides by about 300 Taliban fighters early on the morning of Oct. 3, 2009, Sergeant Carter rushed in. He twice ran through a 100-yard gantlet of enemy fire to aid the defense of the outpost and, wounded by shrapnel, killed several attackers. He ran out again into a storm of fire to a wounded colleague, stanched the bleeding, placed a tourniquet on his leg and carried him through the shots to safety.
Speaking to reporters on the White House driveway after Monday's ceremony, Sergeant Carter openly acknowledged the horror of the day. "Only those closest to me can see the scars that come from seeing good men take their last breath," he said. Of the wounded soldier, who later died of his injuries, he said, "I will hear his plea for help for the rest of my life."
Sergeant Carter used the occasion of his medal award ceremony to address the American people. "Ladies and gentlemen, please, take the time to learn about the invisible wounds," he said. "Know that a soldier or veteran suffering from post-traumatic stress is one of the most passionate, committed men or women you'll ever meet. Know that they are not damaged; they are simply burdened with living when others did not. Know that they - we - are not defeated, never defeated. We are resilient and will emerge stronger over time."

        
Obama Visits Wounded as Afghanistan Casualties Continue
        
Obama Urges Greece to Grow Its Economy
        
Obama to Speak at March on Washington Anniversary
        
On West Coast Swing, Obama Squeezes In Dinner With Donor
        
Obama Tells Leno Closure of Embassies Is No Overreaction

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POST TRAUMATIC STRESS DISORDER (91%); RESCUE OPERATIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); TALIBAN (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ARMIES (78%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (77%); ANXIETY DISORDERS (73%); MENTAL ILLNESS (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (70%) Afghanistan War (2001- ); Carter, Ty Michael; Medal of Honor (US); Obama, Barack; Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder; The Caucus

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (66%) CALIFORNIA, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); SYRIA (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2013



768 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1324 words

HEADLINE: Growth in Global Disputes Brings Big Paychecks for Law Firms

BYLINE: ELIZABETH OLSON


HIGHLIGHT: Some legal heavyweights in the United States are benefiting from a growing number of clashes over complex international deals. 

 BODY:
Debt woes, broken contracts and soured business deals may cost global investors billions in losses and create seemingly never-ending headaches for policy makers. But there is a set of specialists profiting from such geopolitical problems: arbitration lawyers.
The legal profession is facing corporate cutbacks in spending and pushback over billable hours, but at least a dozen law firms based in the United States are in line for huge paydays stemming from myriad international issues.
 About a dozen legal heavyweights like White & Case, Shearman & Sterling and King & Spalding are benefiting from the growing number of lucrative, complex international disputes. About 120 such actions worth more than $1 billion each are pending at international arbitration tribunals worldwide, according to a recent tally by American Lawyer magazine.
Often, these awards result from suits brought by companies or commercial interests against foreign governments or entities they control, invoking investment protections in international or bilateral treaties. Big awards also stem from contract disputes between two or more private entities that have invested internationally. 
Among the eye-popping claims that have already reached resolution is a $2.2 billion decision against Kuwait's Petrochemical Industries in favor of Dow Chemical over a joint plastics venture that the Kuwaitis canceled. Dow Chemical was represented by the Atlanta-based King & Spalding and Shearman & Sterling, based in New York.
King & Spalding also represented Universal Compression, a Houston-based natural-gas compression services provider, when it landed a $442 million arbitration award last year from Venezuela to make good on the nationalization of its operations in the country.
King & Spalding, which began as a regional firm 128 years ago, has handled nearly two dozen international arbitration cases in the last two years, of which 20 are disputes between corporate entities or other groups and the countries where they invested. The firm has 64 lawyers and associate lawyers working on global arbitrations that are valued at $60 billion, according to American Lawyer's scorecard, issued in July.
Edward G. Kehoe, co-head of King & Spalding's international arbitration practice, said the firm spotted the potential of such commercial disagreements a decade ago and began to "slowly build the business, because we saw increasing need for investor protection against appropriation."
"We wanted to catch a rising wave of business," said Mr. Kehoe, whose firm is also handling the arbitration in the fractious legal feud between the Chevron Corporation and Ecuador. (Chevron bought Texaco in 2001, and inherited a court case in which Texaco was accused of dumping billions of gallons of toxic waste and causing major environmental damage in the Amazon rain forest. Chevron was ordered in 2011 to pay $9 billion in damages.)
Ecuador, along with Argentina, Venezuela and the Czech Republic, are defendants that appear most often in claims brought by dissatisfied parties, according to the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, which tracks worldwide investment. Canada, Egypt, the United States and Poland are next on the list.
Worldwide, at least 518 treaty claims cases were pending last year against 95 countries, according to the United Nations body, and more than 100 known arbitrations between feuding private investors. The World Bank's International Center for the Settlement of Investment Disputes, located in Washington, logged 50 new cases last year, up from one in 1982.
Law firms charge either by the hour (the going rate at top firms hovers around $1,000 an hour) or take a percentage of the final arbitration award. As more countries include arbitration clauses in bilateral trade pacts and more investors plow money into infrastructure and other big overseas projects, the prospects for rising revenue are not lost on law firms.
"The volume and complexity of deals are ramping up, illustrated by the 163 percent growth in the number of U.S. law firm offices opened overseas last year," said William D. Henderson, director of the Center on the Global Legal Profession at Indiana University's Maurer School of Law.
Law firms are vying to recruit law partners with international experience, and law schools like Columbia University's are adding graduate courses in the field, said George A. Bermann, who teaches arbitration at Columbia and is director of its new Center for International Commercial and Investment Arbitration.
"Not only are courses multiplying," he said in an e-mail, but "enrollment - in all - is growing."
The United Nations Conference on Trade and Development makes public basic information on cases. But most such commercial conflicts can be hidden from public view because there is no incentive for aggrieved plaintiffs or the recalcitrant countries being sued to air their issues in public. Some cases are settled through private arbitration and others come before tribunals, including the International Chamber of Commerce's International Court of Arbitration in Paris.
Corporations triumph in most of the disputes that are made public, with two-thirds of tribunal decisions favoring their claims, according to the U.N. scorecard. Nine public decisions last year awarded damages to the party claiming injury, with a record award of $1.77 billion against Ecuador for terminating an oil contract in 2006 with Occidental Petroleum.
Some countries, however, are beginning to dig in against arbitration claims, not only because of the staggering dollar amounts, but also because they can disrupt national decision-making. Uruguay and Philip Morris International, for example, are wrangling over the country's restrictions on tobacco use, which the tobacco giant says violates a bilateral investment treaty.
Those who favor international forums for settling disputes - where arbitrations are presided over by one arbitrator or a panel of three - say that such tribunals avoid local courts, which can tilt in favor of parochial interests.
"It's a big improvement from historical gunboat diplomacy," said Edna Sussman, an arbitrator and mediator with experience in more than 100 international and other arbitrations. She helped spearhead the opening of the New York International Arbitration Center in Manhattan to encourage holding such proceedings in the city.
Such "arbitration will definitely grow as international commerce grows," she said, adding that some question whether secretive arbitration bodies should be deciding cases with billions of dollars on the line that can impinge on a government's regulatory powers.
The small circle of arbitrators, who are typically lawyers or experts who have other employment, is also seen as too clubby and riddled with conflicts of interest from their day jobs as practitioners.
As recently as two decades ago, such international arbitration was not a big revenue generator, said Carolyn B. Lamm, a White & Case partner who specializes in the field.
Most treaties, intended to give foreign investors like corporations an avenue outside of local courts in case their investments were nationalized, "did not take effect until the 1980s, and we had two or three cases a year," she said.
White & Case since has grown to a 150-person arbitration practice and currently oversees 223 arbitration matters valued at $73 billion, according to Global Arbitration Review, a law journal. Those cases included a $2.5 billion dispute in which the Canadian mining company Gold Reserve is claiming that Venezuela seized its mining properties.
"If an investor is confronted with a dispute, arbitration as means of enforcement is much better," Ms. Lamm said.
"You can go anywhere you can find an asset. But if you use the courts, you really have to rely on deference to the local court, and that might not turn out as well."

        
A Rise in Requests From Brokers to Wipe the Slate Clean
        
Former Head of Dewey Pays to Settle Mismanagement Claims

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LAWYERS (91%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); CHEMICALS (90%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); CHEMICALS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); DAMAGES (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); NATURAL GAS (78%); LAW PRACTICE (78%); NATIONALIZATION (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (77%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (77%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (77%); LITIGATION (77%); CONTRACT AWARDS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (71%); PETROCHEMICALS (71%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%); PETROCHEMICALS INDUSTRY (66%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (65%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (60%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (53%); PETROCHEMICAL MFG (52%); RAIN FORESTS (50%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (50%) Arbitration, Conciliation and Mediation; Foreign Investments; King & Spalding; legal profession; Nationalization of Industry; Shearman & Sterling; Suits and Litigation (Civil); White & Case; Legal Profession; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: SHEARMAN & STERLING LLP (93%); KING & SPALDING LLP (92%); WHITE & CASE LLP (90%); CHEVRON CORP (82%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (55%); DOW CHEMICAL CO (55%); TRADE & DEVELOPMENT BANK OF MONGOLIA (50%)

ORGANIZATION: King &amp; Spalding; Shearman &amp; Sterling; White &amp; Case

TICKER: CVX (NYSE) (82%); ALMUDON (KUW) (55%); DOW (SWX) (55%); DOW (NYSE) (55%); DOW (LSE) (55%); 4850 (TSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (93%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (93%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (82%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (82%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (82%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (82%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (55%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (55%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); KUWAIT (92%); ECUADOR (92%); ARGENTINA (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2013



769 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1176 words

HEADLINE: Five Years After TARP, Misgivings on Bonuses

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSS SORKIN


HIGHLIGHT: Henry Paulson on bonuses paid during the 2008 financial crisis: &#8220;There was such a total lack of awareness from the firms that paid big bonuses during this extraordinary time.&#8221; 

 BODY:
"There was such a total lack of awareness from the firms that paid big bonuses during this extraordinary time."
That is what Henry M. Paulson Jr., former Treasury secretary, said last week. We were discussing the 2008 financial crisis in light of the approaching five-year anniversary of those white-knuckled days, when Lehman Brothers collapsed and the government stepped in to bail out the American International Group and then the banking system.
Mr. Paulson's comments about the outsize bank bonuses paid after the bailouts might sound de rigueur given all the frustration that has already been expressed by others. But Mr. Paulson had never been so emphatic about the bonuses in public.
Five years on, Mr. Paulson, assessing the success of a bailout program that clearly helped stabilize the economy, said that the bonuses that the banks paid after the bailouts - a record $140 billion in 2009 - were a primary reason for the public outrage over the program he worked so hard to persuade Congress to pass and the country to support. 
 "To say I was disappointed is an understatement," he said. "My view has nothing to do with legality and everything to do with what was right, and everything to do with just a colossal lack of self-awareness as to how they were viewed by the American public."
For Mr. Paulson, the bailout, known as the Troubled Asset Relief Program, was his crowning achievement during a historic financial crisis in which the global economy nearly toppled. While TARP was terribly unpopular, most economists now credit it and the extraordinary measures taken by the Federal Reserve with helping to prevent another depression.
Yet questions about the bailouts remain.
One of them is: Why did Mr. Paulson and Congress not seek tighter restrictions on pay, especially given Mr. Paulson's new acknowledgment?
It is a question Mr. Paulson said he hears often and alludes to in a new prologue to his book, "On the Brink," which looks back on the crisis and is being reissued this week to coincide with its anniversary. He told me he is as convinced today as he was then that it would have been impossible to persuade the majority of the banks to participate in the program with significant restrictions on pay. And, to him, the most important aspect of TARP's success in stabilizing the system was that the entire industry participated at the same time.
"We got out in one fell swoop, recapitalized the banking system," he told me. "The other way to do it is wait until they serially fail, which is what the Europeans did. It's what the Japanese did. It's what the British did with R.B.S. and Lloyds."
When I pressed him about whether the United States banks would have truly been in a position to reject the recapitalization plan had tighter restrictions been put in place, he replied, "Just look how fast so many of them tried to pay back the capital once it was stigmatized." He added: "How do you ever implement restrictions like that on pay and do it in a way" that included all the banks, and not just those that "desperately needed the capital or were getting ready to fail? I don't know."
Indeed, the biggest banks sought to pay the money back more quickly than anyone in the Treasury Department had ever expected, some in less than a year. In truth, the quick return of the bailout money, which the White House heralded as a success, may have slowed down the recovery by making it even harder for some banks to make loans.
Which brings us to another lingering question of the bailout, as Mr. Paulson articulated it to me: "Why didn't you track the capital? Why didn't you make them say how they spent their dollars to see whether they loaned it?" It is a question that Mr. Paulson said he gets regularly, but that he said he believes "borders on the ridiculous."
"I don't know anyone in the banking community that believes that you could realistically measure that or force them to do that," he said. "If you have a banker say, 'Here's my capital: I levered it 8 to 1 and here's where this dollar went,' and the banks fill out a report every quarter on their lending, you'll know whether it's going up or down. But of course their lending goes down in a recession! When you say you want them to lend, lend more than what? More than they would have lent if they collapsed? More than they would have lent at the height of the bubble? Of course not, you don't want that, there's not the demand."
Mr. Paulson speaks a sensible yet uncomfortable truth about the bailouts. And for all the Monday-morning quarterbacking, the bailouts worked. The United States banking system is much more highly capitalized than those in most European countries.
And for all the talk of reform on Wall Street, Mr. Paulson said he was still most concerned about rule-making in Washington.
"I believe that the root cause of every financial crisis, the root cause, is flawed government policies," he said. He added that while he is hopeful that the tools in the Dodd-Frank financial overhaul law will help avoid the next crisis, "We're not going to know how these rules work until we have a crisis, until we have someone sitting in the seats to say how are they going to use these authorities. Given how unpopular our actions were, I think it makes it even more difficult for those that come after us."
He said he remained particularly anxious about the number of regulators overseeing the industry, especially in the midst of a crisis. "I'm most concerned about the multiple regulators falling all over each other and the confusion that regulatory competition creates." He said he did not advocate cutting back regulators for the sake of it, but instead favors streamlining the number of agencies with overlapping interests.
In the new prologue to his book, he addresses the crisis's catchphrase, "too big to fail." " 'Too big to fail' is a misnomer in any case," he said. "Complexity and interconnectedness matter as much as size in assessing risk in banking." But he acknowledges a thorny reality: "No bank should be too big or too complex to fail, but almost any bank is too big to liquidate quickly, particularly in the midst of a crisis."
Asked why he held his tongue until now about his misgivings on the way Wall Street paid bonuses after the crisis, Mr. Paulson, who was formerly the chief executive of Goldman Sachs, said he didn't want to be "piling on."
Banking is "not only a very honorable profession," he said, "it's a very necessary profession."
He said the hardest part of the bailouts for him was in the disconnect between the bailouts' ugly image with the public and his faith that the bailouts would help keep the economy from collapsing.
"I understood that people were angry," Mr. Paulson said. "They wanted to hear that those that made the mistakes were going to be held responsible. Then on the other side was stability. It's hard to punish and save the banks at the same time." He paused for a moment. "I was much more concerned with stability."

        
In One Bundle of Mortgages, the Subprime Crisis Reverberates
        
JPMorgan Reveals It Faces Criminal and Civil Inquiries

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BAILOUT BONUSES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EURO CRISIS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); ANNIVERSARIES (72%); GLOBALIZATION (71%); SUBPRIME LENDING (64%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (59%) Paulson, Henry M Jr; Subprime Mortgage Crisis; DealBook Column; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (72%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (72%); 8685 (TSE) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (93%) Paulson, Henry M Jr

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2013



770 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1323 words

HEADLINE: Set Back By Recession, And Shut Out Of Rebound

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINERIP

 BODY:
RIDGEWOOD, N.J. -- In September 2012, it appeared that the world was John Fugazzie's frozen oyster. He was in charge of dairy and frozen foods for the A.&P. supermarket chain, making $125,000 a year.
He was also a guest that month at a White House forum on joblessness, in recognition of his work creating Neighbors-helping-Neighbors U.S.A., a volunteer networking organization with 28 chapters in New Jersey serving 1,200 unemployed, mainly white-collar, baby boomers. ''John has one of the best volunteer organizations out there,'' said Ben Seigel, a deputy director at the Labor Department. ''He's tireless and always upbeat.''
Lately Mr. Fugazzie has been feeling a little weary and beat down. One morning last October, just before his 57th birthday, he was laid off and, carrying a box of belongings from his office, driven home in a car service hired by the company. In the 10 months since, he has applied for more than 400 positions and had 10 interviews, but still has no job.
He and his family are living in his 88-year-old mother's home, and last month he awoke at 4:30 a.m., sweating profusely, in the midst of a heart attack. 
As happens to many Americans, when he lost his job, he lost his health insurance. He now owes $171,569.44 for the six nights he spent at the hospital.
And so on the evening of Aug. 15, at a meeting of the job club he himself started here two years ago, he told the others he was just like them. ''I need a job,'' he said. ''I need to make money now.''
Most of the 15 men and women meeting at the library in this prosperous suburb were middle-aged or older, people who had worked all their lives, but lost jobs in the recession and its aftermath and have not been able to get back to where they were. Many of them worry that they never will, in part because of discrimination by employers against older workers.
On the statistical surface, boomers seem better off than other age groups. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the unemployment rate for workers 55 to 64 (the category that best matches boomers, who range from 48 to 67) was 5.4 percent in July, compared with 7.4 percent for the general population.
But almost every other number from the bureau makes it clear that while the economy may be improving, a substantial number of older workers who lost jobs -- even those lucky enough to be re-employed -- are still suffering. Two-thirds in that age group who found work again are making less than they did in their previous job; their median salary loss is 18 percent compared with a 6.7 percent drop for 20- to 24-year-olds.
The re-employment rate for 55- to 64-year-olds is 47 percent and 24 percent for those over 65, compared with 62 percent for 20- to 54-year-olds. And finding another job takes far longer: 46 weeks for boomers, compared with 20 weeks for 16- to 24-year-olds.
Nor are those who believe age discrimination was a factor likely to have much luck in court. In 2009, just as the economy was hitting rock-bottom, the Supreme Court issued a ruling that toughened the standard for proving bias.
''It's easier for younger workers to bounce back,'' says Mr. Seigel of the Labor Department. ''They don't have many financial obligations. Older workers are supporting families; they may be supporting parents. They can't afford to spend two years going back for a degree to retrain.''
At the Aug. 15 meeting, Barbara Braun, who worked as a marketing director for a pharmaceutical company, said she wasn't able to relocate to California when the company moved. ''I have a mother with Alzheimer's, I think it would have killed her,'' she said. ''Our lives are full of complications we didn't have at 35.''
They have no doubt that their age is held against them, yet work to keep hopeful. When a woman suggested shaving a decade off her résumé and not posting a photo on networking and job search sites to hide her age, Mr. Fugazzie advised against it. ''When you go to the interview, you're going to look like who you are,'' he said. ''To waste time hiding it when you're only going to lose at the other end makes no sense. If they don't want someone your age, you don't want them.''
What he does recommend is lowering expectations. ''You're not likely to be the department head,'' he said, ''so sell yourself as a team player who will work with younger people and help train them.''
Since the Supreme Court ruling, most lawyers won't even take age discrimination cases. In an effort to change that, a bill has been filed in the Senate each of the past several years, aimed at making it easier to bring a discrimination lawsuit.
The latest legislation has rare bipartisan support; Senator Tom Harkin, Democrat of Iowa, and Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, are co-sponsors. ''Older Americans have immense value to our society and our economy,'' Mr. Grassley said in a recent news release. ''They deserve the protections Congress originally intended.''
In the last Congress, along with the Democratic majority in the Senate, six Republicans backed the legislation, although two, both moderates, Olympia J. Snowe of Maine and Scott P. Brown of Massachusetts, are no longer in the Senate. Cristina Martin-Firvida, a legislative specialist at AARP, says the bill has the votes to pass the Senate, but to have a chance at becoming law, more Republican senators would need to get behind it, which might then persuade the Republicans who control the House to take up the measure.
At the Ridgewood meeting, people discussed job-hunting strategies. Karen Clements, a paralegal, said she had four résumés ready to go, each emphasizing a different skill: bookkeeping, S.E.C. compliance, fraud investigation and intellectual property rights.
She described a friend who is dressed in business attire by 4 a.m. Mondays, so she'll be ready the moment an opportunity is posted online. If the firm wants to do a Skype interview, said Ms. Clements, her friend is dressed for Skyping. ''By Tuesday they'll have 1,000 résumés and the window will be closed.''
''It's like Wayne Gretzky says,'' Ms. Braun told them: ''You have to skate to where the puck will be.''
They discussed the importance of following up any contact with thank-you e-mails and handing out lots of business cards, though it's tricky to identify yourself when you have no job. ''Be careful of the title you give yourself -- you don't want to sound dated,'' said Ms. Braun, whose business card reads, ''Barbara J. Braun, principal, BarbaraJBraun LLC, Connect Goals to Extraordinary Outcomes.''
Several mentioned the importance of LinkedIn, the business networking site.
''You have to have at least 500 contacts,'' said Lisa Sepetjian, who has been an accounts manager for banks and small-business lenders. ''Any less shows you don't care; you're not in the game.''
Ms. Braun described how she was able to go from 50 LinkedIn contacts to 500 in just a week.
''I'm at 4,200,'' Mr. Fugazzie said.
''I don't want to know 500 people,'' Ms. Sepetjian said. ''But I want people to know I'm not some baby boomer sitting at home eating bonbons.''
At 8:50 p.m., when a librarian announced that it was closing time, many were still networking. Afterward, eight handed me their business cards and several sent follow-up e-mails thanking me for coming.
By 10:30 p.m., even before I got home, the first of 10 follow-up e-mails had arrived from Mr. Fugazzie. Attached were testimonials from five people; copies of four certificates of commendation for Neighbors-helping-Neighbors; and a letter of commendation to the group from the New Jersey governor, Chris Christie, that began ''Dear Friends.''
Also attached was an invitation to a May 16, 2013, meeting at the White House to discuss long-term unemployment, which Mr. Fugazzie hadn't been able to attend. ''I really wanted to go,'' he said. ''I could have made some important contacts, but my youngest son, Tyler, was graduating from the College of New Jersey on the same day and how could I miss that?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: John Fugazzie, above, created Neighbors-helping- Neighbors U.S.A., a networking group for older jobless people in New Jersey. He is on the other side of the table now, searching for work. (B1)
 Sadhna Ojha and Nelson Ortega at a Neighbors-helping-Neighbors meeting in New Jersey. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLDER WORKERS (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); BABY BOOMERS (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); RECESSION (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); FROZEN FOODS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); VOLUNTEERS (76%); DISMISSALS (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (72%); STATISTICS (71%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (70%); SENIOR CITIZENS (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (67%); HEALTH INSURANCE (64%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (64%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2013



771 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1323 words

HEADLINE: Growth in Global Disputes Brings Big Paychecks for Law Firms

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH OLSON

 BODY:
Debt woes, broken contracts and soured business deals may cost global investors billions in losses and create seemingly never-ending headaches for policy makers. But there is a set of specialists profiting from such geopolitical problems: arbitration lawyers.
The legal profession is facing corporate cutbacks in spending and pushback over billable hours, but at least a dozen law firms based in the United States are in line for huge paydays stemming from myriad international issues.
About a dozen legal heavyweights like White & Case, Shearman & Sterling and King & Spalding are benefiting from the growing number of lucrative, complex international disputes. About 120 such actions worth more than $1 billion each are pending at international arbitration tribunals worldwide, according to a recent tally by American Lawyer magazine.
Often, these awards result from suits brought by companies or commercial interests against foreign governments or entities they control, invoking investment protections in international or bilateral treaties. Big awards also stem from contract disputes between two or more private entities that have invested internationally. 
Among the eye-popping claims that have already reached resolution is a $2.2 billion decision against Kuwait's Petrochemical Industries in favor of Dow Chemical over a joint plastics venture that the Kuwaitis canceled. Dow Chemical was represented by the Atlanta-based King & Spalding and Shearman & Sterling, based in New York.
King & Spalding also represented Universal Compression, a Houston-based natural-gas compression services provider, when it landed a $442 million arbitration award last year from Venezuela to make good on the nationalization of its operations in the country.
King & Spalding, which began as a regional firm 128 years ago, has handled nearly two dozen international arbitration cases in the last two years, of which 20 are disputes between corporate entities or other groups and the countries where they invested. The firm has 64 lawyers and associate lawyers working on global arbitrations that are valued at $60 billion, according to American Lawyer's scorecard, issued in July.
Edward G. Kehoe, co-head of King & Spalding's international arbitration practice, said the firm spotted the potential of such commercial disagreements a decade ago and began to ''slowly build the business, because we saw increasing need for investor protection against appropriation.''
''We wanted to catch a rising wave of business,'' said Mr. Kehoe, whose firm is also handling the arbitration in the fractious legal feud between the Chevron Corporation and Ecuador. (Chevron bought Texaco in 2001, and inherited a court case in which Texaco was accused of dumping billions of gallons of toxic waste and causing major environmental damage in the Amazon rain forest. Chevron was ordered in 2011 to pay $9 billion in damages.)
Ecuador, along with Argentina, Venezuela and the Czech Republic, are defendants that appear most often in claims brought by dissatisfied parties, according to the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, which tracks worldwide investment. Canada, Egypt, the United States and Poland are next on the list.
Worldwide, at least 518 treaty claims cases were pending last year against 95 countries, according to the United Nations body, and more than 100 known arbitrations between feuding private investors. The World Bank's International Center for the Settlement of Investment Disputes, located in Washington, logged 50 new cases last year, up from one in 1982.
Law firms charge either by the hour (the going rate at top firms hovers around $1,000 an hour) or take a percentage of the final arbitration award. As more countries include arbitration clauses in bilateral trade pacts and more investors plow money into infrastructure and other big overseas projects, the prospects for rising revenue are not lost on law firms.
''The volume and complexity of deals are ramping up, illustrated by the 163 percent growth in the number of U.S. law firm offices opened overseas last year,'' said William D. Henderson, director of the Center on the Global Legal Profession at Indiana University's Maurer School of Law.
Law firms are vying to recruit law partners with international experience, and law schools like Columbia University's are adding graduate courses in the field, said George A. Bermann, who teaches arbitration at Columbia and is director of its new Center for International Commercial and Investment Arbitration.
''Not only are courses multiplying,'' he said in an e-mail, but ''enrollment -- in all -- is growing.''
The United Nations Conference on Trade and Development makes public basic information on cases. But most such commercial conflicts can be hidden from public view because there is no incentive for aggrieved plaintiffs or the recalcitrant countries being sued to air their issues in public. Some cases are settled through private arbitration and others come before tribunals, including the International Chamber of Commerce's International Court of Arbitration in Paris.
Corporations triumph in most of the disputes that are made public, with two-thirds of tribunal decisions favoring their claims, according to the U.N. scorecard. Nine public decisions last year awarded damages to the party claiming injury, with a record award of $1.77 billion against Ecuador for terminating an oil contract in 2006 with Occidental Petroleum.
Some countries, however, are beginning to dig in against arbitration claims, not only because of the staggering dollar amounts, but also because they can disrupt national decision-making. Uruguay and Philip Morris International, for example, are wrangling over the country's restrictions on tobacco use, which the tobacco giant says violates a bilateral investment treaty.
Those who favor international forums for settling disputes -- where arbitrations are presided over by one arbitrator or a panel of three -- say that such tribunals avoid local courts, which can tilt in favor of parochial interests.
''It's a big improvement from historical gunboat diplomacy,'' said Edna Sussman, an arbitrator and mediator with experience in more than 100 international and other arbitrations. She helped spearhead the opening of the New York International Arbitration Center in Manhattan to encourage holding such proceedings in the city.
Such ''arbitration will definitely grow as international commerce grows,'' she said, adding that some question whether secretive arbitration bodies should be deciding cases with billions of dollars on the line that can impinge on a government's regulatory powers.
The small circle of arbitrators, who are typically lawyers or experts who have other employment, is also seen as too clubby and riddled with conflicts of interest from their day jobs as practitioners.
As recently as two decades ago, such international arbitration was not a big revenue generator, said Carolyn B. Lamm, a White & Case partner who specializes in the field.
Most treaties, intended to give foreign investors like corporations an avenue outside of local courts in case their investments were nationalized, ''did not take effect until the 1980s, and we had two or three cases a year,'' she said.
White & Case since has grown to a 150-person arbitration practice and currently oversees 223 arbitration matters valued at $73 billion, according to Global Arbitration Review, a law journal. Those cases included a $2.5 billion dispute in which the Canadian mining company Gold Reserve is claiming that Venezuela seized its mining properties.
''If an investor is confronted with a dispute, arbitration as means of enforcement is much better,'' Ms. Lamm said.
''You can go anywhere you can find an asset. But if you use the courts, you really have to rely on deference to the local court, and that might not turn out as well.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Edward Kehoe of King & Spalding said the firm built its international arbitration practice after noticing the potential more than a decade ago. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAWYERS (91%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); CHEMICALS (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (89%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); CHEMICALS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); DAMAGES (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); NATURAL GAS (78%); LAW PRACTICE (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (77%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (77%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (77%); CONTRACT AWARDS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (71%); PETROCHEMICALS (71%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (65%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (53%); PETROCHEMICALS INDUSTRY (52%); PETROCHEMICAL MFG (52%); RAIN FORESTS (50%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (50%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: SHEARMAN & STERLING LLP (93%); KING & SPALDING LLP (92%); WHITE & CASE LLP (90%); CHEVRON CORP (82%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (55%); DOW CHEMICAL CO (55%); TRADE & DEVELOPMENT BANK OF MONGOLIA (50%)

TICKER: CVX (NYSE) (82%); ALMUDON (KUW) (55%); DOW (SWX) (55%); DOW (NYSE) (55%); DOW (LSE) (55%); 4850 (TSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (93%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (93%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (82%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (82%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (82%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (82%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (55%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (55%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); KUWAIT (92%); ECUADOR (92%); ARGENTINA (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (76%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2013



772 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1065 words

HEADLINE: Seeking Asylum in Australia, Refugees Find a Policy in Flux

BYLINE: By JOE COCHRANE and MATT SIEGEL; Joe Cochrane reported from Jakarta, and Matt Siegel from Sydney, Australia.

 BODY:
JAKARTA, Indonesia -- In January, Naqsh Murtaza had had enough of war-torn Afghanistan. Mr. Naqsh, a 27-year-old Afghan, fled with his mother and two younger brothers across the border into Pakistan, the first stop on a risky journey whose ultimate destination was Australia.
He lacked the money to get the whole family there, so he hoped to reach Australia himself, obtain asylum and then send for them once he was settled. 
Getting as far as Indonesia or Malaysia is relatively easy for Muslims like Mr. Naqsh. Lax visa restrictions make it relatively easy to enter the countries, and well-established smuggling networks pack asylum-seekers into boats to brave the sea crossing to Australian soil.
Like many of the rickety vessels, the boat carrying Mr. Naqsh foundered midway, and he had to be rescued by the Indonesian authorities; he never reached Australia. But it might not have mattered if he had.
Under a new policy announced by Prime Minister Kevin Rudd on July 19 in the prelude to what is expected to be a close national election next month, anyone arriving by boat without a visa, the way Mr. Naqsh tried, is to be sent to a refugee-processing center in neighboring Papua New Guinea and be barred from ever settling in Australia. It is the most exclusionary measure the country has tried in hopes of stemming the tide of asylum-seekers, which has become a hot-button political issue.
The government advertised the new policy heavily in Australian newspapers and on television, aiming to reach immigrant populations that could spread the word in their countries of origin to friends and relatives who were contemplating fleeing to Australia.
But Australia's history of policy flip-flops has left many migrants confused about what the rules are and has raised hopes in others that the latest policy, too, will be reversed. Misinformation, not least from the smugglers, has also undermined the effort to spread the word.
In Pakistan, Mr. Naqsh said, he looked into applying for asylum in Britain, Canada or the United States and was told it could take 5 or 10 years. Fellow Afghans in Pakistan told him Australia was a faster option. So he flew to Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, from Islamabad in June, and paid smugglers $2,000 to take him to Jakarta, and $3,200 to put him on a boat headed for Christmas Island, an Australian territory in the Indian Ocean.
He heard about the new Australian policy when he was holed up in a backpacker hostel in Jakarta waiting for a place on a boat. But the smuggler making his arrangements assured him that the new policy would not take effect until Aug. 14, and that he would not risk being transferred to Papua New Guinea as long as he landed on Christmas Island before then.
''Obviously, he lied,'' Mr. Naqsh said.
The fishing boat carrying Mr. Naqsh and more than 70 Iranians, Pakistanis and other Afghans set sail July 28. Some of the refugees carried prepaid cellphones and the emergency numbers of Australian officials taken from government Web sites. A few days out from shore, a powerful storm damaged the boat, which began to sink slowly in international waters. The migrants and five crew members were picked up by the Indonesian National Search and Rescue Agency after 17 hours of desperate calls to the Australian authorities, who passed the word to their Indonesian counterparts.
The migrants were taken back to Indonesia, where they will be allowed to stay until the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees determines whether they qualify as bona fide refugees and not economic migrants.
Mr. Naqsh said he would not attempt another sea voyage and would instead hope to be resettled somewhere legally through the United Nations refugee agency.
He now faces a long wait in limbo. He cannot legally work in Indonesia, where there were already more than 10,000 asylum-seekers and official refugees waiting to be processed when he arrived, the agency said. Resettling a single person can take two to three years, according to the International Organization for Migration in Jakarta; since 2000, about 2,500 United Nations-registered refugees in Indonesia have been resettled.
To help press the message that would-be refugees should not make the attempt, the Australian Department of Immigration and Citizenship posted its radio and television advertisements on its Web site in at least eight languages, and it has released photographs of distraught recent arrivals to Christmas Island who were being told they were being deported to Papua New Guinea.
Sandi Logan, a spokesman for the department, said it was an uphill battle. ''The constant recalibration of policies has left, frankly, many in the diaspora and particularly many for whom English is a second or third or fourth language, very perplexed,'' he said.
It is unclear how much the new policy will deter migrants in the long-term. What is clear is that it has had little effect so far.
According to Australian officials, in the four weeks after Mr. Rudd's announcement, 2,784 migrants arrived in, or tried to reach, Australia from Indonesia and elsewhere, nearly double the monthly average of 1,434 in 2012. They said 356 who reached Christmas Island had been sent to a camp on Manus Island in Papua New Guinea.
Some who set out after the announcement said they had not heard about it, including some survivors from a boat that left Indonesia on July 23 with more than 200 people from Iran and Sri Lanka and sank off the coast of West Java Province in Indonesia, killing at least 20.
Others who were fully aware of the new policy set out anyway. Abdulkadir Abdi, 28, a Somali refugee biding his time in Indonesia, saw a report about the policy on television. He said that some compatriots who also knew about it had sailed from the Indonesian port of Makassar on the night of July 31, headed for Christmas Island, and that he had not heard from any of them since they prepared to cast off.
Mr. Abdi, who had arrived in Indonesia in January 2011 expecting to attend a university only to learn that he had been defrauded by an ''education agent'' in Somalia, said he would have joined the group, but could not pay the smugglers' fee.
''In the minds of refugees, there are two options: You die on the boat, or you will go to Australia,'' Mr. Abdi said. As for the risk of being transferred to Papua New Guinea, he said, the thinking is, ''maybe they won't send me -- policies can change.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''In the minds of refugees, there are two options: You die on the boat, or you will go to Australia,'' said Abdulkadir Abdi, right. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ED WRAY FOR THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL ASYLUM (91%); REFUGEES (90%); SMUGGLING (89%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (77%); IMMIGRATION (77%); MARINE VESSELS (74%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (67%); PRIME MINISTERS (67%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (67%); ELECTIONS (67%); BACKPACKING (60%); RELIGION (55%)

PERSON: KEVIN RUDD (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (90%); KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (57%) INDIAN OCEAN (79%) AUSTRALIA (99%); INDONESIA (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); MALAYSIA (92%); CHRISTMAS ISLAND (92%); PAPUA NEW GUINEA (92%); CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2013



773 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 535 words

HEADLINE: Judge Rules Against JPMorgan in Suit Over Billionaire's Losses

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
A New York state judge found JPMorgan Chase liable to the Russian-American billionaire Leonard Blavatnik for breach of contract for placing risky subprime mortgage securities in an investment account he held, and ordered the bank to pay more than $50 million in damages, including interest. 
In a decision made public on Monday, Justice Melvin Schweitzer of the State Supreme Court in Manhattan ordered JPMorgan to pay $42.5 million on the breach of contract claim, plus 5 percent annual interest starting in May 2008.
The judge found JPMorgan was not liable for negligence. His decision was dated Aug. 21, about seven months after the three-week, nonjury trial.
Mr. Blavatnik sued JPMorgan in 2009 to recover more than $100 million that he said the bank lost on a roughly $1 billion investment by CMMF L.L.C., a fund created by his company, Access Industries.
Separately, JPMorgan faces other litigation and investigations involving its handling of mortgage-related businesses during the financial crisis.
According to Mr. Blavatnik, JPMorgan Investment Management promised that it would invest Access's money conservatively after opening the account in 2006.
Instead, according to Mr. Blavatnik, the bank breached a 20 percent limit for mortgage-backed securities by misclassifying securities that were backed by a pool of subprime loans, known as ABS-home equity loans, as asset-backed rather than mortgage-backed securities.
Access also accused JPMorgan of continuing to hold the troubled securities despite knowing they were inappropriate for the portfolio. CMMF closed the account in May 2008.
In finding JPMorgan liable for exceeding the 20 percent cap, Justice Schweitzer rejected the bank's argument that ''industry practice'' was to classify the home equity loans separately from mortgage securities because they carried different risks.
In ruling for JPMorgan on the negligence claim, Justice Schweitzer said that the mortgage securities were considered ''relatively safe and desirable'' when they were bought, and that JPMorgan acted reasonably in light of current conditions when it advised CMMF to ''wait out the storm'' rather than sell at depressed prices.
A JPMorgan spokesman, Doug Morris, said: ''We are pleased that the court rejected CMMF's negligence claims, and found that our investment professionals lived up to their responsibilities. We respectfully disagree with the court's interpretation of our agreement with CMMF, and we are considering our options regarding that finding.''
David Elsberg, a partner at Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan representing Mr. Blavatnik, said: ''Hopefully it signals that banks need to live up to their obligations to clients, and as the court makes clear, not hide behind what they often try to refer to as industry practice.''
Mr. Blavatnik also welcomed the decision. ''There are a lot of people out there who, I understand, feel they have been wronged by JPMorgan but cannot afford to take on a huge bank. They shouldn't have to,'' he said in a statement. ''JPMorgan should do the right thing because it is the right thing to do.''
Mr. Blavatnik is estimated to be worth about $16 billion, making him the world's 44th richest person, according to Forbes magazine.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUDGES (92%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (91%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); CONTRACTS LAW (90%); LITIGATION (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); BREACH OF CONTRACT (90%); NEGLIGENCE (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); DAMAGES (78%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (68%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (96%); QUINN EMANUEL URQUHART & SULLIVAN LLP (61%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (96%); JPM (LSE) (96%); 8634 (TSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (96%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (96%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (96%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (61%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (61%)

PERSON: LEONARD BLAVATNIK (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2013



774 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2467 words

HEADLINE: Blasts in the Night, a Smell, And a Flood of Syrian Victims

BYLINE: By BEN HUBBARD, MARK MAZZETTI and MARK LANDLER; Ben Hubbard reported from Beirut, and Mark Mazzetti and Mark Landler from Washington. Jodi Rudoren contributed reporting from Jerusalem, and Michael R. Gordon from Washington.

 BODY:
BEIRUT, Lebanon -- Thousands of sick and dying Syrians had flooded the hospitals in the Damascus suburbs before dawn, hours after the first rockets landed, their bodies convulsing and mouths foaming. Their vision was blurry and many could not breathe.
Overwhelmed doctors worked frantically, jabbing their patients with injections of their only antidote, atropine, hoping to beat back the assault on the nervous system waged by suspected chemical agents. In just a few hours, as the patients poured in, the atropine ran out.
To avoid contamination, medics stripped new arrivals down to their underwear and doused them with water before taking them inside.
New patients kept coming. One doctor from the town of Kafr Batna likened the scene to a horror movie, with cars bringing in entire families -- fathers, mothers and children -- all of them dead. 
The doctors soon faced a new problem: where to put the dead. Some were covered with blocks of ice to fend off the summer heat, others were wrapped in white sheets and lined up in rows so family members could identify the victims.
It would be hours before officials in Washington woke up on Wednesday to learn the extent of the massacre. President Obama, who had recently returned from a weeklong vacation and planned a quiet day at the White House before departing for a two-day bus tour across New York and Pennsylvania, was told of the attack in the Oval Office that morning during his regular intelligence briefing.
The White House issued a cautious public statement about the attacks from a deputy spokesman shortly before noon, but behind the scenes the president and his national security team were grappling with the urgency and enormity of the event: the largest mass killing of the Syrian civil war, and most likely the deadliest chemical weapons attack since Saddam Hussein's troops killed thousands of Kurds with sarin gas during the waning days of the Iran-Iraq war in 1988.
Interviews with more than two dozen activists, rebels and doctors in areas near the attack sites, as well as an examination of more than 100 videos and photos of the aftermath, back up this assertion.
Not only has the attack brought widespread condemnation on President Bashar al-Assad's government in Syria, which the United States and its allies are convinced carried out the strike, it is also already shaping up as an inflection point for a war that has been grinding on for more than two years and has claimed more than 100,000 victims.
An American president who has tried desperately to keep the United States out of another war in the Middle East is now weighing a military attack on Syria -- cornered by his own statement that a large-scale chemical weapons strike would be a ''red line'' forcing Washington to respond.
Mr. Assad's government has repeatedly denied using chemical weapons, while blaming rebels for reported attacks. But Western nations say they have solid evidence that the Syrian government has used such weapons on at least two occasions before last Wednesday. And the supplies of atropine on hand in rebel-held areas just outside Syria's capital testify to the repeated, if limited, use of chemical agents as a tactical weapon in what has become a street-by-street war of attrition, the rebels and doctors said.
If the United States does get involved, it will most likely be because of the scale of what took place in the dead of night last Wednesday, in towns just outside Damascus that the government was determined to retake. The attacks caused such chaos among residents that the death toll is still unknown, and many are still uncertain about the fate of their relatives.
''Those are my cousins,'' said one person in a video shot in the city of Hamouriyeh, pointing to the ground where the bodies of a man and his two children lay.
''I'm still looking for the rest,'' he said. ''Five or six of them.''
By nightfall in Syria, the bodies that were unclaimed had been buried in an archipelago of new mass graves. Before laying them to rest, activists put numbers on their foreheads and snapped photos -- in case their families came looking for them later.
Many Trapped at Home
It began just after 2 a.m.
Those who heard the explosions and lived to tell about them were surprised at the sound, saying it was ''like a water tank bursting'' or ''like opening a Pepsi bottle.''
Then came the smell, which burned eyes and throats, like onions or chlorine.
The effects were immediate and devastating.
At the time of the strikes, a few hours before morning prayers, most people were still asleep in their homes. The substance released by the barrage of rockets, which crashed into suburbs on two sides of Damascus, killed many people before they were even able to get out of their beds.
The deadliest of the attacks struck at the heart of a region known as Eastern Ghouta, an area northeast of Damascus whose towns have swelled into cities in recent decades with an influx of mostly poor Sunni Muslims from the countryside, the key constituency of the anti-Assad uprising.
Towns in the area have been held for more than a year by various factions of the rebellion. Unlike in northern and eastern Syria, extremist groups like the Nusra Front are not dominant. The area's economic isolation made it fertile ground for the rebellion, and it has proved to be a perpetual threat to Mr. Assad's control over the capital region.
The neighborhoods are dotted with homes that have been damaged -- or have collapsed outright -- from the persistent government shelling over the past year.
In the months before Wednesday's attack, according to interviews with rebels, the battle around Eastern Ghouta had reached a stalemate. While both sides frequently carried out guerrilla raids and sniper attacks, the front lines had moved little.
In the meantime, the government had sought to break the stalemate by severing the region's links to the capital and starving rebel troops in Eastern Ghouta. Shipments of flour, fuel and electricity to the area were stopped, and government troops on the few remaining byways confiscated bread and siphoned fuel from gas tanks to ensure it did not reach the rebels.
Shortly after Wednesday's rocket barrage began, rebel fighters spread the news of the assault by shouting, ''Chemical attack!'' into their walkie-talkies while loudspeakers affixed to minarets on the top of mosques blared warnings to residents to flee or to seek fresh air on their rooftops.
As in many rebel areas, residents had grown used to dealing with government attacks, instincts that this time only increased the death toll.
According to local doctors, some people took cover in basements, where the gas settled and suffocated them. Medics and photographers who had become accustomed to rushing to the site of attacks arrived too quickly, succumbing to the gases themselves.
The attacks appeared to fit into a pattern of continued escalation by government forces throughout the war, with large strikes on residential areas that appear to serve no immediate tactical purpose.
Such attacks seem to be aimed not at killing rebel fighters, but at terrifying the rebels' civilian backers in strategic areas that Mr. Assad's forces have been unable to subdue.
''They knew that people's sons were on the front lines, so if you hit their families, they would go back and check on them and it would be easier to invade,'' said an activist from Zamalka who gave only his first name, Firas. But he said that the tactic had not worked and had instead rallied rebel fighters to defend their positions.
Some military analysts said that the apparent chemical attack appeared to be part of a broader operation by Mr. Assad's forces, which have also used tanks, conventionally armed rockets and air power to wrest control of rebel areas around the Syrian capital.
''It appears that they were trying to break resistance in the Damascus area, which they have been trying to do unsuccessfully for some time,'' said Jeffrey White, a former Middle East analyst with the Defense Intelligence Agency who is now a fellow at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy.
Firas, the activist, said he was driving home with some friends when he heard about the attack over his walkie-talkie. He said he was terrified, since no one knew where the attacks had occurred and how far the suspected gas had spread. They used wet pieces of cloth to cover their noses and mouths and sped out of town to a field hospital farther east.
Hospitals Overwhelmed
Whatever the chemicals used, the carnage caused by Wednesday's attack overwhelmed field hospitals on the outskirts of Damascus. Bodies covered tile floors, stretched down hallways and were laid out on sidewalks and streets.
A doctor from the town of Kafr Batna said he rushed to his clinic soon after the attack and found 100 patients.
''We had men, women and children, all of them choking and having trouble breathing,'' said the doctor, Sakhr. ''Some of them had foam coming out of their mouths and nostrils and many had lost consciousness.''
The medical charity Doctors Without Borders said Saturday that three clinics it supports in the area recorded 355 deaths.
The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, which tracks the conflict from Britain through a network of contacts inside Syria, said it had confirmed the deaths of 322 people, including 54 children and 82 women.
Some activists have compiled lists of names and say that more than 1,000 people were killed in Wednesday's predawn attack.
By the end of that day, Dr. Sakhr of Kafr Batna said, 16 of the 160 bodies collected at his clinic had not been claimed. Volunteers took the bodies to a nearby graveyard, photographed their faces one by one, and buried them in a mass grave.
For those who survived, there was a different kind of grim reckoning.
Nearly a week after the attack, Dr. Sakhr said local residents who had not fled the area were flooding him with questions about where to sleep to protect themselves from future attacks.
Others were still searching for lost relatives, including children who had been taken in by strangers after their parents disappeared.
''Some found their relatives, said 'praise God' and sat down next to them,'' said Dr. Sakhr.
''Others didn't find them, and had to look elsewhere.''
A Careful Response
As video images and eyewitness accounts of the assault began to spread through social media, President Obama was easing back into his routine after a week away on Martha's Vineyard. His only public event last Tuesday, hours before the attack began, was welcoming players from the undefeated 1972 Miami Dolphins to the White House for a much-belated ceremony.
The president had planned no public events for Wednesday. When he learned of the attack during his intelligence briefing that morning, many hours after it had occurred, American intelligence about the attack was still sketchy. But officials said that if the reports of chemical weapons use proved to be true, the attack was on a far greater scale than chemical attacks earlier this year.
Still, the White House moved carefully, driven in part by its experience with smaller-scale chemical weapons attacks in Aleppo and on the outskirts of Damascus. In those cases, a senior official said, there was conflicting evidence long afterward.
''In the past, it took weeks to match eyewitness accounts with intelligence,'' said a senior official, speaking on the condition of anonymity to discuss the internal deliberations. ''This time, there was a consistency in all the information that was coming in for the first 24 to 48 hours.''
In the subsequent statement, which was only two paragraphs, the White House urged the Assad government to allow United Nations investigators to visit the site and put the emphasis on gathering more information. The statement was issued by the White House's deputy spokesman, Josh Earnest, who declined to speculate about who was culpable for the attack.
Mr. Obama kept his travel plans to upstate New York on Thursday, although as his armored bus rolled from Buffalo to Rochester to Seneca Falls, he was on the phone several times with his national security adviser, Susan E. Rice.
At the White House that morning, Ms. Rice had convened a three-hour meeting of cabinet officials, including Secretary of State John Kerry, Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel and John O. Brennan, the director of the C.I.A. Military officials from United States Central Command joined the meeting by video.
The debate was robust, officials said. Some officials argued forcefully for military action, while others raised potential dangers about American missile strikes, including fears that they would destabilize the region and set off a vast new refugee flow into Turkey, Jordan and Lebanon.
One question that puzzled intelligence officials was exactly what kind of chemicals were used in the attack. American spy agencies conferred with allied intelligence services in Europe, Israel and Arab countries to get a clearer picture of what happened. In Israel, three Israeli officials briefed on the attack said they believed the rockets carried a ''cocktail'' of sarin gas mixed with several other components. Syria's government is believed to have large quantities of sarin, mustard gas and VX.
One Israeli official even suggested that whoever planned the rocket barrage might have miscalculated.
''It's quite likely that there was kind of an operational mistake here,'' one senior Israeli suggested. ''I don't think they wanted to kill so many people, especially so many children. Maybe they were trying to hit one place or to get one effect and they got a much greater effect than they thought.''
Meanwhile, Mr. Kerry made phone calls to foreign ministers from Europe and the Arab world, hoping to build international support for a potential military strike against Mr. Assad.
On the day of the White House meeting, he called Syria's foreign minister, Walid al-Moallem, to complain that the Assad government had not allowed United Nations inspectors to quickly visit the sites of the suspected attack.
It was a rare high-level contact between American and Syrian officials in the time since the United States closed its embassy in Damascus last year.
As Thursday wore into Friday, American officials said, it became clear that the Assad government was still thwarting the members of the United Nations team -- who had arrived in Damascus days earlier to inspect other possible chemical weapons sites -- from visiting the scenes of Wednesday's attack. Russia, long a supporter of President Assad, was blaming rebel forces.
Russia's public statements blaming the rebels hardened the views of White House officials. By the time the full National Security Council assembled, with Mr. Obama presiding, on Saturday morning, ''the focus had really shifted to how we respond to this event, not whether we respond,'' a senior official said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: On Monday, United Nations chemical weapons experts viewed some of the victims of last week's attack near Damascus, Syria. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ABO ALNOUR ALHAJI/REUTERS) (A1)
In a photo the Syrian opposition released, people viewed bodies of those who the rebels said had died in an attack near Damascus. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHAAM NEWS NETWORK, VIA AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (A10) MAPS: Areas Affected by the Alleged Chemical Attack: Opposition groups said that rockets carrying chemical weapons hit the towns of Ain Tarma, Zamalka, Jobar and Muadamiya shortly after 2 a.m. Wednesday. Victims were taken to clinics in neighboring towns. (Sources: Witnesses reached by Skype and videos posted online.) (MAP BY GOOGLE EARTH)
 GRAPHIC: Symptoms shown on videos posted online included suffocation, convulsions, irritated eyes and foaming. (GRAPHIC BY BEN HUBBARD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (87%); 2011 SYRIAN UPRISING (78%); HOSPITALS (78%); BOTTLED WATER & ICE (75%); CIVIL WAR (68%); NATIONAL SECURITY (64%); ARMED FORCES (62%); HORROR FILMS (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%)

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (50%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (93%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (92%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) SYRIA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); LEBANON (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAQ (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2013



775 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 830 words

HEADLINE: Britain's Furor Over Fracking

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN. 
Frank Bruni and Joe Nocera are off today.

 BODY:
BALCOMBE, England -- The lovely green hills of the High Weald are Tory country, a corner of West Sussex full of affluent residents who commute to London and like their golf and ambles and thatched cottages. So it is a surprise, in this conservative heartland, to stumble on an encampment of hundreds of activists, foraging in the hedgerows for edible greens, sawing wood for fires, playing flutes and generally enacting a kind of mini-Woodstock.
But peace and love are not the story. This is the heavily policed front line of Britain's fracking war. A conflict has erupted over Prime Minister David Cameron's vision of turning the English countryside into hydraulic-fracturing central, a place where West Sussex would release its inner West Texas. 
''There's about 1,300 trillion cubic feet of shale gas lying underneath Britain at the moment,'' he enthused this month. Extracting even one-tenth of it would provide 51 years of gas supply. The man who vowed in 2010 to head ''the greenest government ever'' was adamant in an article in The Daily Telegraph: ''We cannot afford to miss out on fracking.''
To which banners on the road outside the village of Balcombe offer this retort: ''Fracking kills.''
Bianca Jagger has joined the battle against the dash for gas. A Green M. P. has been arrested. So has Natalie Hynde, daughter of the rockers Ray Davies of the Kinks and Chrissie Hynde of the Pretenders. Scuffles have erupted at the gates of the site where Cuadrilla Resources -- whose chairman, Lord Browne, once headed BP -- is drilling for oil, and is suspected of doing exploratory work for possible fracking.
Arthur Melduish, 29, emerged bleary-eyed from his tent. ''Fracking is not wanted here on this planet,'' he said. ''It would poison our water supply. I've read how in the United States you can light your taps. We don't drink fire in this country.''
In fact -- as shale gas production in the United States shot up from very little in 2000 to well over 10 billion cubic feet per day in 2010 and as gas prices have tumbled -- the case that fracking causes severe groundwater contamination remains unproven, even if many studies suggest links to deteriorating quality.
Fracking involves shooting a cocktail of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into rock to fracture it and release the gas. It poses problems of methane leakage, and the disposal of huge quantities of waste water. In densely populated, water-strained areas, like southern England, these issues become especially acute. Europe as a whole is skeptical. France has banned it, as has Bulgaria. German beer makers are angst-filled.
So Cameron has stuck his neck out on fracking, with little or no national debate. He has vowed to win the fracking cause while avoiding any major speech on the government's supposed commitment to low-carbon energy. Like the Labour prime minister Tony Blair's advocacy of genetically modified food in the 1990s -- an attempt that failed -- he has taken on nature-loving middle England.
Why? There is huge money involved. Beyond economic considerations, fracking has become one of those hot-button politico-cultural issues (like G. M. crops) where you demonstrate your credentials in a post-ideological world. It is a cause to bray about before you consider the complex science, a badge of allegiance.
Cameron, whose Conservative Party faces an election in 2015, is more concerned about losing votes to the right (the Euro-skeptic U. K. Independence Party) than to the left. As fracking's cheerleader, he secures his right flank -- and gets The Daily Mail, The Telegraph and The Times of London behind him.
Sue Taylor, a chartered accountant and longtime Tory, is unimpressed. She appears at Balcombe's Half Moon Inn pub with three friends and a T-shirt that reads ''Conservatives against fracking.'' She has started a Web site and just donated $30 to a local store collecting for the protesters. ''I've never done anything like this before,'' she says. (At the bar four men are grumbling about the ''rent-a-mob'' down the road.)
What has enraged Taylor is the absence of any debate or scientific review, Cameron's U-turn on protecting ''Areas of Outstanding National Beauty'' (the High Weald is one), the threat to water and the unsavory politics: The local Tory M. P. is Francis Maude, who, as minister for the Cabinet Office, appointed Lord Browne in 2010 as the government's lead nonexecutive director, an advisory role.
Taylor's friend Jackie Bedson says: ''This is worse than anything the Bushes ever did -- well, that we know of.''
These Tory women's fury is justified. I think fracking should have a British -- and European -- future. Shale gas is an important new element in global energy supplies, a cost cutter and a geostrategic game changer that lessens Western dependence on Russia and Iran. But Cameron, by talking about the need for transparency while providing none, has undermined that future, and pretty Balcombe may well be precisely the kind of place least suited to it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); GOLF (90%); HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); NATURAL GAS (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); METHANE (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (70%); WAR & CONFLICT (70%); ARRESTS (64%); BEER & ALE (61%); BREWERIES (60%); WATER POLLUTION (60%)

PERSON: DAVID CAMERON (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED KINGDOM (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); ENGLAND (92%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (72%); BULGARIA (51%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2013



776 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 581 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Warns Congress Over Raising Debt Ceiling

BYLINE: By ANNIE LOWREY

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Unless Congress raises the debt ceiling, the Treasury Department said on Monday that it expected to lose the ability to pay all of the government's bills in mid-October.
That means a recalcitrant Congress will face two major budget deadlines only two weeks apart, since the stopgap ''continuing resolution'' that finances the federal government runs out at the end of September.
Members of Congress are sharply divided over what to include in measures financing the government and raising the debt ceiling. 
Some Republican lawmakers have said they want to see an increase in the debt limit paired with other measures to decrease the deficit. ''We're not going to raise the debt ceiling without real cuts in spending,'' Speaker John A. Boehner of Ohio told reporters last month.
Republicans have also floated the idea of insisting on delaying parts of the Affordable Care Act as part of any deal.
But on Monday, the White House again said it would not allow Republicans to use the debt ceiling as political leverage in negotiations this fall. ''Let me reiterate what our position is, and it is unequivocal,'' said Jay Carney, the White House press secretary. ''We will not negotiate with Republicans in Congress over Congress' responsibility to pay the bills that Congress has racked up, period.''
The debt ceiling stands at about $16.7 trillion. Congress passed a measure increasing it by about $300 billion in January.
Congress will also wrangle over how to keep the federal government's lights on. The White House and many members of Congress want to try again for a broader deficit-reduction deal, which might replace the $85 billion in mandatory cuts known as the sequester with a different package of cuts, including changes to social programs and perhaps tax increases.
''The president has put forward a clear compromise proposal, a broad compromise proposal that would reduce the deficit significantly, including through savings in our entitlement programs, in a balanced way,'' Mr. Carney said on Monday. ''We continue to await a response.''
Administration officials are again warning about the havoc Congress might unleash by failing to raise the debt ceiling.
The Treasury would be able to spend money only as it came in. It might be forced to choose certain payments over others -- paying bondholders but not Social Security recipients, for instance. Some analysts question whether the government's payment systems could even handle such prioritization.
''The rate at which cash will be drawn down depends on factors that are inherently variable and irregular,'' Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew said in a letter Monday to Mr. Boehner imploring the House to act on the debt ceiling before mid-October. ''If investors should become unwilling to loan the United States money, the United States could face an immediate cash shortfall. Indeed, such a scenario could undermine financial markets and result in significant disruptions to our economy.''
The government officially bumped up against its borrowing limit in May. At that point, the Treasury stopped issuing new debt and started employing ''extraordinary measures'' to ensure that the government had enough cash to make its required payments. But those measures bought only so much time.
If the continuing resolution were to expire without a new patch or appropriations bill, the federal government would shut down, with thousands of employees put on furlough and only essential services, like air traffic control, continuing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEBT CEILING (95%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); BONDS (73%); TAX LAW (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%)

PERSON: JACK LEW (79%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2013



777 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 661 words

HEADLINE: Harrisburg Files Plan For Finances With Court

BYLINE: By JON HURDLE

 BODY:
A receiver overseeing the finances of Pennsylvania's distressed capital, Harrisburg, filed a detailed plan on Monday showing how the city will sell or lease assets and raise new revenue as it seeks to escape from a mountain of debt and restore financial stability.
The receiver, William B. Lynch, said that the city would sell a municipal trash incinerator for $126 million to $132 million and that it would reap $1.5 million a year from the 40-year lease of 13 parking garages and lots to specific operators. 
The transactions will allow the city to resolve a debt of about $345 million accumulated by the incinerator during decades of bond sales for upgrades and repairs, Mr. Lynch said in a 357-page filing with Commonwealth Court, which is expected to take two to three weeks to decide whether to approve the plan. The proceeds from both sources will allow the city to balance its budget after several years in which it has missed bond payments and struggled to meet its payroll.
The plan also avoids filing for Chapter 9 bankruptcy, an option that was taken by Detroit in the largest municipal bankruptcy in United States history. Some Harrisburg officials favored a bankruptcy filing, but Pennsylvania passed a law making the city ineligible.
The new plan gives specifics to an earlier outline agreement under which stakeholders -- including creditors, bondholders, the City Council and the administration of Mayor Linda D. Thompson -- settled their differences after years of acrimony over how the financial pain of settling debts and rebuilding revenue should be divided.
''Civic, community and governmental leaders, as well as creditor interests, have come together to achieve a resolution that as recently as this year many thought not possible,'' the document said.
It said the agreement was reached because all parties recognized the need to make sacrifices and to ''not insist on receiving the full benefit of their legal or contractual rights.''
Mayor Thompson said the plan could become a template for other cities struggling to balance their budgets.
''If confirmed by the Commonwealth Court, we believe Harrisburg will become a model for other financially distressed municipalities in Pennsylvania and across the country,'' she said in a statement.
As a result of the agreement, titled ''Harrisburg Strong,'' the city will be permanently absolved of its huge incinerator debt without an increase in real estate taxes. It can balance its budget through 2016, and it will gain $25 million over the next several years for infrastructure, economic development and debt payment.
The agreement was achieved in part through a ''meaningful reduction'' in public-sector labor costs after modifying labor contracts through 2016, and by a ''reworking'' of the city's obligations to its general-obligation bondholders and other creditors.
It also pledged to return the financial management of the city to its elected officials ''as soon as possible,'' ending the role of the receiver.
Harrisburg's heavy debt load made it vulnerable to the recent decline in the value of municipal bonds prompted by the Federal Reserve's statements that it intended to phase out its monthly bond buying to stimulate the economy.
''The pricing of bonds being used to fund the two transactions has not yet occurred,'' the document said. ''Thus, the exact amount of funds from those transactions, which are necessary to the successful consummation of this plan, are not yet known, and are tied closely to the prevailing interest rates in the municipal bond market.''
Despite the reduction in available money brought about by the decline in bond prices, financing is still sufficient for the plan to work, the document said.
The latest plan goes further than one presented for court approval in March 2012, which failed because it failed to get the agreement of all Harrisburg's warring parties, the receiver said. By contrast, ''virtually all'' of the affected parties have signed on to the new plan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); MAYORS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); CITIES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (78%); APPROVALS (74%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); CONTRACTS LAW (71%); SOLID WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (71%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (70%); LEGISLATION (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARRISBURG, PA, USA (94%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2013



778 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; FROM THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE; Pg. 

LENGTH: 294 words

HEADLINE: 100, 75, 50 Years Ago

 BODY:
1913 'Absolutely Unprepared for War'
NEW YORK -- The Herald's publication of General Meade's letters, describing the fatal lesson of unpreparedness afforded by the Mexican war of 1845, have made a great ''hit'' throughout the country. Their timeliness and truthfulness have brought comments from Mr. L.M. Garrison, the Secretary of War, who said: ''We are absolutely unprepared for war. There are just 33,000 regulars in all the continental regiments of the United States. If the United States were to be plunged into a conflict with a first-class Power, an army of 600,000 men would be necessary.'' 
1938 Daladier Wins 40-Hour Battle
PARIS -- Under the threat of feverish German rearmament, which bids fair, unless matched, to give the Reich a wide margin of military superiority over France, Premier Edouard Daladier yesterday [Aug. 26] stood firm by his plan to modify the French 40-hour week, so as to permit increased hours of work for industries connected with national defense. ''The 40-hour law is not to be repealed, but modified in such a way as to permit the necessities of the national defense to be satisfied as well as the economic necessities of the country,'' he said.
1963 South Africa Diplomats Meet
CAPE TOWN -- Foreign Minister Eric Louw has summoned his key ambassadors from abroad to prepare for a possible increase in troubled relations with the West. The talks are being held before the U.N. General Assembly meets next month so that the Verwoerd government can plot its strategy. In the past this operation has taken the form mainly of collaborating with the Western powers to counter the Afro-Asian bloc, but now this collaboration is breaking down. Some here are saying bluntly that the U.S. government is leading an agitation against South Africa.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (72%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (70%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (66%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (75%); CAPE TOWN, SOUTH AFRICA (52%) UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); FRANCE (75%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2013



779 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 443 words

HEADLINE: Party Leader In India Becomes Ill After Speech

BYLINE: By ELLEN BARRY; Hari Kumar contributed reporting.

 BODY:
NEW DELHI -- Sonia Gandhi, leader of the Indian National Congress Party, was released from a hospital in the capital early Tuesday after she became ill during a Monday parliamentary session and was briefly admitted to a cardiology unit. 
Janardan Dwivedi, the party's general secretary, told reporters at the hospital that Mrs. Gandhi, 66, had suffered side effects from a medication, and was in good condition.
Mrs. Gandhi became ill during a vote on a landmark food security initiative, which she has thrown her support behind. A majority in India's lower house of Parliament approved the food security bill on Monday. If approved by the upper house, the measure will extend food subsidies to much of India's population, at an annual cost of around $20 billion.
After giving a rare speech to lawmakers, Mrs. Gandhi was seen leaving Parliament with her son, Rahul, the party's vice president. Descending a flight of stairs, she appeared shaky and took the arm of a minister walking alongside her, before climbing into a waiting car.
Numerous party officials, including Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, visited her in the hospital on Monday night.
Passing the food security measure would be a major victory for the Congress Party because it would help shore up support in crucial constituencies before parliamentary elections in 2014, and would offset some of the damage done by corruption scandals and a faltering economy.
Opposition parties slammed the bill as a pre-election stratagem that would shift the financial burden to state governments, and many parliamentary debates on the subject have descended into shouting matches.
Mrs. Gandhi told lawmakers on Monday that ''it is not a question of how we find means to implement the food bill -- we have to find the way.''
''We have, today, an opportunity to transform the lives of tens of millions of our people, and I believe that we must, together, rise to the occasion, set aside our differences, and make a firm act of commitment to their welfare and well-being,'' she said.
The health of Mrs. Gandhi was the subject of rumor and speculation in 2011, when she left India to undergo surgery in the United States. Despite complaints by some news organizations, party officials disclosed no details about her condition at the time, saying only that the surgery had been successful.
Mrs. Gandhi is the Italian-born widow of Rajiv Gandhi, the former prime minister assassinated in 1991. She is regarded as the country's most powerful politician, and served as an important campaigner during the 2004 parliamentary elections. She has campaigned less often since then, allowing Rahul to appear at many events in her stead.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sonia Gandhi 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FOOD SECURITY (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (78%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); APPROVALS (75%); POPULATION SIZE (74%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); FOOD CHARITIES (71%); SCANDALS (65%); CORRUPTION (50%)

PERSON: SONIA GANDHI (91%); MANMOHAN SINGH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (92%) INDIA (97%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2013



780 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1275 words

HEADLINE: Once an Outcast, Iranian Minister Carries Hope of Easing Tensions

BYLINE: By THOMAS ERDBRINK

 BODY:
TEHRAN -- Until this summer, Mohammad Javad Zarif, one of Iran's most accomplished diplomats, was an outcast, exiled from the government by ultraconservatives for working too closely with the West. Rather than presenting the Iranian case to the world, as he had done so effectively throughout a 35-year diplomatic career, he was spending his days teaching at the Foreign Ministry's training center on a quiet, leafy campus in North Tehran.
That changed with the election of the moderate president, Hassan Rouhani, in June. Now, Mr. Zarif is the country's new foreign minister and seems virtually certain to lead Iran's delegation in nuclear negotiations with the West -- further indications, analysts say, that Mr. Rouhani is serious about reducing tensions with the United States and other Western countries.
''Mr. Zarif is the new face of a new policy,'' said Davoud Hermidas-Bavand, a professor of international relations at Allameh Tabatabaei University in Tehran, who knows Mr. Zarif personally. ''Our former foreign policy obviously did not yield any results and was clearly doomed. We need to revise our former methods and soften our stances in order to find a solution to the nuclear problem and reduce the sanctions.'' 
Previous negotiations over Iran's nuclear program have broken down on the West's insistence that the country's government first stop enriching uranium, which world powers suspect is a first step to developing nuclear weapons. The Iranians have maintained just as steadfastly that they have the right to enrich uranium for fuel to power reactors and for other peaceful uses. Now, this diplomatic logjam may be giving way, analysts say.
''We can be sure that Mr. Zarif -- if he gets to handle the nuclear issue -- will quickly and officially propose ideas such as Iran ending enrichment up to 20 percent as a compromise,'' said François Nicoullaud, a former French ambassador to Tehran who often met with Mr. Zarif.
If Iran's leadership has decided to pursue a new policy of easing tensions with the West, and that still remains to be seen, Mr. Zarif would seem the ideal person to carry it out.
For most of the past three decades, Mr. Zarif, 53, has sought to establish a working relationship between Iran and the West. But he has focused particularly on the United States, a country he prefers to call a ''rival'' nation rather than ''the enemy,'' the label preferred by Iran's hard-liners.
He helped draft the cease-fire ending the bloody Iran-Iraq war in the 1980s, negotiated Iranian intelligence assistance for American forces in Afghanistan after the Sept. 11 attacks and spent years in New York as Iran's ambassador to the United Nations.
But his government career faltered after 2005, with the election of President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, a conservative who relished confrontation, particularly with the United States and Israel.
Mr. Ahmadinejad was returned to office in disputed elections in 2009 with the support of Iran's governing establishment of hard-line clerics and commanders, and that of the supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. But eight years of confrontation, primarily over the nuclear program, left Iran increasingly isolated politically and reeling economically from sanctions, discrediting the hard-liners in the public eye.
During his presidential campaign, Mr. Rouhani scored heavily against his opponents by repeatedly calling for a review of the country's foreign relations. ''Review does not mean a change in the principles,'' he often said. ''But our tactics and approaches should change.''
Mr. Rouhani's choice of Mr. Zarif as his tool for conducting this review is not surprising. The young Mr. Zarif moved to the United States to pursue his studies when he was 17. After Iran's diplomatic corps was expelled in retaliation for the seizure of United States Embassy personnel in Tehran in 1979, Mr. Zarif staffed Iran's embassy in Washington as an unofficial spokesman, only three weeks after his marriage. He was 19.
Years later, Mr. Zarif was allowed to fulfill his obligatory military service studying and working in the United States instead of in the trenches of the Iran-Iraq war, where upward of 400,000 young Iranian men died. He studied international relations at San Francisco State University and the University of Denver. From 2002 to 2007, largely under the reformist president, Mohammad Khatami, he served as Iran's representative to the United Nations.
He spent nearly 30 years in the United States, more than anybody in Iran's current ruling establishment. So close are his ties to the United States -- and so suspiciously are they viewed in Iran -- that recently, while defending his nomination in Parliament, he was forced to emphasize that he had never applied for American citizenship or permanent residency.
His English is fluent, and both Western diplomats and journalists laud him as one of the rare Iranian officials who actually talk clearly to them. But Mr. Zarif is by no means a westernized Iranian. His wife rarely appears in public, and like other Iranian diplomats, he declines to shake hands with women for religious reasons. In New York, he rarely attended parties or gatherings, the way other diplomats do, saying he was by nature very shy.
In a series of interviews with him in recent years published a month ago and titled ''Mr. Ambassador,'' Mr. Zarif made clear that he was a proponent of establishing relations with the United States because that was in Iran's best interests, and not because he had any special affection for the country or doubted Iran's revolutionary ideals.
''I, due to many reasons, believe that we would lose less by having direct interaction,'' he said in a chapter on hypothetical relations between the estranged countries. ''Relations with America is a means to be in line with national benefits.'' Still, as he mentions in another interview in the series, ''those relations can never be friendly.''
He was a member of Mr. Rouhani's three-man negotiating team in 2003, when Iran struck the only nuclear deal with the West and agreed to suspend enrichment from 2003 to 2005.
But that deal ultimately fell apart in acrimony, empowering hard-line factions that effectively sidelined Mr. Zarif and his mentor, Mr. Rouhani, labeling them as sellouts to the West.
The language of Iran's foreign policy has long alternated between harsh language and delicate diplomacy, at times playing up tensions with Western countries and at other times cooling them down, often in response to domestic imperatives. With the appointment of Mr. Zarif, analysts say, the pendulum seems to have swung decisively to the cooler zone.
''Mr. Zarif is certainly the best choice for the coming time, when Iran will try to reach out to the West,'' said Mr. Nicoullaud, the French diplomat. While he is optimistic about Mr. Zarif's appointment, he cautions against raising expectations too high. ''Iran's style will change, but they will not give in on their principles.''
Both Mr. Rouhani and Mr. Zarif have been calling for ''a single foreign policy,'' rather than sending out diffuse and conflicting messages and statements. If he is indeed given the nuclear portfolio, Mr. Zarif can be expected to bring this new approach to the negotiations -- a far cry from his predecessor, Saeed Jalili, who was known for his endless theoretical debates with his Western counterparts.
But Mr. Zarif can bend only so far, many analysts warn. ''Both he and Mr. Rouhani will try hard to solve this matter,'' Mr. Nicoullaud said. ''But in the end, their faith is in the hands of their Western counterparts. If they do not seize this opportunity, domestic critics will again take them down.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Hassan Rouhani of Iran, left, with Mohammad Javad Zarif in Tehran this month. Mr. Zarif seems most likely to lead Iran's delegation in nuclear talks. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ABEDIN TAHERKENAREH/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); PEACE PROCESS (75%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (75%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (65%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (64%); WAR & CONFLICT (60%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%)

PERSON: HASSAN ROUHANI (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN (90%); IRAQ (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2013



781 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Sports Desk; REMOTE CONTROL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 4339 words

HEADLINE: To Protect Its Empire, ESPN Stays on Offense

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR, JAMES ANDREW MILLER and STEVE EDER; Jo Craven McGinty contributed reporting.

 BODY:
ESPN likes to call itself the Worldwide Leader in Sports, and by most every measure it is in a league of its own.
The network produced 35,000 hours of programming in 2012, including at least half of all live athletic events televised in the United States. It is a prodigious cash machine, regularly generating nearly half of the operating profit of Disney, its parent company. Wielding its wealth, it buys the rights to nearly all it desires: $15.2 billion for ''Monday Night Football,'' $5.6 billion for Major League Baseball and $7.3 billion for a 12-year deal to broadcast the new college football playoff system, to name just a few. From its sprawling 123-acre campus in Bristol, Conn., ESPN operates seven national channels, an industry-leading Web site, a magazine and international sites like ESPNcricinfo.com, for cricket fans.
So it may be hard to imagine that the sports media conglomerate has arrived at one of the most precarious moments in its nearly 34-year life. 
The more than $6 billion in cable fees flowing annually to ESPN from almost 100 million homes is threatened as growing numbers of consumers cut ties with cable providers to avoid rising bills for pay TV, turning instead to video streaming services. In Washington, a renewed push to undo the bundling of channels into cable packages and allow viewers to simply pay for those they want has even drawn the support of Senator Richard Blumenthal, who represents ESPN's home state.
ESPN's viewership numbers plunged earlier this year, and that was before the debut this month of Fox Sports 1, a 24-hour network funded lavishly by Rupert Murdoch's 21st Century Fox. Fox Sports 1 is likely to shape up as ESPN's most formidable head-to-head rival.
All of this, particularly consumers' move away from pay TV, is reverberating in Bristol. ''This is the most complicated environment we've faced in a long time,'' said John Skipper, the president of ESPN.
But ESPN has shown over the past decade that it will fight tenaciously and opportunistically to protect an empire it built by using the billions of dollars it collected from cable fees to gobble up the rights to more and more sports events.
In the mid-2000s, ESPN's appetite for programming was so voracious that the Justice Department looked into complaints that the network was engaging in anticompetitive practices -- an inquiry that ESPN executives first acknowledged in recent interviews. The complaint centered on ESPN's practice of buying rights to more college games than it had the capacity to televise, leading to accusations that by ''warehousing'' games, it was depriving colleges of exposure and other networks of potentially valuable programming.
Although no action was taken against ESPN, it began to share programming with the competitor that brought the complaint, and it went on to create ESPNU, a channel dedicated to college sports.
During the same period, Washington was leveling one of its periodic attacks on what Mr. Skipper calls ESPN's ''beautiful business model'' -- the rising monthly fee that now stands at $5.54, according to the media research firm SNL Kagan, and is paid by homes with expanded basic cable packages, almost all of which include ESPN.
With cable packages known as bundles under repeated attack, ESPN and Disney have gone on the offensive, making it one of their priorities in Washington. Beyond lobbying and campaign donations, they have hosted lawmakers in Bristol and in Burbank, Calif. They brought their stars to Washington, where ESPN, the network that turned competition into 24-hour fare, has often found an eager audience among political players.
''I was proud to call on senators, congressmen, F.C.C. commissioners, staff and talk about ESPN,'' said George Bodenheimer, ESPN's president from 1998 to 2012. ''And by the way, many, many of those folks enjoyed talking about ESPN.''A Fight Over Bundles
Given ESPN's usual reception in Washington, it was perhaps surprising that Mr. Blumenthal decided last month to co-sponsor legislation with Senator John McCain aimed at undoing bundles -- a signal that the cable pricing debate had returned.
''The bill certainly puts consumers first and definitely requires the industry to make a change,'' Mr. Blumenthal, a Democrat, said. ''But on the whole, ESPN should fare relatively well, because it has an extraordinarily loyal customer base.''
Bundles are clusters of channels that media companies like Disney sell to cable, satellite and telephone companies. Disney's bundle features the stations owned by ABC, as well as the Disney Channel, Soapnet and the seven national ESPN channels. Companies with powerful bundles like Disney's have the leverage to add channels and negotiate for higher monthly fees from providers, which are passed on to viewers.
So powerful is the ESPN-fueled bundle that one veteran cable operator described negotiations with Disney as ''total surrender.''
As ESPN has added costly programming, it has consistently been able to raise its fees and has used that money to outspend its competitors and sustain a media empire unlike any other.
A former ESPN senior executive recalled a gathering of his colleagues where ''everyone toasted to the concept of compounding''-- that is, increases in subscriber fees that several years grew at a compounded annual rate of 20 percent. The current $5.54 average monthly price for ESPN is more than four times the fee for the next most expensive national network.
But the main issue for bundle opponents in Washington and among consumer advocates is that while an expanded basic package offers subscribers a smorgasbord of programming for a single fee, they are most likely paying for channels they never watch. ESPN is a prime example. Of the network's nearly 100 million households, an average of just 1.36 million viewers watched in prime time during the second quarter of this year. Although marquee programming like ''Monday Night Football'' drew big numbers, the average number of viewers over a 24-hour period in the second quarter was 713,000.
''There is no regulation that says, 'Wait a minute, is it mathematically positive, or reasonable, for 75 million who don't want ESPN to pay for the 25 percent who do, at a false price?' '' said Barry Diller, the media executive who is backing the technology of a company called Aereo that streams broadcast channels online and is viewed as a challenge to cable.
Bundling by media giants, Mr. Diller said, ''is some game if you've got it: 'Wow, what do I have to do to have this absolute pricing power in a totally closed system?' ''
Mr. McCain, an Arizona Republican, declared at a 2004 hearing that cable executives gave consumers ''all the choice of a Soviet election ballot.'' Mr. McCain has been a persistent critic of bundles, and for about 10 years he has pushed for a so-called à la carte plan, which would allow viewers to get only the channels they want.
ESPN, with Disney at its side, has been among the chief defenders of bundles, calling them a great value for consumers given the diversity of the programming. Without revenue from bundles, Disney has argued, it would have to increase the monthly fee for viewers who want ESPN to about $15 a month.
ESPN has long been able to deploy an array of weapons on the field of politics.
In 1999, at a sports-infused reception hosted by ESPN at the Capitol, politicians were photographed posing as sports stars on a mock cover of ESPN the Magazine. They could also pose with actual athletic legends: Muhammad Ali, Johnny Unitas and Carl Lewis.
''Senators and congressmen lined up acting like schoolboys waiting to get their picture taken with these guys,'' one former Disney lobbyist recalled.
As the cable debate heated up in the mid-2000s, ESPN and Disney representatives played the usual Washington game: testifying to Congress, lobbying on Capitol Hill, meeting with Federal Communications Commission officials and making campaign contributions.
But they also had moves all their own. When Michael Powell, the F.C.C. chairman at the time, needed a platform in the fall of 2004 to pitch to consumers his campaign to convert to digital television, he was welcomed to the halftime show of ''Monday Night Football'' on ABC, another Disney property.
According to interviews with Preston Padden, Disney's chief lobbyist at the time, and Mr. Bodenheimer, Mr. Powell's request for airtime was made to Mr. Padden and approved by Mr. Bodenheimer, who as ESPN's president was also running ABC Sports. Mr. Bodenheimer relayed his decision to the ABC production truck in Baltimore.
Mr. Bodenheimer recently said he granted Mr. Powell's request because digital TV was a ''critically important subject for all television viewers.''
Critically important to ESPN was an F.C.C. study of cable economics that was under way. Mr. Powell, who declined to comment, supported bundled programming, and a month after his October appearance he released the study, which said an à la carte plan would most likely raise consumer costs by 14 percent to 30 percent and reduce the diversity of channels.
One focus of ESPN and Disney's largess was Representative Joe Barton, a Texas Republican and the chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, which had purview over television legislation.
In 2004, Mr. Barton had helped derail a legislative move aimed at breaking up bundles. On Super Bowl weekend in February 2005, with the cable controversy bubbling, Disney paid to bring Mr. Barton and his wife to Walt Disney World in Orlando, Fla., records show. ESPN did not carry the game, which was played in Jacksonville, Fla. But in Orlando, Disney was busy entertaining advertisers.
ESPN gathered some of its executives to talk to Mr. Barton about the absence of a college football playoff, an issue that the congressman would eventually explore in hearings.
''It was Preston Padden's show and Joe Barton's agenda,'' one participant in the meeting said. Mr. Barton's travel disclosure form for Feb. 5 to 7, 2005, shows that Disney spent $3,354 on the Bartons' lodging, $1,616 for airfare and $1,200 for meals. He recorded the purpose of the trip as ''Speak to executives and fact finding.''
A spokesman for Mr. Barton declined to comment beyond saying that the report ''speaks for itself.''
Within a few weeks, Disney and ESPN employees made donations of $7,500 to Mr. Barton's political action committee, according to an analysis of records from the Center for Responsive Politics. Disney's corporate PAC contributed $5,000 more, adding to the $10,000 it had donated to Mr. Barton in 2004. Over the years, Disney and ESPN executives, and the Disney PAC, have donated $58,500 to Mr. Barton and his PAC.
Those contributions were a fraction of their donations. ESPN and Disney and their employees have donated more than $400,000, much of it since 2000, to representatives and senators who are key players on issues important to Disney, including cable.
The cable fee debate came to a head again in 2006. Mr. Powell's replacement at the F.C.C., Kevin Martin, released a report that found an à la carte plan could actually reduce costs for 40 percent of households with cable. The industry blasted the report.
In June 2006, Mr. McCain formally proposed legislation that would effectively break up bundles. But it failed by a 20-to-2 vote in the Senate commerce committee.
Mr. McCain said of Disney's lobbying effort, ''They beat me like a drum.''
Mr. Padden played down both the threat and Disney's role in defeating it. ''À la carte is an easy sound bite, but it can't withstand any level of scrutiny,'' he said.
But Matthew Polka, the industry lobbyist for small cable operators, said, ''On à la carte, there was no stronger opponent than Disney and ESPN.''
And ESPN has no more stubborn nemesis than Mr. McCain. This past spring, with cable rates and ESPN's monthly fees continuing to rise, he revived an effort aimed at undoing bundles.
''Why do I pick on ESPN?'' Mr. McCain said in an interview in May. ''I'm not picking on them. But they are the most glaring example of what people are required to watch -- I mean pay for -- even if they never watch it.''Challenges From Rivals
ESPN has used the billions of dollars in cable fees to build a moat of programming around its empire, which is likely to be tested in the coming challenge from Fox Sports 1, which made its debut on Aug. 17. ESPN's business strategy has been to aggressively buy the rights to as much programming as possible for as long as it can to impede the growth of rivals, including Fox and sports channels owned by NBC and CBS.
With ESPN having locked up the rights to so many professional and college sports contracts beyond 2020, the bidding war between it and Fox Sports 1 over the few remaining prizes is expected to be fierce. One, the Big Ten Conference, has a 10-year, $1 billion deal with ESPN that expires in 2017, but Fox has already built influence through its 49 percent ownership of the Big Ten Network. The National Basketball Association, which Fox covets, has deals through 2016 with ESPN and TNT.
ESPN's omnivorous strategy has given it such dominance that at one point in the mid-2000s, according to interviews and documents, Justice Department lawyers in Washington began questioning whether ESPN was engaging in anticompetitive behavior in handling college athletics.
No other network invested as much in college sports as ESPN or had the available time to carry more games. But by 2004, it owned the rights to far too many games to fit them on ESPN or ESPN2.
''We had an enormous amount of inventory that we weren't using, and there was a fear that the conferences would accuse us of warehousing,'' said Mark Shapiro, a former executive vice president of ESPN.
College conferences focused their frustrations on the exclusive contracts they signed with ESPN that prohibited them from taking games that ESPN held the rights to, but did not televise, and reselling them to other national networks.
''We felt that ESPN wanted our rights just to embargo them from other networks,'' Wood Selig said, recalling part of his tenure as the athletic director at Western Kentucky from 1999 to 2010. ''Like, 'If we don't show them, nobody else could.' ''
Mr. Selig, now the athletic director at Old Dominion, added, ''That was the sentiment on a lot of campuses.''
In 2004, College Sports Television complained to the Justice Department. As a fledgling network, CSTV did not have the money to buy the rights to major conferences, but it could afford the rights to midmajor and smaller conferences like the Western Athletic, the Atlantic 10 or the Mountain West. Yet no conference with an ESPN contract could, without ESPN's consent, make a deal with CSTV or any other national rival.
In meetings with Justice Department lawyers, CSTV laid out its case. It presented a report portraying ESPN as a monopolist that controlled the college sports market by using restrictive contracts, by refusing to sell unused games to competitors and by telling conferences they risked losing exposure on ESPN if they fled to CSTV.
In the 2003-4 season, the report noted, 163 Division I-A football games and 561 men's basketball games were not televised nationally because ESPN refused to let conferences resell them.
''The most powerful exhibits we showed the Department of Justice laid out what the conferences were getting paid and how few of the games were actually aired, with the rest remaining in the warehouse,'' said Chris Bevilacqua, a founder of CSTV. ''Something was out of whack.''
The Justice Department began an inquiry in the spring of 2004. ESPN lawyers cautioned executives to take it seriously and save all relevant internal e-mails, two ESPN executives said. The lawyers also told officials not to use words like ''dominate'' and ''markets'' in public -- to avoid raising the hackles of the government -- and to play up the consumer benefits of the broad array of rights ESPN controlled.
The Justice Department spoke to conference commissioners, and one government lawyer, Lawrence Frankel, sought information about contracts from CSTV, according to e-mails and documents obtained in part through the Freedom of Information Act. The Justice Department declined to comment.
In a first public acknowledgment of the inquiry, Mr. Bodenheimer said in an interview, ''It came and went quickly because there was nothing there.'' He added: ''It wasn't an issue for us. We contracted for product and we aired as much of it as we could.''
Around the same time, though, warehousing became an issue in contract talks between ESPN and the Western Athletic Conference. Karl Benson, the WAC commissioner at the time, instead wanted to make a deal with CSTV that promised more money and more TV appearances than ESPN was offering. But the athletic directors at WAC universities wanted to stick with ESPN, which had far more subscribers and offered wider exposure.
According to a CSTV executive who talked to him shortly afterward, Mr. Benson said he asked John Wildhack, a longtime senior executive at ESPN, ''How can you continue this exclusive practice in the face of this continuing D.O.J. investigation?'' In the conversation, Mr. Benson described the ESPN executive's response as ''very dismissive.'' Mr. Benson did not dispute this account.
Through a spokesman, Mr. Wildhack said he did not recall the incident but said, ''Negotiations always cover the gamut of emotions.''
In the end, the government took no action against ESPN, but CSTV executives achieved their real goal: rattling the giant enough to change the way it did business with conferences. ''If all they did was open an investigation, we won,'' Mr. Bevilacqua said.
During the time the Justice Department was asking questions, CSTV signed an exclusive deal with the Mountain West Conference, which ESPN had previously carried. Soon after, CSTV made deals to carry Conference USA and Atlantic 10 games with ESPN, a rare moment when ESPN shared national cable rights with a rival. CSTV credits the government inquiry for ESPN's change of heart.
But Mr. Bodenheimer said the Justice Department's attention had no impact. ''Look,'' he said, ''people -- competitors -- see the success of ESPN and say, 'I want some of that; I want that, too.' ''
What ESPN wanted was to maintain its dominance in college sports -- and all sports. Given its many conference contracts, starting a college network would be relatively easy. The new network, ESPNU, would reduce any warehousing and let Disney make more money when it was added to Disney's bundle of channels.
''If we could have a network that would give us a new platform and build a new revenue stream, why not?'' said Mr. Shapiro, the network's former executive vice president.
One ESPN executive involved in the start-up said: ''This was about warehousing. We needed the real estate.''
At CSTV's offices at Chelsea Piers in Manhattan, there was no gloom that ESPN had targeted it for a direct hit. ESPNU was validation of CSTV's focus on college sports.
''We had a party the day they announced ESPNU,'' said Tim Pernetti, a former CSTV executive. ''We were the new guy on the block, and this was all about good gamesmanship.''
Nearly a decade later, ESPNU is a prominent part of the Disney bundle, with more than 75 million subscribers paying an average of 20 cents a month, leading to $180 million in annual revenue.
CSTV, which was later sold to CBS and became CBS Sports Network, has nearly 50 million subscribers. Still, CBS lacks a vast array of conference rights or a strategy of spending the billions of dollars that ESPN does to get them.
Mr. Skipper, who became ESPN's president early last year, said the story of ESPNU was not about the Justice Department or warehousing, but about a company that was relentlessly competitive.
''It was much more a response to CSTV and the fact that we wanted to establish a leading position,'' he said. ''They had first mover advantage, and once again we were able to do the right things and emerge as the leader in that space.''Looking to the Future
Almost from its beginning, ESPN has controlled its destiny. One network wasn't enough? It built several more. Altering the course of sports television wasn't enough? It built Internet, international, mobile, radio, print and applications businesses that have perpetuated its dominance.
Central to that success has been a mastery of technology. ESPN runs two research laboratories that develop graphics, mine data, create equipment and package highlights and audio to feed the voracious appetite of fans who cannot get enough sports information from TV. Its ESPN3 online network is capable of showing an unlimited number of games -- a godsend to some universities, including some that so crave national exposure that they are willing to pay the costs of production. It created one channel, the Longhorn Network, devoted to a single university, Texas, and is starting a second, the SEC Network, for the powerful Southeastern Conference, in 2014.
Now ESPN is working on an interactive screen project, code-named 2016, that would let viewers simultaneously watch multiple ESPN channels or videos, send social media messages, buy products, watch commercials and summon statistics at the touch of a button.
''ESPN has no reason to have any fear as long as it keeps innovating,'' Mr. Shapiro said.
Yet ESPN does not appear to have a revolutionary advance that is capable of altering the industry the way the network did when it went on the air in September 1979.
Even as ESPN moves forward, the landscape it pioneered is rapidly changing. It recently announced cuts of up to 400 jobs, yet it will hire as needed, especially in growth areas. Although the revived à la carte legislation has an uphill battle to passage, it underscores a persistent concern with the rising costs of ESPN and other sports networks.
Beyond established cable rivals like NBCSN and CBS Sports Network, ESPN has a new and bold competitor in Fox Sports 1, which has a strong portfolio of rights. Mr. Skipper has made several early moves to strike back at Fox, hiring the political and sports statistician Nate Silver from The New York Times and bringing back Keith Olbermann to host a nightly show on ESPN2.
Meanwhile, companies like Google, Sony and Intel are planning virtual cable services that would be delivered on the Internet. They could lure consumers from traditional pay television as low-cost alternatives to traditional pay TV while also competing for major sports properties when ESPN's contracts eventually expire. Mr. Skipper said he would make deals with these upstarts, but only on ESPN's terms: they must take all of ESPN's offerings, not just the ones they want.
With the rise of new competition come questions about the fate of existing customers.
Consumers are fleeing pay TV at a quickening pace: 898,000 in the past year, nearly twice the number in the previous year, the analyst Craig Moffett said. And in the past two years, ESPN has lost more than one million subscribers.
What's more, ESPN ratings plunged 32 percent in the quarter that ended in June.
Mr. Skipper's task -- very different from that of predecessors who built ESPN into a powerhouse -- is to negotiate a deeply uncertain future.
''It's a high-class problem,'' he said.
Brad Adgate, senior vice president for research at Horizon Media, said the triple play of decreased cable customers, fewer ESPN subscribers and lower ratings was a ''worrisome trend,'' but he suggested that ESPN was hurt in the last quarter by reduced interest in the N.B.A. playoffs. ''This is not a perfect storm,'' Mr. Adgate said. ''A lot of big media companies are envious of the model Disney has. Every earnings report, ESPN is always there, a very solid part of their revenue.''
ESPN is relying on its built-in strengths: the dozens of sports and thousands of games on ESPN's networks that are live and unavailable on other networks; the loyalty of viewers who grew up on ESPN and can hum the ''SportsCenter'' theme; the passion of fans who crowd every campus where ''College GameDay'' makes its Saturday morning stops; and the WatchESPN app, which lets more than 20 million users watch all its networks' live action on mobile devices accessible only with pay-TV subscriptions. An app like WatchESPN is designed not only to keep people connected to ESPN but also to reduce cord-cutting by cable subscribers.
Mr. Skipper described WatchESPN as ''a significant measure to preserve the current system. And if you can't preserve it, it's our best opportunity to convert to something new.''
He added that while he could not imagine more than 10 percent of pay-TV subscribers cutting the cord, ''big numbers don't have to flee the system to have a profound effect on ESPN.''
His strategy is based on carrying live sports well into the next decade and beyond, thanks to Disney's cash. Mr. Skipper has held onto the rights to the Rose, Orange and Sugar Bowls, then doubled down for the new college football playoff. He has retained control of ''Monday Night Football'' and Major League Baseball rights, extended SEC rights through 2034 and agreed to share Pacific-12 rights with Fox.
Rich Greenfield, a media analyst at BTIG Research, said ESPN should not be overly concerned because it is stocked with live sports in a video universe that considers it must-see content.
''The landscape has threats,'' Mr. Greenfield said. But he added, ''The value of sports is going dramatically, even exponentially, higher.'' Even if the bundle breaks, he said, ESPN will be one of the very few companies ''that will have established a relationship directly with consumers.''
Mr. Skipper, too, believes that ESPN has created a powerful defensive strategy out of live sports contracts that last a decade or two.
''We can't stand by and say change is unlikely, but we're taking the steps to preserve and adapt,'' he said. ''The ecosystem may change, but these unique events cannot be replicated anywhere else.''
The Remote Control Series: Read all three articles examining ESPN's emergence as the most powerful force in college football and how the network tries to protect its empire.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, an ESPN control room. ESPN's president, John Skipper, above left, said it faced a ''complicated environment.'' Above center, a video frame supplied by the N.F.L. showing the F.C.C.'s Michael Powell on ''Monday Night Football.'' George Bodenheimer, above right, approved the interview. (B12)
Top left, Chris Bevilacqua, a founder of CSTV, with the executive Brian T. Bedol in 2003. A CSTV complaint led to a federal investigation of ESPN. Above, a taping of Regis Philbin's new show for Fox Sports 1. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 KARSTEN MORAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B13) CHART: An Expensive Outlier: ESPN's average monthly price is more than four times the monthly fee for the next most expensive national network. (Source: SNL Kagan)(B12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); CABLE INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); SPORTS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (89%); CABLE TELEVISION (79%); INTERNET VIDEO (78%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (77%); INTERNET BROADCASTING (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (76%); SPORTS FANS (73%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (72%); PARENT COMPANIES (71%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (70%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (70%); STREAMING MEDIA (69%); CRICKET (68%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (66%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (60%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (60%); BASEBALL (58%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (93%); ESPN INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (59%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (59%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (93%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (93%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (92%)

PERSON: RICHARD BLUMENTHAL (53%); KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (50%); REGIS PHILBIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2013



782 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1723 words

HEADLINE: The 10,000 Percent Solution

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

 BODY:
It is one of the most common components of emergency medicine: an intravenous bag of sterile saltwater.
Luckily for anyone who has ever needed an IV bag to replenish lost fluids or to receive medication, it is also one of the least expensive. The average manufacturer's price, according to government data, has fluctuated in recent years from 44 cents to $1.
Yet there is nothing either cheap or simple about its ultimate cost, as I learned when I tried to trace the commercial path of IV bags from the factory to the veins of more than 100 patients struck by a May 2012 outbreak of food poisoning in upstate New York.
Some of the patients' bills would later include markups of 100 to 200 times the manufacturer's price, not counting separate charges for ''IV administration.'' And on other bills, a bundled charge for ''IV therapy'' was almost 1,000 times the official cost of the solution. 
It is no secret that medical care in the United States is overpriced. But as the tale of the humble IV bag shows all too clearly, it is secrecy that helps keep prices high: hidden in the underbrush of transactions among multiple buyers and sellers, and in the hieroglyphics of hospital bills.
At every step from manufacturer to patient, there are confidential deals among the major players, including drug companies, purchasing organizations and distributors, and insurers. These deals so obscure prices and profits that even participants cannot say what the simplest component of care actually costs, let alone what it should cost.
And that leaves taxpayers and patients alike with an inflated bottom line and little or no way to challenge it.
A Price in Flux
In the food-poisoning case, some of the stricken were affluent, and others barely made ends meet. Some had private insurance; some were covered by government programs like Medicare and Medicaid; and some were uninsured.
In the end, those factors strongly (and sometimes perversely) affected overall charges for treatment, including how much patients were expected to pay out of pocket. But at the beginning, there was the cost of an IV bag of normal saline, one of more than a billion units used in the United States each year.
''People are shocked when they hear that a bag of saline solution costs far less than their cup of coffee in the morning,'' said Deborah Spak, a spokeswoman for Baxter International, one of three global pharmaceutical companies that make nearly all the IV solutions used in the United States.
It was a rare unguarded comment. Ms. Spak -- like a spokesman for Hospira, another giant in the field -- later insisted that all information about saline solution prices was private.
In fact, manufacturers are required to report such prices annually to the federal government, which bases Medicare payments on the average national price plus 6 percent. The limit for one liter of normal saline (a little more than a quart) went to $1.07 this year from 46 cents in 2010, an increase manufacturers linked to the cost of raw materials, fuel and transportation. That would seem to make it the rare medical item that is cheaper in the United States than in France, where the price at a typical hospital in Paris last year was 3.62 euros, or $4.73.
Middlemen at the Fore
One-liter IV bags normally contain nine grams of salt, less than two teaspoons. Much of it comes from a major Morton Salt operation in Rittman, Ohio, which uses a subterranean salt deposit formed millions of years ago. The water is local to places like Round Lake, Ill., or Rocky Mount, N.C., where Baxter and Hospira, respectively, run their biggest automated production plants under sterility standards set by the Food and Drug Administration.
But even before the finished product is sold by the case or the truckload, the real cost of a bag of normal saline, like the true cost of medical supplies from gauze to heart implants, disappears into an opaque realm of byzantine contracts, confidential rebates and fees that would be considered illegal kickbacks in many other industries.
IV bags can function like cheap milk and eggs in a high-priced grocery store, or like the one-cent cellphone locked into an expensive service contract. They serve as loss leaders in exclusive contracts with ''preferred manufacturers'' that bundle together expensive drugs and basics, or throw in ''free'' medical equipment with costly consequences.
Few hospitals negotiate these deals themselves. Instead, they rely on two formidable sets of middlemen: a few giant group-purchasing organizations that negotiate high-volume contracts, and a few giant distributors that buy and store medical supplies and deliver them to hospitals.
Proponents of this system say it saves hospitals billions in economies of scale. Critics say the middlemen not only take their cut, but they have a strong interest in keeping most prices high and competition minimal.
The top three group-purchasing organizations now handle contracts for more than half of all institutional medical supplies sold in the United States, including the IVs used in the food-poisoning case, which were bought and taken by truck to regional warehouses by big distributors.
These contracts proved to be another black box. Debbie Mitchell, a spokeswoman for Cardinal Health, one of the three largest distributors, said she could not discuss costs or prices under ''disclosure rules relative to our investor relations.''
Distributors match different confidential prices for the same product with each hospital's contract, she said, and sell information on the buyers back to manufacturers.
A huge Cardinal distribution center is in Montgomery, N.Y. -- only 30 miles, as it happens, from the landscaped grounds of the Buddhist monastery in Carmel, N.Y., where many of the food-poisoning victims fell ill on Mother's Day 2012.
Among them were families on 10 tour buses that had left Chinatown in Manhattan that morning to watch dragon dances at the monastery. After eating lunch from food stalls there, some traveled on to the designer outlet stores at Woodbury Common, about 30 miles away, before falling sick.
The symptoms were vicious. ''Within two hours of eating that rice that I had bought, I was lying on the ground barely conscious,'' said Dr. Elizabeth Frost, 73, an anesthesiologist from Purchase in Westchester County who was visiting the monastery gardens with two friends. ''I can't believe no one died.''
About 100 people were taken to hospitals in the region by ambulance; five were admitted and the rest released the same day. The New York State Department of Health later found the cause was a common bacterium, Staphylococcus aureus, from improperly cooked or stored food sold in the stalls.
Mysterious Charges
The sick entered a health care ecosystem under strain, swept by consolidation and past efforts at cost containment.
For more than a decade, hospitals in the Hudson Valley, like those across the country, have scrambled for mergers and alliances to offset economic pressures from all sides. The five hospitals where most of the victims were treated are all part of merged entities jockeying for bargaining power and market share -- or worrying that other players will leave them struggling to survive.
The Affordable Care Act encourages these developments as it drives toward a reimbursement system that strives to keep people out of hospitals through more coordinated, cost-efficient care paid on the basis of results, not services. But the billing mysteries in the food poisoning case show how easily cost-cutting can turn into cost-shifting.
A Chinese-American toddler from Brooklyn and her 56-year-old grandmother, treated and released within hours from the emergency room at St. Luke's Cornwall Hospital, ran up charges of more than $4,000 and were billed for $1,400 -- the hospital's rate for the uninsured, even though the family is covered by a health maintenance organization under Medicaid, the federal-state program for poor people.
The charges included ''IV therapy,'' billed at $787 for the adult and $393 for the child, which suggests that the difference in the amount of saline infused, typically less than a liter, could alone account for several hundred dollars.
Tricia O'Malley, a spokeswoman for the hospital, would not disclose the price it pays per IV bag or break down the therapy charge, which she called the hospital's ''private pay rate,'' or the sticker price charged to people without insurance. She said she could not explain why patients covered by Medicaid were billed at all.
Eventually the head of the family, an electrician's helper who speaks little English, complained to HealthFirst, the Medicaid H.M.O. It paid $119 to settle the grandmother's $2,168 bill, without specifying how much of the payment was for the IV. It paid $66.50 to the doctor, who had billed $606.
At White Plains Hospital, a patient with private insurance from Aetna was charged $91 for one unit of Hospira IV that cost the hospital 86 cents, according to a hospital spokeswoman, Eliza O'Neill.
Ms. O'Neill defended the markup as ''consistent with industry standards.'' She said it reflected ''not only the cost of the solution but a variety of related services and processes,'' like procurement, biomedical handling and storage, apparently not included in a charge of $127 for administering the IV and $893 for emergency-room services.
The patient, a financial services professional in her 50s, ended up paying $100 for her visit. ''Honestly, I don't understand the system at all,'' said the woman, who shared the information on the condition that she not be named.
Dr. Frost, the anesthesiologist, spent three days in the same hospital and owed only $8, thanks to insurance coverage by United HealthCare. Still, she was baffled by the charges: $6,844, including $546 for six liters of saline that cost the hospital $5.16.
''It's just absolutely absurd.'' she said. ''That's saltwater.''
Last fall, I appealed to the New York State Department of Health for help in mapping the charges for rehydrating patients in the food poisoning episode. Deploying software normally used to detect Medicaid fraud, a team compiled a chart of what Medicaid and Medicare were billed in six of the cases.
But the department has yet to release the chart. It is under indefinite review, Bill Schwarz, a department spokesman, said, ''to ensure confidential information is not compromised.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
 Hospital bills for IV therapy vary wildly: $787 for an adult, $393 for a child at one hospital, and $546 for saline, plus $127 for administering it, at another. (D2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); POISONINGS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (70%); FOOD BORNE ILLNESS (69%); INSURANCE (69%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (60%); MEDICAID (57%)

COMPANY: BAXTER INTERNATIONAL INC (58%)

TICKER: BAX (SWX) (58%); BAX (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2013



783 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; WHAT WE EAT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1548 words

HEADLINE: Ripe for Improvement

BYLINE: By KENNETH CHANG

 BODY:
GAINESVILLE, Fla. -- Science is trying to build a better supermarket tomato.
At a laboratory here at the University of Florida's Institute for Plant Innovation, researchers chop tomatoes from nearby greenhouses and plop them into glass tubes to extract flavor compounds -- the essence of tomato, so to speak. These flavor compounds are identified and quantified by machine. People taste and rate the hybrid tomatoes grown in the university's fields.
''I'm 98 percent confident we can make a tomato that tastes substantially better,'' said Harry J. Klee, a professor of horticultural sciences. He hopes that the fruits of his labor will be available to commercial growers within four or five years and in supermarkets a couple of years after that. He thinks he can make seeds for better tomatoes available to home gardeners even sooner, within a year or two.
The insipid-tomato problem is well known both to salad lovers and scientists. For example, a gene mutation that tomato breeders love because it turns the fruit a luscious red also happens to make it blander. Refrigeration, transportation and other factors also take their toll. Over the decades, the average tomato has become not only less tasty but less nutritious. 
Enter Dr. Klee, who helped found the Institute for Plant Innovation a decade ago and has been in a quest for a more flavorful and nutritious mass-market tomato ever since.
It is easy to find a better tasting and more nutritious tomato. Go to a farmer's market or grow one in the backyard. It is also easy to breed a plant that produces something tastier than a supermarket tomato -- cross a sweet heirloom with the supermarket variety. In the greenhouse, Dr. Klee pulls one such hybrid tomato off a vine, and it does taste sweeter. But a hybrid also loses some of the qualities highly valued by commercial growers -- it is not as fecund, not as resistant to disease, not as easily grown, not as pretty.
As growers are paid by the pound, a better-tasting but less productive tomato holds little economic appeal, and thus was the supermarket tomato doomed to blandness.
Dr. Klee's goal is to tweak the tomato DNA -- through traditional breeding, not genetic engineering -- to add desired flavors while not compromising the traits needed for it to thrive commercially. ''I figure that with approximately five key genes we could very significantly improve flavor,'' he said. He said three genes that control the production of key flavor compounds have already been located. The next step is to identify versions of the genes that lead the tomato plant to produce more of them.
The chemistry of tomato flavor has three primary components: sugars, acids and what are known as volatile chemicals -- the flavor compounds that waft into the air carrying the fruit's aroma. There are more than 400 volatiles in a tomato, and Dr. Klee and his collaborators set out to first determine which ones are the most important in making a tasty tomato.
This involved grinding up a lot of tomatoes, looking at what was in them, and asking a lot of people to taste them (unpulverized), gathering comments like ''a bland firm watermelon,'' ''soft and sloppy,'' and ''Sweet! Finally a sample with some sweetness.''
From there, Dr. Klee and his collaborators, who include Linda Bartoshuk, director of human research at the university's Center for Smell and Taste, used statistics to correlate people's preferences with the presence, or absence, of particular flavor compounds, to devise a chemical recipe for the ideal tomato.
The supermarket tomato -- even when grown with care and picked ripe -- did not excel. ''The best it will do is middle-of-the-pack,'' Dr. Klee said.
Cherry Roma tomatoes were at the top of the charts, followed by heirloom varieties like Matina, Ailsa Craig and Bloody Butcher. Other heirlooms like Marmande and Oaxacan Pink ranked at the bottom, below the supermarket tomatoes, though perhaps these particular types just do not grow well in Florida.
The taste analysis produced several surprises. Some compounds, abundant in many tomato varieties and thus thought to be major contributors to flavor, turned out to be irrelevant, while others, in scant quantities, had major influences. With the new knowledge, ''you can't help but get a better tomato,'' Dr. Bartoshuk said.
The most important attribute was sweetness. The sweeter the tomato, the higher the rating. The biggest surprise, though, was that it was not just sugar that made a tomato sweet. Some of the flavor compounds enhanced the perception of sweetness.
That is the key to Dr. Klee's plans. Tomato breeders have already tried to maximize sugar, but the plants are bred to produce a lot of big tomatoes all at once, and then do not have energy and sunlight through photosynthesis to make enough sugar to go around.
The sweetness-enhancing compounds, however, are present in much smaller quantities, so getting a plant to produce more of those is a much more achievable goal, Dr. Klee said. (The compounds also offer promise for sweetening other foods without adding the calories of sugar.)
''His work is really groundbreaking,'' said James Giovannoni, a professor of plant biology at Cornell who studies the ripening of fruit and was one of the leaders in the sequencing of the tomato genome published last year.
He said Dr. Klee has been deciphering the molecular machineries in tomatoes that produce the flavor compounds, and that is not an easy task. ''One, there is a lot of them,'' Dr. Giovannoni said, ''and two, a lot of them are really not understood, how some of these produce these compounds hasn't been known.''
Modern genetic engineering has provided tools to study that, and tomatoes are one of the most common plants that plant geneticists study, much in the same way that animal geneticists focus on mice, and now researchers can knock out particular compounds and see if they played a key role in flavor or not.
There has been one genetically engineered tomato in the supermarket. In the 1980s, plant geneticists at the University of California, Davis, just as frustrated by bland tasting tomatoes, also tried to make a better tomato. That led to a biotechnology company, Calgene, in 1994, developing the Flavr Savr tomato, the first genetically engineered food of any kind in the supermarket, its DNA tweaked to inhibit a protein that turns a tomato mushy over time. While it sold well, Calgene foundered in the logistics of industrial agriculture and was bought by Monsanto, which discontinued selling the seeds.
The Florida team is not repeating the Flavr Savr game plan.
Although Dr. Klee experiments with genetically engineered tomatoes to test and confirm findings, he said that none of the ones eventually destined for supermarkets will be -- partly to avoid potential consumer backlash and partly because his university cannot afford the estimated $15 million that would be needed to obtain regulatory approval to sell a genetically engineered tomato.
Instead, the tomato would be created through traditional breeding techniques, but using genetic tests to determine which of the plants possess the desired genes.
The quest for year-round produce at the supermarket has also led to tomatoes being grown in less-than-ideal places -- like Florida, where the soil is too sandy and there are plenty of pests -- when the traditional tomato-growing areas farther north are too chilly.
Dr. Klee does not expect the improved tomato to taste as good as the best heirlooms. Supermarket tomatoes would still be grown in large quantities, picked green and shipped long distances before being gassed with ethylene to ripen. In addition, the tomatoes are often mishandled en route. Refrigeration, Dr. Klee notes, destroys the flavor compounds in even the best tomato. ''I might be able to get 75 percent'' of the best tomato in one that can be grown in greater quantities, he said.
Some traditional breeders are skeptical that Dr. Klee can do what he thinks he can as quickly as he predicts. ''I don't think the taste of tomatoes is going to be fixed by molecular biologists,'' said David Francis, a professor at The Ohio State University who has bred and released several tomato varieties, ''because flavor is a lot more complicated than manipulating one or two genes.''
After working with tomatoes for so long, Dr. Klee admits he does not eat many of them, but he does want the public to be able to buy appetizing ones. Part of his quest is to get people to eat less junk food. If he can improve the taste of tomatoes, he said, it could be an important way to coax Americans to eat healthier foods.
Tomatoes aren't the only focus of the Institute for Plant Innovation. Researchers are working on a more fragrant rose, a project that involves the genetic engineering feat of inserting -- yes -- a tomato gene in a rose plant. They are also trying to grow tastier strawberries and blueberries. One new blueberry variety could be described as positively crispy, almost apple-like in its texture.
Consumers who tasted these blueberries liked their firmness, and the quality is also a boon to growers, because the fruit lasts longer.
''It's a blueprint,'' Dr. Klee said of his tomato quest, ''for a much bigger program of bringing back flavor.''
What We Eat: This is the fifth in a series of articles exploring food science.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Heirloom tomatoes, top, at the University of Florida, where Harry J. Klee, right, and his team are identifying genes crucial to tomato flavor. Left, plants grow from leaves in a lab. Instead of genetic modification, the team uses traditional breeding techniques to develop new plants. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID MANNING FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D5) DRAWING (DRAWING BY LOU BEACH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); FLAVORANTS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (89%); AROMA & FLAVOR CHEMICALS (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); DNA (78%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (78%); CHEMISTRY (78%); HORTICULTURE (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (73%); GARDENING (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (72%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2013



784 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1531 words

HEADLINE: Morning Agenda: Paulson's Misgivings on Bailout Bonuses

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Henry M. Paulson Jr., formerly Treasury secretary, criticized outsize bank bonuses paid after the bailouts. | William A. Ackman has sold his entire stake in J.C. Penney. | Arbitration lawyers are profiting from geopolitical problems. | Wall Street financiers are spending big on McMansions. 

 BODY:
As the five-year anniversary of the white-knuckled days of the financial crisis approaches, Henry M. Paulson Jr., formerly Treasury secretary, spoke emphatically about the outsize bank bonuses paid after the bailouts. He said the bonuses were a primary reason for the public outrage over the program he worked hard to persuade Congress to pass and the country to support.
"There was such a total lack of awareness from the firms that paid big bonuses during this extraordinary time," Mr. Paulson told Andrew Ross Sorkin in the DealBook column. "To say I was disappointed is an understatement," Mr. Paulson continued. "My view has nothing to do with legality and everything to do with what was right, and everything to do with just a colossal lack of self-awareness as to how they were viewed by the American public."
While most economists now credit the bailout and the extraordinary measures taken by the Federal Reserve with helping prevent another depression, questions remain, including why Mr. Paulson and Congress did not seek tighter restrictions on pay. Mr. Paulson said it would have been impossible to persuade the majority of the banks to participate in the program with significant restrictions on pay. He alludes to that question in a new prologue to his book, "On the Brink," which looks at the crisis. It is being reissued this week. 
ACKMAN SELLS PENNEY STAKE | Nearly two weeks after resigning from the board of J.C. Penney, William A. Ackman sold his roughly 18 percent stake in the retailer on Monday, Michael J. de la Merced reports in DealBook.
Mr. Ackman's firm, Pershing Square Capital Management, sold its 39.1 million shares at a price of $12.90 a share, valuing the stake at $504 million and creating a loss of about $473 million. (In addition, Mr. Ackman's firm faces losses on derivatives it owns that are tied to Penney's stock.)
FOR LAW FIRMS, GLOBAL DISPUTES ARE LUCRATIVE | "Debt woes, broken contracts and soured business deals may cost global investors billions in losses and create seemingly never-ending headaches for policy makers. But there is a set of specialists profiting from such geopolitical problems: arbitration lawyers," Elizabeth Olson writes in DealBook. "At least a dozen law firms based in the United States are in line for huge paydays stemming from myriad international issues."
"About a dozen legal heavyweights like White & Case, Shearman & Sterling and King & Spalding are benefiting from the growing number of lucrative, complex international disputes," Ms. Olson writes. "Among the eye-popping claims that have already reached resolution is a $2.2 billion decision against Kuwait's Petrochemical Industries in favor of Dow Chemical over a joint plastics venture that the Kuwaitis canceled. Dow Chemical was represented by the Atlanta-based King & Spalding and Shearman & Sterling, based in New York."
ON THE AGENDA | The Standard & Poor's Case-Shiller index of home prices for June is out at 9 a.m. A report on consumer confidence in August is out at 10 a.m. Tiffany & Company reports earnings before the market opens. TiVo announces results this evening. Jacob J. Lew, the Treasury secretary, is on CNBC at 7:30 a.m.
THE MCMANSION MAN | There is no surer sign that big-spending ways are back in the Hamptons than the blue "Farrell Building" signs multiplying across the pristine landscape, advertising multimillion-dollar houses, Jim Rutenberg reports in The New York Times. Some call the process Farrellization.
"We're as busy as we've ever been," said Joe Farrell, the president of Farrell Building, during a recent interview and tour of his $43 million, 17,000-square-foot home.
"To spend a day with Mr. Farrell - a local version of Donald Trump, without the history of debt, the lush hair or the insults - is to see just how fully the Hamptons have rebounded, along with the confidence, and the bonuses, of their wealthier summer visitors," Mr. Rutenberg writes. "With a customer base composed largely of Wall Street financiers, Mr. Farrell has more than 20 new homes under construction, or slated for construction, at a time, making him the biggest builder here by far."
 | Contact: @williamalden | E-mail
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions »
A New Chief for London Metal Exchange | The Hong Kong Stock Exchange named Garry Jones, a former top executive at NYSE Liffe, to be the chief executive of the London Metal Exchange, Reuters reports. REUTERS
Best Buy Founder Plans to Sell Stock | Richard Schulze, the founder and largest shareholder of Best Buy, said in a securities filing that he planned to sell an undisclosed amount of stock to diversify his assets. BLOOMBERG NEWS
BATS and Direct Edge to Merge, Taking On Older Rivals | Combining BATS Global Markets and Direct Edge will vault the new company past Nasdaq to become the second-largest exchange operator in the United States, as the industry continues to face pressure to consolidate. DealBook »
ANA of Japan to Buy Stake in Myanmar Airline | ANA Holdings, the Japanese airline, is paying $25 million for a 49 percent stake in Asian Wings Airways of Myanmar, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
INVESTMENT BANKING »
Remembering Muriel Siebert, an 'Icon' for Women | Ms. Siebert's pragmatic approach to effecting change on Wall Street characterized many of her accomplishments, her admirers said. DEALBOOK
JPMorgan Lawyer Leaves for Another Bank | Michael Coyne, who was associate general counsel and co-head of litigation at JPMorgan Chase, is becoming the general counsel of Union Bank and its holding company, Reuters reports. REUTERS
Bank of America's Lawsuit Against F.D.I.C. Is Dismissed | A judge said Bank of America's claims against the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation over $1.7 billion in investor losses "have no value and must therefore be dismissed because no case or controversy exists," Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Lloyds Sells $332 Million of Australian Loans | 
WALL STREET JOURNAL
PRIVATE EQUITY »
Billabong Writes Down Its Brand Value to Zero | The struggling Australian surf wear company Billabong announced the accounting charge on Tuesday, part of a record $772 million net loss it reported for its financial year. DealBook »
Globecomm Systems to Go Private for $340 Million | The investment firm Wasserstein & Company has agreed to buy Globecomm Systems, a satellite communications provider, for $14.15 a share in cash, Reuters reports. REUTERS
HEDGE FUNDS »
Third Point Hedge Fund Increases Sotheby's Stake | Daniel S. Loeb's hedge fund, Third Point, is now one of Sotheby's biggest shareholders, with a 5.7 percent stake, according to a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. DealBook »
Activists Seek Short-Term Gain, Not Long-Term Value | While shareholder activists like Carl Icahn, William Ackman, Nelson Peltz and Ron Burkle often cloak their demands in the language of long-term actions, their real goal is a short-term bump in the stock price, Bill George, a professor at Harvard Business School, writes in the Another View column. DealBook »
I.P.O./OFFERINGS »
Violin Memory Aims to Raise $173 Million in I.P.O. | Violin Memory, a flash storage company that raised money earlier this year at an implied valuation of about $800 million, is now looking to go public, AllThingsD reports. ALLTHINGSD
VENTURE CAPITAL »
'Godmother of Silicon Alley' Has Died | "Red Burns, an educator who gained wide recognition for pushing for more creative uses of modern communications, helping to lead the movement for public access to cable television and starting a celebrated New York University program to foster Internet wizards, died on Friday at her Manhattan home. She was 88," The New York Times writes. NEW YORK TIMES
LEGAL/REGULATORY »
JPMorgan Loses Suit Over Billionaire's Loss | A New York state judge found JPMorgan Chase liable to Leonard Blavatnik, a Russian-American billionaire, for breach of contract for placing risky mortgage securities in an investment account he held, ordering the bank to pay more than $50 million in damages, Reuters reports. REUTERS
Greece Could Be Eligible for More Aid, German Official Says | 
NEW YORK TIMES
Justice Dept. Again Signals Interest in Pursuing Financial Crisis Cases | The United States attorney general is likely to pursue charges under a civil statute that has become the Justice Department's favorite tool of late, Peter J. Henning writes in the White Collar Watch column. It remains to be seen whether the public will be satisfied with such action. DealBook »
Two Accused of Stealing Code From Trading Firm | Two men were charged with stealing computer code from a high-frequency trading firm as they sought to start their own business, the Manhattan district attorney's office says. REUTERS
Trump Further Sullies For-Profit Schools | Given Donald Trump's financial achievements, and lack of modesty, it is no surprise he opened a school to pass on the secrets of his success, but Trump University always seemed liked a dubious enterprise, Daniel Indiviglio of Reuters Breakingviews writes. REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (92%); BAILOUT BONUSES (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LEGAL SERVICES (89%); LAWYERS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); ANNIVERSARIES (73%); CHEMICALS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (67%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (66%); RETAILERS (64%); PETROCHEMICALS INDUSTRY (64%); CHEMICALS (61%); PETROCHEMICALS (60%); RESIGNATIONS (50%); PETROCHEMICAL MFG (50%) Morning Agenda

COMPANY: SHEARMAN & STERLING LLP (85%); KING & SPALDING LLP (57%); WHITE & CASE LLP (57%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (50%); DOW CHEMICAL CO (50%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (50%); DOW (SWX) (50%); DOW (NYSE) (50%); DOW (LSE) (50%); 4850 (TSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (85%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (85%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (50%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (50%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); KUWAIT (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2013



785 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1531 words

HEADLINE: Morning Agenda: Paulson's Misgivings on Bailout Bonuses

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Henry M. Paulson Jr., formerly Treasury secretary, criticized outsize bank bonuses paid after the bailouts. | William A. Ackman has sold his entire stake in J.C. Penney. | Arbitration lawyers are profiting from geopolitical problems. | Wall Street financiers are spending big on McMansions. 

 BODY:
As the five-year anniversary of the white-knuckled days of the financial crisis approaches, Henry M. Paulson Jr., formerly Treasury secretary, spoke emphatically about the outsize bank bonuses paid after the bailouts. He said the bonuses were a primary reason for the public outrage over the program he worked hard to persuade Congress to pass and the country to support.
"There was such a total lack of awareness from the firms that paid big bonuses during this extraordinary time," Mr. Paulson told Andrew Ross Sorkin in the DealBook column. "To say I was disappointed is an understatement," Mr. Paulson continued. "My view has nothing to do with legality and everything to do with what was right, and everything to do with just a colossal lack of self-awareness as to how they were viewed by the American public."
While most economists now credit the bailout and the extraordinary measures taken by the Federal Reserve with helping prevent another depression, questions remain, including why Mr. Paulson and Congress did not seek tighter restrictions on pay. Mr. Paulson said it would have been impossible to persuade the majority of the banks to participate in the program with significant restrictions on pay. He alludes to that question in a new prologue to his book, "On the Brink," which looks at the crisis. It is being reissued this week. 
ACKMAN SELLS PENNEY STAKE | Nearly two weeks after resigning from the board of J.C. Penney, William A. Ackman sold his roughly 18 percent stake in the retailer on Monday, Michael J. de la Merced reports in DealBook.
Mr. Ackman's firm, Pershing Square Capital Management, sold its 39.1 million shares at a price of $12.90 a share, valuing the stake at $504 million and creating a loss of about $473 million. (In addition, Mr. Ackman's firm faces losses on derivatives it owns that are tied to Penney's stock.)
FOR LAW FIRMS, GLOBAL DISPUTES ARE LUCRATIVE | "Debt woes, broken contracts and soured business deals may cost global investors billions in losses and create seemingly never-ending headaches for policy makers. But there is a set of specialists profiting from such geopolitical problems: arbitration lawyers," Elizabeth Olson writes in DealBook. "At least a dozen law firms based in the United States are in line for huge paydays stemming from myriad international issues."
"About a dozen legal heavyweights like White & Case, Shearman & Sterling and King & Spalding are benefiting from the growing number of lucrative, complex international disputes," Ms. Olson writes. "Among the eye-popping claims that have already reached resolution is a $2.2 billion decision against Kuwait's Petrochemical Industries in favor of Dow Chemical over a joint plastics venture that the Kuwaitis canceled. Dow Chemical was represented by the Atlanta-based King & Spalding and Shearman & Sterling, based in New York."
ON THE AGENDA | The Standard & Poor's Case-Shiller index of home prices for June is out at 9 a.m. A report on consumer confidence in August is out at 10 a.m. Tiffany & Company reports earnings before the market opens. TiVo announces results this evening. Jacob J. Lew, the Treasury secretary, is on CNBC at 7:30 a.m.
THE MCMANSION MAN | There is no surer sign that big-spending ways are back in the Hamptons than the blue "Farrell Building" signs multiplying across the pristine landscape, advertising multimillion-dollar houses, Jim Rutenberg reports in The New York Times. Some call the process Farrellization.
"We're as busy as we've ever been," said Joe Farrell, the president of Farrell Building, during a recent interview and tour of his $43 million, 17,000-square-foot home.
"To spend a day with Mr. Farrell - a local version of Donald Trump, without the history of debt, the lush hair or the insults - is to see just how fully the Hamptons have rebounded, along with the confidence, and the bonuses, of their wealthier summer visitors," Mr. Rutenberg writes. "With a customer base composed largely of Wall Street financiers, Mr. Farrell has more than 20 new homes under construction, or slated for construction, at a time, making him the biggest builder here by far."
 | Contact: @williamalden | E-mail
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions »
A New Chief for London Metal Exchange | The Hong Kong Stock Exchange named Garry Jones, a former top executive at NYSE Liffe, to be the chief executive of the London Metal Exchange, Reuters reports. REUTERS
Best Buy Founder Plans to Sell Stock | Richard Schulze, the founder and largest shareholder of Best Buy, said in a securities filing that he planned to sell an undisclosed amount of stock to diversify his assets. BLOOMBERG NEWS
BATS and Direct Edge to Merge, Taking On Older Rivals | Combining BATS Global Markets and Direct Edge will vault the new company past Nasdaq to become the second-largest exchange operator in the United States, as the industry continues to face pressure to consolidate. DealBook »
ANA of Japan to Buy Stake in Myanmar Airline | ANA Holdings, the Japanese airline, is paying $25 million for a 49 percent stake in Asian Wings Airways of Myanmar, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
INVESTMENT BANKING »
Remembering Muriel Siebert, an 'Icon' for Women | Ms. Siebert's pragmatic approach to effecting change on Wall Street characterized many of her accomplishments, her admirers said. DEALBOOK
JPMorgan Lawyer Leaves for Another Bank | Michael Coyne, who was associate general counsel and co-head of litigation at JPMorgan Chase, is becoming the general counsel of Union Bank and its holding company, Reuters reports. REUTERS
Bank of America's Lawsuit Against F.D.I.C. Is Dismissed | A judge said Bank of America's claims against the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation over $1.7 billion in investor losses "have no value and must therefore be dismissed because no case or controversy exists," Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Lloyds Sells $332 Million of Australian Loans | 
WALL STREET JOURNAL
PRIVATE EQUITY »
Billabong Writes Down Its Brand Value to Zero | The struggling Australian surf wear company Billabong announced the accounting charge on Tuesday, part of a record $772 million net loss it reported for its financial year. DealBook »
Globecomm Systems to Go Private for $340 Million | The investment firm Wasserstein & Company has agreed to buy Globecomm Systems, a satellite communications provider, for $14.15 a share in cash, Reuters reports. REUTERS
HEDGE FUNDS »
Third Point Hedge Fund Increases Sotheby's Stake | Daniel S. Loeb's hedge fund, Third Point, is now one of Sotheby's biggest shareholders, with a 5.7 percent stake, according to a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. DealBook »
Activists Seek Short-Term Gain, Not Long-Term Value | While shareholder activists like Carl Icahn, William Ackman, Nelson Peltz and Ron Burkle often cloak their demands in the language of long-term actions, their real goal is a short-term bump in the stock price, Bill George, a professor at Harvard Business School, writes in the Another View column. DealBook »
I.P.O./OFFERINGS »
Violin Memory Aims to Raise $173 Million in I.P.O. | Violin Memory, a flash storage company that raised money earlier this year at an implied valuation of about $800 million, is now looking to go public, AllThingsD reports. ALLTHINGSD
VENTURE CAPITAL »
'Godmother of Silicon Alley' Has Died | "Red Burns, an educator who gained wide recognition for pushing for more creative uses of modern communications, helping to lead the movement for public access to cable television and starting a celebrated New York University program to foster Internet wizards, died on Friday at her Manhattan home. She was 88," The New York Times writes. NEW YORK TIMES
LEGAL/REGULATORY »
JPMorgan Loses Suit Over Billionaire's Loss | A New York state judge found JPMorgan Chase liable to Leonard Blavatnik, a Russian-American billionaire, for breach of contract for placing risky mortgage securities in an investment account he held, ordering the bank to pay more than $50 million in damages, Reuters reports. REUTERS
Greece Could Be Eligible for More Aid, German Official Says | 
NEW YORK TIMES
Justice Dept. Again Signals Interest in Pursuing Financial Crisis Cases | The United States attorney general is likely to pursue charges under a civil statute that has become the Justice Department's favorite tool of late, Peter J. Henning writes in the White Collar Watch column. It remains to be seen whether the public will be satisfied with such action. DealBook »
Two Accused of Stealing Code From Trading Firm | Two men were charged with stealing computer code from a high-frequency trading firm as they sought to start their own business, the Manhattan district attorney's office says. REUTERS
Trump Further Sullies For-Profit Schools | Given Donald Trump's financial achievements, and lack of modesty, it is no surprise he opened a school to pass on the secrets of his success, but Trump University always seemed liked a dubious enterprise, Daniel Indiviglio of Reuters Breakingviews writes. REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (92%); BAILOUT BONUSES (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LEGAL SERVICES (89%); LAWYERS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); ANNIVERSARIES (73%); CHEMICALS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (67%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (66%); RETAILERS (64%); PETROCHEMICALS INDUSTRY (64%); CHEMICALS (61%); PETROCHEMICALS (60%); RESIGNATIONS (50%); PETROCHEMICAL MFG (50%) Morning Agenda

COMPANY: SHEARMAN & STERLING LLP (85%); KING & SPALDING LLP (57%); WHITE & CASE LLP (57%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (50%); DOW CHEMICAL CO (50%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (50%); DOW (SWX) (50%); DOW (NYSE) (50%); DOW (LSE) (50%); 4850 (TSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (85%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (85%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (50%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (50%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); KUWAIT (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2013



786 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1531 words

HEADLINE: Paulson's Misgivings on Bailout Bonuses

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Henry M. Paulson Jr., formerly Treasury secretary, criticized outsize bank bonuses paid after the bailouts. | William A. Ackman has sold his entire stake in J.C. Penney. | Arbitration lawyers are profiting from geopolitical problems. | Wall Street financiers are spending big on McMansions. 

 BODY:
As the five-year anniversary of the white-knuckled days of the financial crisis approaches, Henry M. Paulson Jr., formerly Treasury secretary, spoke emphatically about the outsize bank bonuses paid after the bailouts. He said the bonuses were a primary reason for the public outrage over the program he worked hard to persuade Congress to pass and the country to support.
"There was such a total lack of awareness from the firms that paid big bonuses during this extraordinary time," Mr. Paulson told Andrew Ross Sorkin in the DealBook column. "To say I was disappointed is an understatement," Mr. Paulson continued. "My view has nothing to do with legality and everything to do with what was right, and everything to do with just a colossal lack of self-awareness as to how they were viewed by the American public."
While most economists now credit the bailout and the extraordinary measures taken by the Federal Reserve with helping prevent another depression, questions remain, including why Mr. Paulson and Congress did not seek tighter restrictions on pay. Mr. Paulson said it would have been impossible to persuade the majority of the banks to participate in the program with significant restrictions on pay. He alludes to that question in a new prologue to his book, "On the Brink," which looks at the crisis. It is being reissued this week. 
ACKMAN SELLS PENNEY STAKE | Nearly two weeks after resigning from the board of J.C. Penney, William A. Ackman sold his roughly 18 percent stake in the retailer on Monday, Michael J. de la Merced reports in DealBook.
Mr. Ackman's firm, Pershing Square Capital Management, sold its 39.1 million shares at a price of $12.90 a share, valuing the stake at $504 million and creating a loss of about $473 million. (In addition, Mr. Ackman's firm faces losses on derivatives it owns that are tied to Penney's stock.)
FOR LAW FIRMS, GLOBAL DISPUTES ARE LUCRATIVE | "Debt woes, broken contracts and soured business deals may cost global investors billions in losses and create seemingly never-ending headaches for policy makers. But there is a set of specialists profiting from such geopolitical problems: arbitration lawyers," Elizabeth Olson writes in DealBook. "At least a dozen law firms based in the United States are in line for huge paydays stemming from myriad international issues."
"About a dozen legal heavyweights like White & Case, Shearman & Sterling and King & Spalding are benefiting from the growing number of lucrative, complex international disputes," Ms. Olson writes. "Among the eye-popping claims that have already reached resolution is a $2.2 billion decision against Kuwait's Petrochemical Industries in favor of Dow Chemical over a joint plastics venture that the Kuwaitis canceled. Dow Chemical was represented by the Atlanta-based King & Spalding and Shearman & Sterling, based in New York."
ON THE AGENDA | The Standard & Poor's Case-Shiller index of home prices for June is out at 9 a.m. A report on consumer confidence in August is out at 10 a.m. Tiffany & Company reports earnings before the market opens. TiVo announces results this evening. Jacob J. Lew, the Treasury secretary, is on CNBC at 7:30 a.m.
THE MCMANSION MAN | There is no surer sign that big-spending ways are back in the Hamptons than the blue "Farrell Building" signs multiplying across the pristine landscape, advertising multimillion-dollar houses, Jim Rutenberg reports in The New York Times. Some call the process Farrellization.
"We're as busy as we've ever been," said Joe Farrell, the president of Farrell Building, during a recent interview and tour of his $43 million, 17,000-square-foot home.
"To spend a day with Mr. Farrell - a local version of Donald Trump, without the history of debt, the lush hair or the insults - is to see just how fully the Hamptons have rebounded, along with the confidence, and the bonuses, of their wealthier summer visitors," Mr. Rutenberg writes. "With a customer base composed largely of Wall Street financiers, Mr. Farrell has more than 20 new homes under construction, or slated for construction, at a time, making him the biggest builder here by far."
 | Contact: @williamalden | E-mail
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions »
A New Chief for London Metal Exchange | The Hong Kong Stock Exchange named Garry Jones, a former top executive at NYSE Liffe, to be the chief executive of the London Metal Exchange, Reuters reports. REUTERS
Best Buy Founder Plans to Sell Stock | Richard Schulze, the founder and largest shareholder of Best Buy, said in a securities filing that he planned to sell an undisclosed amount of stock to diversify his assets. BLOOMBERG NEWS
BATS and Direct Edge to Merge, Taking On Older Rivals | Combining BATS Global Markets and Direct Edge will vault the new company past Nasdaq to become the second-largest exchange operator in the United States, as the industry continues to face pressure to consolidate. DealBook »
ANA of Japan to Buy Stake in Myanmar Airline | ANA Holdings, the Japanese airline, is paying $25 million for a 49 percent stake in Asian Wings Airways of Myanmar, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
INVESTMENT BANKING »
Remembering Muriel Siebert, an 'Icon' for Women | Ms. Siebert's pragmatic approach to effecting change on Wall Street characterized many of her accomplishments, her admirers said. DEALBOOK
JPMorgan Lawyer Leaves for Another Bank | Michael Coyne, who was associate general counsel and co-head of litigation at JPMorgan Chase, is becoming the general counsel of Union Bank and its holding company, Reuters reports. REUTERS
Bank of America's Lawsuit Against F.D.I.C. Is Dismissed | A judge said Bank of America's claims against the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation over $1.7 billion in investor losses "have no value and must therefore be dismissed because no case or controversy exists," Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Lloyds Sells $332 Million of Australian Loans | 
WALL STREET JOURNAL
PRIVATE EQUITY »
Billabong Writes Down Its Brand Value to Zero | The struggling Australian surf wear company Billabong announced the accounting charge on Tuesday, part of a record $772 million net loss it reported for its financial year. DealBook »
Globecomm Systems to Go Private for $340 Million | The investment firm Wasserstein & Company has agreed to buy Globecomm Systems, a satellite communications provider, for $14.15 a share in cash, Reuters reports. REUTERS
HEDGE FUNDS »
Third Point Hedge Fund Increases Sotheby's Stake | Daniel S. Loeb's hedge fund, Third Point, is now one of Sotheby's biggest shareholders, with a 5.7 percent stake, according to a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. DealBook »
Activists Seek Short-Term Gain, Not Long-Term Value | While shareholder activists like Carl Icahn, William Ackman, Nelson Peltz and Ron Burkle often cloak their demands in the language of long-term actions, their real goal is a short-term bump in the stock price, Bill George, a professor at Harvard Business School, writes in the Another View column. DealBook »
I.P.O./OFFERINGS »
Violin Memory Aims to Raise $173 Million in I.P.O. | Violin Memory, a flash storage company that raised money earlier this year at an implied valuation of about $800 million, is now looking to go public, AllThingsD reports. ALLTHINGSD
VENTURE CAPITAL »
'Godmother of Silicon Alley' Has Died | "Red Burns, an educator who gained wide recognition for pushing for more creative uses of modern communications, helping to lead the movement for public access to cable television and starting a celebrated New York University program to foster Internet wizards, died on Friday at her Manhattan home. She was 88," The New York Times writes. NEW YORK TIMES
LEGAL/REGULATORY »
JPMorgan Loses Suit Over Billionaire's Loss | A New York state judge found JPMorgan Chase liable to Leonard Blavatnik, a Russian-American billionaire, for breach of contract for placing risky mortgage securities in an investment account he held, ordering the bank to pay more than $50 million in damages, Reuters reports. REUTERS
Greece Could Be Eligible for More Aid, German Official Says | 
NEW YORK TIMES
Justice Dept. Again Signals Interest in Pursuing Financial Crisis Cases | The United States attorney general is likely to pursue charges under a civil statute that has become the Justice Department's favorite tool of late, Peter J. Henning writes in the White Collar Watch column. It remains to be seen whether the public will be satisfied with such action. DealBook »
Two Accused of Stealing Code From Trading Firm | Two men were charged with stealing computer code from a high-frequency trading firm as they sought to start their own business, the Manhattan district attorney's office says. REUTERS
Trump Further Sullies For-Profit Schools | Given Donald Trump's financial achievements, and lack of modesty, it is no surprise he opened a school to pass on the secrets of his success, but Trump University always seemed liked a dubious enterprise, Daniel Indiviglio of Reuters Breakingviews writes. REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (92%); BAILOUT BONUSES (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LEGAL SERVICES (89%); LAWYERS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); ANNIVERSARIES (73%); CHEMICALS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (67%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (66%); RETAILERS (64%); PETROCHEMICALS INDUSTRY (64%); CHEMICALS (61%); PETROCHEMICALS (60%); RESIGNATIONS (50%); PETROCHEMICAL MFG (50%) Morning Agenda

COMPANY: SHEARMAN & STERLING LLP (85%); KING & SPALDING LLP (57%); WHITE & CASE LLP (57%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (50%); DOW CHEMICAL CO (50%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (50%); DOW (SWX) (50%); DOW (NYSE) (50%); DOW (LSE) (50%); 4850 (TSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (85%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (85%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (50%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (50%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); KUWAIT (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2013



787 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 738 words

HEADLINE: A Holiday From Taxes, and Often From the Strings Attached

BYLINE: VICTOR FLEISCHER


HIGHLIGHT: Tax policy experts are suspicious of tax holidays, and most experts question the effectiveness of attaching restrictions to such legislation. Many companies find a way around them. 

 BODY:
Large multinationals based in the United States - among them General Electric, Pfizer, Apple and Citigroup - have been hoarding record amounts of cash overseas, mainly because of the 35 percent tax they would have to pay if they brought it back to the United States. 
The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 offered a temporary tax holiday that allowed firms to repatriate cash at about a 5 percent tax rate, but there were strings attached. The repatriated money was to be used only on permissible activities like research and development, capital expenditures and pension funding. It was not to be used for shareholder dividends or share repurchases. 
The purported goal of the legislation was to create jobs, not simply to enrich shareholders at the expense of federal tax revenue. In recent years, companies have lobbied for another tax holiday.
Tax policy experts are suspicious of tax holidays, and most experts question the effectiveness of attaching strings to such legislation. Because cash is fungible, companies might be expected to use the repatriated money for permitted domestic activities that they would have conducted anyway, freeing up other cash to be used for dividends and stock buybacks. If companies merely reshuffle the use of cash without changing behavior, then the tax holiday amounts to a windfall to shareholders, not an effective economic stimulus.
The 2004 tax holiday brought back $312 billion in extraordinary cash dividends from foreign subsidiaries. How much of that cash was used for permitted activities, and how much for impermissible dividends and stock buybacks? A 2011 paper by Dhammika Dharmapala, C. Fritz Foley and Kristen J. Forbes, published in The Journal of Finance, estimated that 60 cents to 92 cents of every repatriated dollar was spent on shareholder payouts in 2005. The paper is Exhibit A in the case against future tax holidays. 
A new paper by Thomas J. Brennan of the Northwestern University School of Law challenges that study and finds that, for the 20 companies that repatriated the most cash, 78 cents of every dollar was spent on permissible uses, and just 22 cents on impermissible shareholder payouts. Extending the analysis to 341 companies outside the top 20, Mr. Brennan estimates that about 40 cents of every dollar was spent on impermissible shareholder payouts, still much lower than the earlier estimate. 
Mr. Brennan attributes the different findings to a change in research methodology. The Dharmapala paper uses econometric techniques to estimate the marginal increase in repatriation caused by the legislation, focusing on a certain subgroup expected to benefit from the legislation - namely companies that face a low tax rate abroad and have a subsidiary in a tax haven. The Brennan study also uses statistical estimates, but it constrains those estimates with actual publicly available data on what each individual company spent on various activities. Using the data on actual share buybacks and dividends, Mr. Brennan shows that the Dharmapala estimate is too high. 
The Brennan study is important for its explanation of how companies responded to the 2004 tax holiday. But it hardly endorses tax holidays as an instrument of international tax policy. Indeed, Mr. Brennan notes that, in a separate paper, he has made the case against temporary tax holidays.
It is important to remember the big picture: there is no evidence that the 2004 tax holiday created any jobs. 
Mr. Brennan does not attempt to provide such evidence. Nor does he argue that spending on domestic activities is necessarily more effective in creating economic stimulus than dividends or stock buybacks would have been. After all, a shareholder who receives a dividend from Company A might reinvest the cash in Company B, an action that seems just as likely to create a new job as would spending by Company A.
Moreover, the Brennan study still finds significant amounts of shareholder payouts from repatriated profits, ranging from 20 cents on the dollar for the largest companies to 40 cents for smaller ones. It is sad, and unfortunate, that our expectations of corporate managers have fallen so far that 20 to 40 percent noncompliance might be viewed as a success. 
The fact that the managers only incompletely evaded the purpose of the legislation should not be read as an endorsement of tax holidays. 

        
Dell Considered Novel Tax Strategy in Buyout
        
How the I.R.S. Encourages Oil and Gas Spinoffs

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX RELIEF (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); DIVIDENDS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (89%); TAX FRAUD (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); LOBBYING (78%); PENSION FUNDS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (75%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (75%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (72%); LAW SCHOOLS (67%) Corporate Taxes; Law and Legislation; Tax Evasion; United States; Standard Deduction

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%); PFIZER INC (58%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%); PFZ (LSE) (58%); PFE (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (58%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (58%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%) United States

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2013



788 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 678 words

HEADLINE: Today in Small Business: Some People Are Meant to Be Employees

BYLINE: GENE MARKS


HIGHLIGHT: Capital goods orders are weak. Gas prices fall. And five billion additional mobile phone users are coming to Facebook. 

 BODY:
What's affecting me, my clients and other small-business owners today.
The Read of the Day

        
Y Combinator's Paul Graham shares his thoughts on building companies, including why some people are meant to be employees: "They don't realize how independent they can be. We have to tell them, 'We're not your bosses. You're in charge now.' Some of them are freaked out by that. Some people are meant to be employees. Other people discover they have wings and start flapping them."
Economy 

        
Durable goods orders were weak for July but Scott Grannis says not to worry: "Capital goods orders are notoriously volatile from month to month, so I have long preferred to look at a three-month moving average."
        
The price gains of stocks in the Standard & Poor's 500 index are outpacing profits by the fastest rate in 14 years as the bull market extends beyond the average length of rallies since Harry S. Truman was president.
        
Gasoline prices fall to $3.56 a gallon.
        
The Farmer's Almanac is predicting a "bitterly cold" winter.
Entrepreneurs

        
An enterprising street performer makes $60 an hour.
Finance

        
The head of a small business development center says that "a lack of understanding of financials and what the numbers say" tops the list of small-business owner weaknesses.
        
The Common Cents Mom shares six money-saving ideas for small businesses.
        
Some financial lending companies have found that social connections, like your Facebook friends, can be a good indicator of a person's creditworthiness.
Marketing

        
Mark Suster has some advice on how to get busy people to take action when you send an e-mail: "Write to one person at a time. Even if people are well intentioned they are less likely to respond to a group e-mail. Any sociologist can tell you that."
        
Using Facebook's Power Editor to create an ad targeted only to mobile users is just one of three steps Barbara Ling suggests to prepare for the five billion additional mobile phone Facebook users thundering your way.
        
Jon Gelberg explains how powerful content trumps the myth of the expert, rock star or guru: "It is always better to approach content marketing from the point of view of 'How can I help?' instead of 'Look how smart I am.'"
Events

        
In observance of National Preparedness Month, Agility Recovery and the Small Business Administration are planning a webinar series on the importance of business preparedness.
        
If you're in Stamford, Conn., Tuesday evening, check out "The Five Keys to Small Business Success," a seminar sponsored by Score.
        
Or if you're in Dallas, stop by the 2013 Deal Day Conference.
        
If you don't want to leave your office, this webinar will teach you how to report your exports to the Census Bureau.
Around the Country

        
Texas manufacturing posted slower growth last month.
        
Apparently, Phoenix is not a horrible place for small business.
        
Four of five small businesses in the Washington, D.C., area do not have plans to hire in the next six months, according to a quarterly survey by Capital One.
        
And no, Will Smith's family was not reacting to Miley Cyrus's Video Music Awards performance.
Around the World

        
China's Internet is hit by the country's largest ever attack.
        
British Airways has introduced the "ultimate flight" for the cash-rich and America-bound.
        
A giant Russian hovercraft lands on a crowded beach.
        
John Mauldin thinks France is heading for the biggest economic train wreck in Europe.
Technology

        
Didier Bonnet want to know if you have the information technology for the coming digital wave: "I.T. must play a central role in your digital transformation. It is no longer sufficient for I.T. just to be 'aligned' with your business objectives; a fusion is needed."
        
Elon Musk has started building an "Iron Man" laboratory.
 Gene Marks owns the Marks Group, a Bala Cynwyd, Pa., consulting firm that helps clients with customer relationship management. You can follow him on Twitter. 

        
This Week in Small Business: Meet Your Start-Up Mate
        
Sharing the Profits Requires Some Tough Calls
        
Today in Small Business: No Vacation?
        
Employer Mandate, Delayed by Paperwork (and Efforts to Reduce It)
        
Business for Sale: Would You Pay $2.5 Million?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (94%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); DURABLE GOODS (90%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (89%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (86%); TELECONFERENCING (84%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); CREDIT BUREAUS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); SPONSORSHIP (68%); GASOLINE MARKETS (67%); POP & ROCK (66%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (65%); CELEBRITIES (65%); SOCIOLOGY (64%) Small Business; Dashboard

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (54%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2013



789 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2013

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 1302 words

HEADLINE: Reader Idea | Using Proposed Soda Ban to Introduce Viewpoints on Progressivism

BYLINE: SHANNON DOYNE


HIGHLIGHT: Learning about the Progressive Era alongside the recent proposed (and defeated) ban on large sugary drinks in New York City by reading a variety of documents on both issues is a way to inform the writing of a critical piece on the so-called soda ban. 

 BODY:
This idea comes from a teacher in Honolulu who sent us last year's popular "Students Create Video Ads for Historical Presidential Elections." 
If you've used The Times for teaching and learning and would like to see your idea on our blog, write in and tell us what you've done.
 Teacher: Sarah Razee
 Institution: Kamehameha Schools, Kapalama Campus 
 Grade Level of Students: High school
 Idea: Learning about the Progressive Era alongside the recent proposed (and defeated) ban on large sugary drinks in New York City by reading a variety of documents on both issues is a way to inform the writing of a critical piece on the so-called soda ban, which was proposed in 2012.
 Why We Chose It: This teacher makes Prohibition and Progressivism relevant for students by inquiring into their own viewpoints about the government's role in regulating citizens' health.
 What Ms. Razee Did and Why, in Her Own Words: 
The obesity epidemic is one of the hot-button issues of the moment, and the legislation attempting to regulate the sale of soda in New York City (which was later overruled) is an example of both the good and the bad ways to attempt to fix problems in American society. 
As a way to introduce the ideas of Progressives, who were well-meaning but also had an element of social control and paternalism, I used the "soda wars" as an example to introduce these concepts in class. In addition, I think it could be used to discuss the proper role of government in food regulation, and whether some acts promote or disagree with laws for the public good or are just good for business.
The idea behind this lesson is to have students evaluate their own Progressive-like attitudes. Although students often don't like dress codes or being told they are dancing lewdly, they don't often view their own ideas about other people as judgmental in the same way. I like that the students can make judgments on an issue and see where their attitudes lie. In addition, asking them to think about what should be done to solve societal problems like drinking or obesity shows how complex an endeavor that is. It shows them that passing laws has social and economic implications. 
The other impetus for this lesson was to examine the variety of hidden motives for people who support or reject reform. Students often believe that any reform of the past is a good one, but they don't often understand the complexity of the causes, or the fact that a reform can have consequences beyond the obvious goal of helping people. The soda wars and Prohibition have some useful parallels that can help them make these connections. 
 Focusing Questions: 

        
 Does a well-intentioned government have a right to regulate soda? Is this the same as regulating alcohol? 
        
 What are the underlying intentions of those who support reform? 
        
 What are the underlying intentions of those who reject reform? 
        
 Who are the winners and losers?
 Lesson Ideas and New York Times Readings on the Soda Ban: 

        
Before students watch the short Op-Doc video explaining the soda ban (above), they should evaluate their own thinking on the subject.Question: Should the government regulate the sale of soda to help people be more healthy? Students should write down their opinions and then discuss the pros and cons. 
        
Then, watch the video "Soda Ban Explained," which is short but presents the reasons for the soda ban in a way that is visual and easy to understand. 
        
Next, read these two articles. The first, "Minority Groups and Bottlers Team Up in Battles over Soda," focuses on why these two groups opposed the soda ban. In addition, it does a nice job of explaining the economic and paternalistic implications of the law. 

The next, an editorial, "How to Force Ethics on the Food Industry," is useful because its writer worked in the snack food industry, so this is a good piece to use to discuss credibility. In addition, at the end of the article, you can use the comments section to see other Times readers' viewpoints on the topic. 

        
Students can participate in a seminar using the resources and the questions above. We use Edmodo at our school, so I have students write comments on the article like those found on the actual articles. The expectation is that they have to give their own judgment and then show an understanding of the opposite side. They will write three comments through the online discussion. The three comments start with "I believe...," "The other side of this argument has a good point because..." and "But...." 
 Links to Progressivism: 
An obvious choice of topic is the issue of Prohibition. I found three New York Times articles that link the Anti-Saloon League and Prohibition to the proposed soda ban. Students can read through the articles and highlight phrases or sentences that have similar arguments to those for and against the soda ban. 

        
 This is an article from 1908 about the Model License League, which opposed the Anti-Saloon League: "Prohibition Denounced: Model License League Shall Be Regulated."
 Sample quote: "That prohibition is un-American, that it is opposed to the idea of individual sovereignty, and to the spirit of our institutions, and furthermore it must continue to be merely a costly absurdity as long as it prohibits only the manufacture and sale of alcoholic beverages."
        
This letter to the editor from 1908 provides a citizen's perspective on the issue: "Charges the Anti-Saloon League Plots with Trusts for Power."
 Sample quote: "If what I have heard is true, this clique is really the Anti-Saloon League of America and it is a political organization and a money-making proposition rather than a reform movement. From what I have heard, I am convinced that it is in touch with the men who control the big trusts and combines of this country ... and also undertake to see who shall be in Congress."
        
This is another letter to the editor from the same year: "The Drinking Problem: Work of the Anti-Saloon League Severely Condemned."
 Sample quote: "The reputable saloon or hotel keepers (many of whom are good Christian people) will surely not advocate the passage of the bill, which jeopardizes or destroys their properties and respectable livelihoods." 
 Why the Lesson Was a Success 
Students were able to cite evidence and assess their own viewpoints about soda regulations before evaluating or "judging" Progressives in the past. This helped them personalize and relate to the reasoning behind Progressive social attitudes about class and the role reform was supposed to play in American society.
In addition, we discussed whose role and responsibility it is to control diet and behavior, and the social ramifications of that. Their own "opinion comments" helped to show that they had evaluated the evidence and addressed the complexities of the issue. 
This will also be helpful in the future with discussing regulation of liquor and the enactment of Prohibition.
 Other Sources: 
I found this teaching Web site from Stanford University helpful in providing good primary resources about dancing and progressive attitudes - something kids can definitely relate to - and in asking them to evaluate whether the opinions are helpful or judgmental. 
 Related Learning Network Materials: 

        
Our Fill-In "New York City's Plan to Outlaw Enormous Sugary Drinks" and Student Opinion question "Should the Government Limit the Size of Sugary Drinks?" on New York City's proposed, and later defeated, ban on large sodas.
        
Our On This Day post "Dec. 5, 1933 | Ratification of 21st Amendment Ends Prohibition," which tells more about the Prohibition era.

        
More Than a Case of the Jitters
        
Should the Government Limit the Size of Sugary Drinks?
        
Fill-In | New York City's Plan to Outlaw Enormous Sugary Drinks
        
Education and Prevention: Creating Public Service Campaigns About Type 2 Diabetes
        
Dec. 5, 1933 | Ratification of 21st Amendment Ends Prohibition

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (90%); SOFT DRINKS (89%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (88%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); HISTORY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (75%); OBESITY (72%); EPIDEMICS (72%); BEVERAGE SALES & REVENUES (70%) Prohibition; public health; soda; American History; Civics; Great Ideas From Readers; Health; Individual Rights; Lesson Plans; Nutrition

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); HONOLULU, HI, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); HAWAII, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2013



790 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 382 words

HEADLINE: 'The Great Shift': Americans Not Working

BYLINE: DAVID LEONHARDT


HIGHLIGHT: The decline in the jobless rate since the recession is almost entirely because of the continuing contraction of the labor force, a trend that began more than a decade ago and that economists do not entirely understand. 

 BODY:
 Looking at these two charts together is a quick way to become demoralized about the American economy:
 Yes, the unemployment rate has fallen. But almost the entire reason it has fallen is the drop in the number of people in the labor force - either working or actively looking. As Binyamin Appelbaum has noted, the share of adult Americans with jobs is essentially unchanged over the last three years. 
 In a brief new report from Express Employment Professionals, a staffing firm, the company's chief executive, Bob Funk, refers to the problem as "the great shift." This shift long predates the recent financial crisis, too. The labor force participation rate peaked more than a decade ago. 
 If the decline stemmed largely from an aging work force, it would be much less worrisome. But the initial wave of baby-boomer retirements plays only a small role in the drop; the labor force participation rate has fallen almost as sharply for people aged 25 to 54 as it has for the overall adult population. 
 As the report notes, economists are not entirely sure what has caused the shift. One factor seems to be the so-called skills gap - the slow growth in educational attainment in recent decades, even as the economy has become more technologically advanced. 
A second factor is most likely the weak economic growth of the past 13 years: the 2000-1 dot-com bust, the mediocre expansion that followed, the financial crisis that began in 2007 and the disappointing recovery of the last few years.
 Another cause may be the rise in the number of workers on disability. The report cites a study by the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco to argue that disability is helping cause the decline in work. That's probably right, although it is worth remembering that the growth of the ranks of the disabled may be more of an effect of the jobs slump than a cause.
 Either way, the decline in labor force participation almost certainly receives too little attention. Each month, small changes in the unemployment rate receive great scrutiny. We often overlook just how flawed a measure of the job market that rate has become over the last 13 years. 

        
The Age Equation in Employment Numbers
        
Financial Sector Continues a Rebound
        
Handicapping the Fed's Next Move
        
An Economy Stuck in Second Gear
        
A Job, at Last

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LABOR FORCE (92%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (91%); TRENDS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); WORKFORCE DEMAND (78%); OLDER WORKERS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (76%); RESEARCH REPORTS (76%); AGING TRENDS (74%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); BABY BOOMERS (69%); AGING (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (63%); CENTRAL BANKS (63%); EXECUTIVES (56%) Labor and Jobs; Unemployment; United States Economy

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF SAN FRANCISCO (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (65%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2013



791 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 352 words

HEADLINE: Bank Executive Admits to Using Bailout Funds to Buy Condo

BYLINE: PETER LATTMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Darryl Layne Woods, the former chairman of Mainstreet Bank in Missouri, used a good portion of the $1 million in bailout money that his bank received to buy himself a luxury vacation condo in Florida. 

 BODY:
In November 2008, during the depths of the financial crisis, Darryl Layne Woods, a bank executive in Missouri, applied to the United States Treasury for bailout money. His bank received $1 million. 
Just days later, Mr. Woods used $381,000 of that money to buy a waterfront condominium in Fort Myers, Fla.
On Tuesday, Mr. Woods, the former chairman of Mainstreet Bank in Ashland, Mo., pleaded guilty to criminal charges in Federal District Court in Jefferson City.
"At a time when many other Americans were losing their homes, he was siphoning off public funds to buy a luxury vacation condo in Florida," said Tammy Dickinson, the United States attorney for the Western District of Missouri.
The investigation was led by the special inspector general for the Troubled Asset Relief Program, or Sigtarp. The office, now headed by Christy Romero, has policed the use of the bailout money since the fund was established, and has been responsible for criminal cases filed against more than 140 individuals. 
Prosecutors also accused Mr. Woods of covering up the scheme. In February 2009, a week after buying the Florida condominium, he sent a letter to Neil Barofsky, then the special inspector general of Sigtarp, in response to a request for more information regarding how Mainstreet used the bailout money it received. 
Mr. Woods made no mention of his real estate purchase in the three-page letter to Mr. Barofsky. 
"We are a small central Missouri community bank and while I would like to be able to provide you with very specific and quantitative responses we are currently operating under the assumption that the worst scenario could occur and the TARP proceeds will provide vitally needed infusions to a bleeding patient," Mr. Woods wrote. 
Under the terms of his plea agreement, Mr. Woods must desist from any further involvement in banking. Under federal law, he is subject to a sentence of up to a year in prison. His lawyer, James R. Hobbs, did not immediately return a request for comment.

        
Kashkari, Onetime $700 Billion Man at Treasury, Weighs Political Bid
        
A.I.G. Says It Will Not Join Lawsuit Against Government

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (91%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); GUILTY PLEAS (76%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (76%); LAWYERS (76%); LITIGATION (76%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (76%); COMMUNITY BANKS (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); JAIL SENTENCING (71%) Emergency Economic Stabilization Act (2008); Treasury Department; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory; Real Estate; Top Headline 2

ORGANIZATION: Treasury Department

GEOGRAPHIC: JEFFERSON CITY, MO, USA (91%); FORT MYERS, FL, USA (90%) FLORIDA, USA (95%); MISSOURI, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2013



792 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1396 words

HEADLINE: 10 Questions for Jacob Lew

BYLINE: JOHN HARWOOD


HIGHLIGHT: The Treasury secretary spoke to John Harwood about extending government funding past Sept. 30, dealing with the so-called budget sequester and raising the federal debt limit. 

 BODY:
Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew has been part of Washington's fiscal battles for three decades, since he served as an aide to then-House Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill. But soon he will be the Obama administration's point man on an unusual convergence of fronts: extending government funding past the end of the current fiscal year on Sept. 30, dealing with the so-called budget sequester and raising the federal debt limit.
On the morning after he informed Congress by letter that the debt limit must be raised by mid-October, Mr. Lew sat down with John Harwood of The Times and CNBC for an interview at the Treasury Department. What follows is a condensed, edited version of their conversation.
 Q. 
 Since you sent your letter to Congress, have you spoken to Speaker John A. Boehner and, if so, how was the conversation?
 A. 
 I have exchanged calls. I haven't actually spoken with the speaker; I did speak with other leaders yesterday. I think in general the news was taken as it was intended, which was sharing the information that we have. I think it's helped frame how they are thinking of coming back in the fall.
 Q. 
 The speaker says we need dollar for dollar spending cuts in return for a rise in the debt limit. Some conservatives have talked about linking the defunding of the health care law to a rise in the debt limit. Both of those are total nonstarters?
 A. 
 John, the president has been very clear. We are not going to be negotiating over the debt limit. Congress has already authorized funding, committed us to make expenditures. We are now in the place where the only question is, will we pay the bills the United States has incurred? The only way to do that is for Congress to act, for it to act quickly. What we need in our economy is some certainty. We don't need another self-inflicted wound. We don't need another crisis at the last minute. Since 1789, every Congress has acted to pay the bills of the United States. This Congress needs to do the same.
 Q. 
 But you will negotiate over the budget; government funding runs out at the end of September.
 A. 
 We have been very clear for quite some time on fiscal policy generally: the president thinks the right answer is a balanced approach. We have pressed very hard for the kind of agreements that would do spending reform, entitlement reform and tax reform. We've hit a bit of an obstacle with the Congress, because there hasn't been an openness to doing the balance with the tax reform. The president has tried to reach out in every way that is possible to make it clear. He's looking for the sensible common middle ground. 
That's very different from, do we take something as fundamental as the full faith and credit of the United States and put it in jeopardy. I think if you look back at 2011, we see what the problem is when you can confuse the two. 2011 was the very first time in - certainly my years in Washington, that's three decades - where there was debate about whether or not to default. It used to be the debt limit was treated as a deadline to force action to come together. In 2011, we actually saw the specter of default raised to something that was an affirmative position some were saying was better than the alternative. That was dangerous. It was bad for the economy, and we can't go back there.
 Q. 
 Given the stance the Republicans have taken and the stance that the administration has taken, are you 100 percent confident this will get worked out without any of the negative repercussions we saw two years ago?
 A. 
 As I talk to leaders on both sides, there is an understanding of the seriousness of this issue. I don't think that the leaders are in a place where anyone wants a repeat of 2011. I don't yet see that they have a plan to avoid it, which is one of the reasons it's so important for them to come back in just a couple of weeks and get to work on getting this done and trying to make the debt issue different from other debates that we have.
 Q. 
 What if the speaker calls you and says, Jack, I want to help you, I know we have to raise the debt limit, but I've got to give something to my members or I can't get the votes. What do you say?
 A. 
 Look, I think we saw in 2011 the danger of going down the path of having the kind of negotiation over the debt limit that you have over other issues. The debt limit is just different. It's just different. There cannot be any question. We are a country that pays our bills. It's not as if we get to go back and undo the commitments we made. These are old bills that have to be paid. It is part of the rock-solid stability of the United States that we always pay our bills. Congress has the job to raise the borrowing authority to make that possible, just as Congress has the authority to authorize the expenditures in the first place.
 Q. 
 On funding the government, is there any circumstance under which the administration would accept either a delay in parts of Obamacare or a defunding of parts of Obamacare?
 A. 
 No.
 Q. 
 Is the only way the sequester is replaced, in whole or in part, is if Republicans agree to additional tax increases? Or could you see a trade of entitlement cuts, some of which your administration has said are necessary, for the discretionary cuts we have now?
 A. 
 There should be sensible, balanced approaches to medium- and long-term deficit reduction. I don't want to get into the details of what a package would be, because a small or large package might have different characteristics. The president made clear he was prepared to do tough things on entitlement programs, but those tough actions on entitlement programs require balance in terms of revenue, both for fairness and for economic results.
 Q. 
 Chairmen Camp and Baucus are pursuing a tax reform process - corporate tax reform as well as individual reform. You have watched Congress for a long time. Is this still possible to do in both realms in this Congress?
 A. 
 The president tried very hard just a couple weeks ago to make clear there is a path to do business tax reform. There was a way to do it so we could simultaneously do some other important things for the economy - invest in infrastructure, invest in manufacturing centers or job training.
I think there has been a convergence of views on the business tax reform. On the individual side, it is a bit more complicated, because it is intrinsically connected to the larger fiscal policy conversation. So without additional revenues, I don't see a path towards comprehensive tax reform. 
 Q. 
 How concerned are you about the reaction of financial markets to two different events: the possibility of military action in Syria and the tapering of bond buying that the Fed has signaled is likely to happen this fall?
 A. 
 I focus on the core economy here. I think we have to take every step we can as we make policy to try and keep our eye on the ball of, what does the economy need to keep growing in the future? We have foreign policy decisions that are going to need to be made for reasons other than core economics, and obviously we'll have to manage accordingly.
In terms of Fed tapering, you know, as Treasury secretary, I don't comment on monetary policy. But I will focus on core economics. Our core economy has been growing in the 2 percent range, and, I think it's important to note, that's with substantial headwinds from federal policy - some on purpose, some not on purpose. 
We withdrew the payroll tax cut because that was a short-term policy that had to be withdrawn as we started to see economic growth. The across-the-board cuts of sequestration are an unintended, self-inflicted wound in the short term. They were meant to be replaced by medium- and long-term savings that would be a better, sensible path for the future. In spite of those drags on the economy, we are seeing 2 percent growth. As we get to the end of the year, we think without the headwinds of additional federal cuts, the economy should pick up a notch again. 
 Q. 
 Could Larry Summers be an effective Fed chair if he is the president's choice?
 A. 
 John, I will leave my comments on Fed transition where they belong: in the Oval Office.

        
As Congress Votes to Avert One Fiscal Crisis, Boehner Moves On to Another
        
Obama Tells House Democrats He Will Confront Republicans on Taxes
        
In Debt Game, an Early Move From Obama
        
New Polls Are Bad News for Obama, and Worse for Congress
        
Obama and G.O.P. Spar Over Direction of Cuts

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: DEBT CEILING (92%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (91%); PUBLIC DEBT (91%); NATIONAL DEBT (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); POLITICS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (76%); TAX LAW (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); CONSERVATISM (71%); TAX REFORM (62%); TAXES & TAXATION (62%); HEALTH CARE LAW (50%) Federal Budget (US); House of Representatives; Lew, Jacob J; National Debt (US); United States Economy; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives

PERSON: JACK LEW (92%); JOHN BOEHNER (79%); BARACK OBAMA (57%) Lew, Jacob J

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2013



793 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1388 words

HEADLINE: Regulators Prepare Penalties for JPMorgan

BYLINE: JESSICA SILVER-GREENBERG and BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: Federal regulators are preparing separate enforcement actions and fines against JPMorgan Chase stemming from the way it collected overdue bills from consumers during the recession in the latest legal woe facing the nation&#8217;s biggest bank. 

 BODY:
Two federal regulators are preparing a series of enforcement actions and fines against JPMorgan Chase stemming from its dealings with consumers during the recession, presenting the latest legal threat to the nation's biggest bank.
The regulators, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, plan to announce the actions as soon as next month, according to people briefed on the matter. Under the terms of the civil orders, the bank will have to acknowledge internal flaws and dole out at least $80 million in fines, said the people, who spoke anonymously because they were not authorized to speak publicly about the matter.
 The most costly cases for JPMorgan center on concerns that the bank duped its credit card customers into buying products pitched as a way to shield them from identity theft. In separate actions reflecting their varied jurisdictions, the consumer bureau will levy a roughly $20 million fine, while the comptroller's office is expected to extract about $60 million.
In another set of actions, the regulators are aiming at the bank for the way it collected overdue bills from consumers, the people said. It is unclear whether those cases will yield any fines. 
Even if some fines are assessed, those penalties will barely nick the bottom line of the bank, which earned record profits in recent quarters. Yet the actions represent one element of a broader federal crackdown on JPMorgan.
In a public filing this month, JPMorgan disclosed to investors a bevy of pending investigations from federal authorities scrutinizing the bank's financial crisis-era mortgage business and its multibillion-dollar trading loss in London last year. In the filing, the bank also acknowledged the pending cases related to identity theft and that the regulators had decided to penalize the bank over its "operational processes and control functions related to collections litigation practices."
On Tuesday, the bank declined to comment on the looming enforcement actions from the consumer bureau and the comptroller. Representatives for the agencies also declined to comment.
Both sets of cases zero in on the bank's credit card business.
The regulators are investigating reports that the bank sold credit card customers, through a third-party vendor, the identity-theft protection with false promises. The investigation focused partly, the people briefed on the matter said, on whether the bank or its vendor had misled customers into thinking that the product was free, mandatory and would bolster credit scores.
Last year, the Hawaii attorney general sued JPMorgan and six other large banks over claims that the lenders had employed unfair and deceptive sales tactics to improperly pitch similar so-called add-on products. That case is still pending.
People close to JPMorgan say it no longer sells the identity-theft product in question.
The other federal actions spring from an investigation into debt collection lawsuits the bank filed against its credit card customers from 2009 to 2011, the people said. As JPMorgan plowed through a glut of overdue credit card bills and other loans, authorities suspect, the bank deluged state courts with lawsuits that used faulty documentation to substantiate the amount owed by consumers. Often, the bank relied on outside law firms without double-checking their work.
The comptroller's office, in a preliminary review, spotted errors in about 9 percent of monetary judgments the bank won against consumers, the people close to the matter said, adding that the action was not yet final and the details could change. In nearly all those cases, however, the consumers never paid the bank the full amount owed.
The case from the consumer bureau and the comptroller, Thomas J. Curry, comes after a similar lawsuit from the California attorney general, who accused the bank in May of committing "debt collection abuses against tens of thousands of California consumers." JPMorgan, the attorney general said, took shortcuts when filing thousands of lawsuits each month to collect soured credit card debt.
JPMorgan, which has moved to dismiss that case, has decided not to file any new collection lawsuits until executives can verify that the cases are filed correctly. In courts across the nation, according to judges and lawyers, JPMorgan has also dropped pending collection lawsuits.
The questionable debt collection practices recalled some of the tactics banks used to foreclose on homes during the mortgage crisis. Those problems - like robo-signing, where bank employees and outside lawyers churned through piles of foreclosures without vetting them for errors - were at the center of a wide-ranging settlement this year between the nation's biggest banks and the comptroller's office. Under that settlement, JPMorgan analyzed roughly 900,000 troubled mortgages and agreed to pay more than $750 million in cash and $1.2 billion in other relief to homeowners.
Until now, unlike the foreclosure practices, banks' pursuit of credit card and other consumer debts have fallen into something of a regulatory gulf. The primary federal law that governs how companies pursue consumers behind on their bills does not apply to lenders like JPMorgan. Instead, it polices third-party debt collection firms.
But the Dodd-Frank financial overhaul law, a 2010 law that regulators are beginning to apply, emboldened federal authorities to take a tougher stance with lenders. In July, Richard Cordray, the director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, warned at a public hearing that the agency under Dodd-Frank had the authority to prohibit banks from employing any "unfair, deceptive or abusive acts."
"It doesn't matter who is collecting the debt - unfair, deceptive or abusive practices are illegal," Mr. Cordray said at the time.
The dual enforcement actions from Mr. Cordray and Mr. Curry come at a precarious time for JPMorgan, once a darling in regulatory circles. The bank is already at the center of investigations by a spate of federal agencies, a state regulator and two foreign nations.
The latest matter to surface is a bribery investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission into JPMorgan's hiring practices in China. The agency is examining whether the bank hired the children of powerful Chinese officials to help it secure lucrative business in the country, according to a confidential copy of an S.E.C. document reviewed by The New York Times.
The bank is also under the spotlight for a trading blowup in London that generated more than $6 billion in losses. On Tuesday, a former JPMorgan trader was arrested in Spain, weeks after the United States government charged him and another former bank employee with cloaking the trading losses.
The arrest is the latest development in a case that came to be known as the "London Whale." The losses, which originated from a soured bet on derivatives, spurred Congressional hearings and several investigations.
In one of them, the S.E.C. is looking to win a rare admission of wrongdoing from the bank related to the losses. A settlement, which is expected to include a fine in the hundreds of millions of dollars, could be reached as early as this fall, according to people briefed on the matter. The penalties have not been made final, these people said.
Beyond the trading losses, JPMorgan is grappling with civil and criminal investigations in California related to the bank's mortgage business during the financial crisis. In the quarterly filing this month, JPMorgan said the civil division of the United States attorney's office for the Eastern District of California was investigating whether the bank sold shoddy mortgage securities to investors.
JPMorgan's mortgage business also landed it in the cross hairs of a housing regulator. The Federal Housing Finance Agency, which oversees Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, accused JPMorgan and 17 other banks of selling mortgage securities that later imploded. The housing regulator balked at JPMorgan's offer to settle, people briefed on the matter said, a setback that could foreshadow a big fine.
Jamie Dimon, the bank's chief executive, has apologized for letting "our regulators down" and vowed to "do all the work necessary to complete the needed improvements."

        
Regulators Seek Stiffer Bank Rules on Capital
        
Flawed System Suits the Shareholders Just Fine

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CONSUMER PROTECTION (91%); FINES & PENALTIES (90%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); IDENTITY THEFT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CREDIT CARDS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (87%); LITIGATION (85%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); US DODD FRANK ACT (77%); US DOLLAR (77%); IDENTITY SECURITY (77%); CREDIT COLLECTIONS (74%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (71%) Banking and Financial Institutions; Consumer Financial Protection Bureau; Cordray, Richard; Curry, Thomas J; Dimon, James; Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (2010); JPMorgan Chase & Company; Office of the Comptroller of the Currency; JPMorgan Chase & Company|JPM|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (96%)

ORGANIZATION: Consumer Financial Protection Bureau; JPMorgan Chase &amp; Company; Office of the Comptroller of the Currency

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (96%); JPM (LSE) (96%); 8634 (TSE) (96%) JPMorgan Chase & Company; JPM; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (96%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (96%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (96%)

PERSON: JAMES DIMON (73%); RICHARD CORDRAY (60%) Cordray, Richard; Curry, Thomas J; Dimon, James

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (54%) HAWAII, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2013



794 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1408 words

HEADLINE: How Dr. King Shaped My Work in Economics

BYLINE: JOSEPH E. STIGLITZ


HIGHLIGHT: The March on Washington spurred Joseph E. Stiglitz, later a Nobel laureate, to study inequality as an economic phenomenon. 

 BODY:
I had the good fortune to be in the crowd in Washington when the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. gave his thrilling "I Have a Dream" speech on Aug. 28, 1963. I was 20 years old, and had just finished college. It was just a couple of weeks before I began my graduate studies in economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
The night before the March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom, I had stayed at the home of a college classmate whose father, Arthur J. Goldberg, was an associate justice of the Supreme Court and was committed to bringing about economic justice. Who would have imagined, 50 years later, that this very body, which had once seemed determined to usher in a more fair and inclusive America, would become the instrument for preserving inequalities: allowing nearly unlimited corporate spending to influence political campaigns, pretending that the legacy of voting discrimination no longer exists, and restricting the rights of workers and other plaintiffs to sue employers and companies for misconduct? 
Listening to Dr. King speak evoked many emotions for me. Young and sheltered though I was, I was part of a generation that saw the inequities that had been inherited from the past, and was committed to correcting these wrongs. Born during World War II, I came of age as quiet but unmistakable changes were washing over American society.

As president of the student council at Amherst College, I had led a group of classmates down South to help push for racial integration. We couldn't understand the violence of those who wanted to preserve the old system of segregation. When we visited an all-black college, we felt intensely the disparity in educational opportunities that had been given to the students there, especially when compared with those that we had received in our privileged, cloistered college. It was an unlevel playing field, and it was fundamentally unfair. It was a travesty of the idea of the American dream that we had grown up with and believed in.
It was because I hoped that something could be done about these and the other problems I had seen so vividly growing up in Gary, Ind. - poverty, episodic and persistent unemployment, unending discrimination against African-Americans - that I decided to become an economist, veering away from my earlier intention to go into theoretical physics. I soon discovered I had joined a strange tribe. While there were a few scholars (including several of my teachers) who cared deeply about the issues that had led me to the field, most were unconcerned about inequality; the dominant school worshiped at the feet of (a misunderstood) Adam Smith, at the miracle of the efficiency of the market economy. I thought that if this was the best of all possible worlds, I wanted to construct and live in another world.
In that odd world of economics, unemployment (if it existed) was the fault of workers. One Chicago School economist, the Nobel Prize winner Robert E. Lucas Jr., would later write: "Of the tendencies that are harmful to sound economics, the most seductive, and in my opinion the most poisonous, is to focus on questions of distribution." Another Nobel laureate of the Chicago School, Gary S. Becker, would attempt to show how in truly competitive labor markets discrimination couldn't exist. While I and others wrote multiple papers explaining the sophistry in the argument, his was an argument that fell on receptive ears.
Like so many looking back over the past 50 years, I cannot but be struck by the gap between our aspirations then and what we have accomplished.
True, one "glass ceiling" has been shattered: we have an African-American president.
But Dr. King realized that the struggle for social justice had to be conceived broadly: it was a battle not just against racial segregation and discrimination, but for greater economic equality and justice for all Americans. It was not for nothing that the march's organizers, Bayard Rustin and A. Philip Randolph, had called it the March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom.
In so many respects, progress in race relations has been eroded, and even reversed, by the growing economic divides afflicting the entire country.
The battle against outright discrimination is, regrettably far from over: 50 years after the march, and 45 years after the passage of the Fair Housing Act, major United States banks, like Wells Fargo, still discriminate on the basis of race, targeting the most vulnerable of our citizens for their predatory lending activities. Discrimination in the job market is pervasive and deep. Research suggests that applicants with African-American sounding names get fewer calls for interviews. Discrimination takes new forms; racial profiling remains rampant in many American cities, including through the stop-and-frisk policies that became standard practice in New York. Our incarceration rate is the world's highest, although there are signs, finally, that fiscally strapped states are starting to see the folly, if not the inhumanity, of wasting so much human capital through mass incarceration. Almost 40 percent of prisoners are black. This tragedy has been documented powerfully by Michelle Alexander and other legal scholars.
The raw numbers tell much of the story: There has been no significant closing of the gap between the income of African-Americans (or Hispanics) and white Americans the last 30 years. In 2011, the median income of black families was $40,495, just 58 percent of the median income of white families.
Turning from income to wealth, we see gaping inequality, too. By 2009, the median wealth of whites was 20 times that of blacks. The Great Recession of 2007-9 was particularly hard on African-Americans (as it typically is on those at the bottom of the socioeconomic spectrum). They saw their median wealth fall by 53 percent between 2005 and 2009, more than three times that of whites: a record gap. But the so-called recovery has been little more than a chimera - with more than 100 percent of the gains going to the top 1 percent - a group where, needless to say, African-Americans cannot be found in large numbers.
Who knows how Dr. King's life would have unfolded had it not been cut short by an assassin's bullet? Just 39 when he was killed, he would be 84 today. While he would have likely embraced President Obama's efforts to reform our health care system and to defend the social safety net for the elderly, the poor and the disabled, it is difficult to imagine that someone of such acute moral acumen would look at the America of today with anything short of despair.
Despite rhetoric about the land of opportunity, a young American's life prospects are more dependent on the income and education of his parents than in almost any other advanced country. And thus, the legacy of discrimination and lack of educational and job opportunity is perpetuated, from one generation to the next.
Given this lack of mobility, the fact that even today, 65 percent of African-American children live in low-income families does not bode well for their future, or the nation's.
Men with just a high school education have seen enormous drops in their real incomes over the past two decades, a decline that has disproportionately affected African-Americans.
While outright race-based segregation in schools was banned, in reality, educational segregation has worsened in recent decades, as Gary Orfield and other scholars have documented.
Part of the reason is that the country has become more economically segregated. Poor black children are more likely to live in communities with concentrated poverty - some 45 percent do so, as opposed to 12 percent for poor white children, as the Economic Policy Institute has pointed out.
I turned 70 earlier this year. Much of my scholarship and public service in recent decades - including my service at the Council of Economic Advisers during the Clinton administration, and then at the World Bank - has been devoted to the reduction of poverty and inequality. I hope I've lived up to the call Dr. King issued a half-century ago.
He was right to recognize that these persistent divides are a cancer in our society, undermining our democracy and weakening our economy. His message was that the injustices of the past were not inevitable. But he knew, too, that dreaming was not enough.

        
The Plight of the Black P.O.W.
        
How Social Networks Drive Black Unemployment
        
A Cold Current
        
Gotham's Only Black Millionaire
        
New York's Mixed-Race Riot

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); DISCRIMINATION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); RACE & RACISM (88%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); NOBEL PRIZES (76%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (76%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (72%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); SUPREME COURTS (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (68%); POLITICS (68%); ETHNICITY (68%); PHYSICS (60%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%); MISCONDUCT (54%); WORLD WAR II (51%) Blacks; Discrimination; Income Inequality; King, Martin Luther Jr; Race and Ethnicity; Unemployment; United States Economy; The Great Divide

PERSON: MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (92%); ADAM SMITH (52%) King, Martin Luther Jr

GEOGRAPHIC: GARY, IN, USA (67%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2013



795 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wordplay)

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2013

SECTION: CROSSWORDS

LENGTH: 610 words

HEADLINE: Units of Brilliance

BYLINE: DEB AMLEN


HIGHLIGHT: A glimpse back in time, by Erik Agard. 

 BODY:
 WEDNESDAY'S PUZZLE - Today's terrific midweek puzzle by Erik Agard suggests an interesting question: are the salaries we pay to athletes vastly out of proportion with the salaries we pay to people who hold other positions?
This may make me the target of some tomato-throwing (note to self: remember to file expense report for body armor), but for my money, professional athletes are highly trained entertainers. The commitment and work that athletes put in to developing and maintaining their skills should not be overlooked, but should they really earn so much more than schoolteachers, for example? 
I bring this up because the theme of Mr. Agard's puzzle is the revered SULTAN OF SWAT, BABE RUTH, and his quote, when asked if he was aware that his most recent raise meant that he now out-earned PRESIDENT HOOVER, was (in its entirety) "What the hell has Hoover got to do with it? Besides, I HAD A BETTER YEAR than he did." And if the $5,000 difference in their salaries doesn't drive the point home to you, consider that these days, Alex Rodriguez, who earned roughly $32 million a year at his peak, makes approximately eight times more money per annum than President Obama. For even more perspective, the average high school teacher in the United States makes less than $45,000 per year.
Oh yes, the puzzle. I don't really follow sports, but I am a history geek, so I liked this theme. Even though I didn't know who the man was who earned an astonishing $80,000 per year in 1930 right off the bat (sorry), Mr. Agard and Will Shortz clued the grid to perfection as a midweek set and the solve was smooth, so everything fell into place with just a push here and a pull there.
I especially liked the clue "Time piece?" for ISSUE (that being a piece of Time magazine.) The clue for 53 Down was especially intriguing, with its "largest cities whose names begin with X and Z." The answer, of course is OHIO, home to both Xenia and Zanesville.
And if you've forgotten that Will Shortz likes to play with us, ponder this: today we have the word FOREGO, meaning "precede," whereas yesterday the word FORGO, meaning to do without, caused much confusion.
I got a bit confused when reading 55 Down's clue "Lender's offering," and will freely admit that my brain's first reaction was "A toaster?"* Today, Mr. Agard was thinking of the abbreviation for mortgage, or MTGE. Also, the answer to "It lights up when excited" is ARGON. And nothing else.
Let's hear from Mr. Agard about some of the Easter eggs in his puzzle:
 Constructor Notes 
Thanks for having me. 
This is my second puzzle published here, but the first to be accepted - circa March 2012, when I was taking the economics class that inspired this theme. There are some shout outs hidden in the grid (how very unprofessional of me): 32-Down is a nod to my college; David 31-Down is the high school teacher who got me into crosswords; and 6-Down Gaffney was my mentor figure when I got into constructing. 
Play ball!
Guitarist ERIC Clapton is one of rock's gods, as far as I'm concerned. Let's hustle to the Thursday puzzle with a very fast version of "Layla" starring Mr. Clapton, Mark Knopfler and Elton John:
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
Your thoughts?
* For those of you under the age of, oh, 40 or so, banks used to give out things like toasters as thank-you gifts for opening accounts with them. This is an interesting historical twist on the banking practices of today, where the customers are expected to bring gifts of tribute to the bankers, in addition to donating what used to be called "interest" to the bank's Coffee and Pastries Fund.

        
Knuckling Down
        
Simple Things To Pick
        
Capital Ls
        
Variety: Rainy Day Moods
        
Flip a Coin

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (70%) Crossword Puzzles

COMPANY: PERFECTION AS (65%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (52%); ALEX RODRIGUEZ (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2013



796 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 921 words

HEADLINE: What Happened to Jobs and Justice?

BYLINE: By WILLIAM P. JONES. 
William P. Jones is a professor of history at the University of Wisconsin and the author of ''The March on Washington: Jobs, Freedom and the Forgotten History of Civil Rights.''

 BODY:
MADISON, Wis. -- ON Aug. 28, 1963, nearly a quarter of a million people thronged the nation's capital for the March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom, the largest civil rights demonstration in American history. Its impact on American politics was tremendous: in addition to building support to pass the civil rights bill that President John F. Kennedy had recently proposed, marchers succeeded in strengthening and expanding the scope of the bill far beyond what the president had envisioned.
For many, the most important addition was Title VII, which prohibited employers and unions from discriminating on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin and sex. The ban on sex discrimination was itself a further amendment, introduced in January 1964 by Southern Democrats who hoped it would impede the bill's progress through Congress. Their plan backfired: not only did they fail to scuttle the bill, but their amendment also provided a critical legal tool in the fight for women's equality. 
The message of the march still resonated in 1965, when Congress passed the Voting Rights Act, Medicare and Medicaid, key features of President Lyndon B. Johnson's proposal to bring ''an end to poverty and racial injustice.''
The march was so successful that we often forget that it occurred in a political environment not so different from our own. Kennedy's victory over Richard M. Nixon in 1960 signaled a break from the conservatism of the 1950s. But like the election of Barack Obama in 2008, hope for a return to the liberalism of the 1930s was dampened by an administration that rejected ''old slogans'' like wage increases and public works in favor of tax cuts and free trade to stimulate growth.
That disillusionment gave rise to sit-ins and freedom rides against segregation in the South, but those protests proved powerless in the face of entrenched conservative power. In contrast, the grass-roots movements that gained political influence in the Kennedy years were White Citizens Councils, the John Birch Society and other forces that, much like today's Tea Party movement, shifted the political spectrum to the right.
Given those obstacles, how did the March on Washington help drive support for such sweeping civil rights and domestic policy measures?
First, it linked the protest movements of the 1960s to institutions with longstanding roots in working-class communities. The initial call for the 1963 demonstration came from the Negro American Labor Council, an organization of black trade unionists that used local networks to plan for the march months before it was officially announced.
The Southern Christian Leadership Conference and the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee played similar roles in the South, mobilizing local civil rights groups, black churches and students. Support also came from the National Council of Negro Women and other elements of the black women's movement that had battled poverty and discrimination since the 19th century.
At the same time, organizers rallied supporters around a broad and ambitious set of demands. A. Philip Randolph, the veteran trade unionist who had first called for a march on Washington to protest employment discrimination in 1941, wanted the demonstration to focus on the shortcomings of Kennedy's economic policies. Pointing out that black workers were restricted to entry-level jobs that were most vulnerable to the automation and offshoring of manufacturing under way in the 1960s, he warned that without measures to end discrimination and create more jobs, blacks would be condemned to struggling for survival ''within the grey shadows of a hopeless hope.''
Other black leaders shared that concern, but some worried that a ''march for jobs'' would compete with the movement that the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and others were leading against legalized discrimination and disfranchisement. Anna Arnold Hedgeman, a prominent leader of the black women's movement, persuaded the men to plan a demonstration that would address ''both the economic problems and civil rights.''
Finally, while Randolph, King, Hedgeman and others expanded the mobilization to include a broad and multiracial coalition, they resisted pressure to moderate their tactics or demands.
Both black and white liberals worried that an angry protest would turn moderates in Congress against Kennedy's civil rights bill, but Randolph and King convinced the leaders of the N.A.A.C.P., the United Auto Workers and the National Urban League that the demonstration would be peaceful and effective.
It was the combination of these stalwart positions and rich institutional networks with the sheer number of peaceful black and white marchers that persuaded so many Americans of the rightness of civil rights and antipoverty legislation.
As we celebrate the 50th anniversary of the march, however, its central achievements are more imperiled than ever. This summer the Supreme Court upheld the principles behind the Civil Rights Act and the Voting Rights Act while severely weakening authority to enforce them. We have a charismatic liberal president and inspiring protest movements dedicated to racial equality and economic justice -- but, as in the Kennedy years, they have proved no match for well-organized conservatives.
The solution may not be another march on Washington. But real changes in policy, and the defense of previous victories, require the combination of institutional backing, coalition building and ambitious demands that brought so many people to the National Mall in 1963.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ANTHONY BURRILL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISCRIMINATION (90%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); WOMEN (89%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (89%); RACE & RACISM (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); GENDER EQUALITY (77%); ELECTION LAW (77%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (77%); STUDENT ACTIVISM (77%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); BUSINESS LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT (75%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (75%); LABOR UNIONS (75%); RELIGION (75%); RACIAL DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); HISTORY (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); TAX LAW (71%); MEDICARE (66%); MEDICAID (52%)

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); RICHARD NIXON (57%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADISON, WI, USA (92%) WISCONSIN, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2013



797 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 805 words

HEADLINE: North Korea: U.S. Sends Envoy To Seek American's Release

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN

 BODY:
SEOUL, South Korea -- Washington's special envoy on North Korean human rights issues will visit that country on Friday to try to secure the release of an American imprisoned there on charges of plotting to harm the socialist country through his Christian missionary activities, the State Department said on Tuesday.
The envoy, Robert King, will travel at the invitation of the North Korean government, the State Department said in a news release. 
Although the statement characterized Mr. King's trip as ''a humanitarian mission'' focused on helping to free the Korean-American, Kenneth Bae, 45, whose health is reportedly deteriorating, analysts will monitor it closely to see if it can lead to a resumption of official dialogue between the United States and North Korea.In an interview with Chosun Sinbo, a pro-North Korean newspaper in Japan, earlier this month, Mr. Bae appealed to Washington to send a high-ranking official to Pyongyang to ''apologize'' for his crime and help free him.
''Ambassador King will request the D.P.R.K. pardon Mr. Bae and grant him special amnesty on humanitarian grounds so that he can be reunited with his family and seek medical treatment,'' the State Department said, using the acronym of North Korea's official name, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea.
Mr. Bae, 45, was leading a group of visitors from China into the special economic zone of Rason in northeastern North Korea when he was arrested last November. He was sent to a labor camp in May, shortly after he was sentenced to 15 years of hard labor for what the North Korean authorities said were hostile acts against the government. Mr. Bae was recently moved to a hospital in Pyongyang.
North Korean officials had accused Mr. Bae, a Christian missionary, of flouting the country's laws on proselytizing. In the Chosun Sinbo interview, Mr. Bae said he had ''violated'' North Korean laws.
In a videotaped sermon he gave at a St. Louis church in 2011, Mr. Bae said he was a missionary trying to build a covert proselytizing operation in Rason, using a tour business as a front.
''We were like Christ's soldiers entering the country,'' he said of a group of 23 Christians from around the world he took to Rason in August 2011 under a ''cultural tour'' program he had begun in an agreement with the North Korean authorities. He said he had been taking ''several short-term missionary teams into North Korea, hoping that the walls will come crumbing down if many people set foot there, pray and shout.''
Mr. Bae said he took them to the North to ''praise Jehovah as the greatest God in a land that is filled with idols, denies God and upholds Kim Il-sung as the mightiest.'' Mr. Kim was the North's founding president and is worshiped by North Koreans.
In the past, North Korea has detained Americans on criminal charges and used them to gain visits by prominent United States officials seeking their release, including former Presidents Jimmy Carter and Bill Clinton -- a practice that Washington says it wants to end. The North also uses such visits for internal propaganda aimed at boosting the image of its own top leaders.
The United States had insisted that there would be no serious negotiation with the North until its government showed concrete signs of giving up its program of nuclear weapons development so Mr. King's visit could be seen as a diplomatic victory for the North, which has been seeking dialogue with Washington.
But Mr. King had previously played a low-key role in helping start such dialogue. A visit he made to North Korea in May 2011 helped win the release of another Korean-American held there on criminal charges. That trip was followed by a series of talks between the United States and the North that led to what was known was the ''leap day'' agreement on Feb. 29, 2012, in which Washington promised 240,000 tons of food aid and North Korea agreed to place a moratorium on uranium enrichment and nuclear and missile tests.
But the agreement quickly collapsed when North Korea launched a long-range rocket in April 2012 and the United States, seeing the launching as a provocative test of missile technology, scrapped the food aid and led efforts at the United Nations to tighten sanctions.
North Korea launched another rocket last December and conducted its third nuclear test in February, leading to more sanctions.
Mr. King's trip comes amid signs of a thaw on the Korean Peninsula, as North and South Korea have recently eased tensions by agreeing to reopen a jointly operated industrial complex and resume reunions of families separated by the 1950-53 Korean War. A senior Chinese official was also visiting Pyongyang this week to discuss restarting long-stalled multilateral talks on ending the North's nuclear weapons program.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); RELIGION (89%); INTERVIEWS (88%); HUMAN RIGHTS (78%); SENTENCING (77%); LITIGATION (73%); AMNESTY (72%); ARRESTS (72%); PARDONS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (74%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (73%) KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); CHINA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2013



798 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1388 words

HEADLINE: Regulators Prepare Penalties For Chase

BYLINE: By JESSICA SILVER-GREENBERG and BEN PROTESS

 BODY:
Two federal regulators are preparing a series of enforcement actions and fines against JPMorgan Chase stemming from its dealings with consumers during the recession in the latest legal woes facing the nation's biggest bank.
The regulators, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, plan to announce the actions as soon as next month, according to people briefed on the matter. Under the terms of the civil orders, the bank will have to acknowledge internal flaws and dole out at least $80 million in fines, said the people, who spoke anonymously because they were not authorized to speak publicly about the matter.
The most costly cases for JPMorgan center on concerns that the bank duped its credit card customers into buying products pitched as a way to shield them from identity theft. In separate actions reflecting their varied jurisdictions, the consumer bureau will levy a roughly $20 million fine, while the comptroller's office is expected to extract about $60 million.
In another set of actions, the regulators are aiming at the bank for the way it collected overdue bills from consumers, the people said. It is unclear whether those cases will yield any fines. 
Even if some fines are assessed, those penalties will barely nick the bottom line of the bank, which earned record profits in recent quarters. Yet the actions represent one element of a broader federal crackdown on JPMorgan.
In a public filing this month, JPMorgan disclosed to investors a bevy of pending investigations from federal authorities scrutinizing the bank's financial crisis-era mortgage business and its multibillion-dollar trading loss in London last year. In the filing, the bank also acknowledged the pending cases related to identity theft and that the regulators had decided to penalize the bank over its ''operational processes and control functions related to collections litigation practices.''
On Tuesday, the bank declined to comment on the looming enforcement actions from the consumer bureau and the comptroller. Representatives for the agencies also declined to comment.
Both sets of cases zero in on the bank's credit card business.
The regulators are investigating reports that the bank sold credit card customers, through a third-party vendor, the identity-theft protection with false promises. The investigation focused partly, the people briefed on the matter said, on whether the bank or its vendor had misled customers into thinking that the product was free, mandatory and would bolster credit scores.
Last year, the Hawaii attorney general sued JPMorgan and six other large banks over claims that the lenders had employed unfair and deceptive sales tactics to improperly pitch similar so-called add-on products. That case is still pending.
People close to JPMorgan say it no longer sells the identity-theft product in question.
The other federal actions spring from an investigation into debt collection lawsuits the bank filed against its credit card customers from 2009 to 2011, the people said. As JPMorgan plowed through a glut of overdue credit card bills and other loans, authorities suspect, the bank deluged state courts with lawsuits that used faulty documentation to substantiate the amount owed by consumers. Often, the bank relied on outside law firms without double-checking their work.
The comptroller's office, in a preliminary review, spotted errors in about 9 percent of monetary judgments the bank won against consumers, the people close to the matter said, adding that the action was not yet final and the details could change. In nearly all those cases, however, the consumers never paid the bank the full amount owed.
The case from the consumer bureau and the comptroller, Thomas J. Curry, comes after a similar lawsuit from the California attorney general, who accused the bank in May of committing ''debt collection abuses against tens of thousands of California consumers.'' JPMorgan, the attorney general said, took shortcuts when filing thousands of lawsuits each month to collect soured credit card debt.
JPMorgan, which has moved to dismiss that case, has decided not to file any new collection lawsuits until executives can verify that the cases are filed correctly. In courts across the nation, according to judges and lawyers, JPMorgan has also dropped pending collection lawsuits.
The questionable debt collection practices recalled some of the tactics banks used to foreclose on homes during the mortgage crisis. Those problems -- like robo-signing, where bank employees and outside lawyers churned through piles of foreclosures without vetting them for errors -- were at the center of a wide-ranging settlement this year between the nation's biggest banks and the comptroller's office. Under that settlement, JPMorgan analyzed roughly 900,000 troubled mortgages and agreed to pay more than $750 million in cash and $1.2 billion in other relief to homeowners.
Until now, unlike the foreclosure practices, banks' pursuit of credit card and other consumer debts have fallen into something of a regulatory gulf. The primary federal law that governs how companies pursue consumers behind on their bills does not apply to lenders like JPMorgan. Instead, it polices third-party debt collection firms.
But the Dodd-Frank financial overhaul law, a 2010 law that regulators are beginning to apply, emboldened federal authorities to take a tougher stance with lenders. In July, Richard Cordray, the director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, warned at a public hearing that the agency under Dodd-Frank had the authority to prohibit banks from employing any ''unfair, deceptive or abusive acts.''
''It doesn't matter who is collecting the debt -- unfair, deceptive or abusive practices are illegal,'' Mr. Cordray said at the time.
The dual enforcement actions from Mr. Cordray and Mr. Curry come at a precarious time for JPMorgan, once a darling in regulatory circles. The bank is already at the center of investigations by a spate of federal agencies, a state regulator and two foreign nations.
The latest matter to surface is a bribery investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission into JPMorgan's hiring practices in China. The agency is examining whether the bank hired the children of powerful Chinese officials to help it secure lucrative business in the country, according to a confidential copy of an S.E.C. document reviewed by The New York Times.
The bank is also under the spotlight for a trading blowup in London that generated more than $6 billion in losses. On Tuesday, a former JPMorgan trader was arrested in Spain, weeks after the United States government charged him and another former bank employee with cloaking the trading losses.
The arrest is the latest development in a case that came to be known as the ''London Whale.'' The losses, which originated from a soured bet on derivatives, spurred Congressional hearings and several investigations.
In one of them, the S.E.C. is looking to win a rare admission of wrongdoing from the bank related to the losses. A settlement, which is expected to include a fine in the hundreds of millions of dollars, could be reached as early as this fall, according to people briefed on the matter. The penalties have not been made final, these people said.
Beyond the trading losses, JPMorgan is grappling with civil and criminal investigations in California related to the bank's mortgage business during the financial crisis. In the quarterly filing this month, JPMorgan said the civil division of the United States attorney's office for the Eastern District of California was investigating whether the bank sold shoddy mortgage securities to investors.
JPMorgan's mortgage business also landed it in the cross hairs of a housing regulator. The Federal Housing Finance Agency, which oversees Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, accused JPMorgan and 17 other banks of selling mortgage securities that later imploded. The housing regulator balked at JPMorgan's offer to settle, people briefed on the matter said, a setback that could foreshadow a big fine.
Jamie Dimon, the bank's chief executive, has apologized for letting ''our regulators down'' and vowed to ''do all the work necessary to complete the needed improvements.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Tom Curry, comptroller of the currency. His office is expected to fine JPMorgan Chase $60 million over deals with consumers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DREW ANGERER/GETTY IMAGES) (B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); FINES & PENALTIES (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); IDENTITY THEFT (89%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (89%); CREDIT CARDS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (87%); LITIGATION (85%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); US DOLLAR (77%); IDENTITY SECURITY (77%); CREDIT COLLECTIONS (74%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (71%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (96%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF THE COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY (58%); BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION (58%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (96%); JPM (LSE) (96%); 8634 (TSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (96%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (96%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (96%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (54%) HAWAII, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2013



799 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 600 words

HEADLINE: Boehner Sees Showdown Over Raising Debt Limit

BYLINE: By ASHLEY PARKER

 BODY:
Speaker John A. Boehner says he is gearing up for ''a whale of a fight'' with President Obama over raising the federal debt ceiling, even though Mr. Obama has repeatedly said he has no plans to negotiate with Congressional Republicans over the nation's debt limit and wants it lifted without a political showdown.
At an Idaho fund-raiser on Monday for Representative Mike Simpson, a Republican and a close ally, Mr. Boehner said he planned to use the need to raise the debt ceiling to gain political leverage and demand ''cuts and reforms that are greater than the increase in the debt limit.'' 
''The president doesn't think this is fair, thinks I'm being difficult to deal with,'' Mr. Boehner said in his remarks, reported by The Idaho Statesman. ''But I'll say this: It may be unfair, but what I'm trying to do here is to leverage the political process to produce more change than what it would produce if left to its own devices. We're going to have a whale of a fight.''
Mr. Boehner's comments came as Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew warned him in a letter on Monday that unless Congress raised the debt ceiling, the government would lose the ability to pay all of its bills in mid-October.
''Congress should act as soon as possible to protect America's good credit by extending normal borrowing authority well before any risk of default becomes imminent,'' Mr. Lew wrote. ''Based on our latest estimates, extraordinary measures are projected to be exhausted in the middle of October. At that point, the United States will have reached the limit of its borrowing authority, and Treasury would be left to fund the government with only the cash we have on hand any given day.''
The Obama administration has said repeatedly that it will not allow Congressional Republicans to use the debt limit to wring concessions from the White House, similar to the fiscal showdown that occurred at the end of last year. The Federal Reserve has warned that political brinkmanship over the debt ceiling could hamper the economic recovery.
''Let me reiterate what our position is, and it is unequivocal,'' Jay Carney, the White House press secretary, said on Monday. ''We will not negotiate with Republicans in Congress over Congress's responsibility to pay the bills that Congress has racked up, period.''
On Tuesday, Mr. Lew reiterated the administration's stance in an interview with CNBC. ''The president has been very clear. We are not going to be negotiating over the debt limit,'' Mr. Lew said. ''Congress has already authorized funding, committed us to make expenditures. We are now in the place where the only question is: Will we pay the bills the United States has incurred?''
Michael Steel, a spokesman for Mr. Boehner, said the speaker had long espoused a policy of spending cuts tied to an increase in the debt ceiling. ''The speaker's comments are consistent,'' he said. ''Any increase in the debt limit must be accompanied by cuts and reforms greater than the increase.''
The Democratic Policy and Communications Center immediately criticized Mr. Boehner, asking in a blog post on Tuesday: ''Will Speaker Boehner sink U.S. economy with 'whale of a fight' over debt ceiling?''
The answer, at least according to Mr. Boehner, was that a fight was imminent.
''I wish I could tell you it was going to be pretty and polite, and it would all be finished a month before we'd ever get to the debt ceiling. Sorry, it just doesn't work that way,'' Mr. Boehner, of Ohio, said at the fund-raiser. ''If this were easy to do, somebody over the last 20 or 30 years would have gotten it done. We're going to do it this fall.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The House speaker in July. ''We're going to have a whale of a fight,'' he said Monday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHER GREGORY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEBT CEILING (93%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); POLITICS (79%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); FUNDRAISING (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (66%)

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (92%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); JACK LEW (79%); MICHAEL K SIMPSON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IDAHO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2013



800 of 911 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 685 words

HEADLINE: New Census Numbers Show Recession's Effect on Families

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
The portion of American households made up of married couples with children under 18 fell to 20 percent from 40 percent from 1970 to 2012, the Census Bureau said Tuesday as it detailed other fundamental changes in family life.
The share of people living alone, meanwhile, rose 10 percentage points, to 27 percent.
The analysis also found that the recession profoundly affected American families from 2005 to 2011, resulting in a 15 percent decline in homeownership among households with children and a 33 percent increase in households where at least one parent was unemployed. 
The recession also saw more mothers enter the work force and an increasing dependence on food stamps.
The number of households with an unemployed parent soared by 148 percent in Nevada and by more than 50 percent in California, Colorado, Connecticut, Florida, Hawaii, New Jersey and North Carolina in those years.
''During the recession, economic well-being worsened for families with children,'' said Jamie Lewis, a demographer in the bureau's Fertility and Family Statistics Branch who helped write the analysis. ''Even after the recession officially ended in 2009, these measures remained worse than before it began.''
The severity of the decline often depended on whether the parents were married. Nine percent of married families were living below the poverty line and receiving food stamps. The proportion among single-mother households was four times greater.
In another shift that might be recession related, a higher percentage of adults ages 25 to 34 lived in their parents' home in 2012 than in the early 2000s. The share among men increased to 16 percent from 13 percent; among women, it rose to 10 percent from 8 percent.
Among people 18 to 24, women were more likely to be living with a spouse or an unmarried partner. Eleven percent of women and 6 percent of men in that age group were married; another 12 percent of women and 8 percent of men were cohabiting.
Of the nation's 115 million households, 56 million were married couples and 32 million were people living alone (12 million of whom were 65 or older). Married couples made up 48.6 percent of households, compared with barely short of 50 percent as recently as 2010.
The analysis, drawn from the American Community Survey and the Current Population Survey, found the proportion of women ages 65 to 74 living alone had halved, though only 45 percent of women in that age group lived with their spouse, compared with 72 percent of men.
Divorce rates may have been accountable for a sharp rise in the share of men ages 15 to 64 living alone, to 34 percent, from 23 percent in 1970.
The census found stark differences in family structure by race and ethnicity. Married couples made up 81 percent of Asian, 80 percent of non-Hispanic white, 62 percent of Hispanic and 44 percent of black family groups.
Twenty-eight percent of children over all live with one parent -- 55 percent of black children, 31 percent of Hispanic, 21 percent of white and 13 percent of Asian. Still, 64 percent of all 74 million children lived with married parents -- a decline from 69 percent just a decade ago.
''Over the last half-century, the trend in the U.S. has been toward smaller households, fewer family and married-couple households with children, and more people living alone,'' said Jonathan Vespa, another co-author of the report. ''Many of these trends reflect a rising age at first marriage and older adults who can live in their own home for longer.''
''A family postponed is not necessarily a family forgone,'' he said.
Sixty-six percent of households in 2012 were family households -- two or more people related by birth, marriage or adoption -- compared with 81 percent in 1970. Among cohabiting couples with children, 51 percent lived only with the biological children of both partners.
The census survey found 605,000 same-sex couple households, married and unmarried, of whom 321,000 were female and 284,000 were male. Same-sex couples were more likely than opposite-sex married couples to both be college graduates (31 percent) and more likely to be of different races (12 percent).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (90%); MARRIAGE (90%); FAMILY (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (89%); MEN (89%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (89%); WOMEN (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); STATISTICS (78%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); SINGLE PARENTS (77%); ETHNICITY (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); FOOD STAMPS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (71%); CONNECTICUT, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2013

 
