

201 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 1996

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 19; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1180 words

HEADLINE: Dance as Art Form As Well as Exercise

BYLINE: By DAN MARKOWITZ 

DATELINE: MAMARONECK

 BODY:
THE person who coined the saying, "Those who can, do; those who can't, teach," did not know Joe Cavise. The former Broadway dancer who performed in "Cats" and the movie version of "A Chorus Line," has for the last seven years been the co-owner with his wife, Lori, of Dance Cavise, a studio here.
In addition to teaching classes in ballet, modern, jazz, tap, hip hop and ballroom, Dance Cavise offers fitness and stretch classes for adults and a creative-movement class for small children. 
 The Off Center Dance Theater, a professional company of which Mr. Cavise, 38, is artistic director, and a junior company perform throughout the county at theaters, schools and hospitals. Both companies will perform today at 2 P.M. at the Performing Arts Center at Purchase College.
Mr. Cavise stressed that his studio does not fashion instruction merely toward a year-end recital. He and his wife, a fine arts major at Clark College in Worcester, Mass., where she met Mr. Cavise, an economics major, try to "teach proper technique, alignment and an understanding that dance is an instructional cultural art," he said.
"They have to learn before they can perform," he added, referring to his pupils. For students, terms like chase, jete, battement, tour jete and pirouette become rote.
In its classes at the studio, Dance Cavise offers a two-track program for its students, who number about 600 and range in age from 3 to18. The first is the recreational track for children who "look at dance more as an exercise and fun and at the same time are building self-esteem and understanding the structure of the art," Mr. Cavise said.
The second track is the professional one for those students "who have what I consider a combination of desire and talent to excel at the art and become a professional," he said.
"They don't have to have both, but if they have one or the other, I can, and my job is to, take the other half and pull it out of them," Mr. Cavise explained.
Michelle Brigante, 19, who has danced with Mr. Cavise ever since he opened his first studio here, said that he "changed my life." Ms. Brigante's mother entered her in dance classes when she was 10 because, as she said, "I was always dancing around the house."
At first, Ms. Brigante added, she was not interested in performing and in fact quit dancing for a time when she was 17.
But with Mr. Cavise's tutelage, encouragement and coaxing, she is now readying herself to audition before a panel of professional dancers in Manhattan for the Off Center Dance Theater Company.
Ms. Brigante is currently working at Dance Cavise as a substitute for two of the teachers, Dina Giordano and Jamie Himpel, and dreams of dancing and acting professionally.
"Joe always pushed me to see what I have inside of me, and to put that out for everybody to see because he knows that I have it," Ms. Brigante said.
"He's my mentor and inspiration. I love to be on stage and make people laugh and cry with me. It's a rush. It makes you feel wonderful, superior to everyone."
Alexis Brandt, 13, has taken classes at Dance Cavise for four years and is part of the junior company. As a teaching demo, she receives a scholarship to cover her tuition in the program and works with younger dancers. She started dancing because she "liked moving around and expressing myself that way." Now she aspires to dance with the senior company.
"I like performing," she said, "being in front of people and trying to be very good." Alexis dances four days a week, which leaves her little time to engage in sports, which she said is fine with her. "I like dance better. It's non-competitive and exercises the entire body."
Brett Fox, 7, is one of the few boys in Dance Cavise, but he loves it. "I like theater, and I love to move flexibly and act and perform," he said. His 10-year-old sister, Heather, who is an apprentice in the Dance Cavise junior company, and his mother teach him how to tap dance in the studio built in their basement.
Does Brett mind that he is one of the few boys brave enough to don leotards and dance in classes composed almost entirely of girls?
"No," he said. "I do like girls."
An intercollegiate wrestler, the 5-foot-5, 140-pound Mr. Cavise said when he took his first dance class at 9 that he knew it was "in my blood." He added, "I realized this was a form of expression that fit me."
Peter Hutchings, 13, who has been dancing with Mr. Cavise since he was 5, started classes because two of his friends were doing so. They have since quit, but Peter said he loves it. "It's exciting," he added. "When I first started taking classes, I would walk out of the studio and dance down the sidewalk."
A soccer player and runner at Hommocks Junior High School here, Peter said: "Dancing is much harder than playing sports because when you're on a team, a lot of the time you're running up and down the field and either you have the ball or someone else does, but you're not in sync with them. In dance, everyone has to be together. You have to know what everyone else is doing. It takes total thought, endurance, and it's great exercise."
Boys at school will sometimes chide him by saying, "Go take a ballet class," Peter said. Actually, jazz is his dance form, but he admits that most people, when they think about dance, think of "ballet, tutus and Swan Lake." He said he is inspired by Mr. Cavise and such great male dancers as Mikhail Baryshnikov.
"Right now, it's a wonderful thing to do," Peter said. "Joe is energetic all the time. I'm really happy I've been able to dance with him. He makes me feel stronger. I don't expect to go all the way to Broadway. If I did, that would be marvelous."
At 11, Mr. Cavise quit dancing and did not return to it until he was 13. He attributed the interruption to the pressure of puberty. "I try to tell the boys that dance can be macho," he said. "Some boys think that dance is threatening to their masculinity. But you can dance and be a better athlete than some sportsman. And I think that keeps them going." Mr. Cavise teaches a beginning class for boys.
The passion in Mr. Cavise's eyes when he talks about dance and in his body when he performs it is evident. His students pick up on it and seem to feed off it. Mr. Cavise also knows firsthand how physically grueling and competitive a professional dancer's life is. Still, he sings its rewards and looks for and relishes those students who want to be stars.
"A dancer has to use arms and legs and face and head to tell a story," Mr. Cavise said. "That necessitates an emotional control as well as a physical skill." As a teacher, Mr. Cavise knows how to build such an awareness. As a performer, he knows when he sees a child who has the same insatiable urge to dance that he has.
"I always tell people," he said, "I can see a dancer come and go, and I always know who will definitely come back and who won't because I can feel who has it in their blood and in their heart."
Dance Cavise is offering classes, called Camp Cavise, this summer. Those interested should call 381-5222 for details.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Fluid motion at Dance Cavise, right.; Below: Bret Fox and Dina Giordano.; A group of dance students at Dance Cavise studio in Mamaroneck. (Photographs by Susan Farley for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); WORCESTER, MA, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: DANCE CAVISE; OFF CENTER DANCE THEATER FORM AS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: DANCE CAVISE; OFF CENTER DANCE THEATER

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); WORCESTER, MA, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: DANCING DANCE (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); DANCERS (90%); FILM (90%); DANCE COMPANIES (89%); CHILDREN (89%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); DANCE EDUCATION (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); BALLET (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); THEATER & DRAMA (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); CONTINUING EDUCATION (76%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (75%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (74%); THEATER (73%); HIP HOP CULTURE (73%); JAZZ & BLUES (72%); 

PERSON: MARKOWITZ, DAN; CAVISE, JOE; CAVISE, LORI JOE CAVISE (94%); MICHELLE BRIGANTE (72%); PETER HUTCHINGS (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1996



202 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 1996

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 1; Column 5; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1387 words

HEADLINE: Want an Easy Day Trip? Try a State Park

BYLINE: By JACKIE FITZPATRICK 

 BODY:
THERE was a nip in the air and a strong breeze that made the cattails dance, the water shimmer and the sand blow, but that didn't deter Jackie Harris, Elizabeth Oliver and Lillian Thomas from a hike around Hammonasset Beach State Park in Madison.
The three women are members of the Senior Hikers of Wethersfield and they've hiked many a Connecticut state park. They said they are partial to Hammonasset, to Rocky Neck State Park in Niantic and to the area around the Housatonic Meadows State Park in Cornwall Bridge. 
 Wherever they go, their group of about 25 makes tracks. "On some hikes we've gone five miles," said Ms. Thomas. "We always pack a picnic lunch." No matter which park they hike, they said they always happen upon something beautiful; on one day recently it was wild roses, white and faded pink, that dotted the grasses and shrubs that hugged the Madison shoreline. The hikers were just a handful of the 1.5 million people expected to visit Hammonasset state park this year, up from 1.3 million people last year. State parks are becoming the major destination for day-trippers, hikers, bikers and vacationers from within the state and from others.
"People are discovering and rediscovering our state parks," said Anthony Cantele, the acting director of state parks. "There is so much pretty scenery in Connecticut and there's quite a bit of history too."
With the economy being what it is and "with gas prices being what they are, lots of people are deciding to vacation closer to home," he said. Numbers have been up over the last several years at state parks, and this growth shows no sign of slowing.
Although the weather this spring has been nothing short of fickle, park rangers and supervisors all over the state say they are bracing for brisk business.
The Department of Environmental Protection puts out a Connecticut Scenic Road Map that lists state parks and scenic preserves, public boat launch sites and little tidbits about the different scenic routes and the charm each one brings. (The information number is 800-CT-Bound.) The State Department of Transportation also publishes a bicycle route map that provides numerous bike routes. The most visited park in Connecticut is Hammonasset where people can swim, see wildlife along the shoreline or stay over for a few days in a camp site.
One recent morning, 80 first graders were bursting off two school buses, bounding into a brown clapboard house that is home to the Meig's Point Nature Center, where they could dip their hands into a touch tank full of sea creatures, learn all about Connecticut's native snakes and take a nature walk around the beach.
The center offers nature workshops, a junior naturalists' program, salt marsh walks and early morning bird walks where people can look for a snowy egret, a tricolored heron or a red-throated loon.
Kate St. Laurent, a park interpreter, said she's seen growing interest in the marine environment among people of all ages but especially among families with young children. "They want to understand more about it," she said.
Down the road from the nature center, Rosie and Chris Pudvah were enjoying the Hammonasset campgrounds with their two sons, Eddie, 5, and Matt, 2. They were in from Meriden for a couple of days, testing out a new camper. Usually, they just pitch a tent. "The kids can take off on their bikes and play. We have the beach right here," Mr. Pudvah said. "We're outside people and we like this."
Hammonasset gets many regulars who return year after year as well as a growing number of people just discovering the park, said Roger Kinderman, a parks supervisor. "We get people who've come back for 30 years and they'll say I met my wife at this beach," he said. "There are a lot of memories here."
"Camping has also really caught on in Connecticut," he said. "We're right between Boston and New York and with the economy people aren't traveling to Disney. Camping here is only $12 a night and we've got the largest public beach in Connecticut."
The Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection has 1,400 campsites and offers a directory of those campgrounds. Among them is Hopeville Pond in Jewett City where folks can play on baseball fields, set up volleyball nets and swim in the pond, said Mike Reid, the park supervisor. "It's a very pretty park," he said. Visitors can camp or just spend the day picnicking.
George O'Brien, the park and recreation supervisor at Lake Waramaug State Park in New Preston, said the natural beauty is what draws people, as well as the price, at $10 a night, so much so they're booked for summer holiday weekends by January each year. "It seems to appeal to everyone, older people, kids," he said.
Those who must have a spot for fishing, Mr. Cantele said, might want to try the Peoples Forest on the Farmington River and Housatonic Meadows in Cornwall Bridge. "That's a very popular trout stream," he said.
Day-trippers can wend their way to Osbornedale State Park in Derby and take in not only the rolling hills and meadows but also the Frances Osborne Kellogg estate. Or they can take a ride to Gillette Castle in East Haddam, which drew more than 100,000 visitors last year, according to Park Ranger Donald Goss. Another 250,000 people dropped by to hike or visit the state park where the castle is situated, on 200 acres with a goldfish pond.
William Gillette, who was considered one of the great figures of the American stage, built his castle between 1914 and 1919, with walls of granite three and four feet thick at the base and two feet thick at the tower, a sprawling place of his own design with 24 rooms, and electric light fixtures made with bits of colored glass from bottles Mr. Gillette had gathered from friends.
It became a state park after the actor instructed the executors of his estate to be certain that "the property did not fall into the hands of some blithering saphead who has no conception of where he is or with what surrounded."
"We probably have a 10 percent increase in visitors every year," said Mr. Goss. "People are fascinated by the castle and by Gillette. He was an interesting character. He played Sherlock Holmes -- he was Sherlock Holmes."
The design of the castle, and perhaps the thought that at one time a man could truly be the king of an actual castle, also intrigues visitors. "The castle has 47 different doors, all designed by Mr. Gillette," Mr. Goss said.
Hikers have lots of possibilites in Connecticut, with trails at most of the state forests and parks. One of the most often visited, where the numbers of hikers and climbers continue to increase, is Sleeping Giant State Park in Hamden.
Mr. Cantele said Sleeping Giant is considered one of the best hiking areas in New England. It attracts people from all over and has an active association whose members regularly clear trails and who have a long history of defending the park from development including quarrying -- which at one time took the hair right off the head of the giant, before it was halted.
Sleeping Giant even has its own history book, "Born Among the Hills," written by Nancy Davis Sachse of Hamden in 1982. Ms. Sachse, herself a long-time avid hiker of the hill, is now in the middle of an update of the book, which chronicles the history of the mountain. The trails were once game-hunting paths created by American Indians who called the giant Hobbomock or Evil Spirit, who, "angry at the neglect of his people, stamped a foot" -- at what is now Middletown -- "and changed the course of the Connecticut River to the east. Hobbomock was also the bogey by which Indian mothers frightened their children into obedience."
Her research of the state park took some doing but, she said, "everybody has a story to tell about the giant." At one time, the park was a resort with tiny houses dotting the giant's frame.
Ms. Sachse says it pleases her to see continued interest in the park, from younger generations who hike the hills or follow the stream or simply take a little solace looking down, once they've made it to the top. "It's a beautiful place," she said.
With a picnic basket brimming, some balls and bats or fishing poles packed, families have only to consult a map, gas up the car and head to some other part of the state and there'll be plenty to do.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Getting out the fishing pole. Checking the rocks. Birding. Attractions at Hammonasset Beach State Park in Madison are drawing more visitors. (pg. 1); Jay Alexander, left, and Zev Fisher navigate a state park bicycle trail on Meigs Point, Madison. (Thomas McDonald for The New York Times) (pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; HAMMONASSET BEACH STATE PARK (CONN); UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; PARKS AND OTHER RECREATION AREAS HIKING (92%); STATE PARKS (91%); BEACHES (78%); RV PARKS & CAMPGROUNDS (77%); WILDLIFE (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (72%); LEISURE TRAVEL (71%); DOMESTIC TOURISM (66%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (62%); BIRDS (60%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (60%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (60%); OIL & GAS PRICES (50%); 

PERSON: FITZPATRICK, JACKIE

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1996



203 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 1996

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 6; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1224 words

HEADLINE: Some Schools Fear State Would Lower Standards

BYLINE: By MERRI ROSENBERG 

 BODY:
WITH the concern about American students being able to compete globally, a call from Albany for higher standards may be as much an article of faith as motherhood and apple pie.
As part of that refocusing on academic achievement, Education Commissioner Richard Mills has started an initiative to require all high school students to pass Regents examinations to receive diplomas. 
 The plan is to be phased in starting in September, and the goal is that students, in order to graduate in 2001 and after, will have to earn a grade of 65 or higher in four major subjects: English, mathematics, social studies and science.
Pupils now in the fourth grade will be the first required to meet the new requirement.
In 1994, according to the State Education Department, 59,900 of the 157,654 high school graduates earned Regents diplomas.
The call for higher standards is not limited to secondary education. Mr. Mills said he also wanted to raise standards for elementary students, and the Board of Regents is therefore developing more demanding requirements for them.
Under a national initiative, called Goals 2000: Educate America Act of 1994, the Federal Education Department has given money to the states to develop content and standards as well as develop ways to assess results.
"We want to look at state standards and our curriculum to set high standards for student achievement," the curriculum director in Ardsley, Dr. Florence Musiello, said. "The Regents exams are being totally revised to be a more authentic assessment. It's all part of the reform movement."
One aspect of the reform movement is a stronger partnership between business and schools. The National Education Summit in March, a partnership between governors and corporate executives, reflected a concern with improving performance and standards.
"At I.B.M. we believe we can't have a successful company without a successful community," the director for corporate social policy and programs, Robin Willner, said. "We have a $25 million initiative in 10 school districts to provide them with new applications of technology that will help them raise standards. With the Westchester Education Coalition we have a two-year project in professional development to develop new ways to use technology for the basics in the classroom.
"The bottom line is that we want to make sure that every child is prepared to reach the highest academic standards. Technology is a powerful tool to help."
The movement has affected school-to-work initiatives, an area that was the focus of a conference that the Westchester Education Coalition at Purchase College organized.
"One of the objectives of the conference is to break down the barriers between the academic and vocational tracks," said Dr. Thomas R. Bailey, director of the Institute on Education and the Economy at Teachers College at Columbia University. "We will be pairing up industry standards to academic standards. School-to-work has to be done in such a way that those Regents standards are achieved.
"But you can't have those same old multiple-choice tests to measure standards. When you're thinking about school-to-work you have to make sacrifices in the material that's covered. It's a different kind of experience. You don't expect to have one assessment that's going to tell that much."
Some districts have expressed concerns that higher standards would be difficult to attain because of limited resources and problems with students. Some stronger districts have said they are concerned that the Regents plan would, on the other hand, hinder their students' achievements.
"My concerns about the state are similar to what the concerns of most high-performing districts are," the Superintendent of the Byram Hills District in Armonk, Dr. Thomas F. Maguire, said. "With some kind of compulsory set of examinations we would have to provide a curriculum to pass those examinations -- and not provide the kind of challenge that we offer our students."
The executive director of the Westchester Education Coalition, Dr. Shirley L. Mow, said: "What's a high standard for one school is not a high standard for another. The average is sometimes misleading in Westchester. One concern is that more disadvantaged students will need more resources to get to that level, and closing the gap in performance and achievement in less affluent districts comes back to funding issues."
Some districts said they were hoping to apply for exemptions by offering more demanding tests like Advanced Placement examinations.
"It's fine Albany is dealing with standards," Superintendent Donald C. Parker of Chappaqua said. "But we feel that the program and standard of expectations that we have here are already higher than what Albany is proposing. We have courses that are not traditional Regents-type courses, and there are places that exceed what they are proposing.
"We don't give Regents diplomas now. Ninety-five percent of our seniors take A.P. physics. We have very challenging courses, and we don't want to be in a situation of putting in a testing program that will put us backward. We are sympathetic to the state, which has to do something to raise the bar for everyone. But we feel the bar is already raised here."
Prompted in part by Middle States Evaluations, several districts in the county and in Connecticut and New Jersey formed the Tristate Consortium to develop standards.
"We wanted an ongoing structure for improvement," Dr. Parker said. "We're developing world-class standards to continually challenge and improve ourselves. We don't want to be complacent."
At a recent Overcoming the Odds dinner to honor students who had surmounted substantial obstacles and succeeded in schools, former Education Commissioner Thomas Sobol said:
"We're in the midst of a standards-based reform movement. One of the premises is that if we are clear about what we want to teach our children and what we want them to learn and set those standards very high, we will have world-class students.
"So far as it goes, I very much agree with the movement. I think we ought to demand more of kids. They're capable of doing more than we're asking them currently."
At the dinner, sponsored by Student Advocacy Inc., Dr. Sobol, now a professor at Teachers College, added: "A problem is that the standards movement now under way cannot succeed unless students and teachers are given supports and motivation to jump the new, higher hurdles. Success depends on the right kind of follow-through.
"My concern is that the necessary follow-through and support that the standards-based movement depends on will not be forthcoming. Not all kids have access to resources like textbooks, good teachers and computer software. But all kids will be subject to those requirements. That's not fair, and it's not smart. The standards movement is a good thing and should be brought to completion."
At a meeting of the Westchester Education Coalition in Purchase on May 30, Commissioner Mills said: "The Board of Regents is really serious about high standards. To make it stick will require a set of connected links. We have to get instruction in line with the standards. Let's assemble materials that work and apply it to the standards. We need a high-performance curriculum in front of everyone so everyone is ready."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Joel Grant, left, and Prince Ofori, sixth graders at the Museum School, working on a Greek cultural project. (Alan Zale for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (50%); US DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION; TESTS AND TESTING; GRADING OF STUDENTS STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (92%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (90%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (90%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); CURRICULA (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (86%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (73%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%); CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (69%); 

PERSON: MILLS, RICHARD (COMR); ROSENBERG, MERRI

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1996



204 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 1996

SECTION: Section 6; Page 42; Column 5; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 98 words

HEADLINE: THE BIRTH OF A REVOLUTIONARY CLASS

 BODY:
I take great exception to Thurow's essay. At 65, I am, as always, a productive, participating, contributing member of society. I pay taxes, spend money to support the economy and give generously to the less fortunate. I have worked outside of the home for all of my adult life, at the same time raising two moral and socially responsible children. 
 Thurow states that the elderly such as I threaten the nation's economic future. I say that without us and the strong work ethic we lived by and instilled in our children, America has no future.
 
LITA WOLFE
Scarsdale, N.Y.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: AGED ETHICS (84%); 

PERSON: WOLFE, LITA; THUROW, LESTER C LITA WOLFE SCARSDALE (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1996



205 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 1996

SECTION: Section 9; Page 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1313 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/New Jersey;
A State Tech Center to Help Emerging Companies

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

DATELINE: NORTH BRUNSWICK

 BODY:
GROUND has been broken here on a state-sponsored center intended to provide emerging high-technology and biotechnology companies with space at a reasonable price, allowing them to develop their products and grow. Supporters of the center say that in the process, it could have major implications for the state's economy.
Construction on a 60,000-square-foot building is to begin this summer, heralding the start of the proposed Technology Center of New Jersey, which ultimately will consist of 800,000 square feet of office, research and production space. 
 The $135-million project, which could take as long as 10 years to build, is the result of years of discussion among state, industry and academic leaders. The discussions took into account that without help such companies, hindered by high operating costs and the lack of credit, have left and could continue to leave the state.
The incentive to stay in the state comes not only from the low rents that would be provided, but also in financial assistance from the state to help companies design and build their spaces. The New Jersey Commission on Science and Technology will also provide technical support.
"We are looking to create a business climate that will encourage small high-tech companies to expand in New Jersey and build on the industry's ideas to achieve economic growth," said Gualberto Medina, commissioner of the state's Department of Commerce and Economic Development.
Based on a formula of two jobs for every 1,000 square feet of research and development space created, the state estimates the technology center will generate more than 1,600 jobs. The state's Economic Development Authority, using public and private funds, will develop the center on a 50-acre site it bought from Johnson & Johnson along a section of the Route 1 commercial artery known as the "research corridor."
The corridor extends for 14 miles from Princeton University north to Rutgers University in New Brunswick. Among other complexes on the corridor are the David Sarnoff Research Center, which conducts electronics research, and St. Peter's Hospital and the Robert Wood Johnson University Hospital, both in New Brunswick and noted for their medical research. Nearby are corporations like Johnson & Johnson and Bristol-Meyers Squibb.
The technology center is expected to forge links with its academic, research and corporate neighbors.
Apart from the building itself, the center's first phase, with an estimated cost of $25.6-million, involves making such improvements to the site as installing roads, utilities and telecommunication lines. Two of three existing buildings will be retained; a third will be partially demolished.
THE center is intended for companies working in biotechnology, telecommunications, computer applications and micro-electronics. Many have outgrown incubator space at state universities, but are not financially ready to move into fully finished space.
"There was no place for such companies to hang their hats," said Anthony R. Cosica chairman of the autonomous Economic Development Authority. He said his staff had visited several university-related parks to mold a concept that would work in North Brunswick.
There are 140 such centers nationwide, including two others in New Jersey, according to the Association of University Related Science Parks, a trade group in Tempe, Ariz. The two others in New Jersey are the 2,200-acre Princeton Forrestal Center in Plainsboro and South Brunswick and the 50-acre University Heights Science Park in Newark, which is linked to four institutions of higher education -- Rutgers University, the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey, the New Jersey Institute of Technology and the Essex County Community College. The North Brunswick center is the first initiated by the state.
A growing number of service industries are helping the state to recapture half of the 279,000 jobs lost during the recession of the early 90's, according to the state's Department of Commerce and Economic Development. But corporate restructurings and mergers continue and the state's manufacturing base continues to slip.
Still, New Jersey's pharmaceutical firms conduct 85 percent of the industry's research, a strong resource for young companies. The state is also already home to 100 biotechnology companies and more than 7,000 software and information technology concerns.
"Science and technology-related companies are the engine of growth for the state," said Jay J. Brandinger, executive director of the Commission on Science and Technology. "And the center is the next step that will allow them to move from research to production within New Jersey."
But Maxine Ballen, president of the New Jersey Technology Council, a Princeton-based nonprofit trade group, cautioned against being too optimistic. "The center is not a panacea," she said, adding that more must be done to remove government restrictions for companies to stay and blossom in the state.
The center is proceeding at a time when the 11-county northern and central New Jersey office market is improving, but still has a supply of space. But the center fills "a niche no one is serving, because private developers view building space for firms without sufficient credit as too risky," said Thomas P. Sullivan. He is a first vice president at the Iselin office of CB Commercial, which is marketing the project, designed by the Princeton-based architectural firm of CUH2A Inc.
To surmount the hurdle of financing, the Economic Development Authority will provide below-market-rate loans or guarantee loans secured from private lenders so companies can customize their space.
Moreover, said Mr. Sullivan, the center's "competitive edge" will be its rents -- 20 to 25 percent lower than the market rate for comparable space. For example, he said, lab space that normally rents for $24 to $26 a square foot would go for $21 and under.
Space in the new 60,000-square-foot building, to be completed by next summer, could be divided into areas as small as 6,000 square feet, said Mr. Sullivan. Construction of the rest of the space will be driven by the market and include build-to-suit deals for specific tenants.
"As developer and landowner the state can accept a lower profit, allowing rents to be kept low," said Mr. Coscia of the development authority. He noted that the agency bought the 50-acre Johnson & Johnson site for $9 million -- $4 million of which came from its own funds. The rest will be paid in two installments over 10 years. Improving the site and developing the first building will cost $16.6 million.
The Science and Technology Commission is providing a $2 million grant and the state is negotiating a joint-venture agreement with the A.F.L.-C.I.O. Building Investment Trust Pension Fund to invest the remaining $14.6 million.
OF the existing buildings on the site, one with 26,000 square feet will remain the home of Advanced Care Products, a subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson that does research on new over-the-counter hygiene products. The authority will keep a second 20,000-square-foot building for offices.
The third, 200,000-square-foot building will be demolished except for 29,000 square feet, which Advance Realty of Bedminster has leased and in turn will re-lease 22,000 feet to Chubb Computer Services of Parsippany, a computer-training provider that is a subsidiary of the insurer.
Dan Goodman, Chubb's vice president of business development, described the space as "affordable." He added that 100 people would work at the site, the company's third in New Jersey. Advance Realty will retain the remaining 7,000 square feet for a conference center and cafeteria for the entire project.
"The project," said Mr. Coscia of the development authority, "is a reasonable risk balanced by the potential of creating jobs and retaining companies."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Model of the state-sponsored Technology Center of New Jersey, which is about to rise in North Brunswick. (The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (66%); BMY (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (66%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: JOHNSON & JOHNSON (66%); BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; NORTH BRUNSWICK (NJ); UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MFG (89%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (89%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (76%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (75%); MICROTECHNOLOGY (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (71%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (60%); 

PERSON: GARBARINE, RACHELLE DAVID DAVIS (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1996



206 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 1996

SECTION: Section 9; Page 1; Column 4; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 2995 words

HEADLINE: 80's Giant Dreams Facing 90's Economic Realities

BYLINE: By TRACIE ROZHON 

 BODY:
BY the middle of 1990, the complex set of approvals to map the streets and run the electricity and dig the sewers and build the parks were in place for a 10,000-apartment development, and Arverne -- the name taken from the surrounding neighborhood -- was ready to rise on the waterfront of the Rockaway Peninsula in Queens.
But the recession hit, the developer backed out and for years, neighborhood residents assumed the 300-acre project was dead.
 Now plans for the development are alive again, although its scale will be vastly different, at least for now. With great caution, the city will shepherd the project through -- one block at a time. Instead of 10,000 condominiums, developers last week submitted bids to build 350. 
 In the raucously heady days of the mid to late 80's, when every fledgling developer had a dream and almost every big-time developer had a $100 million credit line, New York City real-estate watchers were treated to one "major announcement" after another, trumpeting the advent of one elaborate project after another.
In Manhattan, construction was said to be a few months away on a 60-story office building atop a new Staten Island Ferry terminal; on a $160 million multitower complex to be known as the West Side Yards, near the Javits Convention Center; on Riverwalk on the East River, and Riverside South on the Hudson. There was Bridgemarket, a three-level, $30 million international food market and restaurant under the Queensboro Bridge. The abandoned gray shed on Pier A in Battery Park, which once serviced city fireboats, was to be magnificently restored, with a new visitor's center and restaurants.
A few years later, when the old Staten Island Ferry terminal was ravaged by fire, the real estate market was beginning its downturn and thoughts of an office tower were already gone, a still-optimistic blue-ribbon panel chose an exuberant postmodern design that sported a 120-foot-high clock on its water-facing facade that seemed to shout, "Hurry Up, You're Almost in Manhattan -- Where Time Rules."
In the boroughs outside of Manhattan, developers say, there grew up a competitive spirit: If the banks were so flush, why shouldn't they get in on it, too? Long Island City was to have its own multitowered metropolis clustered around a rising new Citicorp tower; the Bronx was to have Bronxchester Plaza, a shopping center in the South Bronx, and Shorehaven, with a beach club and 1,000 condominium units; the Rockaways were to have Arverne.
With the spin-out in the real estate market at the beginning of this decade, many of these projects simply melted away, like cotton candy over a flame.
But now a substantial number of these projects are back, or are said to be coming back -- sometimes in totally different guises. In many cases, they have been shrunk, or in the word of several urban planners, "downsized." In several cases, private money has become public money; government officials have realized that without at least seed money developers and their banks don't want to play.
What happened?
"The 80's turned into the 90's," said Sam White, the architect whose $8 million design for an elegant restaurant next to the Harlem Meer boathouse at the north end of Central Park has evaporated in the mist. "In the 80's you could finance anything based on nothing; in the 90's you couldn't finance anything, even if it was secured with everything."
For Mr. White's project, banks were tried. Japanese investors were tried. Mr. White, who described the scene as "beautiful, little boys fishing, everything Winslow Homer would want," predicted the restaurant idea might resurface in about five years, "but probably restructured as a smaller restaurant," perhaps with construction financed by the Central Park Conservancy -- not a private developer.
Investors from Hong Kong did come to the rescue of Riverside South, a $3 billion project that had never been buried -- or even admitted to be stalled -- by its ebullient developer, Donald Trump. Last week Mr. Trump said that the $355 million construction of Phase One, the four rental towers designed by Philip Johnson between 64th and 69th Streets, would begin in "September or October."
Mr. Trump said that the towers had all their zoning approvals -- that a Court of Appeals case that challenged the zoning had been won -- and that the project was ready to go.
But at the foot of Manhattan, the 60-story office tower and ferry terminal is "deader than a doornail," one of its developers, William Lie Zeckendorf, said last week. That project, for which developers were chosen five years before the ferry terminal fire, was to have cost $400 million, and would have included a restoration of the now-crumbling landmark Battery Maritime Building as well as a new ferry terminal.
While that project has been written off, the idea for a new ferry terminal still lives -- although its design appears to be changing like quicksilver. The giant clock face, with its air of New York City in-your-face braggadocio, a design chosen in the post-fire 1992 competition won by Venturi, Scott Brown and Associates and Anderson/ Schwartz, has vanished, replaced by a glass-gridded box with an electronic news banner on the waterside. The budget has been slashed from $120 million to $73 million.
YET now, even that more conservative facade is gone -- the same architects have been directed to "go back to the drawing board," said Charles Millard, president of the city's Economic Development Corporation, and "come up with a design that people on both islands will like." The re-redesign is expected shortly, he added.
Both the clock and the electronic news banner faced powerful opposition, led by Staten Island Borough President Guy V. Molinari, who several days ago suggested that both the clock and the banner be replaced by some type of seascape -- or by nothing.
"It could even be plain glass like the other side, but nothing garish," he said. "The people of Staten Island have been abused enough."
Politics, it seems, plays a big part in many of these projects. A substantial restoration of the Tweed Courthouse has been postponed, according to a city official involved, "because there was a feeling at City Hall that we didn't want to be funding something in our own backyard." Instead of a large-scale rehabilitation including grand new front stairs, probably only the more egregious problems -- like code violations -- will be addressed.
Where large-scale publicity and public-relations campaigns were a fixture of the real-estate development world in the late 80's, now there is often mystery.
At 99 Prince Street, the magnificent 1880's arched red brick building built for fur manufacturing by John Jacob Astor has been boarded up and covered with posters and graffiti for years. But plans for a boutique hotel, the Mercer, that were stalled in the real estate recession, may be back.
Suddenly there is light -- a worker's bare bulb glimpsed through a second-story window. On the first floor, there are newly glazed frosted glass windows that read: J. Crew, November 1996.
Nevertheless, the building's owner, Andre Balazs, who also owns the Chateau Marmont hotel in Hollywood, is mum. "This project has received enough attention already," he said, adding that he would rather wait until later to detail finances for his 75-room hotel and retail space, which ran into trouble in the early 1990's when financing problems involving a Japanese bank brought major work to a halt.
Another project, Bridgemarket, according to Hugh Hardy, the architect who has been involved in its planning, is definitely coming back but cannot be discussed, by order of Sheldon Gordon, the West Coast developer, who could not be reached for comment.
In the summer of 1987, the city's Public Development Corporation announced it had signed the lease agreement with the developer, "allowing construction to begin." That announcement added that "more than half of the market has already been leased" and that the 130,000-square-foot project under the Queensboro Bridge would be completed by late 1988.
There are persistent reports that the British home-furnishings entrepreneur Sir Terence Conran will return to America with a new incarnation of his Conran's/Habitats store and plans to build within Bridgemarket, but no one will confirm the plans for the record.
Secrecy can result in skepticism.
"If you're a developer, are you ever going to say your project is dead?" asked John Belle, a partner in the respected architectural firm of Beyer Blinder Belle, who saw one of the biggest projects of the boom years, West Side Yards, drop off the economic precipice. "Why would you want to reduce your property value? Why would you offend the Mayor or the Borough President or whatever the politics are? So projects are never labeled dead."
But there is evidence that efforts are being made to revive several of these projects, although frequently in different forms.
In the South Street Seaport neighborhood, 250 Water Street, a vacant site, with a long history of proposed office-building designs, was listed a few weeks ago by a high-ranking city official involved in permit approvals as one of those missing from the roster of active projects.
But two weeks ago, 250 Water Street resurfaced completely changed -- and bigger than ever, an exception to most 80's holdover projects.
Instead of a massive 11-story office building, its architects now envision the new structure as an $85 million residential tower -- 32 stories at its highest point.
The change reflects the economics of current downtown construction, according to Charles A. Platt of Platt Byard Dovell Architects. There are office buildings with high vacancy rates, and at the same time, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani is offering financial incentives to build housing downtown, to move people into the concrete corridors that become bleak and foreboding after work hours. The developers, Paul and Seymour Milstein, are responding to that call for housing -- although 250 Water Street is not in the target area, and does not qualify for any of the incentives, Mr. Platt said.
THE project has already been attacked by the Seaport community, dozens of whom spent two hours loudly denouncing the design at a Landmarks Commission hearing on Tuesday.
"The community is fighting it," Mr. Platt said. "I'd say they're up in arms, as usual." The architect argued that the while the amount of floor space in the latest version is 36 percent greater than in his last version -- there were many other earlier versions, by different architects -- the volume is only 8 percent more because office buildings have much higher ceilings. New residential buildings, because of various light and air restrictions, end up being much shallower than office buildings, which are allowed to be very deep and have rooms without windows.
"If we couldn't build back on the site, there was nowhere to go but up," Mr. Platt said.
The proposed residential building does not need any special zoning or other changes or waivers. It is planned for market-rate rentals, the architect said, with perhaps some condominiums for sale in the tower. But because the proposed building would be in a historic district it requires approval by the city's landmarks commission, which will eventually vote on its appropriateness.
In the Bronx, William Procida, a veteran developer, is bringing back Shorehaven, a 47-acre site on a peninsula in Long Island Sound with the Whitestone and Throgs Neck bridges on one side and the East River and the nighttime lights of New York City on the other.
In an arrangement that is a paradigm for the mid-90's, Mr. Procida does not own the property -- the bank that took it over from the last development group does -- but he has been hired to build and market its redevelopment.
He is currently building 84 two- and three-bedroom units, which will sell for $129,000 to $162,000 each. When the last developer, a partnership of World Wide Properties and a group of other investors, including William Zeckendorf Jr. pulled out, they had built 150 out of the 170 homes scheduled for Phase I. Mr. Procida, criticizing these initial prefabricated units as poorly built, rehabilitated the existing units and completed the last 20 units. Now all 20 have been sold, for $135,000, he said, noting the original prices had ben $165,000 to $170,000.
The second phase, the group of 84 -- now half completed -- is being built of concrete blocks and wood planks, the developer said. Of the 84, he said, 69 have been sold and he is "about to build another 250 -- all of them three-bedroom units."
Mr. Procida said he was targeting the sales to black and Hispanic buyers who reflect the makeup of the community and are "the strongest middle market in the country."
"There's already enough developers chasing the white Yuppie market," he said.
The restoration of Pier A, which was launched when the city pulled its fireboats out of its large shed and sailed them over to the Brooklyn Navy Yard -- leaving an abandoned building at the tip of Manhattan with spectacular views of the harbor -- had also fallen victim to the city's economic downturn.
Although the 32,000-square-foot shed seemed a natural location for a visitor's center and restaurants -- there was virtually no opposition to the renovation and proposed uses -- the qualities that made it so popular made it more difficult to finance, according to its developers.
Anne E. Bliss, the design director for Wings Point Associates, the developers, said that although the state's Office of Parks, Recreation and Historic Preservation had pledged $4.2 million to develop and build a visitor's center to be run by the city's Department of Parks and Recreation, the banks they had tried in the past would have preferred an income-producing use for the 6,000 square feet, on the inshore end of the second floor. A catering facility is planned for the harbor side on the second floor, with an cafe and shops on the first floor.
"We spent seven years looking for private financing," said Ms. Bliss. "It was essentially impossible to find."
Now, however, the developers and city officials have come up with another solution: the Industrial Development Agency, which is part of the Economic Development Corporation, has made a preliminary commitment to issue $20 million of bonds to carry out the renovation.
Ms. Bliss said that the final details were being ironed out and that she expected the deal to close in July or August. Both Ms. Bliss and the preservation architect involved with the project, Roger Lang, praised the city for seeing its merits.
Mr. Millard, the development corporation's president, said he expected the project "to be in construction by the fall." The project "received a guarantee from HUD a couple of weeks ago," he said, "and that was the key to the puzzle."
The Pier A project, the city official said, was only one of the major projects that were finally moving ahead. If there was secrecy -- at least as far as projects involving the city -- it is because of Mayor Giuliani's insistence on "ribbon cuttings -- not announcements," he said.
Some of the city-sponsored projects have been reduced in size, he said -- the La Marqueta project to renovate the market in the El Barrio section of East Harlem has been scaled down from $5 million to $1.5 million, he said, but it's finally getting built.
ANOTHER example is Brooklyn's Renaissance Plaza, a grand hotel-and-office project first announced in 1984. "And while there are still no shovels in the ground," Mr. Millard said, "we're finalizing the financing."
Financing for the $220 million project, to be developed by Joshua Muss and the Carlyle Group, is now a combination of public and private funds, with the city contributing $20 million of the infrastructure, the E.D.C. president said.
"When the Mayor wants something done, he pushes us all," said Mr. Millard. "Deadlines are set."
In Arverne, the city Department of Housing Preservation and Development (H.P.D.) is moving to find developers for a vastly scaled-down version of what was envisioned by the master-plan architects, Ehrenkrantz & Eckstut, in one of a number of bold plans for the city-owned waterfront property over the years, as a sweeping 10,000-unit residential development, complete with parks and shopping.
Nine days ago, the city received "a strong response" to a request for proposals to build 7,500 square feet of commercial space and 350 housing units, as part of the first phase of the development, according to Deborah Boatright, an H.P.D. spokesperson.
To Mr. Belle, who as an architect has been involved in many large urban projects, such as the restoration and renovation of Grand Central Terminal and Ellis Island, the grander and more complicated a project is the harder it is to get it approved.
Which is why many of the true megaprojects of the 80's, including his own West Side Yards -- the site in the far west 30's that the city is currently exploring for a new Yankee Stadium -- are dead.
"It's nothing to do with building technology," he said, "but it takes forever to get all those approvals." The more complicated projects -- especially those waterfront projects that require building out into the water -- may be deemed too risky for banks to finance. (The plan for the grandiose residential and commercial development known as Riverwalk between 17th and 24th Streets has now been scaled down to a park on the East River, sponsored by the community -- with no construction at all, according to the City Planning Department.)
To Mr. Belle, at least, this downsizing and abandonment of fantastic schemes is a positive thing. He said he did not regret that "the megaprojects from the mid-80's didn't get built; they might have been a big mistake.
"We're coming back to the simpler way of doing things," he said. "And it just might be the salvation of our cities."

GRAPHIC: Photos: There's a Small Hotel? At 99 Prince Street, plans for a boutique hotel, the Mercer, and retail space may be back on line. The owner is mum, but newly glazed windows read, "J. Crew, November 1996." (Jack Manning/The New York Times); No End for a Ferry Proposal One proposal for the Staten Island Ferry's Manhattan terminus was a structure domi-nated by a clock, right. (Scale Architectural Models for Venturi, Scott Brown and Associates and Anderson/Schwartz Architects); A recent, scaled-down, version, above, has been rejected. (Lee Dunnette for Venturi, Scott Brown and Associates with Anderson/Schwartz Architects) (pg. 1); 250 Water Street was to be 11-story office building (Platt Bayard Dovell); New plan, right, is 32-story apartment complex. (Musheer Siddiqi); Arverne, shown in drawing of abandoned plan for 10,000-unit housing project, is now downsized. (Lebeus Woods) (pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (56%); C (BMV) (56%); 8710 (TSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; MANHATTAN (NYC); ROCKAWAY PENINSULA (NYC); UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

SUBJECT: BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); REAL ESTATE; HOUSING; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; FERRIES; STATIONS AND TERMINALS (PASSENGER); OFFICE BUILDINGS REAL ESTATE (91%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); FERRIES (89%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (87%); COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); OFFICE & WAREHOUSE CONSTRUCTION (78%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); RESTAURANTS (69%); BEACHES (61%); 

PERSON: ROZHON, TRACIE DONALD TRUMP (61%); SAM WHITE (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1996



207 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 1996

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 6; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 948 words

HEADLINE: N.J. LAW;
Child-Support Payments Under Review, With Cuts Likely

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH 

 BODY:
New Jersey is updating its four-year-old guidelines for determining child-support payments, basing the changes on new estimates of how much it costs to raise a family. But if the State Supreme Court accepts the revisions, payments for thousands of children will actually drop.
The proposals, released by the court's Family Practice Committee this spring, would reduce child support paid by almost all non-custodial parents, with the largest cuts for those in high income brackets. They would also give non-custodial parents financial credit for visitation time. 
The 285,000 child-support orders already in effect in New Jersey would not change because the revisions would apply only to new cases. But parents who already pay support could request a reduction if their income or custody-agreement changed, said Daniel Phillips, a research analyst with the Administrative Office of the Courts.
The revisions are being discussed just as the State Legislature is overhauling New Jersey's 25-year-old divorce law, and some overlap with proposals being considered by lawmakers. But child-support guidelines come under the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court, and they are not subject to legislative approval.
Non-custodial parents have praised the proposals, saying that the extra money they spend on their children during visitation periods should be factored into their support payments. But some matrimonial lawyers have expressed concern, arguing that reduced payments could have a devastating effect on poor single-parent households.
"My biggest concern is the impact this will have on families living in poverty," said Nancy Goldhill, a senior lawyer for Legal Services of New Jersey. "When you start adding all of this up, the net effect is a dramatic reduction in payments."
Mr. Phillips said the revised payment schedule is based on new economic data suggesting that the basic cost of raising children is lower than New Jersey's courts had previously estimated. Several economists conducted studies to determine the new estimate, he said. Wealthy parents' payments will drop the most because the new guidelines assume that as income increases, child-rearing expenses do not increase at the same rate.
Although the poorest parents would also pay less under the new guidelines, the change could actually bring more of them into the system, according to the committee's report. Right now, non-custodial parents who earn $190 a week or less pay as much as $47 a week to support one child. But many simply cannot make the payments, so they slip into the cracks. The new guidelines would lower these parents' payments to $5 to $10 a week, regardless of how many children they have, to insure that they stay in the system.
Non-custodial parents are especially pleased that the new guidelines would account for the time they spend with their children. Until now, any money they spent on the children during visitation periods was in addition to their regular support payments. But a new shared-parenting credit would reduce payments for non-custodial parents who spend at least 28 percent of each week with their children. Parents who did not qualify for that credit could still have their payments reduced, although not as much.
"These guidelines are recognizing a significant change in the culture of divorce," said Patricia Barbarito, the chairwoman of the New Jersey Bar Association's family law section. "More and more, both parents are involved in raising the children, and you've got to give credit to the parent who doesn't live with them."
Ms. Barbarito said the proposal for visitation credit might urge some non-custodial parents to seek more visitation rights for the wrong reason -- more money -- but that judges would not be likely to grant such parents more time.
"It's a very valid concern," said Ms. Barbarito, a matrimonial lawyer in Denville. "But we've got to assume that judges are going to do what's in the children's best interest when they determine visitation time."
The proposed visitation credit might have been inspired by a well-publicized case last year in which the State Supreme Court ruled that James Pascale, a divorced father in Princeton, could not drastically reduce his support payments even though his three children spent a significant amount of time with him.
Mr. Pascale had said he was seeking not to pay less child support, but to have more control over how the money was spent, especially when the children were with him. Although the court did reduce Mr. Pascale's payments slightly, it ruled that his former wife, Debra Pascale, should maintain complete control over the $25,000 a year that both contributed to child-rearing.
Although parents like Mr. Pascale would automatically be eligible for reduced payments under the new guidelines, they still would not have a say in how their support payments were spent. Nor would they have the right to know exactly how the money was spent.
"It's disappointing because we feel custodial parents should have to show exactly how and where the money is spent," said Dominick Romano, the president of the New Jersey Council for Children's Rights, a non-custodial parents' group with 6,000 members.
While calling the new guidelines were "terrific," Mr. Romano said he suspected many family court judges would not follow them.
"There should be strict adherence to the guidelines," he said. "But in our experience, that is rarely the case."
Mr. Phillips said the Supreme Court would vote on the guidelines before its summer recess, and if approved, they will take effect in September. The public has until June 15 to submit written comments to the Administrative Office of the Courts.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "FOR EXAMPLE: Who Pays What" shows how monthly payments per child might change for families in which the non-custodial parents earn twice as much as the custodial parents. (Source: Administrative Office of the Courts)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: STATE SUPREME COURT (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE SUPREME COURT (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: CHILD CUSTODY AND SUPPORT CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (99%); FAMILY LAW (91%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); FAMILY (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); LAWYERS (77%); PARENTS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); SINGLE PARENTS (76%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (73%); MARRIAGE LAW (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (64%); 

PERSON: GOODNOUGH, ABBY JAMES PASCALE (68%); PATRICIA BARBARITO (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1996



208 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 1996

SECTION: Section 11; Page 1; Column 4; Automobiles 

LENGTH: 795 words

HEADLINE: BEHIND THE WHEEL/Hyundai Elantra;
Rounding The Rough Edges

BYLINE: By MARSHALL SCHUON 

 BODY:
MY wife came through the door, frazzled from the day's work and a long commute by train, and the first words out of her mouth were these, "Whatever that is in the driveway, I'd never have such a car."
What? Hello? 
 "Hi," I said. "Have a good day? And what's wrong with the car?"
"No," she said. "Hello yourself. And it's the color. What color is that?"
Well, the color is strange, I'll grant that. But the car is not so bad. Hyundai calls the hue "pale violet/gray," and I'd already made some notes in which I scribbled that the Elantra is a purple-gray jellybean. It is also one whose brethren just might get snapped up by a lot of people looking for basic transportation.
For the South Korean company, that would be a pleasant change. Hyundai has taken its lumps in America, where the subcompact segment is jammed with competent competition. And there have already been rebates on the new Elantra sedans and wagons, which were introduced in March.
But shoppers will discover this car. And there are other colors.
The '96 Elantra is very rounded, very Chrysler Neon-like, very smooth. It can be had in two trim levels, base and GLS, and it is bigger than before, with an all-new engine that has 13 percent more power than its predecessor had. Hyundai says, too, that it has taken pains to eliminate problems with quality and with the buying experience, following Saturn's example to prove that small prices need not produce big headaches.
The plainest sedan has a price of $11,314, including a $415 delivery charge. The fancier GLS test car had a base sticker of $12,764, about $1,450 less than the GLS wagon, but options brought the price to $14,002.
A four-speed automatic transmission is optional on the GLS, as are anti-lock brakes, alloy wheels and, on the sedan, a rear-deck spoiler. But even without options, the GLS is surprisingly well equipped.
Among the standard features are a five-speed manual transmission, dual air bags and power front disk brakes. Power also works the windows, locks and side mirrors, and you get tinted glass, halogen headlights, intermittent wipers and a rear defroster.
Inside, the Elantra is all gray cloth and vinyl, and you are not likely to forget that this is an econobox. But the amenities are enough to make for a smug trip to the bank. This is a vehicle meant for the cities and the suburbs, for taking the children to soccer games, going to the movies and saving money on the way to where you make it.
There is a tilt wheel, and the driver's seat is six-way adjustable. There are dual air bags, of course, and adjustable mounts for the front seat belts. Twin cup holders slide out of the newly designed dash, which now has a larger instrument pod and a hugely optimistic 140-m.p.h. speedometer.
The seats, like the rest of the car, are molded into curves and covered in softly mottled cloth. Door panels are also smoothly molded and have cloth trim set into vinyl faces. Window switches are on the armrests, which is good, and the back windows go down all the way, proving what can be done with good design even in a small car.
In back, there is reasonable room for three adults, but none will be comfortable for long. The seat, which is split in a 60-40 proportion and folds down for hauling cargo, is flat and about as yielding as a park bench.
Noise isolation was supposedly one main main objective of the Elantra's redo, and the car is indeed tighter. The new 130-horsepower engine is also meant to be quiet, with 90 percent of torque coming at 2,300 r.p.m., the range at which most drivers need it. And when you open the hood, the first thing you see -- in large letters -- is the word "HOT" on a shield covering the engine. That may be a sly comment as well as a warning, and the car is warm in the classic sense, with performance that is snappy enough to be a surprise.
The engine, mounted sideways and driving the front wheels, is much lighter than before. Its maintenance-free aspect, widely noted in the company's ads, results from electronic ignition, self-adjustment of the 16 valves and fewer parts. And the output is impressive for just 1.8 liters, though the fuel economy (24 city, 32 highway) is about average for the small-car pack.
The new four-wheel independent suspension makes the car handle better, and there is less noticeable nose-dive under hard braking. Happily, too, the car is more maneuverable -- even with a two-inch-longer wheelbase and a generally larger size.
That counts for a lot in an around-town automobile whose mission is utility and economy. This is a little car with a pretty face and a likable personality. For some people, it might even work in purple-gray.

INSIDE TRACK: For getting to the show or to the train, the Elantra may be just the ticket.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The '96 Elantra is smoother, in and out.; It may resemble the
Mercury Sable, but it's the Elantra wagon. (Hyundai Motor America)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HYUD (LSE) (92%); 005380 (KSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); SIC3569 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (87%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

COMPANY: HYUNDAI CORP HYUNDAI MOTOR CO (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: HYUNDAI CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (87%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT (89%); SEDANS (89%); VEHICLE AIRBAGS (89%); TRAINS (78%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (67%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (67%); ANTILOCK BRAKING SYSTEMS (61%); SOCCER (50%); 

PERSON: SCHUON, MARSHALL

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1996



209 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 1996

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 19; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 477 words

HEADLINE: We'd Have School Reform If N.J.E.A. Would Cooperate

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"Can Our Schools Be Merged?," your June 2 front-page article on regionalization, shed some light on the issue but omitted important unresolved problems. And it left the misleading impression that the State Legislature is a neutral, unbiased body looking for answers. It clearly has answers, but they are not the answers it would like. 
 It would be interesting to see how well and how efficiently New Jersey's schools could perform if they did not have to contend with restrictive, cumbersome and illogical laws -- many at the behest of the New Jersey Education Association, the statewide teachers' union. In a horrifyingly candid admission of the union's influence on the Legislature, John H. Ewing, chairman of the State Senate's Education Committee, recently told members of the New Jersey School Boards Association: "If you people came out and gave $5,000 to legislators, you might have a little more influence. There are a lot more N.J.E.A. members than there are you people."
The union's single sacred cow is tenure. New Jersey is one of just 16 states with this archaic leftover from the days of indiscriminate firings. Tenure is a major obstacle to schools' reacting to changing enrollment or financial needs.
For example, if a school had to eliminate its home economics program, it might expect to let the home economics teacher go. But if that teacher is licensed to teach English and has seniority, she has the right to bump a current English teacher out of a job -- even if she has never taught English.
At a time when corporate America is examining all areas for cost-effectiveness, medical benefits are a prime target. It is common for employees to contribute toward their own medical benefits and to have these benefits on the bargaining table at contract time. But thanks to special legislation passed at the N.J.E.A.'s behest, school boards that belong to the state's largest health carrier group, the State Health Benefits Program, are prohibited from asking for employee contributions and from negotiating any reduction in benefits.
I helped write legislation that allows school boards to join a self-insured fund to save money. My district alone will save $75,000 as a result, and other Bergen County districts will save a total of almost $10 million. Why did it take four years to pass? N.J.E.A. obstructionism.
No complex problem can be solved with a few quick fixes. But when the intent of the Legislature is to work at the problem only in a way that will not upset the teachers' union, then not only will the problem never be solved; in all likelihood it will get worse. At that time, the legislators and the Governor will stand up and say, "See, we told you so!"
 
ALAN R. GEISENHEIMER
Upper Saddle River
 
 The writer is a member of the Northern Highlands Regional High School Board of Education.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: NEW JERSEY EDUCATION ASSOCIATION NEW JERSEY EDUCATION ASSOCIATION (92%); NEW JERSEY EDUCATION ASSOCIATION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY EDUCATION ASSOCIATION NEW JERSEY EDUCATION ASSOCIATION (92%); NEW JERSEY EDUCATION ASSOCIATION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); TEACHER UNIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); SCHOOL BOARDS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (79%); EDUCATION REFORM (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1996



210 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 49; Column 1; Style Desk 

LENGTH: 1494 words

HEADLINE: Blue Blood and the Color of Money

BYLINE: By VICTORIA McKEE 

DATELINE: LONDON

 BODY:
WELL-HEELED tennis fans should be warming up for the Wimbledon battle in Britain this month. No, not the tennis matches at Wimbledon, but the battle for the title Lord of Wimbledon, which is one of about 30 titles to be auctioned on June 26 by the Manorial Society of Great Britain during the Wimbledon tennis championships.
The title from Wimbledon, home of the All England Lawn Tennis Club, is bound to be the big draw, and Robert Smith of the Manorial Society, which has provisionally valued it at around $75,000, is confident it will go for a sum well into six figures, even though it doesn't carry the rights to a seat at center court. Mr. Smith says he hopes the auction will attract the attention of the lords of tennis like Mark McCormack or John McEnroe. 
 "Since so many top tennis names are American, it has a good chance of going to an American purchaser," Mr. Smith said. "But then, about 30 percent of the titles we sell go to Americans anyway."
The owner of this title, which dates from the 13th century, is the Earl Spencer, the brother of the Princess of Wales. He would like to see it go "to Boris Becker or Mark McCormack," he said. "I'm selling it," said Lord Spencer, a part-time NBC commentator, "to raise the capital to replumb the house at Althorp, which is going to cost 200,000" -- about $300,000. He recently abandoned Althorp, where he and Diana grew up, for a modern house in South Africa.
"I'm also taking away a liability from my son when I die, because you have to pay the Government 40 percent of the value of these lordships anyway, even if you don't use them. So I have about a dozen others to sell, three -- the Lordship of Strixton, the Lordship of Upper Boddington and the Lordship of Newlane Squillers -- to be sold at this auction. Another 10 I wouldn't sell, because they are linked to land that's still in the family, like the Lordship of the Manor of Althorp. But these others, why not? I mean, frankly, there are so many that I'm not going to miss the ones that go."
Because aristocrats are realizing that there is an unmined resource in selling titles, and that it isn't as humiliating as selling the family silver or paintings (as Lord Spencer's stepmother, Raine, was criticized for doing), more and more are coming onto the market, their prices rising faster than house prices, the Manorial Society said.
Let the buyer beware, though. A scandal was uncovered recently, in which advertisements in The Wall Street Journal and The Economist were used to lure Americans into buying nonexistent titles that allegedly would guarantee "priority" on the social list of Queen Elizabeth II. None of the titles being auctioned will get you a seat in the House of Lords, but they might get you a better table in a restaurant.
While the majority of titles are being purchased by nouveau riche Britons, Americans make the largest number of purchasers from ouside Britain. A lordship of a manor can be acquired for as little as $7,000 or as much as $700,000. The feudal Earldom of Arran, the highest title ever sold at auction, went to John de Bruyne, head of Swaine Adeney, umbrella and riding-whip makers to royalty, for nearly that much in 1994.
But that deal fell through, and the title was sold to a Swiss national for about $360,000.
The feudal Earl of Arran must be distinguished from the Earl of Arran, a title held by the Duke of Hamilton. But Mr. de Bruyne said he hoped to use the title to help promote his upmarket British products abroad.
An American entrepreneur, Douglas Hall, who lives in the Eureka Mansion, a 75-acre estate just outside Cincinnati, had a similar motive when he purchased the lordships of Threshfield and Kirkby-on-the-Moor, Yorkshire, for $17,000 and $7,000 respectively, for himself and his business partner David Wecker.
"I'd like us to be able to make some money from endorsing products -- any products," said Mr. Hall, 37, who develops new products for companies as diverse as Nike, Lipton and Disney. "I'm looking at it as a business opportunity," said the new Lord of Threshfield, who bought the title when in London recently with his wife, Debbie, to celebrate their 15th wedding anniversary.
Mr. Hall said he had written into his will that the title should go to his only son Bradford, 5, in keeping with British principles of primogeniture, although "bought" titles can be deeded to anyone.
He said he also planned to start a Lord Threshfield's restaurant, serving his Brain Brew coffee and decorated with pictures of Threshfield, a place he has yet to visit.
Although Mr. Hall would like to call himself Lord Threshfield, that would not be proper by British standards. The "of" in his title, which Americans tend to drop, is vital because the Lord of Threshfield is a less grand title than that of Lord Threshfield, which goes to a hereditary peer entitled to a seat in the House of Lords.
Kathryn Falk, owner of Romantic Times Magazine and author of "How to Write a Romance and Get It Published" (Crown Books, 1983), is the Lady of Barrow, but insists on calling herself Lady Barrow.
"It's just an innocent mistake," said Mr. Smith of the Manorial Society. "We tell them not to, but you can't stop them."
"I now conduct Lady Barrow Tours of London," Miss Falk said, "where we have tea with people like Barbara Cartland and Lord and Lady Bath in their own homes, and I'm starting the Lady Barrow imprint of women's fiction." She is, she said, "in my 50's but in my heart I'm 18." She added, "I've never been married -- I'm too young!"
Few titles for sale come with land, but some have strange rights, which can be worth exploiting. Gerald Rand, an Englishman who bought the Lordship of Lynford title, is expert at extracting the last penny from the mineral rights included in his title, which allow him to claim a tithe from companies quarrying land within his "manor" in Norfolk. Mr. Rand, who bought the title to go with the manor house, Lynford Hall, his stately hotel, also collects for allowing gas, electricity and telephone lines to cross manorial land.
Some titles hold rights to hunt, fish or hold markets or fairs, and a few -- like the Lordship of Henley-in-Arden, bought by Joe Hardy, an American lumber baron, for about $120,000 in 1990, offer the right to preside over a medieval court leet, at which manor business is discussed and the villagers must ask the lord for permission to extend their hedges or erect new fences.
"I've got everything money could buy -- land, art, cars, companies," Mr. Hardy said at the time, "but this has bought me a chance to play with people's lives."
Contrary to his comment, Mr. Hardy has been a benevolent benefactor to the quaint market town near Stratford-upon-Avon, where he has set up a trust fund for the village, which finances village projects and pays for an an annual fireworks display and regatta.
Mr. Hardy, now 74, passed the title two years ago to his daughter Robin Freed-Hardy, who conducts the business of the title on her annual trip to Henley-in-Arden. She is also co-host with her father of a "royal reception" each Labor Day weekend at their Nemecolin Woodlands resort in Pennsylvania, which draws other notables like Prince Michael of Kent and officials from Henley-in-Arden like the high bailiff and town crier.
"We like mixing with other titled people," Robin Hardy said. "Although having the title hasn't changed me, what it has done is given me the opportunity to meet people I would never have met in my ordinary life, and it's an awful lot of fun!"
The Manoral Society is one of several houses like Sotheby's or Strutt & Parker's that auction royal titles. But the society, which provides social activities for its members, charges an annual fee of 20 (about $30) and offers a newsletter, guidance on designing a suitable coat of arms through the College of Arms and invitations to social gatherings like a Christmas carol service and dinner in London, or a Valentine's ball -- at which tiaras and manorial insignia may be worn.
Seena Davis, or the Lady of Barnham Broom, added, "I wear a tiara to all formal occasions."
Mrs. Davis is the wife of Arnold Davis, an art dealer and retired real estate executive, with homes in Manhattan and Scarsdale, N.Y. He bought the Lordship of Barnham Broom in Norfolk years ago for an undisclosed sum. But like Joe Hardy, he has put even more into it.
"We've given money for prizes at the local school and church, lent pictures for an exhibition and gave a big dinner party for everyone in Barnham Broom," said Mr. Davis, who travels regularly to Britain to buy paintings by the masters.
"We haven't got anything tangible out of the title," Mrs. Davis said, "but it has opened up all different avenues for us, and we've enjoyed most the friends we've made through it." The Davises would now like to buy titles for each of their two daughters and three grandchildren. Perhaps Wimbledon will be perfect for a budding tennis player.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Douglas Hall hopes his title, Lord of Threshfield, will promote his coffee. (Mark Lyons for The New York Times) (pg. 50)
 
Table: "Royalty for Sale" lists the British titles that have drawn the highest prices when put up for sale in the 1990's. (pg. 49)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); ENGLAND (90%); SOUTH AFRICA (76%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (78%); 

COMPANY: MANORIAL SOCIETY OF GREAT BRITAIN ALL ENGLAND LAWN TENNIS GROUND LTD (57%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (50%); MANORIAL SOCIETY OF GREAT BRITAIN (91%); MANORIAL SOCIETY OF GREAT BRITAIN (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: MANORIAL SOCIETY OF GREAT BRITAIN MANORIAL SOCIETY OF GREAT BRITAIN (91%); MANORIAL SOCIETY OF GREAT BRITAIN (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GREAT BRITAIN; UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); ENGLAND (90%); SOUTH AFRICA (76%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (78%); 

SUBJECT: NOBILITY; AUCTIONS TENNIS (94%); SPORTS (94%); TENNIS TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); AUCTIONS (89%); BRITISH NOBILITY & GENTRY (89%); SPORTS FANS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (76%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); HOME PRICES (69%); SCANDALS (63%); STEPPARENTS (50%); 

PERSON: SPENCER (EARL); MCKEE, VICTORIA PRINCESS DIANA (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1996



211 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 9, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 236 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Medicare Proposal Covers Costs

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"The Medicare Argument" (editorial, June 4) suggests that a "serious, bipartisan effort" is needed to reform Medicare and that the Republican plan "was a move in the right direction." I strongly agree. 
 Since President Clinton vetoed Medicare reform as part of the balanced budget passed by Congress last year, this vital program will go bankrupt one year sooner than estimated just a year ago -- in 2001 rather than 2002.
In fact, Medicare is worse off by $114 billion today than it would have been had the President signed our legislation last year.
I would like to clarify one important point you make. Contrary to what you assert, the Congressional Budget Office has never stated that medical costs are increasing at a rate that exceeds spending under the Republican plan.
Here are the facts according to the Budget Office: Inflation accounts for 2.9 percent and increased enrollment accounts for 1.3 percent. Taken together these amount to a 4.2 percent growth rate. This is far less than the 7.2 percent growth rate of the Republican plan as included in the Balanced Budget Act of 1995.
The G.O.P. proposal more than covers inflation and the anticipated number of senior citizens enrolled in Medicare in 2002. Further, our program would have increased spending per person from $4,800 to $7,250 by the year 2002.
 
NEWT GINGRICH
Speaker of the House
Washington, June 6, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (56%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (56%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MEDICARE MEDICARE (94%); BUDGETS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); VETO (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); 

PERSON: GINGRICH, NEWT (SPEAKER) BILL CLINTON (72%); NEWT GINGRICH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1996



212 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 11; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 887 words

HEADLINE: Tough or Lenient? It's a Question of Risk

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

 BODY:
WHERE companies stand on how the Government should deal with China -- whether to impose sanctions for pirating software and music, whether to renew China's most-favored-nation trade status -- is usually a direct function of how much they have at risk.
On sanctions, those urging the most conciliatory approach have the most to lose if China lashes out because of American pressure. Among them are the National Retail Federation. Its members -- Sears, Kmart and Toys "R" Us among them -- went to Washington last week to denounce the 100 percent tariffs that will be slapped on a range of made-in-China clothing if sanctions are invoked later this month. The federation has denounced the sanctions as "illegal" and "disastrous for consumers." 
 The nation's silk distributors, which depend on China for all of their supplies, warned that the Administration's action would "devastate hundreds of small American companies and thousands of workers."
The main proponent of the Administration's get-tough-on-pirates strategy, not surprisingly, is Hollywood. No one has pressed harder for sanctions than Jack Valenti, the lobbyist for the Motion Picture Association who has worked the capital since he was an aide to Lyndon B. Johnson. Mr. Valenti wants to make sure that the Administration's will does not weaken at the last minute, as it did in negotiations over market access to Europe in 1993. He has been backed up by record companies like Sony and video game makers like Nintendo of America -- both owned by Japanese parents that are pressing for American action because they know their own Government in Tokyo will not risk a confrontation with China.
Some industries, however, are deeply divided. General Motors has backed the Administration's strategy. But Ford, presumably fearful that China will block its efforts to open bigger joint ventures, has enraged many in the White House by denouncing the threat of unilateral sanctions as counterproductive.
"We saved their butts in the auto talks last year," one senior Administration official fumed the other day, referring to last year's showdown with Japan over automotive trade, "and in China they stiff-arm us."
And just as the Clinton Administration is divided on whether threatening sanctions can truly change China's behavior or merely stiffen its resistance, there is considerable dissent within many companies over what tactics to endorse.
In Washington, for example, Boeing and Microsoft have joined the chorus of praise for the Administration's hard line, contending that unless China is forced to live up to its agreement to protect intellectual property, it will not become a nation of laws where investors can operate without fear of exploitation.
But ask executives working for those same companies in Hong Kong or Shanghai, and their view is often far more pragmatic. Concerned about meeting their sales quotas for the quarter or the year, they dismiss as starry-eyed any hope that Washington's series of confrontations will fundamentally change the way China does business.
"Sanctions get you no place," a Microsoft official who frequently works on the company's China strategy said recently. China's plan, he said, "is to close down a few factories for a few months" to make American negotiators "shut up and go away."
Even the supporters of sanctions say the cycle of confrontation is undermining American credibility in China. As soon as the short-term argument over piracy is resolved, they argue, the only sensible long-term strategy is to end the annual debate over renewing China's most-favored-nation status, which despite the name simply gives China the low tariffs that almost every other trading partner enjoys. In short, they not only want to divorce most-favored-nation treatment from China's human rights record -- the step Mr. Clinton took two years ago -- they want to divorce it from every political dispute with China, whether the issue is missile proliferation or Taiwan.
"Do we really believe we can change overnight a culture that thinks in terms of dynasties?" asked John F. Smith Jr., chairman of General Motors, a company that, after years of neglect of Asia, now says the region is the key to expanding American exports. While America goes through its annual political ritual and flails China's behavior, he fumed in a recent speech, "our competitors from Japan and Europe sign new deals, which tie China closer to their economies." In fact, just days after the sanctions threat was issued, Toyota's president visited China to seal a deal for a major engine factory, on the heels of a Government-led trade mission from Britain.
But most-favored-nation status still has many opponents, from the A.F.L.-C.I.O., which fears jobs are being lost to China, to textile manufacturers. which say China has violated its agreements to limit textile exports and doesn't deserve the status.
Still, many China hands agree that the annual Congressional threat to revoke the trading privileges is doing more harm than good. "There is simply no historical precedent," Jeffrey E. Garten, the dean of the Yale School of Management and formerly a regular negotiator with China for the Administration, wrote recently, "for one powerful nation treating another with constant threats while still retaining a viable relationship."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (53%); BOE (LSE) (51%); BAB (BRU) (51%); BA (NYSE) (51%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (57%); SIC5945 HOBBY, TOY, & GAME STORES (57%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (54%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (51%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (95%); HONG KONG (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: EAST CHINA (58%); 

CITY: SHANGHAI, CHINA (73%); TOKYO, JAPAN (70%); 

COMPANY: SONY CORP OF AMERICA; NINTENDO OF AMERICA INC ; NATIONAL RETAIL FEDERATION TOYS 'R' US INC (57%); NINTENDO OF AMERICA INC (54%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%); BOEING CO (51%); MICROSOFT CORP (51%); NATIONAL RETAIL FEDERATION (83%); NATIONAL RETAIL FEDERATION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: SONY CORP OF AMERICA; NINTENDO OF AMERICA INC ; NATIONAL RETAIL FEDERATION NATIONAL RETAIL FEDERATION (83%); NATIONAL RETAIL FEDERATION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHINA; UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (95%); HONG KONG (79%); JAPAN (79%); EAST CHINA (58%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (73%); TOKYO, JAPAN (70%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INDUSTRIAL ESPIONAGE AND PIRACY; MOTION PICTURES; COMPUTER AND VIDEO GAMES; RECORDINGS (AUDIO) ; SILK INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); FILM (90%); SOFTWARE PIRACY (89%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (78%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (78%); INDUSTRIAL ESPIONAGE (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE TRADE (77%); RETAILERS (76%); HOBBY TOY & GAME STORES (76%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (73%); RECORD INDUSTRY (73%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (73%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); COMPUTER GAMES (69%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (66%); JOINT VENTURES (61%); ESPIONAGE (61%); FINES & PENALTIES (58%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (50%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E; VALENTI, JACK HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1996



213 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1125 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING IT;
Dangers, and Opportunities, if the Fed Raises Rates

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BRUSH 

 BODY:
MICHARD HOEY, the chief economist at the Dreyfus Corporation, is not sure that the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates, or when. But he is positive that there would be little shock at such a move. "The only people who would be surprised if the Fed raised the Federal funds rate," he said, "are sitting around a campfire on the Amazon."
Not everyone expressed the thought in such strong terms. But Mr. Hoey has lots of like-minded colleagues. For investors, who have not seen a rate increase since late 1994, this growing view may signal the time to start paying attention. And they should analyze not just strategies for cutting losses but also ideas for something often not considered during a rate rise -- making profits. 
 The central bank may be mulling over a rate increase because the economy is doing better -- which means that inflation may make a comeback, too. Last week, for example, the Government reported that the index of leading indicators rose in April for the third month in a row, signaling a clear growth trend. It also released figures showing that spending on new houses, cars and home construction continued to climb that month. And employment figures reported Friday showed that in May, 348,000 new jobs were created -- more than twice the expectation.
More important, as company earnings have grown, workers have been aggressively asking for a bigger piece of the pie. They have been helped in some areas by spot shortages of labor. "Not all is quiet on the wage front," said Fred Breimyer, the chief economist for State Street Bank and Trust in Boston. "With unemployment at 5.5 percent, any increase in the growth in the economy translates into wage pressures."
How much of a rate increase might be in the offing? Mr. Breimyer and Wayne Angell of Bear, Stearns expect a rise of a quarter-point to a half-point in the Federal funds rate as soon as July or August. This rate is the most sensitive money market interest rate, charged in the interbank market.
Investors unfazed by a possible rate increase should look at what happened last time. A Federal funds rate increase of just a half-point in February and March of 1994 caused a 10 percent market correction then.
Granted, interest rates were lower, so the market knew there was more room for more increases than now. Indeed, the Fed eventually raised the rate by a total of three percentage points.
But a half-point rise now could do even more damage because the stock market is frothy. "If the Fed started increasing rates in July, that would signal a change in policy toward less accommodation," said Eric Miller, chief investment officer for Donaldson Lufkin & Jenrette. "That would be accompanied by a market correction of 10 percent or maybe 20 percent."
As rates climb, the worst-hit businesses are those that depend a lot on borrowed funds, like banks and highly leveraged concerns. Other prime targets include investments in bonds and high-yield, low-growth enterprises, whose stocks trade a lot like bonds. Utilities, which lost 15 percent or more in 1994, are a good example. Indeed, both bonds and utility stocks are already down greatly this year because of increases in long-term interest rates and fears over inflation.
If investors think a rate increase is on the horizon -- and that is by no means certain -- they can shorten bond maturities, and sell or avoid rate-sensitive stocks.
And, while taking care not to overreact and sell off quality companies, they might scan their portfolios for equities with very high price-earnings ratios -- like some technology or Internet stocks. "Some bizarre things are going on in the speculative fringes of the stock market," Mr. Hoey said. "Past rounds of tightening have had the effect of popping speculative bubbles."
But rising rates can mean profit opportunities, too. "If rates are rising because the economy is doing better than everyone thinks, then that means earnings will be better than expected," said Peter J. Canelo, the chief investment strategist for Dean Witter. "That could be good for the earnings-driven part of the market."
One part of this category is basic industries like paper, chemicals and metals. "Companies in basic industries will probably be displaying rising pricing power when there are inflationary expectations," said Thomas McManus, an investment strategist with Morgan Stanley. "So they are likely to outperform in a falling market."
One good prospect is Phelps Dodge, the copper producer, said Roger DeBard, a portfolio manager at Hotchkis & Wiley. Selling at an estimated price-earnings ratio of just 7.8, Phelps Dodge is "extremely well-managed" and "one of the lowest-cost producers of copper," Mr. DeBard said. "They are able to make money regardless of what copper prices are doing. It's just that they make more money when prices go up."
Energy companies also do well in a strong economy, because of higher prices and increased demand. Here, Mr. DeBard likes Royal Dutch Petroleum, which has integrated its exploration, production and marketing activities very well. The company pays a 3.7 percent dividend and "is an excellent and innovative retailer that is also second to none in finding oil," he said.
SOME retailers are also a good play because consumer spending is a big force in driving the economy. Mr. Miller recommends Melville, owner of the CVS and Kay-Bee chains, which is streamlining its business to concentrate on its profitable and growing drug products. Another is Safeway, a well-managed supermarket company whose cost-reduction drive should continue to help margins for another few years, Mr. Miller said.
Even sectors vulnerable to rising rates -- like banks -- can have possibilities, said Alan Kahn, an investment manager in New York. For example, some banks have loans that turn over and are repriced more quickly than are their deposits. When interest rates rise, such banks get to earn more from higher-rate loans before they need to pay out more on higher-rate deposits. According to Reid Nagle, a bank analyst at SNL Securities in Charlottesville, Va., Suffolk Bancorp of Riverhead, L.I., fits this bill.
Finally, investor overreaction to rising rates can spell profit possibilities. The likely candidates are good companies in vulnerable sectors, like utilities. Here, Mr. DeBard recommends Edison International of Rosemead, Calif., which has 3 percent annual earnings growth, a dividend yield of 6.0 percent and a price-earnings ratio of 9.8. The other is Peco Energy, based in Philadelphia, with a price-earnings ratio of 9.3 and a dividend yield of 7.1 percent. These companies already look attractive, Mr. DeBard said, because their prices have been driven down by increases in long-bond rates.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BSC (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (66%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (66%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; PHELPS DODGE CORP DREYFUS CORP (91%); STATE STREET BANK & TRUST CO (66%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (53%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (50%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; PHELPS DODGE CORP FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; CREDIT; FORECASTS US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); STATISTICS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); TRENDS (75%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); BONDS (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (71%); JOB CREATION (71%); INTERBANK LENDING (69%); LABOR SHORTAGES (66%); 

PERSON: BRUSH, MICHAEL

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1996



214 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1158 words

HEADLINE: MINDING YOUR BUSINESS;
500 Pages of Merchandise, but Should I Invest?

BYLINE: By LAURA PEDERSEN 

 BODY:

Q. Will the current mail-order catalogue boom last, and if so, whose stock should I consider buying?
 IRENE SHTINO
 Kew Gardens, Queens
 
A. In 1899, when the social critic Thorstein Veblen coined the term "conspicuous consumption," he had no inkling that American children in Pocahontas pajamas would now be asking, "Mommy, read me a bedtime catalogue." 
 Or that an industry with $63 billion in annual sales would be dedicated to the proposition that everything can be sold by mail. Simply by calling or faxing a toll-free number, you can order custom-trimmed cars, fully loaded desktop PC's, life insurance, build-it-yourself homes, Key lime pies from the Gulf Coast, or high-Gothic tchotchkes from Cher's "Sanctuary" catalogue -- a kind of Hammacher Schlemmer for Addams Family wannabes.
It is not true, however, that Sears, Roebuck once sold brides by mail. According to legend, a Montana rancher ordered one at the turn of the century. The clerk wrote back, saying the company had just run out of brides, then immediately quit her job and headed west to marry the rancher herself. Sears was always good at customer relations. It's a pity that it got out of the catalogue business.
Will the boom continue? Most likely. More than half the adult population -- 98.5 million Americans -- order by mail, according to the Direct Marketing Association. Sales are expected to hit $85.7 billion by 2000, up from $62.6 billion in 1995. In the last decade, the Simmons Market Research Bureau reports, the number of catalogue shoppers has quintupled while the population has increased just 11.9 percent.
Last year, the industry mailed a mind-boggling 12.8 billion catalogues -- many of them so slick, or in the case of Victoria's Secret, so sexy, that they have become collectors' items.
The biggest mail-order category, however, isn't high fashion. It's high technology.
For every 15 people buying computers at retail prices, at least one scours the catalogues. They are mainly buyers who do not require hand-holding. Gateway 2000 and Dell Computer, the world's leading mail-order computer vendors, both traded on Nasdaq, account for up to 20 percent of the PC market, which has $50 billion in annual sales.
And as that market is growing 15 percent annually, mail-order sales are growing twice as fast. The figures recently prompted Compaq, I.B.M., NEC, Digital and Hewlett-Packard to follow suit and sell through the mail.
ANOTHER factor in the growth of the industry is the ease with which merchandisers expand globally. In Japan, the strong yen, the excellent reputation of American sportswear and a shipping system that can get packages to Tokyo as fast as across this country all contribute to a catalogue boom. Last winter, when the Commerce Department's Osaka office offered 125 different catalogues at $2 to $3 each, lines formed around the block.
Which explains why Lands' End, traded on the New York Stock Exchange, has a complete Japanese-language catalogue that depicts tanned, happy American models astride red Yamaha scooters, and tote bags embossed with names like Tomoko and Emi.
There are many reasons why people are turning to catalogues. Saving time is only one, says Faith Popcorn, the trend spotter and author of "Clicking" who, years back, accurately predicted the stay-at-home trend of "cocooning" -- hunkering down, ordering in and turning on favorite TV shows. Anything that can ease the strain of being overscheduled and overcommitted, she says, will find a market.
Let there be no mistake about the high level of intensity at mail-order companies. They cannot, and will not, all succeed. The best bets are those that constantly retool or reinvent product lines, expand and update mailing lists and maintain top-notch customer service.
Geerlings & Wade of Canton, Mass., for example, is the nation's largest mail-order wine marketer. Not content to rest on its laurels, though, it recently added an impressive array of wine paraphernalia to its catalogue. One of the nation's largest catalogue marketers of consumer products, the Fingerhut Companies, stays competitive by using a data base to constantly cultivate its mailing lists.
Beware of companies that cannot seem to renew themselves. The specialty retailer Lillian Vernon, for example, has had disappointing earnings lately and may conjure up an image of the catalogue pile beneath your grandmother's knitting basket. The Sharper Image, whose stock price has fallen over 20 percent in a year, may need a few more movies like "Mission: Impossible" to keep consumers from seeing the pricey gadgetry as remnants of the high-flying 80's.
For some well-established companies, only time will tell. With a colossal mailing list of 480 million, Spiegel Inc., which also owns the Newport News catalogue business and Eddie Bauer, has had two years of poor earnings. But if its current turnaround effort succeeds, it may turn out that today's stock price is a bargain.
Speaking of bargains, not all retailers are convinced that mail order is the trend for everything.
"It's true that most women are just too busy to shop," said Beverly LaBadia, manager of a women's specialty clothing store in Flemington, N.J., "but I don't believe catalogue or computer shopping will ever replace the personal visit when it comes to clothing." Her reasoning: Fabrics and colors often look better on the glossy page than in front of a full-length mirror.
She adds: "There's no standard sizing. Women come into my store and take a size 8 blouse, a 10 jacket and a 12 in a skirt."
And few mail-order companies will eat the shipping costs of returned goods. "A couple of exchanges can really add up," she said.
For investors, catalogues have these other drawbacks:
* The higher cost of paper. Recycled or not, high-priced paper has clearly hurt the earnings of Lands' End and Lillian Vernon, among other companies.
* The higher cost of mailing. Last year's postal increase was only the latest skirmish in a long-running battle between the Postal Service and users of third-class mail.
* A sluggish retail market. Mail-order companies are no less susceptible to market gyrations than stores are. A balmy winter, for example, can wreak havoc on all merchandisers of clothing for snowy weather.
WHILE many Americans still refer to catalogues as "junk mail," various public opinion polls -- many, admittedly, paid for by the industry -- show that if given a choice, most consumers elect to maintain their catalogue flow.
Maybe they can't wait to see what will be offered next. Mail-order grooms, perhaps? Alaska Men magazine, with its monthly roster of eligible bachelors, is certainly doing its part to repopulate the 49th state while leveling the playing field in Manhattan. Ladies! This male-order service doesn't deliver, so bring lots of catalogues; the Bloomingdale's nearest to Fairbanks, Alaska, is at the Mall of America in Minneapolis.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3577 COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (84%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (84%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (50%); 

COMPANY: GATEWAY INC (84%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (63%); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (56%); SIMMONS MARKET RESEARCH BUREAU INC (54%); DIRECT MARKETING ASSOCIATION INC (54%); VICTORIA'S SECRET CATALOG (53%); DIRECT MARKETING ASSOCIATION (54%); DIRECT MARKETING ASSOCIATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: DIRECT MARKETING ASSOCIATION (54%); DIRECT MARKETING ASSOCIATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); TOKYO, JAPAN (50%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; MAIL ORDER COMPANIES; STOCKS AND BONDS; CATALOGUES MAIL ORDER RETAILING (92%); RETAIL SALES (89%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); DIRECT MARKETING (78%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); MARKET SIZE (76%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (75%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (73%); MARKET RESEARCH (72%); BONDS (72%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (70%); SALES PROJECTIONS (69%); FASHION DESIGNERS (61%); LIFE INSURANCE (55%); 

PERSON: PEDERSEN, LAURA CHERILYN SARKISIAN 'CHER' LAPIERE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1996



215 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 15; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 1160 words

HEADLINE: Why America Has Gone Suburban

BYLINE: By Kenneth T. Jackson; Kenneth T. Jackson, a professor of history at Columbia University, is editor of "The Encyclopedia of New York City" and author of "Crabgrass Frontier: The Suburbanization of the United States."

 BODY:
This week in Istanbul, experts from around the globe are attending a United Nations conference on urbanization. The timing is propitious, because in the next few years the world will pass a historic milestone. For the first time, half the earth's population, or more than three billion people, will be living in cities.
At the turn of the century, only 14 percent of us called a city home and just 11 places on the planet had a million inhabitants. Now there are 400 cities with populations of at least one million and 20 megacities of more than 10 million. 
 But while cities around the world are becoming more dense, those in the United States are moving in the opposite direction. The typical model here is a doughnut -- emptiness and desolation at the center and growth on the edges.
Many of the great downtown department stores -- including Hudson's in Detroit and Goldsmith's in Memphis -- are now closed. Meanwhile, new megamalls, discount centers and factory outlets are springing up every day on the peripheries of America's cities.
Though some cities are still thriving, of the 25 largest cities in 1950, 18 have lost population. For example, from 1950 to 1990, Baltimore lost 22 percent of its population, Philadelphia 23 percent, Chicago 25 percent, Boston 28 percent, Detroit 44 percent and Cleveland 45 percent. (It's true that many cities -- Houston, San Diego, Dallas and Phoenix, among them -- have grown since 1950, but that is largely because they have annexed their outlying territories. New York City, unique as always, has the same number of people, although its boundaries are unchanged.)
By contrast, during the same period, the suburbs gained more than 75 million people. In 1990, our nation became the first in history to have more suburbanites than city and rural dwellers combined.
Why should Americans care whether Portland, Me., or Portland, Ore., is losing inhabitants? Because our system of governance balkanizes social responsibility in our country, a nation divided by race and income.
Only in America are schools, police and fire protection and other services financed largely by local taxes. When middle- and upper-class families flee from the cities, they take with them needed tax revenues.
In Europe, Australia and Japan, such functions are essentially the responsibility of national or at least regional governments. In any of these places, moving from a city to a suburb does not have much impact on a citizen's taxes or on the quality of services.
Americans tend to regard a move to the suburbs as natural -- even inevitable -- when people are given choices about where to live. But in fact the pattern arises not because land is abundant and cheap (which it is) and not because we have racial and economic divides (which we do) but largely because we have made a series of public policy decisions that other countries have not made.
First, the tax code allows us to deduct mortgage interest and property taxes for both first and second homes. Most other advanced nations do not allow this.
Second, gasoline is essentially not taxed in this country. The 12-country European Union, which has fewer vehicles on the road than the United States does, takes in more than five times as much in gasoline taxes as America does. Our gasoline is cheap compared to that in other advanced industrialized nations, so living in the suburbs, without public transportation, is an attractive option.
Third, the United States has long had a policy, unique in the developed world, of making the provision of public housing voluntary. For the most part, communities across the country can choose to apply -- or not -- for public housing. The result of this is that the central cities have become the homes of the poor while the suburbs have become places to escape the poor.
By contrast, the French, British, Germans and Japanese spread public housing around. Indeed, in many countries a demonstrably higher proportion of public housing units go to the periphery than to central city -- and this discourages middle-class urban flight.
Finally, in the United States, government at all levels has affected cities by what it has not done. In Europe, land is regarded as a scarce resource that has to be controlled in the public interest rather than exploited for private gain. Thus, governments have acted to preserve open space and deter suburban sprawl.
There are other policies, too, that work against urban areas in the United States, but the larger point is clear: American cities operate under a series of unusual handicaps.
St. Louis offers an extreme example of the consequences of all this. Once the fourth largest city in the nation, the so-called Gateway to the West has become a ghost of its former self. In 1950, it had 857,000 people; by 1990, the population had dwindled to 397,000. Many of its old neighborhoods have become dispiriting collections of eviscerated homes and vacant lots. Aging warehouses and grimy loft factories are now open to the sky; weeds cover once busy railroad sidings.
Will the experience of St. Louis, become typical of other cities in the 21st century?
In recent years, such prominent authors as Paul Hawken, John Naisbitt and Alvin Toffler have predicted that cities are doomed and that new telecommunications have made human interaction unnecessary. In the future, they suggest, our journey to work will be from the breakfast table to the home computer. There, in splendid isolation, we will work, shop and play in cyberspace.
Perhaps the futurists are correct, and the cities of our time, like conquered Carthage, will be razed and sowed with salt. But I doubt it. It is more likely that New York, Chicago, Los Angeles, San Francisco, Boston and a dozen or so other places will remain great cities well into the next millennium, despite government policies that cripple them.
That's because the same catalytic mixing of people that creates urban problems and fuels urban conflict also spurs the initiative, innovation and collaboration that taken together move civilization forward. Quite simply, metropolitan centers are the most complex creations of the human mind, and they will not easily yield their roles as marketplaces of ideas.
Cities are places where individuals of different bents and pursuits rub shoulders, where most human achievements have been created. Whereas village and rural life, as well as life in the modern shopping mall, is characterized by the endless repetition of similar events, cities remain centers of diversity and opportunity. If they express some of the worst tendencies of modern society, they also represent much of the best.
As Charles E. Merriam, a professor at the University of Chicago, told the United States Conference of Mayors in 1934: "The trouble with Lot's wife was that she looked backward and saw Sodom and Gomorrah. If she had looked forward, she would have seen that heaven is also a pictured as a city."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); TURKEY (92%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (54%); 

CITY: ISTANBUL, TURKEY (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (76%); PORTLAND, ME, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (97%); TURKEY (92%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (54%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (76%); PORTLAND, ME, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: URBAN AREAS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SUBURBS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); URBANIZATION (89%); SUBURBS (88%); TRENDS (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); FAMILY (61%); RETAILERS (53%); 

PERSON: JACKSON, KENNETH T

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1996



216 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2711 words

HEADLINE: Two Roads to China: Nice, and Not So Nice

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: SEATTLE

 BODY:
AFTER this month, in an extraordinary example of corporate diplomacy, the Boeing Company will airlift its entire board to China. Ostensibly, the directors will simply be holding their regular bimonthly meeting there, while touring sites like the vast construction hangars in Xian where, with Boeing's help, tens of thousands of workers are trying to transform China into a world-class aerospace power.
But the real purpose of the China tour is to deepen Boeing's ties to a small clutch of Chinese leaders who are by turns the aircraft maker's best customers and worst torturers. Just as oil companies have paved the way for Middle Eastern kings and emirs in America, Boeing is working harder than ever to impress the Chinese, intervening to defuse the cycle of recriminations between Beijing and Washington that has already begun to poison Boeing's hold on China's civilian aerospace market. 
 The company is looking for ways to offer China more aerospace technology. It is stepping up its role as Beijing's de facto lobbyist on Capitol Hill, even helping produce videos to soften China's public image in the American heartland. At times, it is reaching well beyond trade issues: Just the other day, a Boeing executive warned Chinese leaders that with Congress inflamed over Beijing's behavior, it would be foolish to go forward with a nuclear weapons test in northwestern China.
"We have credibility with the Chinese, and we try to use it toward good ends," said Philip M. Condit, Boeing's president and chief executive.
Just across Lake Washington, the Microsoft Corporation has developed a different approach -- one that is often far more confrontational. William H. Gates, Microsoft's chairman, was in Washington 10 days ago to denounce China's failure to live up to its agreement to close the factories that produce billions of dollars of counterfeit versions of American software, music and videos. And just days away from Washington's June 17 deadline for China to close the pirate factories or face more than $2 billion in sanctions against Chinese goods, Microsoft lawyers are literally leading Chinese police to the pirates' lairs, insisting on raids.
But to Microsoft, business is business, and its stranglehold on something the Chinese desperately need -- an understanding of the software that will make or break China's huge investment in the personal computer industry -- allows it to stay clear of superpower diplomacy. "Nuclear weapons tests?" laughed Charles Stevens, its vice president for the Far East, when asked whether he too is providing China's leadership with advice. "We do Windows, not foreign policy."
The divergent approaches to dealing with China at Boeing and Microsoft -- conciliatory versus confrontational -- are a reminder that the Clinton Administration isn't the only one floundering to find a consistent and effective China policy. So is American business. Rarely have so many industries, with so many interests at stake, been so divided about how best to handle a country with so much market potential and so much political volatility. And those divisions have come to the surface more starkly than ever now that the Administration is threatening sanctions even as it presses Congress to renew most-favored-nation status for China.
So far, neither Boeing's nor Microsoft's tactics can be called an overwhelming success. Boeing has spent 25 years developing a nuanced corporate foreign policy toward China, yet it has been roughed up twice by the country in the last two months: to strike back at Washington, Beijing has handed Boeing's European competitors a major aircraft order and then given them a big share in a long-term effort by China to build its own 100-seat airliner.
Mr. Condit, whose executive team is considered the most China-savvy in corporate America, winces a bit over how China has treated its corporate ambassador in recent months. "We are the designated hostage," he sighed the other day.
And Microsoft executives, despite impressive sales gains in the last year, fear that China's reluctance to curb rampant software piracy and its inclination to exert Government control over the Internet could keep its business there tied down for years.
 
Boeing
 
A Long Friendship Yet 2 Slaps in the Face
Boeing's diplomatic dance with China goes back 25 years, but it's not getting any easier.
When President Richard M. Nixon visited Beijing in 1972, he used the Boeing 707 as one of his lures to open relations. It made little difference that China had no commercial air service at the time. Within weeks, the Chinese ordered 10 planes, making Boeing the first company with a serious toehold in what has become the world's greatest emerging market.
Boeing quickly became China's most valuable lobbyist. It flexed its muscles at the Export-Import Bank, which only a few years ago overcame its moniker as "the Boeing Bank," to get low-cost, American-backed loans for Chinese airlines. Every year it took up China's cause in the most-favored-nation debate, reminding Congress that denying trade benefits to China would cost hundreds of thousands of jobs in the United States. Now it is championing China's effort to become a member of the World Trade Organization, an uphill battle because China refuses many of the market-opening commitments required of the other members.
Boeing's dedication to China is understandable: China is the world's most promising air market. In 1994, the company's best year there, sales hit $1.25 billion, more than 10 percent of its foreign sales and 25 percent of its commercial sales that year in the United States. Last year, a rough year for Boeing because of a big strike, the figure dropped to $721 million, but China still accounted for 1 of every 10 planes Boeing made.
The relationship is far deeper than just sales. What the Chinese want is technology, and they know how to use their leverage to get it. The results are visible on the floor of Boeing's huge assembly hangar in Renton, just south of Seattle. Every few weeks the giant Xian Aircraft Company, whose factory outside the famed walled city of Xian also produces China's military aircraft, ships Boeing a fully completed tail section and rear stabilizer for the Boeing 737. Half of all the tail sections produced for the 737 are now Chinese made; the other half are produced in Wichita, Kan.
"The Chinese are incredibly good at producing whatever we ask them to produce," Obrad Cvetovich, Boeing's vice president for quality and process management, said the other day as a giant overhead crane lifted the latest Chinese-made tail section onto Boeing 737 No. 2803. "They have an insatiable thirst for technology, and they pick it up and apply it right away." Dismissing complaints about quality from Boeing's unions, which went on strike last year partly because of China's growing role in producing the planes, Mr. Cvetovich said, "We haven't had any problems." As if on cue, it took only 12 minutes for the crane operators and mechanics to line up the Chinese-made tail section, slip it seamlessly onto the rear of the plane and bolt it into place.
What is happening in Renton is, in many ways, the future for all high-technology companies swarming into China. Volkswagen and Motorola and McDonnell Douglas have all begun building high-tech plants in China, and for reasons that have nothing to do with cheap labor. It is in return for market access. Whether it is worth the cost is a raging debate in American industry. It has paid off for Motorola, but McDonnell Douglas has been consistently disappointed, with small returns on its huge investments.
"We don't do it to save money," said Lawrence W. Clarkson, Boeing's senior vice president for planning and international development. "We do it for the business. By the time you are done training, doing the quality control and shipping the parts back here, it doesn't save a thing."
And there is a constant debate within Boeing over just how to satisfy China's thirst for technology without giving away the secret recipe of aircraft integration, producing a complete, airworthy plane.
"Obviously, you don't tell someone everything you know," Mr. Condit said. "But we've learned that you can't play a defensive game. Technology moves in a lot of channels rapidly. And the trick is to give something away just as you are developing something better."
Until recently, this policy of teaching China the magic of building airplanes while helping it out in Washington has made Boeing an indispensable corporate partner. But in the last year, Boeing learned it was not as indispensable as it had hoped.
Twice in the last two months China has dealt devastating blows to the aircraft maker. In April, Li Peng, China's Prime Minister, diverted a $1.5 billion aircraft order, widely expected to go Boeing's way, to Airbus Industrie, the European consortium. Then, in case anyone in Washington missed the point, Chinese officials made clear that Boeing would probably be frozen out of China's big new venture to build a fleet of 100-seat jetliners. The 30 percent Western stake in the project -- on which billions of dollars in future revenue probably ride -- would go instead to a consortium of European nations that don't lecture China about human rights, don't threaten sanctions for the piracy of music, videos and software and don't send their warships patrolling the Taiwan Straits.
Mr. Clarkson, a large, jovial man with remarkable contacts in China, has been traveling to Beijing for two years to lobby for a 20 to 30 percent equity share in the project. His eagerness was understandable. China can make and cancel orders for individual aircraft, depending on the political temperature of the moment. But if Boeing could become the technological linchpin of China's project, it would become virtually impossible for China to switch partners midstream. And until relations with Washington began going down the tubes this winter, Boeing clearly had the advantage: China's big airlines knew Boeing's technology intimately and wanted more of it.
"There's no doubt we are being punished," concluded Ronald B. Woodard, president of Boeing Commercial Airplane Group. It seemed as if China was making good on a warning one of its vice premiers gave Mr. Clarkson a year ago. "He said, 'Because your Government constantly chooses to kick us and harass us, many, many business opportunities that should go to the U.S. have gone elsewhere."'
But Boeing remains optimistic that it can reverse the tide. Some say the 100-seat airplane deal may yet land on Boeing Field, especially if dealing with a number of European nations simultaneously turns into a morass. (Others were not entirely unhappy to lose the deal; Boeing would have had a 30 percent stake but virtually all of the responsibility for producing an airworthy plane.) And in the meantime, Boeing continues to do much of China's political spade work in the United States.
It has teamed up with Motorola, Allied Signal, Caterpillar and American International Group, which sells insurance in China, to create the China Normalization Initiative, an effort to buff China's image. It has produced a video that is a remarkably dewy-eyed depiction of China -- no repression of dissidents, no sales of automatic weapons to gangs in Los Angeles, no nuclear proliferation, but plenty of Chinese enjoying American goods.
"This constant cycle of arguments has polarized the relationship," Mr. Clarkson said. That, of course, is exactly the message Beijing wants Boeing to send back to Washington -- that the price of trying to impose America's will on China will be to cut off access to the greatest emerging market of them all.
 
Microsoft
 
The Importance Of Being Important
Microsoft doesn't make gauzy films about China and doesn't go to bat for the Chinese on Capitol Hill. It doesn't need to -- at least so far. In a country of power relationships, it controls access to the personal computer software technology China most needs. And Chinese leaders know that, at least for now, there is no alternative source, no Airbus of the software world that China can use to whip Microsoft in line.
As a result, Microsoft can afford to take a hard line on software piracy. Its revenues in China are still tiny -- roughly $20 million last year for a company with sales of nearly $6 billion. Its greatest competition is the pirates that hold 98 percent of China's software market, selling counterfeit copies of programs and compilation disks that combine thousands of dollars in software onto a single CD-ROM that sells for a few dollars. (In the United States, the percentage of illegally copied software sold to computer users is roughly 35 percent; in Europe around 50 percent.)
"This whole argument is about our long-term future in China, and China's long-term chances of developing a viable software industry," said William H. Neukom, Microsoft's general counsel. "We're an intellectual property company; it's where all of the value of our company rests. Our business requires a set of laws and culture that protects that."
So these days, Microsoft is spending half its time trying to build a legitimate software industry in China and the other half trying to rip apart an illegal one. It has stitched together partnerships with more than 20 fledgling Chinese software houses, which help produce local versions of Microsoft programs and then often turn out spinoff applications of their own. Through those connections, Microsoft executives try to convince provincial officials, local tycoons and Government bureaucrats that ending piracy is in their own economic interest.
"We tell them that letting people profit from legitimate programs is the only way to create an incentive for innovation," Mr. Neukom said. "And we tell them that we don't have a monopoly on innovation -- someday soon those battalions of Chinese software engineers will be turning out programs that they will want to protect."
Sounds nice, but it is a tough argument to make in the grimy industrial towns of Guangdong, the hotbed of piracy in southern China, where copying American software is the path to riches for the military, relatives of provincial officials and leaders of organized crime. So when it's not evangelizing, Microsoft has become the enforcer.
It was Microsoft, for example, that was behind the raid in late April on the Jin Die Science and Technology Development Company in Guilin, known as one of the most skilled producers of counterfeit Microsoft programs. An informant passed his wealth of knowledge about the plant to a Microsoft agent in the area. His report reached the office of Valerie Colbourn, a lawyer for the software maker in Hong Kong. With the help of other lawyers, Ms. Colbourn -- operating through a consortium of American software concerns -- persuaded the local office of the Administration of Industry and Commerce to move in.
Microsoft had spent months working its way into the good graces of the industry and commerce office. "The fellow in charge is someone we've worked with a lot and who has a good grasp of the problem," Ms. Colbourn said last week. "If we went to a different officer on a different day, maybe we would have gotten nothing."
After an all-night standoff with the plant manager, the authorities finally gained access to the storeroom and uncovered a cache of 5,700 CD-ROM's, mostly Microsoft titles. The plant has since been closed, but Ms. Colbourn has few illusions that it is out of business. The equipment is still there, and so is the profit motive.
"If there is an agreement in the next few weeks or not," she said, "we're still going to be fighting this battle for a long time."
But by bringing the power of China's central Government to bear on the pirates, some China experts fear, Microsoft may be creating a precedent that will come to haunt it. Chinese authorities are already threatening to limit access to the Internet, fearing it will end Beijing's control over news and dissenting views. There is a growing fear that China will use its obligations to control software piracy as an excuse to crack down on the Internet. As Boeing already knows, in China a collision between politics and business is never far away.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Boeing has been China's most valuable lobbyist for nearly 25 years. Michael Zimmerman, left, president of Boeing China, and Ronald B. Woodard, right, president of Boeing Commercial Airplane, with Prime Minister Li Peng. (Boeing Company) (pg. 11)
 
Chart: "Opposite Approaches on Trade"
 
BOENING
With roots in China that extend back to the 1970's, Boeing's strategy is to nurture the country as a trading partner while acting on its behalf in Washington.
 
MICROSOFT
With no rival for its software, Microsoft can be tough on trade issues like piracy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (96%); BAB (BRU) (96%); BA (NYSE) (96%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (96%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (84%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NORTHWEST CHINA (79%); SHAANXI, CHINA (73%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BOEING CO; MICROSOFT CORP BOEING CO (96%); MICROSOFT CORP (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOEING CO; MICROSOFT CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NORTHWEST CHINA (79%); SHAANXI, CHINA (73%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; INDUSTRIAL ESPIONAGE AND PIRACY INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); AIRCRAFT MFG (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); AVIONICS (76%); COMPUTER MAKERS (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); LOBBYING (72%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (72%); AIRLINES (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); MARITIME PIRACY (69%); COUNTERFEITING (67%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (67%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (66%); MILITARY WEAPONS (65%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (64%); PLANT CLOSINGS (62%); INDUSTRIAL ESPIONAGE (61%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (61%); ESPIONAGE (59%); 

PERSON: SPINDLER, AMY M; SANGER, DAVID E BILL GATES (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1996



217 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 9, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1054 words

HEADLINE: DIARY

BYLINE: By HUBERT B. HERRING

 BODY:

THE NUMBERS
 
Inflation Is Dead. Maybe.
 
Enough paranoia about inflation, already! Let's get the economy moving and create more jobs. That's what some critics of Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, are saying. Mr. Greenspan, said Senator Tom Harkin, doesn't fear actual inflation, but "the reflection of the shadow of the threat" of it. The economy has changed, some Fed critics say, so that inflation is less of a threat. And Mr. Harkin wants the Senate to talk this over a bit before it lets Mr. Greenspan hold onto his job. The markets, though, clearly prefer slow and steady. For when Friday brought a report of a big jump in payroll jobs, the inflation doomsayers rushed forward, and stocks went into a nose dive.
 
TAX-CUT TIME
 
College Panic? Call Uncle Bill
 
College tuition. Two little words that can obliterate years of thrift, that have millions of sweaty parents hunched over midnight calculators. Yes, President Clinton knows, as Gov. Zell Miller of Georgia put it, that families aren't "talking about gays in the military or prayer in the school" at the kitchen table -- they're talking about paying for college. Mr. Clinton may also have heard that it's an election year, for last week, challenging Bob Dole to a round of Faster-Tax-Cutter-Than-Thou, he proposed a $1,500 tax credit for two years of college. Never mind that that's just 5 percent of the bill at Princeton, at whose commencement he tossed out the idea. One can't help fearing that just as housing prices are higher because mortgage interest is deductible, colleges might lift fees even more.
 
BLAME GAME
 
Medicare, Political Football
 
No one seriously expects those fine people in Washington to let Medicare go broke. The over-65 set is growing fast, and it's loaded with voters, so a fix will certainly be found. But when a report last week made some nightmarishly specific predictions of what would happen without that fix, politicians were in their glory, each side rushing to paint a villain's mustache on the other. "Bill Clinton has allowed it to happen," one Republican rumbled ominously, while a Democrat retorted that the Republican goal "has been to raid Medicare, not to save it." Politicians will be politicians.
 
APPLE COMPUTER
 
Baking in the Sun
 
Apple Computer seems more and more like a fish out of water -- water as in Lake Microsoft, which has inundated so much of the computer landscape. And last week the struggling Apple got another, highly symbolic blow with the departure of Steven Capps -- losing, as one observer put it, a link to its "idealism and history of innovation." For Mr. Capps is a software engineer who in the early 80's helped create the cuddly, icon-filled world of the Macintosh, which the industry's greatest minds have mimicked ever since. Now, though, Mr. Capps said, "I felt like a fish flopping on the deck." And in another reminder that true computer whizzes are barely out of diapers, he added, "I was burned out." Mr. Capps is all of 41.
 
CREDIT CARDS
 
One Nation, Under Plastic
 
Higher credit card fees on top of those sky-high interest rates? Is that what this plastic-mad nation deserves? Yes indeed, the Supreme Court said last week, ruling that if a bank bases its card operations in, say, South Dakota, it can charge whatever late fees South Dakota allows, no matter where the shopper is. Banks are the big winners, of course, and the pressure is now on legislatures to be nice to them or lose them to friendlier states. But the ruling plunged some consumer advocates into paroxysms of gloom, with one foreseeing "a whole universe of other fees." In an ideal world, though, only tardy, shiftless types will pay those high fees, prompting banks to go easier on more punctual sorts. In an ideal world.
 
THE FED
 
Where Was That $50 Million?
 
You know all that money whooshing smoothly through the Federal Reserve system? Surely it's all counted with split-penny computer precision, right? Well, maybe not. Report has it that when the folks at the Los Angeles Fed can't make the numbers add up, even with a whole lot of grade-school-style head-scratching, they've just been adding or subtracting $50 million or so before they send reports off to Washington. Some employees say it's been going on for more than a year. Not that there are signs of any cash missing. But it's a bit worrisome to think this economy's ultimate lifeboat has a little leak.
 
AUTOS
 
Chrysler Doesn't Buckle
 
The Transportation Department told Chrysler last week to recall most '95 Cirrus and Stratus models to fix weak seat belts, but Chrysler, contending that the belts are safe, said no, so the agency filed suit. The issue, it seems, boils down to a difference of several inches in where the test equipment is tugging from, with Chrysler saying the Government changed the rules midstream. But have the belts ever failed when accidents tug at them? Chrysler says no.
 
RUSSIA
 
No Money? Print Some!
 
You thought American politicians were shameless in promising pie-in-the-sky tax cuts? Well, just look at Boris N. Yeltsin. Last week, with a tough election looming, he told Russia's Central Bank to slip $1 billion into the Federal kitty so he can pay for some promises he's been making. Never mind that many see this as an engraved invitation for inflation to hurtle back in, or that it goes against pledges to the I.M.F. as a condition of $10 billion in loans. No, Mr. Yeltsin's move has this other little problem: in the words of the Central Bank chairman, "This money does not in fact exist."
 
ORANGE COUNTY
 
Humbled but Afloat
 
These fancy new ways of investing are truly amazing. Just look at the bankrupting of Orange County, Calif. Quite a feat, considering that it's the richest county in an absurdly rich nation. The county managed to shed that scarlet "B" last week, though, selling nearly $900 million in new bonds to pay off the debts that brought it to its well-tanned knees 18 months ago. Are those bond investors throwing good money after bad? No, things are different this time. The bonds are insured, and the sales taxes that will help pay them off won't linger in county coffers -- they'll go straight to the state for distribution, just as a naughty child's allowance goes right to the bank.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available TAX LAW (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); FAMILY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); TUITION FEES (73%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (69%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (68%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (63%); COMPUTER ENGINEERING (60%); ARMED FORCES (52%); GAYS & LESBIANS (52%); RELIGION (52%); HOME PRICES (50%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (90%); BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1996



218 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 177 words

HEADLINE: MARKET TIMING

 BODY:

MONDAY
 
Ford and the U.A.W. begin talks on a new national contract. (Chrysler starts on Tuesday and General Motors on Wednesday.)
 
TUESDAY
 
The American Petroleum Institute issues its weekly report on petroleum stocks.
 
The Labor Department releases the Producer Price Index for May. In April, it rose 0.4 percent.
 
The Federal Reserve reports on April consumer credit.
 
WEDNESDAY
 
The Labor Department releases the Consumer Price Index for May. It rose 0.4 percent in April.
 
THURSDAY
 
The Labor Department issues its weekly report on initial claims for unemployment benefits.
 
The Commerce Department reports on retail sales for May. In April, they fell 0.3 percent.
 
FRIDAY
 
The University of Michigan gives its June reading of consumer sentiment.
 
The Fed reports May figures for industrial production, which was up 0.9 percent in April, and capacity utilization, which stood at 83 percent in April.
 
The Commerce Department reports on April business inventories. In March, they fell 0.2 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (84%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (84%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (87%); PRODUCER PRICES (87%); INVENTORIES (87%); CONSUMER CREDIT (87%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (87%); BONDS (72%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (71%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); CONSUMER LENDING (70%); RETAIL SALES (68%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (68%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1996



219 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 3; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1437 words

HEADLINE: Netanyahu's World;
Netanyahu's World: Hold the Peace; Keep the Process

BYLINE: By SERGE SCHMEMANN 

DATELINE: JERUSALEM

 BODY:
IN all the questioning about what Prime Minister-elect Benjamin Netanyahu intends to do about peace with the Arabs, probably the simplest approach is to take him at face value.
For all the campaign slogans and spin, both he and the Likud party have been consistent on the basics: Yes to continuing negotiations with the Palestinians and the Syrians. Yes to improving relations with Egypt, Jordan and other Arab states. No to a Palestinian state. No to any division of Jerusalem. No to giving up the Golan Heights. Add to this an intention to use the army bullishly against terrorism, and a readiness to build new Jewish settlements in the West Bank, and there you have it. 
 Not surprisingly, these elements figure prominently in a draft program for the new government made available to the daily Maariv last week. Though not yet adopted, the program offers a fairly straightforward summary of what the Likud and Mr. Netanyahu have been saying all along.
Based on this, Mr. Netanyahu's approach to the peace process is likely to follow the script written by President Hafez al-Assad of Syria -- hold off the peace, but hang on to the process. That is what Mr. Assad has been doing for several years now, receiving the United States Secretary of State, Warren Christopher, at every opportunity and sitting down to one negotiating table after another, but agreeing to nothing.
What this means in Mr. Netanyahu's case is that he will not stop negotiating as long as others are willing to talk, but that there is little likelihood now of a peace agreement with Syria or the Palestinians.
On the Syrian track, the suspension of negotiations arouses little concern in Israel, where the general feeling is that Mr. Assad had his chance to get his Golan back and missed it. Chances are the Syrian President will not close the door to limited contacts, like joining the committee that is supposed to monitor the latest arrangements in south Lebanon, if only to keep the Americans from turning their backs on him.
The larger question is how Mr. Netanyahu will deal with the Palestinians, given that he has essentially closed off discussion on all the major issues in dispute. (Among other things, the draft program declares that "Israel will guard the water sources essential to it in the West Bank," and "the eastern border of the state of Israel will be the Jordan River.")
Most likely, Mr. Netanyahu will open with some conciliatory gestures -- a partial withdrawal from Hebron; loosened restrictions on the Gaza Strip and West Bank; a lifting of the threat to close down Orient House, the unofficial Palestine Liberation Organization headquarters in Jerusalem.
He will also repeat his intention, confirmed in the draft program, to negotiate with the Palestinian Authority on a permanent peace agreement. The problem is that in detailing the negotiations, the draft program talks only of insuring that the Palestinians "prevent terror, extradite terrorists and cease incitement against Israel." None of the other issues raised in the existing agreements -- Jerusalem, refugees, water, settlements, land -- are mentioned. For that matter, the existing agreements are not mentioned. (Talks on a comprehensive peace with the Palestinians are supposed to conclude by 2000 under the Israeli-Palestinian accords, but no one realistically expects that deadline to be met.)
 
 
 
Who Needs More?
 The fact is that the status quo is essentially what the last Likud government envisioned as the optimal and permanent settlement: the Palestinians have control of their cities, and the rest of the West Bank is divided into areas controlled exclusively by Israel and areas jointly patrolled by Israel and the Palestinians.
Mr. Netanyahu has made clear he has no problem with things as they are, but he has never indicated any intention to go beyond them -- especially with Yasir Arafat, for whom he seems to have a personal aversion. All the things Mr. Arafat now seeks -- more land, a state, control over water, the right of return for refugees, a freeze on settlement -- are red lines for Mr. Netanyahu. The draft program explicitly proclaims that "settlement in all parts of the land of Israel is an expression of our right to the land and it represents an inseparable part of our national security."
The only reason Mr. Arafat might play along with the process is if he finds some tangible economic benefits in it. The Palestinian Authority's main problem today is not frustrated national aspirations, but poverty. If Mr. Netanyahu and the outside world succeed in setting up industrial zones in Gaza and bringing more money in, Mr. Arafat might agree to tread water on other fronts.
For other Arab states, Mr. Netanyahu's election poses both problems and opportunities. In the aftermath, Arab leaders launched a round of meetings -- Syria and Egypt in Cairo; Jordan, the Palestinians and Egypt in Jordan; Saudi Arabia, Syria and Egypt in Damascus; King Hussein of Jordan and the Americans in Washington this week. The aim is to assess the election outcome and demonstrate unity. But the Arabs haven't had any unity in a long time, and it's hardly certain that a stall on the Palestinian track would provoke their unified wrath.
In the Israeli view, each player had his own calculations. Most promising for them was King Hussein of Jordan. Though some conservative Jews still nostalgically dream of putting the Palestinians under the King in some kind of confederation, Mr. Netanyahu's foreign-affairs strategists acknowledged that King Hussein in recent years had forsworn any such role once and for all. In their view, King Hussein wants better relations with Israel, and privately would not like Mr. Arafat to form a Palestinian state because it would create tensions with Jordan's large Palestinian population.
 
 
 
Egypt, Again
 At the same time, the Israelis calculate that the King would be threatened by a breakdown in the Palestinian negotiating process, especially if it led to violence. That would bolster his critics and force him to take sides with the Palestinians against Israel. By some accounts, King Hussein was furious with Prime Minister Shimon Peres for ordering the harsh assaults in southern Lebanon in April, which put the King in the untenable position of professing friendship for a regime that was bullying Lebanese civilians.
Mr. Netanyahu's bigger challenge is thought to be President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt and the "cold peace" between Egypt and Israel. In the view of some Likud strategists, Mr. Mubarak might seek to take advantage of the election of a hard-liner in Israel to restore his lost role as a pan-Arab leader. The Egyptian leader has already talked of convening an Arab summit.
Thus Mr. Netanyahu's initial efforts might be to reach out to Egypt, especially since the Egyptian peace was made under a Likud government, that of Menachem Begin. There is talk that Cairo might be Mr. Netanyahu's first foreign visit as Prime Minister.
Finally there is the question of how the United States will react. President Clinton has demonstrated that his first priority will be to undo the damage caused by his support of Mr. Peres in the election, if only to counter Republican charges that he backed the wrong horse. Mr. Netanyahu is expected to visit Washington as early as June 25, and he and Mr. Clinton are certain to issue ringing joint commitments to peace.
The bigger problems for the United States -- as for Jordan and Egypt -- will come further down the line. Ultimately, their approach will be shaped by events, whether Mr. Netanyahu succeeds in making a convincing show of seeking peace, albeit slowly, and whether the Palestinians accept the approach.
The problem is that the Middle East has never allowed anyone to play out a scenario without a crisis. That would be the real test -- if clashes broke out between settlers and Palestinians, of if the Israeli army began raiding Palestinian cities, of if suicide bombings resumed, or if Mr. Netanyahu sent bombers over Beirut.
It is doubtful if Washington would give Mr. Netanyahu the same leeway that it gave Mr. Peres in cracking down on the Palestinians or in Lebanon. And it is equally doubtful that Jordan, Egypt or other Arab governments would be able to stay on the fence.
As for what Israel would do in a crisis, the Likud program says only that "the government will operate the Israeli Defense Forces and the security branches continuously and with resoluteness against threats of Arab terror and will insure the peace of the residents of the state and the Jewish nation everywhere."

GRAPHIC: Photo: In Aqaba, Jordan, President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt, King Hussein of Jordan and Yasir Arafat met to discuss the Israeli elections. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); ISRAEL (95%); SYRIA (95%); EGYPT (94%); JORDAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); LEBANON (79%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (94%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF A LEVY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE EAST; ISRAEL; SYRIA; JERUSALEM; GOLAN HEIGHTS; PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); ISRAEL (95%); SYRIA (95%); EGYPT (94%); JORDAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); LEBANON (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (94%); 

SUBJECT: PALESTINIANS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PEACE PROCESS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (73%); JEWS & JUDAISM (70%); TERRORISM (70%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (64%); 

PERSON: NETANYAHU, BENJAMIN (PRIME MIN); SCHMEMANN, SERGE; ASSAD, HAFEZ AL- (PRES) BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (93%); HOSNI MUBARAK (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1996



220 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 15; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs;
Bigger Isn't Better

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Bob Dole and Bill Clinton have begun trying to outbid each other over who will expand NATO faster, in a naked effort to court votes from Americans of Eastern European origin. In one of his last acts as a senator, Mr. Dole, accompanied by visiting Polish dignitary Lech Walesa, introduced a bill that would compel the Administration to speed NATO's expansion to Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic, which Mr. Clinton vows to do but at a more cautious pace. Now, it's always nice to see Mr. Dole and Mr. Clinton agreeing on a major foreign policy initiative -- but not when they're both wrong. And on this one they're both wrong. NATO expansion is a bad idea.
The NATO expanders argue that after the cold war a strategic vacuum exists in the heart of Europe, between Germany and Russia, and if NATO doesn't fill it, an inherently expansionist Russia will. The NATO expanders also argue that the best way to consolidate the new democracies in Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic is to bring them into NATO. 
 Next month, Prof. Michael Mandelbaum, of the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies, will publish a highly original and provocative book, "The Dawn of Peace in Europe," that demolishes these arguments. Mr. Mandelbaum argues that no strategic vacuum exists in Europe for NATO to fill. To the contrary, he explains, a new, highly desirable security system has taken root there, but no one has noticed.
What is that system? First are the political revolutions of 1989-91, which ended the Soviet occupation of Eastern Europe. They not only eliminated the major standing cause of war in that region -- the oppressive Soviet occupation -- but gave birth to a new set of independent, democratic states west of Russia. These states, from Ukraine to Bulgaria, would not be easily overrun by a Russian Army that cannot take Chechnya. Second are the arms control agreements concluded between Washington and Moscow in the early 1990's, which required both sides to restructure their nuclear and conventional forces in Europe in a way that reduced or eliminated offensive weapons, while emphasizing defensive weapons.
This combination of newly liberated states and newly restructured armed forces, says Mr. Mandelbaum, eliminates the main motive for going to war in Central Europe and sharply reduces the means -- thereby accomplishing precisely what an expanded NATO is supposed to do: prevent a Russian attack. But what if the Communists win in Russia and start making aggressive noises? Well, that would be unfortunate, but Russia is not the Soviet Union. Indeed, the collapse of the Soviet Union, Mr. Mandelbaum argues, is central to this new security structure because the Soviet Union was a unique machine for producing military power. "It is not that the Soviet Union had a military industrial complex," argues Mr. Mandelbaum, "it was a military industrial complex." Only a centrally planned Soviet system could devote 30 percent of G.N.P. to military spending, and without that system, Russia cannot field the Soviet-style military might that once dominated Europe. As for those who say NATO expansion is needed to promote democracy in Central Europe, Mr. Mandelbaum counters that democracy there is not threatened and, if it were, the European Union, an economic/political institution, would be the more appropriate vehicle for saving it. Besides, if NATO is a tool for democracy promotion it should be expanded first to Russia and Ukraine, where democracy is shakier and the stakes higher.
The truth is we already have the only security order we need in Europe. The best way to destabilize it would be to expand NATO. Such a move would undercut the democratic reformers in Moscow, strengthen the hard-line nationalists, possibly prompt Russia to back away from the arms control agreements and certainly encourage Russia to view Central Europe as a new threat. For what? For a few ethnic votes in Ohio? A continuing U.S. presence in Europe is important, and NATO is the best vehicle for that presence. So the world needs NATO, but not more NATO. What it needs more of is T-I-M-E -- time for the arms control treaties to become even more embedded, time for the states of Central and Eastern Europe to become stronger and time for Russia to adjust itself to both and to find its way toward democracy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: EUROPE (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); HUNGARY (93%); CZECH REPUBLIC (93%); POLAND (93%); EASTERN EUROPE (88%); UKRAINE (79%); GERMANY (79%); BULGARIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; EUROPE (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); HUNGARY (93%); CZECH REPUBLIC (93%); POLAND (93%); EASTERN EUROPE (88%); UKRAINE (79%); GERMANY (79%); BULGARIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (87%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); COLD WAR (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); ARMIES (75%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (61%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); DOLE, BOB (SEN); MANDELBAUM, MICHAEL; FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L BILL CLINTON (90%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1996



221 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1099 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends;
Limitations of Statues In the Light of Today

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. YBARRA 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO

 BODY:
ON June 14, 1846, a small band of American adventurers declared California a republic -- just before the United States gobbled it up along with the northern half of Mexico as the spoils of its quick war with its southern neighbor. A hundred years later the centennial of California's declaration of independence, known as the Bear Flag rebellion, was an occasion of great pomp and much pride.
This week, however, the 150th anniversary of the Bear Flag uprising is seen by some as an occasion for shame. Students and human rights organizations are decrying the white man's "occupation" as a disaster for California's native peoples. 
 "Why honor people who created genocide?" asks Bobby Castillo, a member of the American Indian Movement.
In a sense, such a question is too late.
California's very identity and most of its names are indelibly bound up with Spanish conquest and Gold Rush daring. From San Diego to Sonoma, the Spanish missionary outposts have become the names for the state's great cities. A thousand places bear melodious Spanish titles. And sports teams honor the Padres and the Forty-Niners. The towns are crisscrossed with streets named for victorious settlers and fortune seekers. The literal apotheosis of California's popular image is the current drive to make Junipero Serra, the founding friar of the California missions, a saint.
Now, though, some Californians are beginning to wonder whether they are honoring the wrong people.
Junipero Serra at best ran roughshod over Indian culture in his zeal to convert the Indians. At worst he was complicit in their beatings and deaths. In any case, he is responsible for setting up the mission system in California. When the first mission was built in 1769 there were about 300,000 Indians in what is now California; but within one hundred years the Indian population had been cut in half by disease and malnutrition.
Visitors from other European countries were shocked by the cruelty of the Franciscans. Many compared the condition of the Indians to that of slaves. One observer wrote about an Indian so desperate to escape Spanish shackles that he sliced off his heels. The friars, anthropologist Alfred Louis Kroeber wrote, "were saving souls only at the inevitable cost of lives."
So how did the missionaries come to be honored?
The Spanish past was almost forgotten in the early 19th century. The missions had fallen into the decay and Father Serra's unmarked grave at Carmel was covered in garbage and adobe ruins.
By the end of the 19th century, though, the Spanish past came to be enveloped in mists of nostalgia. Mission Revival became the state's signature style, a blend of arches and towers and tiles that graced every sort of building from school to train station. Spanish California enjoyed an edenic glow; textbooks celebrated the advent of the padres as great humanitarians who lifted the Indians up from ignorance and superstition.
"The missions were portrayed as havens of happiness and the Indians as beneficiaries of a superior civilization," wrote the historian James J. Rawls. "The Mission Myth embodied values desperately needed by Californians in an age of rapid social and economic change, values of stability and antiquity, harmony and hierarchy."
This triumphal reading of the past wasn't seriously doubted until the 1980s, when Pope John Paul II beatified Serra, whose image and name abound in California.
Junipero Serra is not the only monumental figure at stake. Bitter objections also greeted San Francisco's decision in 1991 to relocate the Pioneer Monument (originally unveiled in 1894) to a more prominent spot in the civic center to make way for a new library. The monument -- an 820-ton granite and bronze behemoth honoring the founding of California -- is an array of reliefs and statues, including the figures of a triumphant friar and a vaquero towering over a supine Indian.
Native Americans wanted the whole thing destroyed. If the Indians were subjugated today like they were during the colonization of the West, Mr. Castillo said at a public hearing, we would be talking about a war crimes tribunal, not a monument.
 
 
 
Geronimo Street
 The alternative suggestions poured in: One artist offered to donate a different monument, several tons of stone block quarried from a concentration camp crushing an Indian figure. One American Indian suggested naming a street after Geronimo. Another person asked that the name of San Francisco be changed to disassociate the city from the Franciscans.
The city instead agreed to install a plaque that would give the Indian side of the story, suggesting that the missionaries were responsible for the deaths of 150,000 Indians. But before the plaque's scheduled installation last April the Catholic Church, historians and the Spanish consul general all complained that the inscription distorted the facts.
"The problem is you have a demeaning statue," said Kevin Starr, the state librarian and a well-known California historian. "But you can't rewrite history. The Franciscans didn't have the cultural insights of the 1990's."
Historians also have pointed out that the Forty-Niners were even more destructive than the Spanish and the missionaries. In the 25 years after gold was discovered near Sacramento in 1848, the Indian population plummeted from 150,000 to about 30,000. Authorities offered bounties for the heads of Indians and the state spent about $1 million to reimburse individuals for the bullets used to shoot them.
All of which raises more questions about California's names and monuments. One of the benevolent-looking statues on the Pioneer Monument depicts men panning for gold. A major street running through downtown San Francisco is named after John Sutter, the man who set off the rush. And there is, of course, the local football team. All those names arguably, if inadvertently, commemorate a decidedly bloody period. The issue is not likely to go away considering that the sesquicentennial of the discovery of gold on the American River is less than two years away.
Something of a truce, however, was declared last month when the San Francisco Art Commission voted to delete the reference that held the church responsible for 150,000 Indian deaths and add a line blaming the European colonization for the misfortunes of the Indians. Not everybody was happy, of course.
"How many people are going to take the time to read the plaque?" asked Mr. Castillo. "They're going to see history as it has always been portrayed, with the Indian as a subservient, heathen savage."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A bit of California history raises eyebrows. (William Mercer McLeod for The New York Times); The Pioneer monument (1894) shows a triumphant friar and a vacquero towering over a supine Indian. (Darcy Padilla for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SAN DIEGO PADRES (55%); SAN DIEGO PADRES (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: SAN DIEGO PADRES (55%); SAN DIEGO PADRES (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HISTORY; INDIANS, AMERICAN; MONUMENTS AND MEMORIALS NATIVE AMERICANS (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (77%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); GENOCIDE (75%); TEXTBOOKS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); HUMAN RIGHTS (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (70%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (64%); MALNUTRITION (57%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (57%); SPORTS (52%); SPORTS & RECREATION (52%); 

PERSON: YBARRA, MICHAEL J

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1996



222 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 1996

SECTION: Section 8; Page 9; Column 2; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 982 words

HEADLINE: Persepective;
Small-Town Idol Stays True Blue And On Course

BYLINE: By SAMANTHA STEVENSON 

DATELINE: HYDEN, Ky.

 BODY:
Janice Couch, a fifth-generation Kentuckian, painted her son's bedroom Kentucky blue when it became clear that Tim, who would become the Gatorade national high school football player of the year and everybody's all-American, might need a special place to think clearly about his college choice.
"Me and his mom must have been asked the question a half-million times," Tim's father, Elbert Couch, said. "Where is he going to school? We figure we got about 20,000 letters from colleges. Twenty-five or 30 calls from coaches a day." 
 Two days before Christmas, Tim, Janice, Elbert and Tim's older brother, Greg, met with the University of Kentucky's head football coach, Bill Curry, along with a hundred or so friends in the library of Leslie County High School. The 6-foot-5 1/2-inch, 230-pound Couch then signed a letter of intent to play quarterback for a school known for its legendary basketball program.
"I was involved in recruiting Herschel Walker at Georgia Tech," Curry said, "and it can't compare to the recruiting of Tim, by sheer attention. Surely, he is the most highly recruited athlete in history."
Yet the 18-year-old Couch said, "The University of Kentucky and the N.F.L. are the only two places I want to be."
So at this stage, Couch's life is full of promise. His graduation present was a desert dune pearl Toyota 4-runner and he has a summer job at Central Bank in Lexington, 124 miles west of Hyden. On Friday night, Couch, who finished classes in January with a 3.3 grade point average, received his diploma with 208 other seniors in a candlelight ceremony in the Richard M. Nixon Recreation Center.
In 1978, the gym was dedicated by the former President in his first speech after his resignation. Today, Hyden, a mountain town (population 375) on the Cumberland Plateau in eastern Kentucky, has a high unemployment rate and an older population because children move away to find jobs. Those who stay most likely work in coal mining, logging, the school or the Mary Breckenridge Hospital. Most of the houses here are tucked up in the heavily wooded hollows, or "hollers," off the main road.
The Couches live in the red brick house that Janice's father built, one that sits by the side of Highway 421, below the hollows. People from all over Kentucky knock on the door, asking for Tim's autograph on T-shirts or footballs. If Tim is not around, his father, without asking for postage money, always mails the signed items back.
In his blue bedroom, Couch is surrounded by posters of Joe Montana, Troy Aikman, Michael Jordan, David Robinson and Tony Dorsett. Montana particularly gained Tim's respect when Couch was a second-grader in a pee-wee football church league.
"He looked comfortable in the pocket," Couch said. "I guess I've watched the Super Bowl -- Montana against the Bengals -- a hundred times."
There are those in Hyden who say Tim Couch evokes a presence bigger than Montana. "Bigger than Elvis," said Omus Shepherd, the Leslie County High principal. "Tim is our personal hero."
Leslie County High recently retired his basketball and football jerseys and put them inside a 6-foot trophy case they built in his honor. "Felt like I got killed or something," Couch said the first time he saw it.
There's definitely enough memorabilia to fill the case. On Oct. 6, Couch set the national record for the most career completions (finishing with 872). On Nov. 17, when Leslie County was losing by 12-0 in the regional final, the game was stopped when he set the national record for most career yards (eventually 12,091). Once back in the huddle, Couch told his players to settle down, they were going to score. They did, and they won.
During a state semifinal on Nov. 24, Couch set the national record for most touchdowns in a career (133). This time, though, the team would not win. "One game short of the state championship," Couch said, "the one thing in high school I didn't get."
He got everything else, including his brother's athletic ability. Greg played football and basketball, so Tim wanted to learn to shoot baskets and throw a football, too.
"My dad pushed us a lot," said the 23-year-old Greg, who will start at quarterback in his final season at Eastern Kentucky and might look for a shot in the Canadian Football League. "But, not in a bad way. He was enthusiastic. Play as hard as you can, he'd tell us, and don't ever be intimidated by nobody. Nobody is better than you."
Elbert, the transportation director of the county Board of Education, said children were always playing football at the house.
"I bought the boys footballs since they were 1," the father said. "I put one in Greg's crib when he was born."
At the Hyden Elementary School, Tim got his own key to the gym. He would shoot baskets for hours, locking himself inside, and became one of the top high school players in the state. He led the state in scoring with a 36-point average as a junior, and averaged 26 points this past season. Rick Pitino offered him a chance to try out for Kentucky's national championship basketball team, but Couch said he would stick to football in college.
When Greg had his friends over for football games in the front yard, Tim was never the quarterback until he grew to 6-1 in the sixth grade. Then he threw it so hard, he bloodied his friends' hands with his passes. Tim was on the varsity high school team by the time he was in the seventh grade. He earned the starting job as a freshman when Greg graduated.
He was throwing to the kids in the yard again, only this time with more touch.
"You've got to know your receivers," Couch said. "They're all mountain boys. I threw it how they could catch it. If I had to take a little off my passes just so they could catch it, I would. I'm a mountain boy. My guys aren't super fast, have great hands and jump high like California kids. They're just regular, good old boys."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tim Couch on his waterbed in his bedroom, surrounded by posters of his role models. (Ken Weaver for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: KENTUCKY, USA (98%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%); 

CITY: LEXINGTON, KY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF KENTUCKY CENTRAL BANK (53%); UNIVERSITY OF KENTUCKY (83%); UNIVERSITY OF KENTUCKY (83%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (54%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF KENTUCKY UNIVERSITY OF KENTUCKY (83%); UNIVERSITY OF KENTUCKY (83%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (54%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); KENTUCKY, USA (98%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%); LEXINGTON, KY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (77%); SPORTS AWARDS (77%); SEASONAL WORKERS (74%); ATHLETES (72%); BASKETBALL (72%); CHRISTMAS (69%); SENIOR CITIZENS (69%); AGING TRENDS (67%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (63%); COAL MINING (50%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, SAMANTHA; COUCH, TIM MICHAEL JORDAN (79%); RICHARD NIXON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1996



223 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 581 words

HEADLINE: After NATO Overtures, France Is Ready to Resume Military Role

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY 

DATELINE: PARIS, June 8

 BODY:
President Jacques Chirac said today that France would rejoin all the military structures of NATO from which it pulled out in 1966 if the alliance's decision this week to give European countries a stronger leadership role was fully carried out.
French officials said it would take about a year for NATO nations to draw up detailed contingency plans for the new command procedures on which its foreign ministers agreed last Monday in Berlin, and that Mr. Chirac could then make the decision to end France's 30-year estrangement. 
 The NATO foreign ministers approved plans to give a European defense organization, the Western European Union, the ability to use NATO command structures, heavy transport aircraft and other assets in European-led military operations in regional crises even when the United States did not become involved.
"The decision, to the extent that it becomes reality, opens the way to full and complete French participation in the structures of an alliance whose principles and operating procedures will have been profoundly transformed," Mr. Chirac said in a major defense policy speech today.
American officials have welcomed the French moves, even while insisting that they find it hard to imagine any NATO military operation that the United States would not want to join.
Abandoning the go-it-alone policy adopted by Charles de Gaulle 30 years ago, Mr. Chirac has committed France to developing a European defense strategy within the American-led alliance rather than outside it.
France announced last December that it would take part in meetings of NATO defense ministers and military chiefs of staff, in which it had not participated since 1966, on condition that the alliance transform itself to reflect changes since the cold war ended, including a diminished American military presence in Europe.
Mr. Chirac has also started changes to make the French armed forces all-volunteer and reduce their numbers from 500,000 to 350,000 over the next decade, with the ability to send large units quickly to trouble spots like Bosnia.
NATO sent a 60,000-member peacekeeping force into Bosnia late last year only after the United States agreed to lead the operation.
"Success in Berlin was not guaranteed in advance on a subject where the temptation to resist was strong on both sides of the Atlantic," Mr. Chirac told an audience of high military officers and strategists at the Institute of Advanced National Defense Studies here.
French defense officials said one obstacle was the reluctance of the alliance's American commander, Gen. George A. Joulwan, to accept the idea that NATO subordinate commanders could be designated for separate all-European operations that NATO would not command.
The allied foreign ministers agreed on Monday that NATO and the Western European Union would work hand-in-hand in their separate European missions.
"We have to put an end to what the world sees as European impotence," Mr. Chirac told his audience.
Rejoining the alliance's integrated military structures would put French officers permanently back into NATO's subordinate military commands and into the Military Committee, the alliance's highest military authority, now consisting of the chiefs of staffs of the 15 member countries besides France.
France also does not now take part in NATO's nuclear planning group or its defense planning committee, both of which were set up after France limited its participation to the political level in 1966.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: FRANCE (97%); EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (93%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); WESTERN EUROPEAN UNION (57%); WESTERN EUROPEAN UNION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); WESTERN EUROPEAN UNION (57%); WESTERN EUROPEAN UNION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; FRANCE; FRANCE (97%); EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); BERLIN, GERMANY (93%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); PEACEKEEPING (73%); 

PERSON: WHITNEY, CRAIG R; CHIRAC, JACQUES (PRES); DE GAULLE, CHARLES (1890-1970) JACQUES CHIRAC (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1996



224 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 36; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 547 words

HEADLINE: At the U.S.-Mexican Border, Drought Is Taking a Deadly Toll

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: AUSTIN, Tex., June 8

 BODY:
A drought in the Southwest, coupled with an unusually large number of people trying to enter the United States illegally, have led to more deaths of would-be immigrants this year than normal.
Four illegal immigrants were found dead of dehydration and heat exhaustion this week after smugglers sent them into the scorched South Texas brush to walk around border checkpoints, Federal and Texas authorities said. 
 During the hottest months of last year, from May to September, three illegal immigrants died from the heat in the same region of South Texas in which the four were found.
The four, all women from 21 years old to 38, were apparently members of different groups who had been smuggled across the border. They were found by Border Patrol agents near the towns of Falfurrias and Sarita, Tex., about 100 miles north of the border and 70 miles south of Corpus Christi.
"So much more alien traffic is coming over," said Hector Rios, a Border Patrol agent. "The traffic is just way up, and a lot of times they get lost."
The drought in Mexico, combined with the country's continued lagging economy, has led more of the country's citizens to try to improve their lives in the United States, said Letty Valadez, a Border Patrol spokeswoman in McAllen, Tex.
After crossing the border, which can be as easy as wading the Rio Grande at a desolate site, Mr. Rios said illegal immigrants were picked up by smugglers in cars and trucks and driven north, where they were dropped off before border checkpoints.
The checkpoints, like the one at Sarita, can be far north of the border, and the illegal immigrants try to trek through the woods and meet the smugglers on the other side. They are then driven farther into Texas.
"They're sometimes dropped off one day's walk from here," said Mr. Rios, who was in Sarita, "and some of the trails they take, we don't even know about. And water's so scarce out there in the brush. It's happened before. They're not able to find water readily. It's very sandy, very dry and desolate."
Ms. Valadez said that the drought and temperatures in the high 90's had all but dried up natural water holes and lakes in the region. Indeed, many illegal immigrants who are captured are ill.
Border Patrol agents are now being equipped with extra water supplies and emergency medical kits, Ms. Valadez said.
The bodies of two of the victims were turned over to the Brooks County Sheriff. They were identified as Maria Helena Gonzalez, 30, of Guanajuato, Mexico, and Myrna Ayala, 38, of Montemorelos, Mexico. Both women were said to be traveling in groups of five and were reported dead by companion travelers on May 28.
A third illegal immigrant, in her early 30's, was found dead the next day near a rest area on U.S. 77, eight miles north of the Sarita checkpoint. Her name has not been released.
The cause of death for the three was "hypothermia and dehydration," said Chief Deputy Rolando Garcia of the Brooks County Sheriff's Department.
The most recent victim, a woman in her late 20's, was found dead on Tuesday in a brushy area on what is called the "Ho Chi Minh Trail," wearing a shirt and shorts, with no identification. She has not been identified.
"It appears she died of severe exhaustion and dehydration," Ms. Valadez said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); MEXICO (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (97%); 

CITY: MCALLEN, TX, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); CORPUS CHRISTI, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BORDER PATROL (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: BORDER PATROL (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS; UNITED STATES (97%); MEXICO (94%); TEXAS, USA (97%); MCALLEN, TX, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); CORPUS CHRISTI, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ILLEGAL ALIENS ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (92%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (92%); IMMIGRATION (92%); BORDER CONTROL (91%); SMUGGLING (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); DROUGHT (89%); REFUGEES (78%); HEAT STRESS DISORDERS (78%); WATER QUALITY (60%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%); 

PERSON: LETTY VALADEZ (86%); HECTOR RIOS (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1996



225 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 9, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 30; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 695 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: NEW MEDIA;
Pete du Pont Set to Join On-Line Policy Debate

BYLINE: By JAMES BENNET 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 8

 BODY:
With varying degrees of skepticism, trepidation and excitement, print journalists and paperless cyber-scribes have been awaiting the ballyhooed debut this summer of Slate, the Microsoft-backed on-line magazine to be edited by Michael Kinsley, formerly of The New Republic and Crossfire.
Meanwhile, in relative obscurity, Pete du Pont, former Governor of Delaware and erstwhile Republican Presidential candidate, has been laboring here to start another public-policy journal in a raw medium where, he noted, "people aren't always polite." 
 Yet another politician leaping into the rapidly diversifying news media, Mr. du Pont, who will edit the journal, is clearly enjoying himself.
"Aren't these amazing machines!" he said this week, watching a mock version of the magazine scroll across a computer screen in its publisher's offices here. The first issue of the weekly -- whose name is IntellectualCapital.com -- is scheduled to appear on June 20.
Slipping into on-line patois, Mr. du Pont describes the journal as a "public-policy e-zine of opinion." He said it would stick out among the proliferating electronic publications -- a babel of biting commentary, researched articles and sophomoric maundering -- by offering meatier fare to appeal to viewers of "The News Hour with Jim Lehrer," readers of The New Republic and The National Review and students of government everywhere.
Mr. du Pont said that, in addition to his own conservative editorial, he would feature several columns from a stable of 26 regular contributors. He said their views would range from liberal to conservative. "It's a much more intellectually aggressive atmosphere," Mr. du Pont, already a syndicated columnist in the newsprint world, said of life on the World Wide Web. "And I think more fun."
It may not all be fun. Skeptics said that a magazine whose logo displays Rodin's "Thinker" superimposed on a CD-ROM disk may be ill-suited to the anarchy of the Web.
"It's not a top-down medium where gasbags dispense wisdom," said Jon Katz, a contributing editor to Wired magazine, who writes the "Media Rant" column for the Netizen, the politics and media Web site of the on-line publication HotWired. "It's much more individualistic. It's much more open."
But it is by drawing a highbrow crowd that the journal's publishers, A2S2 Digital Projects, hope to solve the critical problem for electronic journals -- by actually making money. Rather than charge for subscriptions, they want to draw large advertisers. So far, none have signed on.
"But we're talking to several," said Sam Sneed, managing director of A2S2 and what the magazine calls its "executive producer of interactive applications."
By contract, Mr. Kinsley has said he intends to charge readers of Slate a fee, as yet undisclosed, if they are not members of the Microsoft Network. He has also said he would sell advertising for his more ambitious magazine of opinion, politics and the arts, which is to go on line soon.
Mr. du Pont, in deference to the difficulty some people find reading on line, said his columns would be short, about 500 words, and rendered in large type. He plans to devote articles to a "hot issue" and to interesting ideas from think tanks, and to include a grab bag called "Quips, Quotes, and Quibbles."
The journal will hold an on-line forum once a week and solicit reader contributions.
Mr. du Pont said he had commitments from 20 of the 26 writers. He declined to name any but James K. Glassman, a television host and columnist with The Washington Post.
Mr. Glassman, who plans to write on politics and economics, said he was anxious to reach the on-line population. "I'm not really sure who's out there," he said. "We're obviously in a pioneering stage, and I'd like to be one of the pioneers."
While he acknowledged a lingering preference for newsprint, Mr. du Pont, who is 61, said that his children read their news on line. He expressed confidence that such computer devotees would sort through the on-line clutter of news and opinion to find a publication offering respected names engaged in informed debate.
"In the long run," Mr. du Pont said, "quality is what counts."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: DELAWARE, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SLATE (ON-LINE MAGAZINE) MICROSOFT CORP (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: SLATE (ON-LINE MAGAZINE)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); DELAWARE, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; INTERNET AND WORLD WIDE WEB PUBLIC POLICY (91%); POLITICS (90%); WRITERS (90%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); INTERACTIVE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (77%); LIBERALISM (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); GOVERNORS (71%); 

PERSON: BENNET, JAMES; DU PONT, PETE; KINSLEY, MICHAEL PETE DU PONT (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1996



226 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 9, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 569 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

International 3-20
 
U.S. FAKED DEATH OF COMMANDOS
 
Newly declassified documents prove that the U.S., after sending hundreds of Vietnamese commandos into North Vietnam during the 1960's, declared them dead, and then buried their story. 1
 
REKINDLING A SOVIET DREAM
 
Four decades ago, Soviet authorities created a city of science in Akademgorodok dedicated to the quest for truth. Today, that dream is in shambles and residents want to return to the glories of the past. 1
 
ARAB LEADERS PLAN TO MEET
 
In a blunt message directed at Israel's new Government, Egypt, Syria and Saudi Arabia announced plans to convene an Arab summit meeting and warned Israel not to retreat from peace commitments. 1
 
A SLIM HOPE IN CHAD ELECTION
 
Chad's first presidential election in its 36 years of independence from France offers only a slight hope that the impoverished African country can escape its violent past. 3
 
China conducted a nuclear test that it said would be one of its last. 14
 
National 22-36
 
CAMPAIGN TURNS TO TAX CUTS
 
As the 1996 Presidential campaign moves into its final five months, both parties are once again homing in on tax cutting as a far more appealing economic theme than deficit reduction. 1
 
CLEARING THE WAY FOR DAM
 
In pushing a project that may be the last big dam proposal in the American West, supporters have a simple argument for taxpayers: "You can pay us now. Or you can pay us later." 22
 
HOLLYWOOD LEGEND FADES
 
C. C. Brown's ice cream parlor is the latest in a growing list of famed Los Angeles-area restaurants that have closed in recent years, the apparent victims of changing American tastes and a challenging business climate. 32
 
POWELL WON'T SAY NO TO DOLE
 
Gen. Colin L. Powell met with Senator Bob Dole and was not his usual categorical self. In talking to reporters, he did not flatly rule out running for Vice President on the Republican ticket. 28
 
UNLIKELY HELP FOR WARNER
 
Senator John W. Warner, who proudly calls himself Virginia's most popular politician, has a fight on his hands as he seeks a fourth term, and it could be Democrats who save him. 29
 
CLINTON TAKES ON CHURCH FIRES
 
President Clinton ordered stepped-up Federal efforts to investigate and combat the wave of suspicious fires that has swept at least 30 black churches in the South in recent months. 27
 
Metropolitan 37-47
 
A RIVER REVIVED
 
Thirty years ago the Hudson River was nearly dead, a putrid sewer loaded with toxic and human wastes. The Hudson has been transformed since then by a complex mixture of deliberate design and historical accident. 1
 
A GIFT WITH A PAST
 
New York University had been waiting more than 30 years for a bequest valued at $300 million. The gift came encumbered with history and legal battles. 37
 
TAKING ON GARBAGE HAULERS
 
A company attempting to enter New York City's garbage-carting business became the conduit through which authorities infiltrated a Mafia-dominated billion-dollar-a-year industry. 37
 
TRACING A VICTIM'S PATH
 
Police detectives met with relatives of the woman who was beaten and nearly killed in Central Park last Tuesday, trying to trace her whereabouts before the assault. 37
 
Fresh Air Fund 41
 
Obituaries 44-45

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: SIC5143 DAIRY PRODUCTS EX. DRIED OR CANNED (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (92%); VIET NAM (90%); EGYPT (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); SYRIA (79%); CHAD (79%); FRANCE (76%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BROWN'S ICE CREAM CO (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (92%); VIET NAM (90%); EGYPT (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); SYRIA (79%); CHAD (79%); FRANCE (76%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (88%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); TAX INCENTIVES (72%); TAX RELIEF (72%); FIRES (68%); ICE CREAM (64%); SOLID WASTE COLLECTION (60%); RELIGION (60%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); JOHN WARNER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1996



227 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 27; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 141 words

HEADLINE: First Lady Advocates Education Spending

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: ORLANDO, Fla., June 8

 BODY:
Speaking to community college students and newspaper editors in Florida today, Hillary Rodham Clinton appealed for "renewed investment" in education by both government and individuals.
In the separate appearances in Orlando, before addressing a Democratic Party banquet, Mrs. Clinton stressed the theme that education is a key ingredient to the nation's economic progress and moral security. 
 In talking to students at Valencia Community College, Mrs. Clinton campaigned for her husband's proposal to create a scholarship plan to provide $1,500 in tax credits for each of two years of college.
At both events, Mrs. Clinton said that there was a gap between those who qualify for public assistance and loan programs to attend college and those who are ineligible because their grades fall short or whose parents make too much money.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); 

CITY: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO (FLA); UNITED STATES (94%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; TAX CREDITS; SCHOLARSHIPS AND FELLOWSHIPS COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (90%); EDUCATION FUNDING (90%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (88%); TAX LAW (86%); TAXES & TAXATION (86%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1996



228 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 9, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 2328 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE TAX ISSUE;
Dole and Clinton Refocus on Tax-Cut Plans as an Option

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL and DAVID E. ROSENBAUM 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 8

 BODY:
When President George Bush broke his "Read my lips, no new taxes" pledge in the spring of 1990, many Republicans lamented that he had handed away the Reagan legacy.
Two years later, Mr. Bush was defeated by Bill Clinton, a Democrat who ran on a platform that promised tax breaks -- a middle-class tax cut, he called it. But Mr. Clinton, too, turned around once in office, and put into place a deficit-reduction plan that included large new taxes. 
 Now, as the 1996 Presidential campaign moves into its final five months, both parties are once again homing in on tax cutting as a far more appealing economic theme than deficit reduction. President Clinton hopes to avoid the tax-and-spend label that Republicans like to pin on Democrats. And Republicans want to return to the theme that proved so successful for them under Ronald Reagan.
Aiming to unveil an economic plan around the time of the Republican convention, aides to Senator Bob Dole are drafting a tax plan they hope will be as bold and popular as Mr. Reagan's call in 1980 for an across-the-board tax cut. Their problem is to do so without making a mockery of Mr. Dole's long record of fighting doggedly for deficit reduction.
Meanwhile, launching a series of pre-emptive strikes, Mr. Clinton has thrown his support behind Republican proposals for a repeal of the gasoline tax increase he sponsored in 1993 and for a tax credit to help offset adoption expenses. He has also called for small businesses to receive a 10 percent income tax credit for employee education and training.
Last week, after a struggle inside his Administration, Mr. Clinton came out with a tax credit proposal designed to make the first two years of community college virtually free for those who maintain good grades.
Although neither side in the Presidential campaign has tipped its hand completely on tax policy, a clear policy choice seems to be emerging.
Mr. Clinton advocates limited tax breaks designed to assist the middle class and the working poor with special attention to child rearing, job training and education.
Mr. Dole has already proposed a $500-a-taxpayer credit for contributions to charities that help poor people. But, seeking to draw a sharp distinction with Mr. Clinton, he is also examining far more sweeping proposals: everything from an across-the-board income tax cut to some kind of tax system with fewer brackets and lower rates. He has said that the country should "scrap the current tax code and start again from scratch."
Both candidates' approaches raise doubts among many mainstream economists. In Mr. Clinton's case, the analysts say that tax breaks are an inefficient way to accomplish social goals like better education. In Mr. Dole's case, they worry that politically acceptable spending cuts could never be found to offset large tax cuts and that the consequence would be the reversal of progress that has been made in deficit reduction.
Ross Perot, the Texas billionaire, this week upbraided both men for their tax cut fever. "Take a poll, find out what you want to hear and tell you that and get elected and don't do it," he said.
But the political appeal of tax cutting is apparent.
"It's clear from polling that if you put a candidate who is for some kind of tax cut against a candidate who opposes any tax cut in the name of deficit reduction, the candidate who opposes the tax cut loses," said one Democratic consultant. "At a strategic level, it's very important not to fall into this tax trap."
From the Republican perspective, Senator Spencer Abraham of Michigan, a close associate of Senator Dole's, said: "I want to have a tax debate. I think it will help focus the country on the differences between Bob Dole and Bill Clinton and where they would take the country."
 
The Dole Record
 
Longtime Supporter Of Deficit Reduction
For Mr. Dole, the stakes in this debate are enormous. He desperately needs to energize a Presidential campaign that polls show has failed to get a lift even from his decision to leave the Senate.
But Mr. Dole, the Kansas Senator, has long disdained the tax-cutting apostles of the Reagan wing of the Republican Party and their contention that tax cuts spur enough economic growth to pay for themselves. The "good news is that a bus full of supply-siders went over a cliff," he once said. "The bad news is that there were three empty seats."
As the chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, Mr. Dole loyally led the fight in the Senate for the 1981 Reagan tax cuts. But one year later he broke ranks with the supply-siders and pushed a tax increase to reduce the Federal deficits that had already begun to accumulate.
"In my view, constituents are at least a year ahead of us," he said in 1983. "They don't know why we cut taxes when we have deficits; they don't know why we spend more and more money when we have deficits."
But last year, when he announced his Presidential candidacy, Mr. Dole said: "We can cut taxes and balance the budget. Middle-class families are forced to send too much of their hard-earned money to Washington."
Mr. Dole has yet to tip his hand on the shape of his tax program beyond saying it will be "an economic growth package." His aides expect his proposal to encompass both a change in the tax structure toward a tax system with fewer brackets and a tax cut of perhaps 15 percent. This is far more sweeping than Mr. Clinton's approach, which the Dole camp derides as "these little pinprick, micro-tax-cut announcements."
After a group of conservative economists and senators met with Mr. Dole last month, John Taylor from Stanford University wrote a memorandum outlining "growth-oriented economic policies" that the Senator could propose.
Mr. Taylor, summarizing the ideas raised at the meeting, suggested that Mr. Dole would advocate that a completely new tax system be in place by the turn of the century.
In the meantime, Mr. Taylor wrote, the Senator should propose tax cuts that could cost tens of billions of dollars a year in lost revenue, including an across-the-board reduction in tax rates for all taxpayers, a lower capital gains tax and tax-free savings accounts that could be used for education expenses or to offset an unexpected loss of income.
In addition, the memorandum said Mr. Dole should balance the budget in four years, two years sooner than either President Clinton or Republicans in Congress are contemplating.
Mr. Taylor's memo did not address how Government spending should be reduced.
 
The Clinton Record
 
Rethinking Policy After a Tax Increase
Mr. Clinton is vulnerable in his own way. Running for President four years ago, he promised middle-income taxpayers a choice between a tax credit for each child and a reduction in their income-tax rate.
Instead, when Mr. Clinton came into office, he asserted that lowering the deficit had to be the nation's first economic priority. He pushed through Congress in 1993 a budget and tax package that passed without a single Republican vote.
Most of the higher taxes were placed on the wealthy. But the middle class bore the brunt of the gasoline-tax increase, and many Social Security beneficiaries ended up with higher income taxes.
Republicans have already gleefully aired one campaign commercial featuring footage of Mr. Clinton last autumn trying to disown his tax package. ("People in this room still get mad at me over the budget because you think I raised your taxes too much," he said at a Texas fundraising dinner. "It might surprise you to know I think I raised them too much, too.")
Should the President unveil a broad new tax proposal closer to Election Day, the Republicans say they have a commercial ready that showcases his unfulfilled 1992 pledge.
When the public repudiated Mr. Clinton's party in 1994, giving the Republicans control of Congress, the President responded almost immediately with a package of tax cuts he called the "Middle Class Bill of Rights."
The package included a $10,000 annual tax deduction for college or vocational education expenses, a $500 tax credit for each child under age 13, and expanded income limits and flexibility for individual retirement accounts. The package allowed Mr. Clinton to say he stood for tax cuts, but it became a casualty of the budget standoff between the President and Congress.
With Republicans examining tax cutting as a major theme of the Presidential race, Mr. Clinton took more pre-emptive steps in the past few weeks to inoculate himself, agreeing to several Republican tax reduction proposals.
But his decision to offer a new $1,500 tax credit for the first two years of higher education -- encouraged by his political adviser, Dick Morris -- met opposition from an economic team that thinks Mr. Clinton should count his reduction in the deficit as one of his proudest achievements.
Participants in the debate say that the President's chief of staff, Leon E. Panetta, joined by Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin; Laura D'Andrea Tyson, Mr. Clinton's national economic adviser, and Alice M. Rivlin, the budget director, fought to scale back the original idea. They made sure it was accompanied by other tax increases and revenue-raising measures so that it would not increase the deficit.
 
Public Opinion
 
Economists Worry About 'Bidding War'
Politicians seem to be much more enthusiastic than the public, mainstream economists or the financial markets about the idea of cutting taxes.
The latest New York Times/CBS News poll found that only 2 percent of those questioned thought high taxes were the most serious problem facing the country. Other polls have consistently shown over the years that given the choice of balancing the budget or cutting taxes, the public opts for balancing the budget by a wide margin.
Economists disagree over the wisdom of lowering taxes. Conservatives generally support the idea, and liberals oppose it. But most economists, regardless of their ideology, accept these points:
*Continued reduction of the budget deficit would do more for the economy than either an across-the-board tax cut or tax breaks that encourage education and training.
*The Federal Reserve Board would use its authority over interest rates to dampen the effect of any short-term economic lift from a tax cut.
*The price of gasoline is determined mostly by the price of oil in world markets. Repealing the 4.3-cents-a- gallon additional gasoline tax that was enacted in 1993 would have little effect on what consumers pay at the pump.
*Tax breaks are an inefficient way of achieving social policy goals.
"There's a tremendous danger that bad ideas launched in an election year might have to be actually proposed by the next President," said Robert D. Reischauer, an economist who was director of the Congressional Budget Office when Democrats controlled Congress.
Many economists would endorse the idea of Senator Dole's advisers for a 15 percent reduction in all tax rates if they thought offsetting spending cuts would be adopted. But they are skeptical that would happen, and they worry about a repeat of the 1980's, when lower taxes without accompanying spending cuts led to a mushrooming deficit.
"If the bidding war in Washington continues to escalate," said David Hale, an economist at Zurich Kem per Investments in Chicago, "investors will become concerned about expansion of the Federal deficit."
The 15 percent reduction would cost the Treasury about $90 billion a year in lost revenue, according to Bruce Bartlett, an economist who is one of the idea's strongest proponents. Offsetting that would require spending cuts about 50 percent larger than those approved by Congress in its budget resolution this year.
The advocates of deep, across-the-board tax reductions hold that such a measure would lead the economy to grow faster than the 2 percent to 2.5 percent annual rate anticipated. Mr. Bartlett calculates that a 15 percent tax cut would increase growth by three-tenths of 1 percent. Senator Abraham suggests that it might lead to a full percentage-point increase.
The idea of an across-the-board tax reduction also creates a tension in Republican ranks between those who want to stimulate growth and those who favor direct assistance to families. The Contract With America, the platform on which Republicans ran for Congress two years ago, promised each family a $500 tax reduction for each child. Even the most ardent tax cutters doubt that both a large reduction in rates and a big break for families with children would be enacted.
Mr. Bartlett said: "I personally believe the contract was ill-conceived. A $500 child credit doesn't do anything for the economy."
But Gary Bauer, president of the Family Research Council, which takes a conservative approach to social issues, said that he and his associates would fight hard to maintain the tax cut for families. "The party misses the boat if it offers a purely economic package," he said.
President Clinton's proposal to give families a tax credit of up to $1,500 a year to help meet the cost of the first two years of college and Senator Dole's proposed tax credit for charitable contributions both violate a tenet held by most economists that tax policy should not be used to achieve social goals.
"If you're going to tie a tax credit to social policy, you ought to have a very strong case for doing that and not just spending the money directly," said C. Eugene Steuerle, who was a top tax policy official in the Reagan Administration.
The education credit, said Mr. Reischauer, would provide tax relief to many people who do not need it to afford college. If money is available, he said, it would be better spent on direct grants and loans to students.
Voters are skeptical they will ever see a tax cut, whatever happens during the campaign this year. In The New York Times/CBS News poll, 2 percent said they thought Mr. Clinton would reduce their taxes, and 10 percent said they thought Mr. Dole would do so.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY (66%); SENATE FINANCE COMMITTEE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY (66%); SENATE FINANCE COMMITTEE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; ELECTION ISSUES; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX LAW (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); POLITICS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); POOR POPULATION (74%); FUEL TAX (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); CHARITIES (73%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (71%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (65%); CHARITABLE GIVING (50%); 

PERSON: MITCHELL, ALISON; ROSENBAUM, DAVID E; DOLE, BOB (SEN); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (93%); RONALD REAGAN (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1996



229 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 9, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1282 words

HEADLINE: Many Fear Chad Election Won't End Its Misery

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH 

DATELINE: NDJAMENA, Chad, June 3

 BODY:
For more than 30 of its 36 years of independence from France, this vast, mostly desolate country - one of the world's poorest - has been gripped by civil wars.
 
 So when Chad held its first presidential election this week, the event offered a ray of hope for many voters, who withstood long lines and a rare downpour to choose from a field of 15 candidates.
 But many analysts of African affairs say that rather than to open a bright future for a distressed country, the election here - like several other recent votes across this continent - could simply underscore Chad's fragility.
 Life so many other countries carved out by foreign mapmakers in Europe's imperial scramble for Africa in the 19th country, Chad has been bedeviled ever since by their arbitrary choices, both geographic and ethnic, whose unforeseen but often tragic effects are still being played out.
 Inventing Chad, colonial masters in France randomly threw populations together that had been separated by everything from vast distances and historical enmities to religion and livelihood.
 As in Rwanda and Nigeria, two countries that have also suffered devastating civil wars, decisions on Chad by early colonizers about which groups to educate and which to maintain under traditional rule helped set the stage for hatred and bloodshed that persists to this day.
 Today, in this miserable country, where per capita income is about 50 cents a day, the recent discovery by an American oil company of huge reserves of oil might, like the election, stand out as a sign of hope.
 But in the volatile political jumble that ismodern Chad, this news, like most important developments here, can just as readily be seen as a source of renewed conflict.
 "It is hard to imagine what you would have had here if there was no Chad," said one Western diplomat. "But the ethnic fabric of the country we've ended up with its endlessly complicated. It is not just north-south division, it is east-west and all over the place."
 Many people doubt that the election will change this reality.
 When the incumbent President, a former guerrilla leader from the north named Idriss Deby, organized a referendum on a new Constitution in March, the measure passed with 65 percent of the vote, helped along by a bit of ballot fixing, diplomats say. But 95 percent of southern voters opposed the bill, which was seen as a northern creation.
 The presidential election, which will be decided in a runoff between the two leading candidates - whose names have not yet been announced - at the end of this month, is expected to be just as polarizing, and given raw hatreds between regions, potentially explosive.
 From the early colonial period at the start of this century, French administrators and missionaries concentrated their nation-building efforts on the territory's more densely populated, animist south.
 An army was assembled from the southern Sara ethnic group, and the few schools created for Chadians were in this fertile part of the country, which the French named "Le Tchad utile," or useful Chad.
 In the mainly Muslim, Arabic-speaking north, meanwhile, Paris made little attempt to change traditional structures. Colonial forts were established to stop raids by desert nomads, but little else was built in the north, and the population was largely left to its own devices.
 As independence in 1960 approached, these decisions by the French gave southerners a formidable advantage in determining who would run the new country. Before long, Chad's first leader, Francois (later changed to Ngarta) Tombalbaye, was lording it over northerners, who were resented in the south for their centuries - old practice of slave-trading raids.
 Mr. Tombalbaye was killed in a coup in 1975, but not before he had taken his regional vision to its logical extreme. As his grip on power grew more tenuous, Mr. Tombalbaye recruited a Haitian religious adviser and began a brutal "cultural revolution" in which he obliged people to abandon Christian names and forced Government workers and army officers of whatever origin to undergo traditional southern initiation rites. Those who refused were often buried alive or shot.
 In 1982, a northern-led guerrilla movement overthrew the southern elite, and northerners have ruled just as brutally over the south ever since.
 Today, Chad has become as fragmented a state as any in Africa. In a country that is two-and-a-half times the size of France but has only 200 miles of roads, the control of the central Government extends only to the capital, Ndjamena, and most of the other main provincial cities.
 Nearly every region of Chad is peppered with a bewildering variety of ethnically based guerrilla forces, which, even movement about the country perilous even for army troops. In the south, which is the only agriculturally viable region, violence between Government forces and local resistance groups often makes farming impossible.
 The core of the military itself is widely seen as little more than an ethnic militia recruited from President Deby's Zakhawa clan. Many Chadians see the army itself as the principal source of insecurity.
 A foreign visitor got a taste of this the other day, when soliders stopped the United Nations jeep in which he was riding at a roadblock 30 miles north of the capital and announced boldly: "Follow us to our headquarters. We need your vehicle."
 Only after lengthy discussions was the vehicle allowed to leave, but Chadians say that vehicles commandeered in this way are often sold in neighboring Sudan.
 Even as they voted last week, many Chadians said they feared that the legacy of ethnic and regional division here, compounded by a now-entrenched tradition of wielding power by force, meant that more violence lies ahead.
 "Every Chadian has a bit of the rebel in him; it suffices to put five or six of us together to bring it out," said one southern voter. "If these elections go badly, people here will certainly go on the warpath. If things go resonably well, maybe we will have a year or two of respite before trouble breaks out again."
 For many, a possible source of trouble is also the potential source of Chad's salvation: oil reserves estimated at more than one billion barrels found near the town of Doba in the south earlier this decade by Exxon. A consortium led by Exxon has plans to build a pipeline from the Doba fields to the coast of neighboring Cameroon to bring these reserves to market.
 Windfalls like these have fueled powerful centrifugal forces time and again in Africa, most notably in Nigeria. There, an army dominated since colonial times by people from the economically barren north has repeatedly resorted to force, from coups to widespread repression, to keep politicians from the better-educated and oil-rich south from either leading secession movements or wielding real political power.
 When a southener, Moshood K. Abiola, won Nigeria's last presidential election in 1993, northern officers threw him in prison for claiming his mandate and have ruled the country with a tight grip ever since.
 Already in Chad, where the oil income is still a few years off, apprehension is rising that a southern population that has felt put-upon for over 15 years will use any means, from secession to sabotage, to keep their historic enemies in the north from controlling this new wealth.
 "There is already great resentment of the presence of northerners throughout the south," said Robert Buytenhuys, a Dutch expert on Chadian politics who foresees growing separatist pressures. "In a way, it is a pity they've discovered oil. It makes the dream of a federal state in Chad that much more remote."

GRAPHIC: Photo: In the Islamic neighborhoods of Ndjamena, the capital, women lined up separately from men to cast their ballots in the election, which many observers fear will not do much to overcome Chad's violent history. (Robert Grossman for The New York Times); Map: Government control in Chad hardly extends beyond Ndjamena. (The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: FRANCE (94%); CHAD (94%); RWANDA (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (79%); NIGERIA (79%); 

CITY: N'DJAMENA, CHAD (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHAD; FRANCE; FRANCE (94%); CHAD (94%); RWANDA (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (79%); NIGERIA (79%); N'DJAMENA, CHAD (72%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); REFERENDUMS (77%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); POPULATION DENSITY (73%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (69%); RELIGION (67%); 

PERSON: FRENCH, HOWARD W

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 1996



230 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 1996
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2752 words

HEADLINE: It's a Face-Lifted, Tummy-Tucked Jungle Out There

BYLINE: By AMY M. SPINDLER 

 BODY:
THE shrinkage of the great white-collar corporate institutions over the last five years has endangered a few institutions of another type: the C.E.O. belly, the wizened Walter Cronkite face of experience, the high forehead of a seasoned intellect, the furrowed brow of the thinking man.
Now, in this age of downsizing, success must feel slightly uncomfortable, a world away from the fat-cat executive style savored by the fathers of today's corporate men. Executives are taking their hard-earned salaries and applying them in a way that executive-placement firms are endorsing: measures to look younger, with smooth skin, a full head of hair and a taut stomach. Unlike Calvin Klein underwear models with washboard stomachs, executives looking for jobs (or trying to hold onto them) don't have three hours a day to devote to the gym. What they do have, if they're working in one of these leaner and meaner companies, is more responsibility and the physiques that go with that stress. They complain about bags under their eyes, wrinkles, graying and thinning hair, rolls in the midsection. 
 And so, as if to prove true the proverb "Where one door closes, another opens," downsizing seems to have helped spur a boom in another area: businesses that offer shortcuts for making men look young, healthy and fit. Call it an era of faux fitness.
So someone like Steven Friedman, 45, a management consultant in Potomac, Md., has plenty of companies willing to provide him products and services to help him look young and competitive, without wasting a lot of his time. His shaving cream has aloe to keep his skin moist and ward off wrinkles. He goes to a hair stylist instead of a barber to cut his hair long on top and short on the temples -- where the gray is.
And he is not ashamed a bit of caving in to the same sort of quick-fix cosmetic marketing ploys that women have faced for years as they have fought to look young.
"My wife makes fun of me," Mr. Friedman said. But "packaging is important."
Mr. Friedman needn't stop with a little aloe and a good shearing. He could buy the medicinally packaged Rogaine to thicken his hair.
He could invest in Bodyslimmers underwear for men, by the designer Nancy Ganz, with built-in support to suck in the waist. Or he could skip the aloe and go on to a more drastic measure, new to the male market: alpha-hydroxy products that slough off dead skin. Or he could rub on some belly- and thigh-shrinking creams, which even if ineffective offer a placebo-like comfort far less strenuous than the Nautilus AB/AD machine.
In fact, if even rubbing cream seems too strenuous, men today can just don an undershirt from Mountainville House, to "shape up and pull in loose stomachs and sagging chests," with a diamond-shaped insert at the gut for "extra control" ($19.95). Or buy a pair of Super Shaper Briefs, which for $24.95 round out a man's assets. They offer the added bonus of an "endowment pad," for $5, that can be slipped into the front.
In other words, this new youth movement is all window dressing, not the desire to sweat and burn of the fitness craze. And some see manipulation in all these faux fixes.
"Our parents weren't faced with all these studies by quasi-business experts with messages of how important youthful looks are today," said Michael Lafavore, executive editor of Men's Health magazine, which has reached a circulation of 1.3 million with its well-timed, quick-fix headlines like "5-Minute Muscle Builders," "Lose 9 Pounds Without Even Trying" and "After-Work Energizers."
"We buy into it, and we're being marketed to heavily," he said. "If anything, companies have discovered men are open to this message. And that opened the floodgates."
That flood has even brought profits to those who provide youth from under the knife.
Plastic surgery offers pectoral implants to make the chest appear more muscular, and calf muscle implants to give the leg a bodybuilder shape. There is liposuction to counter thickening middles and accumulating breast and fatty tissue in the chest. There are a half-dozen surgical methods for tightening skin and temporarily delaying the inevitable aged face.
"There was a time," said Richard Tyler, the men's clothing designer, "when all that men had to combat aging was Grecian Formula."
Mr. Tyler is part of a group of designers extending the new anti-aging arsenal beyond surgery and exotic products, to a staple of business: the suit.
"Because of downsizing, the 50-year-old is in competition with the 30-year-old," said J. Stanley Tucker, vice president and fashion director of Saks Fifth Avenue, who was recently asked to offer a conference on dressing after corporate downsizing for Lee Hecht Harrison, a job-search firm. His advice: look current, like young men do. "Customers are coming in wanting to look younger," he said. "They aren't coming in and buying replacement clothes, which is unusual. They really are buying clothes that make them look younger."
The industry is listening to these preferences, devising tricks to cover lumps and to help customers compete with younger men who have grown up with designer suits. Mr. Tyler even had a trunk show for his slim suits at Bergdorf Goodman, the sort of indulgence once reserved for society ladies. He said many men well over 40 were buying three of his slim suits at a time.
"Why they like our suit," he said, "is the cut makes you look like you take care of yourself more than you do."
Fear of younger rivals looms large for the age-aware working man. "It's a youth-dominated world," Mr. Friedman said. "The more youthful you look, the better the reception will be" in the workplace.
So while serious businessmen once felt that changing fashion was beneath their concern, an outdated suit now raises questions about the wearer's outdatedness in other areas.
WITH all the new camouflage available, James Kennedy, the publisher of Executive Recruiter News, has a new name for today's job seeker: the Bionic Executive.
"Does he or doesn't he?" Mr. Kennedy said. "From head to toe, today's male executive job seeker looks more and more like the Bionic Man. From the hairpiece or dye job through face lifts and mouth bridgework to tummy tuckers and elevator shoes, the executive in transition can look a dozen years younger. But what will we think of him in the morning before he's had a chance to put his makeup on?"
In fact, makeup is the only beauty product not yet making inroads for men.
For instance, sales of a Clairol product, Men's Choice hair coloring, have risen 30 percent in three years. The company financed a recent study that found 10 percent of the 45 million American men in their 40's and 50's were coloring their hair.
"At one time, a man in a salon was an odd commodity," said Louis Licari, a colorist who owns salons in Los Angeles and New York, and who is a consultant for Clairol. "But in New York, where men are more progressive, it's normal to look behind the newspaper and find a man in the chair."
That increase is solely because men want to hide gray hair, he said. Men don't go to the salon for the sort of fashion effects that women use, like highlights. "Women's hair can look colored because it's an acknowledged beauty accessory," he said. "Men come to combat the signs of aging."
Focusing on these fears helped the men's grooming industry rise from a rut that began in the 1970's, when Aramis introduced the first men's beauty products. When Aramis's offerings, like fake-suntan cream, didn't catch on, men could mostly find cologne at the cosmetics counter. By stressing anti-aging benefits, the new wave of products has made wide inroads. Department stores are expanding their men's grooming areas to make way for products like Polo Sport Face Fitness AHA Moisture Formula ("refining, moisturizing and protecting") and Aramis Lift Off ("provides the quickest, easiest way to moisturize skin and eliminate patches"). While sales of Lift Off have grown 20 to 30 percent a year since its debut four years ago, the harder-sell tactics of Ralph Lauren seem to work best.
Ralph Lauren's Face Fitness, introduced in 1995, became the No. 1 men's alpha-hydroxy product in the department store market with the help of lengthy informational advertising campaigns. Here's one cheerful thought that is bringing men to the cosmetic counter: "Your face just got a year older and by the end of this winter, that seven-layer cake you call skin could look like it's been freeze-dried." Ouch.
It seems more than coincidence that in 1994, when downsizing was rampant, Polo Ralph Lauren, Clinique and Aramis all created successful lines of men's skin-care products, for the first time suggesting that wrinkles weren't character lines but were worth paying to avoid. Chanel recently introduced a line called Technique Pour Homme, including an alpha-hydroxy lotion.
"I see the boom going back to 1988 when the downsizing really began," said Allan Mottus, editor of The Informationist, a cosmetics trade publication. "It's not just the men's skin-care products, but the men's hair-coloring products business is booming. People with seniority who expected to stay on to retirement were those being let go first, those in the 40's on up. Men need to be competitive not only with their peer group but with those 10 years younger than they are. There is a stress on appearance."
While people in the cosmetics industry may be smiling at that news, businessmen in other fields are dealing with another equation: youth equals success.
AND men who are not yet worried about that development will get their placidity zapped fast if they find themselves facing one of the biggest forces in this downsized era: the executive search firm. Saying appearances count more than ever, these firms strongly advise jobless executives to get on with fitness regimens, hair dye and sharper dress.
"Part of an executive's success is their ability to package themselves," said Dale Winston, president of Battalia Winston International. "It's like all package goods: you don't want to put your cereal in a gray box. Look at Bob Dole. Is he walking around with white hair? Go walk through the executive suite. You don't see many pouchy-looking people."
Executive placement firms stop short of telling men to get facial work. But men seem to be getting the idea on their own.
According to the American Academy of Cosmetic Surgery, men accounted for 10 percent of all plastic-surgery patients in 1980. But by 1994, they were 26 percent.
While 197,276 men in 1994 underwent hair transplants, the most common plastic surgery for men, there are many other procedures they can undergo. Liposuction was performed on 37,743 men that year, for instance, while 18,350 men had eyelid surgery. Other procedures include dermabrasion and face lifts (trickier for men, who don't always have hairlines to hide scars), as well as corrective work on the pronounced grooves between the eyebrows that give some men a constant stern look.
As for wrinkles, patients can try chemical peels or laser treatments.
"A youthful look gives the appearance of a more dynamic, charging individual who will go out and get the business," said Dr. Thomas Romo 3d, who runs the plastic surgery department at the New York Eye and Ear Infirmary. "The concepts downsized corporations are dealing with are lean and mean. They don't want guys who look fat and happy."
PRICES for these operations vary widely, according to statistics from the surgery group. Simple vein surgery costs $190, on average, while an eyelid operation goes for $1,504 and a pectoral implant is $4,000. Then there are combination procedures. At Dr. Romo's office in the Wall Street area -- where men account for 35 percent of the practice, compared with 10 to 15 percent five years ago -- men with aging, weakening chins can get liposuction and a chin implant for $3,500 to $4,500.
Plastic surgery was the answer for Joseph P. Toonen, a sales manager for Cox Cable in San Juan Capistrano, Calif. When colleagues repeatedly told him he looked tired when he in fact wasn't, he started feeling self-conscious about his baggy eyelids. He worried that they were affecting his superiors' perception of his abilities and performance. So, although he considers his job secure, he went ahead with an eye-lift operation in late April. It was a first step in protective career insurance; coloring his graying hair is next.
Mr. Toonen is typical of the new candidate for services, far from the youth-conscious realm of advertising or Hollywood. The change reflects the impact of the youth culture on every business. The computer industry, for example, used to be typified by the solid salesman in wing tips from I.B.M. Today, its personification is a whiz kid in cyber-gulch, wearing Converse sneakers and a Nirvana T-shirt.
Lee Canaan, vice president of Canaan Public Relations in New York City, had a more generalized aging complaint. "At a certain age, everything starts to sag," he said. So he had some facial surgery, including having a tip, or artificial bony implant, put in his nose. "A tip brings it up a tiny bit," he said. "It makes the face refreshed, not weather-beaten."
The increase in male plastic surgery is partly due to the loss of its former stigma, said Richard Dolsky, president of the American Academy of Cosmetic Surgery. Now, he said, "the mind-set is: 'It's available. It can be done. Why not do it for myself?' "
In fact, men are now talking openly about such beauty topics. Robert Blake, an actor who made a career of playing craggy macho guys, spoke at length to People magazine about his recent surgery. ("I told the doc, 'If you make me look like a lizard like everybody else, I'm going to kill you.' ")
Disguise does have its limits, though. All these quick fixes aren't, like exercise and a good diet, making men's skin better, their blood pressure lower or their hearts stronger. And it will not turn back the clock.
"You're not going to look like Paul Newman if you look like Harvey Keitel," Mr. Canaan said of plastic surgery. "They'll knock off some years, but it's still you that's going to be out there."
While Mr. Canaan, a public relations executive himself, would be the first to congratulate Ralph Lauren, Men's Health magazine, and others tapping into the fake-youth-quake, it isn't all just savvy marketing.
According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the risk of job loss is rising for a group of men who are prime candidates for anti-aging products: 45- to 54-year-olds.
"They were less likely than the average person to be displaced during the early 80's," Jennifer Gardner, an economist with the agency, said of these middle-aged workers. "That's different now." In 1981-82, all workers had a 3.9 percent chance of dismissal annually, while men from 45 to 54 courted just a 3.1 percent risk. But by 1991-92, the latest period for which statistics are available, the risks had flipped. The whole work force faced a 3.8 percent annual danger of job loss, while for 45-to-54-year-old men the figure was 4.1 percent.
And worries about looking old extend beyond people who have already lost jobs, or who work for companies currently wielding the ax. In large numbers, those who are ostensibly secure in their jobs are fretting, too.
A 48-year-old realtor in the Cleveland area, who spoke on condition of anonymity, noticed recently that his company "seems to be attracting younger people." He is now on the verge of doing something he has been thinking about for a long time: getting collagen injections to remove wrinkles. He will pay $300 three times a year for the shots.
TO age-conscious men, younger guys may seem less of a threat than women, young and old, whom society expects to wear the latest fashions, to put on makeup to hide wrinkles and to stride about in high heels that give the appearance of muscle tone to legs.
"Most men are conscious of the fact that they are competing not only with younger competitors, but with women who know how to take care of themselves," said David Nap, vice president of marketing for Aramis.
Men, who are mostly responsible for marketing to women by making them loathe the effects of aging, are now the targets of the same methods. So there is a feeling of ambivalence to even the most triumphant of those pushing youthful dreams.
"It's not a friendly environment," said Mr. Mottus, of the cosmetics publication. "There's a degree of fear. And with that the men's business has finally begun to grow."

CORRECTION-DATE: June 16, 1996, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article last Sunday about plastic surgery for male executives referred incorrectly to Dr. Thomas Romo 3d, one of the doctors who discussed the procedures. He is the chief of facial plastic and reconstructive surgery in the department of otolaryngology at the New York Eye and Ear Infirmary. He does not run the department of plastic surgery of the hospital.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Steven Friedman, a 45-year-old management consultant in Maryland, has his hair cut to minimize the gray. "Packaging is important," he says. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times); Louis Licari, a hair colorist who is a consultant to Clairol, with a male client at his salon on Madison Avenue in Manhattan. (Stephanie Berger for The New York Times); Lee Canaan, a public relations executive, had some facial surgery two years ago. (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times) (pg. 8); Joseph P. Toonen, a sales manager for Cox Cable, holding a photograph of himself taken on the morning of his eye-lift surgery. He had the operation after colleagues repeatedly told him he looked tired. (Davis Barber for The New York Times); The men's cosmetics and hair-coloring businesses have surged, thanks to products that stress their anti-aging benefits. (pg. 9)
 
Graph: "Graying, And More Vulnerable" shows the percentage of men aged 45 to 54 who were displaced from their jobs in each two-year period, compared with all workers age 20 and over. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) (pg. 8)
 
Chart: "The Re-Creation of Man" shows the cost of age-reducing operations. (pg. 1); "Getting a New Look" shows the most popular cosmetic procedures performed on men. (Source: American Academy of Cosmetic Surgery) (pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (86%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (86%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); AMERICAN ACADEMY OF COSMETIC SURGERY (59%); AMERICAN ACADEMY OF COSMETIC SURGERY (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); AMERICAN ACADEMY OF COSMETIC SURGERY (59%); AMERICAN ACADEMY OF COSMETIC SURGERY (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (86%); MARYLAND, USA (86%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PLASTIC SURGERY; MEN; LABOR; COSMETICS; EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; HAIR LAYOFFS (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (89%); MEN'S MARKET (77%); MEN (77%); MEN'S CLOTHING (74%); SKIN CARE PRODUCTS (74%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); HAIR LOSS (69%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (69%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (64%); COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (61%); 

PERSON: SPINDLER, AMY M WALTER LELAND CRONKITE JR (73%); RICHARD 'CALVIN' KLEIN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1996



231 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 1996
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 7; Page 37; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1053 words

HEADLINE: Green Giant

BYLINE: By Mark Dowie; Mark Dowie's latest book is "Losing Ground: American Environmentalism at the Close of the 20th Century."

 BODY:

A NEW NAME FOR PEACE
International Environmentalism, Sustainable Development, and Democracy.
By Philip Shabecoff
Illustrated. 271 pp. Hanover, N.H.:
University Press of New England. $24.95.
 
DIVIDED PLANET
The Ecology of Rich and Poor.
By Tom Athanasiou.
385 pp. Boston:
Little, Brown. $24.95.
In his 900-page book "Diplomacy," Henry Kissinger mentions the environment only once. Along with communications, population, world economy and nuclear proliferation, it is listed amid issues that Mr. Kissinger believes may soon be globalizing international relations. But to our diplomat emeritus, diplomacy itself is still about Realpolitik, sovereign states pursuing national interests. Now come two books that say everything has to change, and fast. The catalyst for change? The environment. 
 In "A New Name for Peace," Philip Shabecoff, who covered the environmental beat for The New York Times for 25 years, sees in the rise of ecological diplomacy a "new Realpolitik" very different from the cold war dynamic of the Kissinger era. Complex environmental and economic issues will be addressed, he writes, "not by competition but by cooperation and not by unilateral exercise of sovereign power but by pooling that power." He foresees ecological matters affecting almost all international deliberations, even trade negotiations. Eventually, he says, GATT and other trade agreements will be subjected to a "green round."
Not only is diplomacy turning green, according to Mr. Shabecoff, it is also flirting with democracy. He cites recent rounds of the Montreal Protocol to the Vienna Convention for the Protection of the Ozone Layer as examples of a "polycentric" decision-making process that involves -- along with diplomats -- scientists, corporate executives, environmentalists and other outside interests as integral participants.
Mr. Shabecoff's assertion that "global ecological stresses become global political issues" matches the realization arrived at by a few visionary diplomats in the early 1970's, which led to both the 1972 United Nations Conference on the Human Environment in Stockholm and the 1992 Earth Summit, held in Rio de Janeiro. Between Stockholm and Rio, 67 multilateral environmental treaties were concluded and signed, most notable among them the Law of the Sea Treaty and the Montreal Protocol. But the Earth Summit of 1992 was the defining moment of the new diplomacy, if not of a new world order.
"Rio was a doorway opening to a new post-cold war, postindustrial era," Tom Athanasiou writes in "Divided Planet," a trenchant but rambling essay on the state of international environmentalism. The new era he foresees is one of "more humane economics and benign technologies" combined with "greater concern for the vulnerability of Mother Earth and her creatures." And, he adds, "just possibly, the new laws, principles, promises, prescriptions and goals set forth in Rio laid the foundation for a second enlightenment -- a green enlightenment."
Mr. Athanasiou, a journalist and businessman, seems to agree with Mr. Shabecoff that environmentalism is globalizing and diplomacy is greening, and none too soon. But he cautions that a "growing inequity among nations and between generations" could spoil the party, and he confesses, "with caveats and reservations," to apocalyptic leanings. Warning of dire ecological consequences if northern, first world strategies of economic development are pursued -- with or without environmental diplomacy -- he says that the global ecosystem "cannot be saved while the poor people of the south are left to make their way along the paths of a haphazard and unjust development."
Green diplomacy has not only enlightened the world's foreign affairs ministers, according to both authors, it has changed greens as well. "Until recently, environmentalists seldom gave much thought to geopolitics," Mr. Athanasiou writes. But many northern environmentalists left Rio "with a new and not altogether comfortable sympathy for the view, common in the south, that saving the earth is less a matter of correcting isolated wrongs than of finding a route to fundamental social change."
Mr. Shabecoff's conclusions will be disheartening to greens who believe that the only route to a sustainable future is through less, not more, economic expansion. "Many environmentalists," he writes, "now accept that some form of continuing economic growth, if it is accompanied by a more equitable distribution of the wealth it creates, is imperative to correct the injustice that keeps one-fifth of the earth's inhabitants at the edge of survival while a minority live in comfort."
Mr. Athanasiou is not as sanguine about market-based growth and development as Mr. Shabecoff. In fact, he believes that "the market has been the principal device by which humanity has been divided into rich and poor," and he wonders if there is enough concern, enough political will in the north to make the requisite alterations. "Who really believes the world's executives will face the facts of ecological deterioration before events compel them to do so?"
Why limit the question to executives or, for that matter, to scientists, environmentalists, politicians or diplomats? We are dealing here with human nature, not business behavior, and the same events that compel executives to face ecological facts will challenge us all. As Mr. Shabecoff writes, "Homo sapiens will have to find some way to bid farewell to its own evolutionary childhood."
Both these books are disorganized, under-edited and unnecessarily difficult to read. Mr. Shabecoff intersperses dynamic and fascinating passages, spiced with the wisdom that made him such a good reporter, with ponderous sections written in the policy-wonk drone of the books and papers from which he drew much of his material. Mr. Athanasiou's work could have been cut by a third simply by eliminating quotations from the author's travel acquaintances. In most cases Mr. Athanasiou, a fine and ferocious writer, could have said what they say better himself.
Shortcomings aside, these two authors advance the notion dangled before us, then seemingly ignored, by Al Gore, who said that environmentalism must soon become "the central organizing principle of civilization." Mr. Gore should read both of these books.

CORRECTION-DATE: July 7, 1996, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
A review on June 9 about "A New Name for Peace: International Environmentalism, Sustainable Development, and Democracy," by Philip Shabecoff, referred incorrectly to the author's career at The New York Times. He covered environmental issues for 14 years, not 25; earlier he was a foreign correspondent and a White House correspondent. His years at The Times totaled 32.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: NEW NAME FOR PEACE, A (BOOK); DIVIDED PLANET (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); BRAZIL (79%); SWEDEN (79%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); EARTH (92%); NORTHEAST USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (73%); 

CITY: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (76%); BOSTON, MA, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY PRESS OF NEW ENGLAND (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); BRAZIL (79%); SWEDEN (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); EARTH (92%); NORTHEAST USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (73%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (76%); BOSTON, MA, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (92%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); COLD WAR (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (86%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); WRITERS (77%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); MARINE RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (73%); LITERATURE (72%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (71%); LAW OF THE SEA (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%); LEGISLATION (60%); OCEANS (50%); 

PERSON: DOWIE, MARK; SHABECOFF, PHILIP; ATHANASIOU, TOM HENRY ALFRED KISSINGER (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1996



232 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 3; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 644 words

HEADLINE: The End of Germany's Economic Model

BYLINE: By Klaus Friedrich; Klaus Friedrich is chief economist of Dresdner Bank Group, Germany's second largest commercial bank.

DATELINE: FRANKFURT

 BODY:
For many years, Germany's economic model has earned the respect and envy of many countries, including the United States.
After all, this model, based on the idea of consensus, contributed decisively to our "economic miracle" of the 1950's and 1960's and to our high living standards since that time. 
 Instead of accepting conflict as inevitable in dealing with the appropriate distribution of wealth, Germans have traditionally settled this matter by forging agreement: Employers, unions and the Government sit around a table to discuss, for example, wages, benefits and working conditions. Then they resolve the issues in an evenhanded fashion by taking into account the concerns of all sides.
In this way, Germany has actually managed to lift all boats with the rising tide, to paraphrase the words of President John F. Kennedy.
The paradox is that at a time when influential voices in Washington are promoting concepts -- good corporate citizenship, for example -- that draw on the idea of consensus, the Germans themselves are running into severe problems with their much-praised system.
The pressures that the global economy imposes on all industrialized countries are enormous. Americans have already endured painful economic and social cutbacks.
At this critical stage, with Germany's high unemployment and with German investors moving their money outside the country, what we need most is not more agreement but a sharp increase in our willingness to disagree. In that sense, Germany needs to become a bit more like the United States.
That is why Chancellor Helmut Kohl's recently announced austerity package -- which includes reduced sick pay and fewer job guarantees for public and private employees -- is so important. It demonstrates that the Government is finally willing to deal with conflict, in the best democratic sense, and to abandon the need to make everyone happy.
Where did Germany go wrong? In the good old days under Ludwig Erhard, the postwar architect of our so-called social market economy, the goal was basically based on one notion: restraining wages. Corporate earnings were not quickly doled out to workers as raises and benefits but were reinvested. This produced Germany's economic miracle. High-paying jobs, topped off with enviable social peace, soon followed.
What Germans forgot at some point was that the success of their economy depended on everybody's willingness to put something into the system first. Instead, they began to make demands on the system from the start, and consensus came to mean avoiding any and all conflict. Whenever labor, industry and government found that they could not agree, they at least agreed to appear to agree. This usually translated into rising wages.
What can be done? Germans need to relearn the lesson that wages should be determined by productivity. The concept works, often with great success. In the United States, layoffs are painful but unemployment is 5.4 percent, compared with Germany's 10 percent.
German companies also need more flexibility. They must be able to set their own management policies, for example, rather than being legally tied to regionwide or sectorwide agreements that govern hiring, firing and wage policies. And archaic laws governing retail stores' hours must change. After 6:30 P.M. and on Sundays, costly inventories sit behind locked doors in high-rent downtown shops, as potential shoppers walk by.
Without flexibility, German companies will continue to be hamstrung in the global market. If Chancellor Kohl stays the course, he will not only help Germany address its fear of conflict, however democratic. He will also insure that Germans rediscover the roots of their past economic success. The welfare state needs to be adjusted to survive. Social peace and order may be worth a lot. But are they worth the price of stagnation?

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: GERMANY (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; GERMANY (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LAYOFFS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); TRENDS (69%); CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (68%); 

PERSON: FRIEDRICH, KLAUS; KOHL, HELMUT (CHANCELLOR) JOHN F KENNEDY (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 1996



233 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 417 words

HEADLINE: Tribal Casinos Catalyzed Gambling's Spread

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"Gambling in the Senate," your June 3 editorial calling for a comprehensive study of the social costs of high-stakes casino gambling across the nation, overlooks the irony that an impending social catastrophe is a direct result of the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act enacted by Congress eight years ago. 
 That legislation, intended to promote tribal economic self-sufficiency and strong tribal government, has backfired.
In 1988, Congress authorized Indian tribes to operate any forms of gambling on their reservations that were permitted for any purpose by state law, such as so-called Las Vegas charity nights. Although Congress did not intend the proliferation of high-stakes casino gambling both on and off Indian reservations, that is exactly what has happened.
In the past eight years state governments have watched helplessly as Indian casinos have diverted taxable income from their commercial economies to tribal treasuries. Since state governments cannot tax income generated by tribal gaming enterprises, many states have been forced to consider the legalization of commercial casino gambling to retain tax revenues.
The economic competition has spread into different geographic regions. Once casino gambling flourishes in one state, neighboring states are compelled to legalize commercial high-stakes gaming to prevent taxable revenue from flowing into casinos across states lines.
In the eight years since American Indians won the right to sponsor casino gambling on their reservations, the number of states where some form of casino gaming is available has jumped from 2 to 25. More Americans are now visiting casinos than are attending professional and college football games, arena and symphony concerts, and all Broadway and touring shows, combined.
It is unlikely that Congress anticipated such a profound social and economic fallout from its decision to encourage tribal gambling. Tribal gaming has played the unintended role of catalyzing the proliferation of casino gambling outside Nevada and Atlantic City.
An overwhelming majority of tribes with gaming report that their new-found revenues have allowed them to finance other nongambling ventures and improve their social, educational and health programs. The question that the Federal Government must now resolve is whether the objective of achieving tribal economic self-sufficiency takes priority over protecting the social fabric of the nation.
 
NICHOLAS GOLDIN
New York, June 4, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEVADA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEVADA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GAMBLING; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CASINOS GAMING (98%); CASINOS (96%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); INCOME TAX (88%); LEGISLATION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); TAX LAW (77%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LAW (77%); SPONSORSHIP (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (70%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (67%); TRENDS (62%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); CHARITIES (55%); 

PERSON: GOLDIN, NICHOLAS

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 1996



234 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 392 words

HEADLINE: In Next Sequel, Let Scarlett, Like Atlanta, Personify New South

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re "Book Sequel Creates a New Civil War" (Business Day, June 3): 
 The problem with any sequel to Margaret Mitchell's "Gone With the Wind," which I read first in the fourth grade and many times since, lies in a misreading of the heroine's character and the book's main metaphor. Scarlett is not a love-driven heroine. She personifies the New South and specifically its archetypal city, Atlanta.
The nonbelievable Irish scenarios that Alexandra Ripley used in "Scarlett," the 1991 sequel, were a literary device to avoid dealing with economic issues and themes that the author acknowledged in an interview were central to postwar Atlanta but which she did not find understandable or interesting. These themes are equally central to Scarlett's character.
If I were representing St. Martin's Press or the Mitchell estate, I would pretend the first sequel never happened.
Contrary to your allusion in the article, Scarlett's prosperity insured that she could hold on to Tara -- a romantic symbol -- long before the conclusion of the original "Gone With the Wind." So what drives her?
Scarlett pays lip service to romance, but goes after money, power, dominance: She'll never be hungry -- or defeated -- again. That's her epic struggle. Scarlett's confusion comes from being a captive of romantic conventions. This creates the fundamental tension in her life, as it did in Mitchell's, for Mitchell was an early rebel who increasingly was controlled by her family and her husband (and now her heirs).
Unlike Mitchell, who may have grown to be classically depressed, Scarlett has the energy and bias for action. The true sequel would have Scarlett buying up the land of her less resilient neighbors around Jonesboro while building on her commercial success in Atlanta.
An underlying theme could include Mitchell's beloved Atlanta Journal and the New South editor Henry Grady as forces of change and commerce, played against the symbolic power but economic impotence of Tara, the past.
Atlanta, acknowledged by every city in the United States as the one to beat, has more than borne out the characterization imputed in Mitchell's portrait of this charming survivor. I can even visualize the fourth or fifth sequel chronicling the 1996 Olympics as a St. Martin's offering of 2010!
 
ESTHER T. SMITH
McLean, Va., June 5, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TITLE: GONE WITH THE WIND (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: ST MARTIN'S PRESS (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LITERATURE (90%); WRITERS (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); OLYMPICS (70%); 

PERSON: SMITH, ESTHER T; MITCHELL, MARGARET MARGARET MITCHELL (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 1996



235 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 213 words

HEADLINE: In the 2000 Census, Immigrants Will Lose

 BODY:
To the Editor:
As a professional demographer, I too am distressed with the plans for the census in 2000 (news article, June 6) but for a different reason. 
 Asking the birthplace of one's parents, let alone one's grandparents, did not survive the politicized process that determines the questions to be included in the census. Until 1970 this question had been routine, as social planners, politicians and members of various nativity groups wanted to find out how their members and their offspring were faring.
After nearly a half-century of low immigration, the Census Bureau dropped this question -- just as the nation embarked upon its third great wave of newcomers. Now, in an era of Congressional false economy (each question costs money to ask and process), demographers cannot get this item restored.
No matter what one's interest in how the characteristics and behavior of immigrants change in the next generation, the 2000 census as currently drawn up will not satisfy it. Efforts to develop programs for immigrant groups will be hamstrung for the ensuing decade, at a minimum. Only Congress can move to restore these questions.
But be fair to the Census Bureau and increase financing accordingly.
 
B. MEREDITH BURKE
Palo Alto, Calif., June 6, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: US CENSUS BUREAU (83%); US CENSUS BUREAU (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (83%); US CENSUS BUREAU (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: CENSUS; TWO THOUSAND (YEAR) CENSUS (93%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

PERSON: BURKE, B MEREDITH

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 1996



236 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 1996

SECTION: Section C; Page 16; Column 5; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 400 words

HEADLINE: TELEVISION REVIEW;
Lines of Communication Across Racial Divisions

BYLINE: By WALTER GOODMAN 

 BODY:
Derek McGinty returns to television tonight on PBS, at 10 on Channel 13 in New York, with the first of three episodes of "Straight Talk," this one on the inescapable subject "Black and White in America."
The straight-talking Mr. McGinty has a tactful knack for keeping other people's talk on track. His problem tonight is a format that includes a prime panel, a secondary mini-panel, studio participants selected with an eye toward diversity and some contributors on tape from Los Angeles. So a certain amount of hot air is inescapable, even though Johnnie L. Cochran does not have much to say. 
 The discussion, civil throughout, illuminates some of the often uncivil arguments about race these days. The main division here is between Clifford Alexander, a former Secretary of the Army, and Abigail Thernstrom of the Manhattan Institute, a conservative think tank. Mr. Alexander argues that racial inequities are still so great that race-targeted Government programs are essential. Ms. Thernstrom, an opponent of affirmative action, says that the continuing emphasis on race is poisoning American society.
Somewhere between them is Glenn Loury, a Boston University economist who reports he is put down as an Uncle Tom for emphasizing the responsibility of blacks for their own behavior. He notes what he calls a paradox: the continuing need for race-guided programs to forward the nation's movement toward the ideal of a color-blind society.
Coming up next week: "Money, Class and Politics," with Ralph Nader squaring off against Arianna Huffington. And after that, it's "The American Family," which promises an interview with Dan Quayle. Who can resist?
 
'America on Wheels'
PBS, tonight
(Channel 13, New York, at 9)
Tonight also brings the first hour of a peppy three-hour history of the automobile, fueled by high-octane newsreels. The opener, "Driving Force," focuses on Henry Ford's Model T and Model A, with side trips to assembly lines and bread lines, union busting and road building, the growth of the suburbs and the veerings of consumer tastes. There's even a glimpse of back-seat romance.
Next week's program, which features chrome, fins and the interstate highway system, carries us into the 1960's. And the final hour looks ahead, with attention to the economy and the environment. "America on Wheels" confirms that the motorcar is this century's ship of state.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Derek McGinty, a host on PBS. (Barabara Ries/WETA)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: AMERICA ON WHEELS (TV PROGRAM)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (58%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (55%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON UNIVERSITY (55%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; REVIEWS TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (92%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (91%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (89%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (71%); CONSERVATISM (68%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (61%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (61%); ARMIES (55%); 

PERSON: GOODMAN, WALTER RALPH NADER (79%); ARIANNA HUFFINGTON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 1996



237 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 9; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 961 words

HEADLINE: Media: PRESS;
Less is more as demands increase upon the publishers of stock and mutual fund tables.

BYLINE: By Edward Wyatt 

 BODY:
MAXIM of the newspaper business is: the smaller the type, the more loyal the readers. Publishers or editors who are skeptical of that rule need only to listen to the experience of The Day, a daily in New London, Conn.
In March, The Day cut its daily financial tables from two pages to one, eliminating hundreds of stocks and, said Anthony Cronin, deputy managing editor, eliciting "a massive amount of protest." 
 "We always considered the readers of stock tables to be a niche market, and the mantra of business journalists is that no one buys individual stocks anymore," Mr. Cronin said, alluding to the surge in mutual fund investments. "I don't know about the rest of the world, but in southeast Connecticut that's not true." Within a month, The Day restored about half of the tables it had cut.
Soaring newsprint prices, the rise of on-line sources of data and the growth of televised business news, complete with scrolling stock tickers, have left many publishers in a quandary. They must decide how to balance growing demand with the reality that newspapers are the last to deliver the data to investors.
"The pressure is on to add more information and at the same time to control the number of pages devoted to it," said Richard Rescigno, managing editor of Barron's, a financial weekly that devotes more than half of its roughly 172 pages to financial tables and market statistics. Later this year, Barron's, which is published by Dow Jones & Company, plans to review and possibly revamp its statistics section.
Vendors, too, have had cause for concern. Their customer base has shrunk as newspapers have closed and readers have abandoned print for other information sources.
While many newspapers have changed the type and amount of financial information they print, however, few have eliminated it. Randy Picht, assistant business editor for stock tables at The Associated Press, the biggest distributor of stock listings -- to about 550 newspapers -- said that when newsprint prices went through the roof more than a year ago, the expectation was that a lot more papers would drop financial tables.
"What we've seen instead is a little trimming and a lot of customization," in part because tables can now be easily formatted to meet a single newspaper's requests, Mr. Picht said. Few in the industry expect the trend to change now that newsprint prices have begun to fall.
Similarly, Barbara Needleman, vice president of data-base and advertising products at Tribune Media Services, part of the Tribune Company, and the only major competitor to The Associated Press in that field, said newspapers are "becoming much more economical about space."
Rather than eliminate financial listings, many publishers have reallocated space, from stock tables to mutual fund listings, for example, she said. Tribune's customer base has grown to 60 publications since the company began offering stock tables in 1990, she said.
Changes in technology have made both delivery of data and its presentation to readers more flexible. Among the requests for customization are: stock tables tailored to fit a certain space, regardless of how many companies are listed, and listings of specific stocks, usually local companies or big employers in a newspaper's circulation area.
The number of newspapers that run tables of all the stocks traded on the three major stock markets has fallen to a handful from several dozen at the beginning of the decade, Mr. Picht said.
At the same time, some smaller newspapers that had not previously run stock tables or that ran only limited lists have added to the data they provide. The Jonesboro Sun, for example, a daily paper in Jonesboro, Ark., last year beefed up its stock listings to a full page from less than one column of print.
"We were getting considerable demand for more stock listings," said John Troutt Jr., the publisher.
In other cases, changes in technology have allowed newspapers to undertake bold experiments. Last year, The Austin American-Statesman in Texas started to print a special 16-page weekend section, three-quarters of which is devoted to financial tables that summarize the week in financial markets.
What is unusual about the section is that it is delivered only to subscribers who request it, inserted in 24,000 copies of the publication's 200,000 Saturday papers. The section, which replaced the weekend financial tables that had run in all of the paper's 240,000 Sunday editions, is not available in copies sold on newsstands.
"We found a lot of money was being spent for a limited audience," said Richard A. Oppel, the newspaper's editor. Since last year, circulation of the weekly Business Review section has risen from about 15,000. Meanwhile, The American-Statesman, owned by Cox Enterprises Inc., has continued to run limited daily stock tables.
Mr. Oppel would not say whether the venture was profitable, but it clearly saved the company money on newsprint. "We didn't intend for it to rest strictly on the bottom line," he said. "But I think it is becoming increasingly attractive to advertisers" that want a targeted audience.
Mr. Picht of The Associated Press said some publications, after eliminating listings like stock options from the daily paper, began daily services to send tables by fax to readers who wanted them.
Others might, in a sense, join the competition. The New York Stock Exchange, which distributes most data on its stock listings through third parties, like The Associated Press, is considering new ways to expand direct sales, according to people at the top level of the exchange, who insisted on anonymity. Barron's, meanwhile, is readying an on-line version. "Maybe that is a place where statistics can grow unhampered," Mr. Rescigno said.

GRAPHIC: Drawing. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (66%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (66%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (66%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (66%); SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); 

CITY: NEW LONDON, CT, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (66%); TRIBUNE MEDIA SERVICES INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); NEW LONDON, CT, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: NEWSPAPERS; STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS; NEWSPRINT; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS PUBLISHING (91%); MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (90%); NEWSPRINT (89%); PULP & PAPER MARKETS (89%); PAPER & PACKAGING (88%); WRITERS (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); TRENDS (78%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (78%); BONDS (74%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (73%); 

PERSON: WYATT, EDWARD ANN LIVERMORE (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 1996



238 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 12; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 366 words

HEADLINE: Edward Bernstein, Economics Expert, Is Dead at 91

BYLINE: By ERIC PACE 

 BODY:
Edward M. Bernstein, who, as a leading international economist helped negotiate the international monetary system at Bretton Woods, N.H., near the end of World War II, died on Saturday at Sibley Memorial Hospital in Washington. He was 91 and lived in Washington.
Dr. Bernstein was born in Bayonne, N.J., grew up in Queens and was a copy boy for The New York World while attending De Witt Clinton High School. He received a bachelor's degree from the University of Chicago in 1927 and a doctorate in economics from Harvard in 1931. He went on to be a professor of economics at the University of North Carolina. 
 From 1940 to 1946, he was a Treasury Department official. In that role, in 1944, he was an adviser to the United States delegation to the Bretton Woods Conference, whose formal name was the United Nations Monetary and Financial Conference. The conference resulted in the founding of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development -- known as the World Bank -- and the founding of the International Monetary Fund, with the mission of promoting international monetary cooperation.
One of Dr. Bernstein's feats was convincing the British economist and monetary expert John Maynard Keynes, who led the British delegation to Bretton Woods, that, contrary to the opinion then prevailing among American economists, there would not be a grave depression in the United States after World War II. His reasoning was that the United States had given up the gold standard in 1933 and would no longer allow gold reserves to regulate the money supply's growth.
Dr. Bernstein went on to be the first director of research at the International Monetary Fund, from 1946 to 1958, when he left to found EMB Ltd., a Washington economic consulting and research organization. He was its president until 1981, and his clients included large multinational companies and central banks of foreign countries. Later he was a guest scholar at the Brookings Institution for more than a decade.
His survivors include his wife of 60 years, the former Edith Lewis; three sons, Daniel L., of Bronxville, N.Y., Alan S., of Dallas, and George L., of New Orleans, and four grandchildren. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (57%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (57%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (57%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (57%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (57%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (57%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (57%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (57%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); WORLD WAR II (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (75%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); MONEY SUPPLY (73%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); GRANDCHILDREN (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); 

PERSON: BERNSTEIN, EDWARD M; PACE, ERIC HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 1996



239 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 3981 words

HEADLINE: Life's Hubbub Returns to Oft-Shunned Hudson

SERIES: A RIVER RECLAIMED: Turning to the Water -- Second of two articles.

BYLINE: By ANDREW C. REVKIN 

 BODY:
On the waterfront of Beacon, N.Y., the city's environmental director, Shabazz Jackson, pointed to a brush-choked peninsula jutting into the glittering Hudson River. A year ago, the one-acre site overflowed with rusting cars. Soon it will be restored and turned into parkland. "We're taking it back," Mr. Jackson said.
In the lobby of the old McGraw-Hill Building on West 42d Street, volunteers with a group called "Floating the Apple" were building the sixth in a growing fleet of 25-foot wooden boats. Until the 1930's, anyone in Manhattan could stroll to a boathouse and go for a row in similar boats, said Michael Davis, an archeologist turned boatbuilder. Now plans were afoot for the first new public boathouse, on Pier 84 near the Intrepid Sea-Air-Space Museum. "It's one thing to see the water," he said. "It's another to be out on it." 
 In the antique-filled parlor of a hilltop mansion overlooking the Hudson at Kingston, N.Y., Donald Casey served coffee to neighbors. Mr. Casey, a Manhattan emigre, had bought the house as a crumbling wreck four years ago and -- as part of Kingston's riverfront revival -- turned it into a luxurious bed and breakfast. "We saved this place from literally getting torn down," he said.
Up and down the Hudson, people who had for decades turned their backs on the sullied river are now rummaging through old wharfs, sagging buildings and fading memories to find new ways to link their lives and livelihoods to the water.
Riverfront cities and towns are realizing they can build a new economy around tourism and recreation. Many planners say the Hudson Valley -- with its fjord-like highlands, grand mansions, historic sites, and hills blanketed with orchards and vineyards -- could someday rival the Rhine or Loire valleys of Europe as a tourist destination. Tourism already directly employs 90,000 people in the region, a figure that has risen 38 percent in 20 years. By contrast, thousands of factory and high technology jobs along the river have disappeared in the last 30 years because of cutbacks at I.B.M. and other companies.
The Hudson Highlands, the mountains north of Peekskill which a century ago were being blasted into building blocks and 30 years ago were envisioned as a hollowed-out hydroelectric plant -- are now largely protected and a popular destination. In just one of many new initiatives, a ferry service began running on June 3 from the Metro-North train station in Peekskill past the eagle aeries of Bear Mountain up to the granite bastions of West Point. Other excursion ferries are also planned, harking back decades to when Day Line steamboats took city residents upriver on summer escapes.
With wildlife and many fish species abundant, so too are hikers, bird watchers, and anglers. This spring, so many striped bass have been caught that state environmental officials are considering introducing a fishing license for the lower Hudson. The income would pay for research on the fish. Swimmers, too, are drawn to the river, and after the Fourth of July -- for the first time in nearly a decade -- they will be able to bathe at Westchester County's only public Hudson River beach, in Croton Point Park.
"When I was growing up, we lived in Tarrytown, Hastings, Croton," said Barbara Muldoon, a resident of North Tarrytown, N.Y., who has swum in the river in bad times and good. "Now they're all Croton-on-Hudson, Hastings-on-Hudson. Some of us appreciated the river no matter what. Now all of a sudden everyone loves it."
But impediments to a strengthened bond between people and the Hudson still abound. From Manhattan to Albany, 60 percent of the river's banks, mainly on the eastern shore, are cut off by railroad tracks. Since 1917, some 42 percent of track crossings on that shore have been closed by state transportation officials, including many pedestrian overpasses that once allowed fishermen and picnickers casual access to the river. Many of the overpasses had deteriorated for lack of maintenance as communities turned away from the river.
Lingering traces of PCB's in striped bass and some other fish have imperiled one of the Hudson's most heralded features -- its commercial fishermen. A few dozen people still make a living at it, but for some of them, the only steady work now is setting nets for biologists trying to understand declines in sturgeon and shad.
And development pressure -- dormant after the market crash of October 1987 and the loss of thousands of I.B.M. jobs -- is once more on the rise, partly because the newly attractive river itself has drawn residents to the area.
New York State cities like Newburgh, Poughkeepsie and Kingston have seen new battles over long-forgotten tracts. At that renovated mansion in Kingston, Mr. Casey and his neighbors had gathered not just for coffee, but also to plot a legal challenge to a plan by the Mayor, T. R. Gallo, to level the top of a neighboring wooded knoll -- the city's last large patch of open land -- to build a 56-acre industrial park.
The Mayor said the industrial park was needed to keep a local manufacturer, Huck International, from moving. Huck's executives liked the plan, saying the picturesque hilltop would bolster Huck's image.
A few weeks later, the neighbors' lawsuits faltered and the city -- with more than $1.8 million in Federal aid -- began bulldozing trees and dynamiting the limestone ridge.
 
The Tension
Natural Wonder Or Economic Power?
For nearly two centuries, the relationship of people to the Hudson has been tugged between the poles seen in the struggle in Kingston: development and preservation.
Starting with the completion of the Erie Canal in 1825, industrialists saw the river as a shipping corridor for goods and quarry stone and as a place to build factories. Their efforts helped New York City become a major commercial center and seaport.
But over that same span, artists, writers and naturalists heralded the valley as a natural wonder. In the process, the valley became the focus of the first distinctively American school of art and literature, exemplified by the paintings of Thomas Cole and the stories of Washington Irving.
On both sides, "people's relationship to this river has always been intense," said Frances F. Dunwell, a historian who directs a state office that has just completed a 15-year management plan for the Hudson.
In 1846, quarrymen blasted the river's most famous attraction at the time: Turk's Face, a bluff south of Beacon that resembled a human profile. Tourists from as far away as Europe had regularly taken steamboats 45 miles up from Manhattan just to see the curiosity, and now it was rubble.
In Ms. Dunwell's book, "The Hudson River Highlands" (Columbia University Press, 1991), she describes how advocates for scenic preservation cheered shortly afterward when the man responsible, Deering Ayers, was himself blown up while checking an explosive charge on Staten Island.
Continued quarrying in the bluffs led several dozen influential New Yorkers in 1936 to form the Hudson River Conservation Society, the region's first organized environmental group. The society lobbied for the creation of a state commission that did the first survey of sources of Hudson River pollution.
Sewage and industrial waste were pouring into the river everywhere, but little was done about the problem. Mr. Jackson, Beacon's environmental director, recalled how in the 1950's he and other students riding a crosstown school bus would often pool lunch money before reaching the Fishkill Creek -- a Hudson tributary -- and make bets on the color of the water. A fabric-dyeing plant upstream kept them guessing.
Pollution shaped other childhood rites, as well, including summertime swims. To avoid dunking heads in tainted water, Mr. Jackson said, "kids in Beacon never learned to dive."
Other Hudson Valley residents recalled the dense pillows of white foam that would slowly drift by on the river -- effluent from factories. Children would compete to see who could get a tossed stone to perch on the fluff.
 
The Tide Turns
A Drought Reveals A River's Agony
Not until the 1960's did the perception that something was terribly wrong with the Hudson gain real force. By then the banks around each factory were strewn with evidence, said John Cronin, who investigates river pollution for the Hudson Riverkeeper Fund, a private group. "If you went to Diamond Candle Company in Newburgh, wax was everywhere," he said. "Around Tuck Tape, adhesive was everywhere."
Just as people were getting fed up with the foul water, a parallel battle intensified over protection of the scenery around the river. In 1963, the Consolidated Edison Company proposed to hollow out the face of Storm King -- a mountain directly across the river from where Turk's Face once jutted -- to create a hydroelectric power plant.
As the legal challenges to the Storm King project intensified, so too did a record drought. From 1962 to 1966, so little rain and snow fell that the natural flow of the Hudson shriveled, concentrating the river's burden of human and industrial wastes. The result was a literal stinking mess.
With Rachel Carson's seminal environmental book, "Silent Spring," a recent best seller and public concern about pollution rising, Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller campaigned in 1965 for a $1 billion Pure Waters Bond Act to build sewage plants. The bond act passed by more than a 3-to-1 ratio, one year before similar Federal legislation forced the rest of the country to begin catching up.
Quickly thereafter, momentum for a clean river built as a tenacious assortment of fishermen, naturalists, folk singers, property owners and activists formed private groups with names like Riverkeeper and Clearwater. Ever since, communities up and down the river have thwarted a host of projects, including nuclear power plants and a pet project of Mr. Rockefeller's: the Hudson River Expressway, which would have cut a 47-mile swath of pavement along the river's eastern shore from the North Bronx to Beacon and which was abandoned in 1971.
Environmental groups were unwittingly aided by large economic shifts, according to a variety of river watchers. As early as the 1950's, many polluting industries -- through consolidation and a quest for cheaper labor and lower costs -- were abandoning New York, said Nicholas A. Robinson, a law professor at Pace University and the founder of the school's environmental law program.
"That trend saved the Hudson from the fate of many Midwestern rivers," Mr. Robinson said. "Unlike the Cuyahoga" -- the oil-stained river that runs through Cleveland -- "the Hudson never caught fire."
More lawsuits and laws in the 1980's forced the closing of the landfills that for decades smothered Hudson River marshes and leaked toxic chemicals. According to state environmental officials, only 2 of the 32 licensed dumps within a mile of the river in the 1980's still operate. And those two are to close by the end of the decade.
In recent years, environmental activism was again abetted by a shift in the economy: plans for thousands of units of riverfront housing died with the stock market crash of 1987 and the shrinkage of I.B.M. Now, the cleaner river that resulted in part from economic downturns is seen as the source of economic salvation for the Hudson Valley.
 
New Uses
Water to Drink, Fish to Catch
Everywhere along the Hudson, people are finding new opportunities. In some spots, the water itself has become a resource.
Where 20 years ago the river around Albany was so ripe with sewage that fish would suffocate, the water is now so clean that the Albany suburb of Bethlehem began pumping some of its drinking water last winter from an aquifer fed by the river.
Half a dozen communities along cleaner stretches of the river have always drunk filtered river water, but for Bethlehem, just five miles south of the capital, access to clean river water is akin to breathing fresh air after decades of smog. "For us, that water means growth and jobs," said Bruce H. Secor, Bethlehem's commissioner of public works.
From Manhattan to Troy, entrepreneurs are creating dozens of river-oriented businesses. There is serious talk of reviving the oyster beds of the Tappan Zee, which supplied Manhattan taverns with oysters before pollution from rail yards, sewers and factories tainted the water.
John Cutten, a Hudson Valley native, had lived in Miami for many years, working on all manner of boats. But when he decided to start his own charter-cruise business in 1993, he came back to the Hudson. As he slapped a new coat of paint on his restored 70-foot motor yacht, the Teal, Mr. Cutten recalled how, with I.B.M. gone from Kingston and the local economy reeling, "My friends said I was crazy." But business is growing 10 percent a year, he said: "People are falling in love with this river again."
At a new sports complex on Manhattan's Chelsea piers, which a few years ago were a ramshackle mass of warehouses, roller skaters play hockey and golfers now watch Albany-bound tankers as they tee off on a driving range facing New Jersey, their shots trapped by a fine net.
One misty Saturday morning, a swarm of 60 hikers passed the driving range and surged north, weaving around concrete barriers and potholes like a determined school of migratory shad. This was the "Great Saunter," an annual daylong trek around Manhattan's 32-mile perimeter, organized by a group called Shore Walkers. Since the first saunter in 1984, impediments like barbed wire and junk piles have been getting rarer, said the Shore Walkers' founder, Cyrus A. Adler.
Mr. Adler called out to see where his fellow hikers hailed from; the answers -- California, Florida, Ontario, Utah -- were a sign that the riverfront -- albeit a work in progress -- was now an attractive place.
 
The New Shoreline
Towns Again Face A River of Life
Upstate New York communities like Haverstraw, Newburgh and Beacon -- blighted by decay and chronic unemployment after industry abandoned the Hudson -- are now staking their futures on using the river for tourism and recreation. They -- along with seven other riverfront towns, from Albany to Ossining -- are model communities in a state program intended to unify the Hudson Valley.
Created in 1991, the Hudson River Valley Greenway, a state agency, is providing small grants to spur tourism, agriculture, regional planning and urban renewal in the area and helping local governments negotiate the daunting maze of state and county agencies that regulate activities along the river.
The Greenway's small staff is also meant to serve as a go-between, fostering communication among state agencies that rarely talk to each other. For example, some efforts to revitalize waterfronts are run from the New York Secretary of State's office, while much state-owned riverfront property is managed by the Office of General Services.
Another aim, said David Sampson, executive director of one arm of the Greenway office, is to develop new transportation links among Hudson River towns, including trolleys, ferries, and trails. The goal is to make it easy for a hiker from New York City to, say, take a Metro-North train to Beacon, take a trolley up the town's Main Street to the foot of Mount Beacon, then hike along the crags of the Hudson Highlands to Cold Spring, returning home by rail.
 
The Money
Public Gap Filled By Private Largess
With state budgets continuing to shrink, a critical issue these days is money. Last year, cost cutters in the administration of Gov. George E. Pataki came close to eliminating the greenway program altogether. But a public outcry spurred the Governor -- who as a legislator pushed for the creation of the program -- to restore funding.
Mr. Pataki, who grew up along the river and is fond of canoeing with his children in Constitution Marsh, one mile from his Garrison home, said protecting the river and reviving its communities remained a top priority. He recently backed a $40 million plan to increase research on the river and spur sensible economic development, but none of the money is allocated in this year's budget.
Where public money has been lacking, the Hudson Valley -- to an extent unmatched anywhere else, according to a variety of land preservation experts -- has benefited from private philanthropy. In 1983, the founders of Reader's Digest bequeathed part of their fortune to support the Hudson Valley, specifically the Highlands. Acting as an endowment for the river, the Lila Acheson and DeWitt Wallace Fund for the Hudson Highlands annually dispenses some $16 million to buy or protect land. The money is funneled through two groups, Scenic Hudson and the Open Space Institute. Close to 30,000 acres have been set aside.
Although the Hudson has benefited from huge bequests, it has also been improved by a sprinkling of tiny grants and the sweat of hundreds of unpaid river lovers.
Since 1986, the Hudson River Improvement Fund -- created with a $1.5 million settlement paid after tankers flushed oil into the river -- has paid for dozens of projects, including community boat ramps, boat clubs, even a ceramic mural of river life. From Yonkers to Beacon, residents patrol shores for junk and pollution, run educational shad festivals and stage summertime "weed wallows" to rip out channel-clogging mats of imported European water chestnut.
One of the most devoted groups of volunteers, the Beacon Sloop Club, operates out of a tiny shack on that city's waterfront that was built around a living spruce tree. On a recent Friday evening, the folk singer Pete Seeger swept the floor before the club's monthly meeting and laid out a plan to insure that people continue to love the Hudson. Mr. Seeger, 77, a pioneer in the struggle for a cleaner river, wants to increase the river's constituency by immersing people in it, even in the many towns that lack beaches.
"The answer is floating swimming pools," he said. A century ago, Mr. Seeger said, such pools -- porous enclosures surrounded by platforms -- were common around New York City, allowing safe swimming even in deep spots with strong currents. "Once you've got people swimming in it," he said, "they'll never allow it to get dirty again."
 
Getting There
Beautiful, Yes, But How to Reach It?
All is not harmony on the Hudson. Last month, two dozen environmental groups staged a rally in Fishkill, a few miles from the crumbled spot where Turk's Face once stood, to protest a planned quarry that would blast 50 million tons of rock over the next 140 years.
Efforts to revitalize waterfronts from Hoboken to Kingston have increasingly been stalled as developers and environmental groups fight to balance private projects, open space, and public access. Most troubling to many communities is the realization that although the Hudson is cleaner, it is now far harder to get to than ever before.
Guy Hoffman discovered this in 1993, when he hiked across the railroad tracks near Peekskill to reach Roa Hook, a fabled fishing spot for striped bass. He was charged with trespassing by Metro-North police officers.
As he cast a baited hook into the Hudson at the same spot on a recent rainy day, Mr. Hoffman recalled: "I was laid off at the time. I told them, 'This fish plus a box of macaroni and cheese is dinner.' " But the ticket was written nonetheless.
The railroad later dropped the charge for lack of evidence, but Mr. Hoffman's case caused an inquiry into the effect of the railroads on access to the water. Matthew R. Atkinson, a lawyer at Pace University's Environmental Law Clinic, is completing a study that questions the railroads' right to deny access to the river and lists nearly 100 track crossings that have been closed by state officials over the last 80 years.
Many were track-level crossings that, with rising train speeds, posed a hazard, Mr. Atkinson said. But dozens were overpasses, including 18 pedestrian walkways. "People fought for 30 years to clean up the river," he said. "They should have the right to enjoy the fruits of that labor."
The Transportation Department is beginning to take into account the issue of waterfront access, Greenway officials said. But many Hudson Valley residents fear that planners are focusing too much on cars, not pedestrians. "We're losing casual access to places to go fish or have a picnic or just sit quietly," Mr. Atkinson said. "If that continues, we may end up with the Hudson becoming 'Jones Beach North.' "
Mr. Hoffman and the other six anglers casting for bass along Roa Hook recently said that, one way or the other, people will not be denied their river.
They stood on a shoreline that was itself a sign of the cycle of renewal along the Hudson. Not long ago, the forested hill behind them was a dump. Donald Bernstein, fishing with two of his five sons, said he had been coming to this spot every spring for 12 years. "This is my last student," he said of his youngest son, James, who at 10 years old had just caught his first striped bass. A few minutes later, James's rod twitched. He yelled, "Got one!" and hauled in his line, this time landing a squirming green eel.
As an Amtrak train flashed toward Manhattan behind him, Mr. Hoffman sent his line zinging over the milky Hudson, whose waters were beginning to shift as the ebb tide gained force. "Forget about trying to keep people away," he said. "It'd be like trying to stop this water flowing to the ocean."
 
Resurgence Brings Peril Of Its Own
With pollution on the wane, a governor who was raised on the riverbank, and dozens of towns embracing their waterfronts, it might appear that the resurgent Hudson is safe from future degradation. But many longtime observers of the river see signs that a shift for the worse looms.
The renewed love affair between New Yorkers and the Hudson may threaten the very qualities that are drawing people to the river again: its serenity and clean water.
"In some ways, tourism may be the greatest danger that faces the river valley," said John Cronin, who patrols the river for the Hudson Riverkeeper Fund, adding that tourism's effects will not be easy to predict. "It's not like studying the effects of power plants or PCB's," he said. "It's like trying to grab Jell-O."
Increased recreation could shatter the Hudson's tranquillity. Eight boat ramps to be built by the state in the next three years will allow many more New Yorkers to get out on the river. But rising speedboat traffic could stain the water with oil, and the shrill buzz of jet skis could increasingly echo from the bluffs of the Hudson Highlands.
As the Hudson Valley economy recovers, the dormant housing market is stirring, creating a new threat to shoreline marshes and potential sources of pollution.
Subtler problems could hamper the river's recovery. Although efforts are under way to foster regional planning, a long tradition of home rule still holds sway, with many of the river's local governments pressing ahead with independent development projects. Without regional agreement on how to deal with environmental problems, cleanups have been delayed.
In an era of tight budgets, few people studying the Hudson say they believe that any proposal for a large-scale initiative, like Nelson A. Rockefeller's short-lived Hudson River Valley Commission of the 1960's, stands a chance.
Indeed, while ambitious projects of all sorts -- be they river commissions, sewage plants or nuclear power plants -- were emblematic of the river's past, they are unlikely to be a part of its future. In two recent announcements, Gov. George E. Pataki revealed a $40 million management plan for the river, with $25 million coming from his $1.5 billion environmental bond act. But as recently as Friday, the state's Hudson River office did not know if there was money to pay for programs for 1997.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Hudson is increasingly popular for recreation, but railroads impede access to much of the shore. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times) (pg. A1); Many new businesses and groups have sprung up to take advantage of the Hudson's new cleanliness. One is a Manhattan group, "Floating the Apple," whose members build rowboats and take them out on the river. They eventually hope to build the first new boathouses on the river in decades for their vessels. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times); FISHING -- Although scientists advise strict limits on eating Hudson fish, sport anglers are flocking to the river. Above, on the Hoboken, N.J., waterfront. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times); PLAYING-- With the waterfront once again a pleasant place, riverside parks are newly popular. Far left, young people on a dock at Senasqua Park in Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times); SWIMMING -- Walter Beyer has swum in the Hudson for 30 years, but lately he finds the water more crowded. Below, Mr. Beyer at the Philipse Manor Beach Club in North Tarrytown, N.Y. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times); SAILING -- The sloop Clearwater, conceived by the folk singer Pete Seeger, is among the Hudson's most famous sailboats. Left, off Cold Spring, N.Y. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times) (pgs. B6 & B7)
 
Map: "Planned But Unbuilt" shows sites of several large projects along the Hudson that have been abandoned with increased awareness of the river's fragility. (pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: HUDSON VALLEY HOMESTEAD (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HUDSON RIVER; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCB); FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; FISHING, COMMERCIAL; WATER POLLUTION; SURVEYS AND SERIES DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (88%); CITY LIFE (78%); POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (78%); CITIES (78%); WATER POLLUTION (77%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (77%); HISTORIC SITES (77%); BED & BREAKFAST INNS (77%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (77%); BOAT BUILDING (76%); TRENDS (75%); MARINE VESSELS (75%); FERRIES (75%); ARCHAEOLOGY (74%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (73%); WILDLIFE (73%); TOURISM (69%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (69%); LEISURE TRAVEL (68%); NEW ECONOMY (68%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); FISHES (60%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (53%); 

PERSON: REVKIN, ANDREW C HUDSON HIGHLANDS (91%); DONALD CASEY (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 1996



240 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-10
 
THE ENIGMA OF GERRY ADAMS
Each side in the Northern Ireland conflict has its own view of Gerry Adams, the leader of Sinn Fein, but few would deny he is the pivotal figure in the peace talks that start today, even if he is not invited. A1
 
THAI KING CELEBRATES 50 YEARS
King Bhumibol Adulyadej of Thailand, the world's longest-serving living monarch, celebrated his 50th year on the throne in a day of pomp and national homage. A3
 
INDIA AND PAKISTAN MAY TALK
India's new Prime Minister, H. D. Deve Gowda, accepted an offer from Pakistan to resume high-level talks that were suspended in January 1994. A3
 
BLASTS CAUSE UNEASE IN SYRIA
A series of explosions has caused unease in Damascus, Syria's capital, which has not seen such violence in more than a decade. A6
 
SILENCE FROM NETANYAHU
Benjamin Netanyahu, the Israeli Prime Minister-elect, declined to respond to the call for an Arab summit meeting until he has formed a Government. A7
 
CROATS HOLD WAR CRIMES SUSPECT
The Croatian police arrested a Bosnian Croat charged by the international war crimes tribunal with the murder of Muslim prisoners. A8
 
TO PAY OR NOT TO PAY IN ARGENTINA
Argentinians are complaining that their Government has gone too far in cracking down on tax evasion, which has long been something of a national pastime. A8
 
Kishiwada Journal: The fish Japanese die to eat. A4
 
National A12-15, B9-11
 
AFFIRMATIVE-ACTION STRONGHOLD
The private corporation that is staging this summer's Olympic Games in Atlanta is bucking the national trend of opposition to affirmative action. A1
 
THE RUSSIAN ROUTE
Alaska, Oregon and Washington State have made good economic use of the melting of the "ice curtain" between the Russian Far East and the American Northwest. A1
 
APOLOGY FROM THE WHITE HOUSE
The White House, with the President's endorsement, apologized to several prominent Republicans because their confidential files were obtained from the F.B.I. A1
 
FLORIDA'S NEW SPORT
The Florida Panthers are down and almost out of the Stanley Cup finals, but hockey fever still rages in Miami nonetheless. A12
 
WORRIES IN THE WOODS
For some hikers, the slayings of two women on the Appalachian Trail serve as a reminder that the horrors often associated with urban life are inescapable even in the deep woods. A12
 
DOLE'S STERN IMAGE PERSISTS
Bob Dole is showing a much calmer side than in his 1988 Presidential campaign, but the earlier reputation lives on in some quarters. B10
 
CLINTON HEADS WEST
President Clinton was in San Francisco, starting a three-day drive to raise more than $2.5 million for the Democratic Party. B10
 
Metro Report B1-8
 
BACK TO THE RIVERSIDE
Up and down the Hudson, people who had for decades turned their backs on the sullied river are now rummaging through old wharfs, sagging buildings and fading memories to find ways to link their lives and livelihoods to the water. A1
 
DYSFUNCTIONAL FAMILY COURT
For parents whose children have been removed from their houseolds by child-welfare authorities, the hurdles to getting them back can be extreme, parents, lawyers and judges say. Court-appointed lawyers are overburdened and ill-equipped, case conferences take place in courthouse stairwells, and there is no money for the services of independent experts. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Arts/Entertainment C11-18
 
American and British actors brainstorm. C11
Theater: Marathon of one-act plays. C16
Music: Learning Alliance. C12
Honan Opera Troupe. C12
"On the Town." C16
Asia Society. C16
Dance: "Stepping Stones." C11
Silvia Martins. C16
Books: "Crusade." C13
Television: "Paradise Lost." C11
"Black and White in America." C16
 
Sports C1-9
 
Baseball: Isringhausen shuts out Marlins. C1
Yankees top Tigers. C7
Basketball: Bulls take 3-0 lead on SuperSonics. C1
Columns: Vecsey on soccer. C9
Araton on the N.B.A. finals. C5
On Baseball. C7
Golf: Els crushes field. C3
Soccer: MetroStars whipped by Galaxy. C9
Tennis: Kafelnikov wins French Open. C1
Track and Field: Torrence aims for four Olympic gold medals. C4
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A16-17
 
Editorials
 
The new encryption universe.
Workfare for students.
Karl E. Meyer: Ancient Games.
 
Letters
 
Anthony Lewis: Little England.
Bob Herbert: Nike's pyramid scheme.
William Safire: Shame on the F.B.I.
Klaus Friedrich: The end of Germany's economic model.
Daniel Schorr: The F.B.I.'s files and the President's fate.
 
Chronicle B4
 
Bridge C16
 
Crossword C10

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: CROATIA (93%); INDIA (92%); ARGENTINA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SYRIA (92%); THAILAND (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); NORTHERN IRELAND (92%); ISRAEL (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (75%); 

CITY: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (91%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FAR EAST MOTORS (53%); SINN FEIN (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: SINN FEIN (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CROATIA (93%); INDIA (92%); ARGENTINA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SYRIA (92%); THAILAND (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); NORTHERN IRELAND (92%); ISRAEL (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (75%); DAMASCUS, SYRIA (91%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); WAR CRIMES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ICE HOCKEY (86%); US PRESIDENTS (85%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (79%); PEACE PROCESS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); TAX FRAUD (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (70%); TRENDS (70%); OLYMPICS (68%); WINTER SPORTS (68%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (68%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (66%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (66%); ARRESTS (66%); CITY LIFE (60%); CITIES (60%); HIKING (60%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (58%); MURDER (52%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (50%); 

PERSON: BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (69%); BILL CLINTON (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 1996



241 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1022 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

NEW YORK
 
For Some Parents, Lawyers Fail
For the parents, almost all of them poor, whose children have been removed from their households by child-welfare authorities, the legal system can be daunting. Their court-appointed lawyers are overburdened and ill equipped, according to parents, lawyers and judges. With the merits of the city's case unresolved, a child can remain in foster care for months, sometimes more than a year, before a judge makes a permanent decision on his or her future. And once children have been placed in foster care, parents trying to get them back have no right to a court-appointed lawyer. [Page A1.]
 
Prayers for an Attack Victim
Prayers for the victim of the vicious assault in Central Park were offered in solemn services at Armenian Orthodox churches across the metropolitan area as the police intensified the hunt for the assailant and a grieving family kept a round-the-clock hospital vigil for the comatose woman. At the behest of the victim's mother, hundreds of worshipers at Armenian Orthodox rites on Manhattan's East and West Sides, in Queens and on Long Island prayed amid flickering candles and medieval liturgical music for a woman whose victimization seemed to strike at the roots of the city's psyche. [B1.]
 
The Police Department's Crime Stoppers Unit has been fielding calls from hundreds of people who believe they have information that might lead to an arrest in the attack in Central Park. [B3.]
 
Keeping Peace in Far Rockaway
In Far Rockaway, Queens, a booming middle class Orthodox community and black and Hispanic residents maintain a neighborly, though not warm, relationship. There is strain just beneath the surface, projected in a language of suspicion, stereotype and self-interest by people on both sides. But through a combination of physical separation, political savvy and pragmatic cooperation, there is also an effort to keep Far Rockaway from becoming Crown Heights, where just last month hackles rose again when the police said members of a Hasidic patrol beat a black man with their walkie-talkies. [B1.]
 
A Club Owner Speaks Out
Town officials in Westhampton Beach, L.I., have portrayed a beating at Club Marakesh as an accident waiting to happen. They say the club has been a spawning ground for trouble, and they have petitioned the State Liquor Authority to revoke its liquor license. But Edward J. Dougherty, the club's founder and owner, called the situation one fraught with irony: the day after the beating over the Memorial Day weekend, he said, he was to transfer the club's management to another entity. "It was my intention to get out," said Mr. Dougherty, a real estate agent and entrepreneur, in his first public comments since the incident. [B1.]
 
In his first words since a near-fatal beating Memorial Day weekend, Shane L. Daniels, 21, asked for his mother. [B5.]
 
A Nod to What's Missing
Next time you're traveling on any of the highways in New York City, notice what is missing. Notice the absence of filth. Garbage, so long a permanent fixture of the city's roads that the sloppiness was a national embarrassment, has done a disappearing act. Not everywhere; some roadways remain as dirty as ever, especially because of illegal dumping. But there has been a noticeable change in just a year. The reason is an experiment in privatization called the Adopt-a-Highway program. A California-based company brought it to New York City, and it has, with the encouragement of the Giuliani administration, grown. Metro Matters by Joyce Purnick. [B1.]
 
Church Rivalry Ends in Death
They are two simple storefront churches, on the ground floor of two-story row houses on a modest block in Brownsville, Brooklyn. But since one opened a door away from the other about eight years ago, investigators said, the neighbors have fought bitterly, each accusing the other of slashed tires and hang-up phone calls, each hurling slurs questioning the other church's legitimacy. The feud came to a violent end when the three sons of the pastor of the Prince of Peace Disciples Church took out guns and fired at the parishioners from the other church, killing one, the police said. [B2.]
 
Puerto Ricans Celebrate
Tens of thousands of Puerto Ricans turned a hazy stretch of Fifth Avenue red, white and blue with a sea of miniature national flags, lining the street to cheer their heritage -- and many also to jeer Mayor Giuliani -- during the 39th annual Puerto Rican Day parade. For the second year in a row, Mr. Giuliani met with a chorus of boos and catcalls as he marched at the head of the parade, publicly underscoring a recent poll that shows his popularity among Hispanic voters remains much lower than when he was elected. [B3.]
 
Al Poulin, Poetry Editor, Dies
Al Poulin, a French-Canadian New England mill hand's son who had such an appetite for language that he managed to live the life of a poet in a world that sometimes seems to value typesetters more, died at a hospital in Brockport, N.Y., the Erie Canal town he had made a center of contemporary American poetry. He was 58 and the founding editor of BOA Editions, one of the nation's premier poetry publishers. [B12.]
 
REGION
 
Hubbub Returns to the Hudson
Up and down the Hudson, people who for decades had turned their backs on the sullied river are now rummaging through old wharfs, sagging buildings and fading memories to find new ways to link their lives and livelihoods to the water. Riverfront cities and towns are realizing they can build a new economy around tourism and recreation. Many planners say the Hudson Valley -- with its fjord-like highlands, grand mansions, historic sites, and hills blanketed with orchards and vineyards -- could someday rival the Rhine or Loire valleys of Europe as a tourist destination. With wildlife and many fish species abundant, so too are hikers, birders, and anglers. [A1.]
 
With pollution on the wane, it might appear that the Hudson is safe from future degradation. But many longtime observers of the river see signs that a shift for the worse looms. [B6.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); ARMENIA (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MEMORIAL DAY (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEMORIAL DAY (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ARMENIA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS PUBLIC DEFENDERS (91%); FOSTER CARE (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); DRINKING PLACES (84%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (79%); CHILD PROTECTIVE SERVICES (78%); JUDGES (78%); CHILD WELFARE (78%); POLICE FORCES (77%); CITY LIFE (76%); CITIES (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); RELIGION (74%); PETITIONS (72%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (71%); RACE & RACISM (69%); LIQUOR LAWS & LICENSING (60%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (60%); LICENSES & PERMITS (60%); MUSIC (51%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (50%); 

PERSON: AL POULIN (58%); EDWARD J DOUGHERTY (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 1996



242 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 10, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 631 words

HEADLINE: White House Says Provision Endangers Health Bill

BYLINE: By ADAM CLYMER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 9

 BODY:
The Clinton Administration today threatened to veto a health insurance bill if Republicans insist on including a large-scale program of medical savings accounts, and Representative Dick Armey, the House Republican floor leader, dared the President to do it.
Others in each party said they still hoped a compromise could be worked out, but neither Administration nor Congressional aides involved with the issue said any progress had been made over the weekend. Senator Bob Dole, the majority leader and likely Republican Presidential nominee, has frequently said he would like to see a bill passed before he leaves the Senate on Tuesday. 
 The underlying measure to make health-insurance coverage portable from job to job has almost universal support on Capitol Hill. Sponsored by Senators Nancy Landon Kassebaum, Republican of Kansas, and Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, it passed the Senate 100 to 0.
But House Republicans, supported by Mr. Dole, want to include a program of tax-free savings accounts to pay basic health care costs for individuals, who would also buy insurance policies with high deductibles to cover catastrophic illnesses.
The Republicans contend such a plan would slow medical inflation and increase patients' choices. But Democrats argue, as Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin said today, "the most healthy and the most affluent are likely to go into that program," raising insurance costs for everyone else.
With Congress and Mr. Clinton out of town, today's skirmishing took place on television interview programs. Mr. Rubin, appearing on ABC News's "This Week," said the President would veto the bill if it reached him with medical savings accounts attached. Mr. Clinton had previously described the provision as a "poison pill," but no explicit veto threat had been made by the Administration.
Mr. Armey, who ranks second to Speaker Newt Gingrich among House Republicans, appeared on the same broadcast and said, "I will not give up" on the savings accounts. Asked what would happen if that provoked a veto, he replied, "Then the President will have to deal with the American people when he has vetoed one of the most popular things before the American people."
The temperature was a little cooler on the NBC News program "Meet the Press," where Leon E. Panetta, the White House chief of staff, said, "If there is anything I hope Senator Dole can deliver on before he leaves the Senate, it is the Kennedy-Kassebaum bill."
Mr. Panetta said that while the accounts "do not belong" in the Kassebaum-Kennedy bill, the Administration was willing to accept a demonstration project to see how they worked in practice. "The Republicans on the House side have said, 'No, no, we want this thing all or nothing,' " he said.
As passed by the House, the bill would have made the accounts immediately available to almost everyone covered by private insurance. House Republicans have agreed to scale it back to about two-thirds of those with private insurance, as a first step, with everyone else being eligible after three years.
The House negotiators in the informal, all-Republican negotiations have also agreed to drop provisions in their bill for limits on damages in medical malpractice suits and for the creation of small business insurance purchasing groups that would be free of state regulation.
Another House Republican, also appearing on "Meet the Press," took a softer line than Mr. Armey's. Representative John R. Kasich of Ohio, chairman of the Budget Committee, said that even though he strongly favored medical savings accounts, he did not want to see the savings provision kill a bill making coverage portable and curtailing the ability of insurance companies to deny coverage to new clients for existing medical conditions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (82%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: KANSAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (82%); HOUSE REPUBLICAN (90%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (86%); HOUSE REPUBLICANS (68%); WHITE HOUSE (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE REPUBLICAN (90%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (86%); HOUSE REPUBLICANS (68%); WHITE HOUSE (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); KANSAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; VETOES (US); HEALTH INSURANCE; LAW AND LEGISLATION LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); VETO (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US HEALTH INSURANCE PORTABILITY & ACCOUNTABILITY ACT (89%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); INSURANCE (78%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (78%); INSURANCE LAW (78%); HEALTH CARE (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); INSURANCE POLICIES (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (69%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (67%); 

PERSON: CLYMER, ADAM; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); ARMEY, DICK (REPR) TED KENNEDY (78%); LEON E PANETTA (58%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 1996



243 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 610 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

British Air and American: Hands Across the Water
American Airlines and British Airways are expected to announce tomorrow that they will join forces as marketing partners, selling seats on each other's flights and linking frequent-flier programs. A deal would mean that American's chairman, Robert L. Crandall, was dropping his opposition to code-sharing, a powerful shortcut in the computerized booking of space on an airline partner's flights.
While other carriers have made similar deals, an American-British Airways partnership is considered the most important yet because of the vast reach of the two carriers' route networks. [Page D2.]
 
Big Bill for Debt Relief
The cost of reducing the debts of the poorest nations so that they may increase economic growth rates and attract more investment could be $5.6 billion to $7.7 billion over six years, a study by the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund estimated. [D2.]
 
Affirmative Action in Atlanta
In contrast with a large number of American cities, Atlanta's political establishment continues to embrace affirmative action. The private corporation that is staging the summer Olympics has awarded almost a third of its $387 million in construction and vending contracts to companies primarily owned by blacks. [A1.]
 
Stock Tables in Flux
Although newspapers are becoming more economical with space and investors can get their hands on financial data in any number of ways, stock tables are not disappearing. Instead, the tables are being trimmed a bit and customized a great deal. Press. [D9.]
 
The New First Gentleman at Ms.
In partnership with Paxson Communications, Jay C. MacDonald, a longtime advertising salesman, is giving second chances to Working Woman, Working Mother and Ms. magazines. The publications were purchased as they were about to slip into bankruptcy. [D9.]
 
Young, Wealthy and Published
At 18, Jenn Crowell is about to have her first novel published by G. P. Putnam's Sons, which has been successfully selling the rights to her book to foreign publishers. [D9.]
 
The Latest in Computers
In a business where state-of-the-art has always been a selling point, used equipment is still proving popular. Some customers like to snap up bargains; others need to cannibalize older machines for discontinued parts. [D5.]
 
Testing an Appetite for Politics
Three of the nation's biggest media companies are gambling on the notion that advertisers will be more receptive to one big political site than they were to two big sites on the World Wide Web. Politics Now, which opened last week, represents a merger of Election Line, produced by Capital Cities/ABC and the Washington Post Company, and Politics USA, a venture of the Times Mirror Company. [D5.]
 
Human Development on the Web
The World Wide Web is serving as a hospitable environment for memes. Memes? The word is what an evolutionary biologist at Oxford University came up with in 1969 to denote ideas that alter the ways in which we think. The biologist said that memes would, like genes, replicate themselves, affecting the course of human development. Edward Rothstein: Technology. [D5.]
 
Technical Help for CPR
By monitoring blood flow during cardiopulmonary resuscitation, a battery-powered device could improve the success rate of the life-saving procedure. Teresa Riordan: Patents [D3.]
 
The Hudson, in a New Light
Many planners say the Hudson Valley -- with its highlands, historic sites and hills blanketed with orchards and vineyards -- could someday rival the Rhine or Loire valleys of Europe as a tourist destination. [A1.]

GRAPHIC: Chart: "LAST WEEK"
Dow Industrials -- 5,697.10 Up 53.93
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 7.02% Up 0.04
The Dollar -- 109.23 yen Up 1.18

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: BAY (LSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (64%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (60%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (54%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (54%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (50%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (92%); G P PUTNAM'S SONS (64%); TIMES MIRROR CO (60%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); ION MEDIA NETWORKS INC (54%); ABC INC (50%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS AIRLINES (91%); AIRLINE ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (90%); PUBLISHING (87%); MERGERS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (74%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (74%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); VENDING MACHINE OPERATORS (72%); STOCK INDEXES (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (69%); WOMEN WORKERS (68%); OLYMPICS (67%); CITY LIFE (67%); CITIES (67%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (67%); WORKING MOTHERS (63%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (52%); 

PERSON: ROBERT L CRANDALL (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 1996



244 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1218 words

HEADLINE: Life After General Motors: Day 1 at E.D.S.

BYLINE: By ALLEN R. MYERSON 

DATELINE: PLANO, Tex., June 7

 BODY:
Electronic Data Systems begins trading Monday on the New York Stock Exchange as a separate company, free after a dozen years of ownership by the General Motors Corporation. But E.D.S., the nation's largest independent computer-services provider, has been revving its engine, trying even to line up business from General Motors' rivals, for more than a year.
At the company's Virtual Reality Center in Detroit, open since April 1995, E.D.S. has courted executives who had shied away from G.M. Visitors to the center saw how to build and test virtual products in virtual factories, even walking virtual assembly lines to make sure that every employee and robot was productively placed. 
 "Last year all the automobile companies came into the center, and I mean all of them," said Bob Voiers, the center's director. A top E.D.S. executive said the company had already reached agreements to provide services to several Asian, European and American auto makers.
With its own stock and no need for laborious review by General Motors, E.D.S. will have much greater freedom to pursue partners, allies and customers of all sorts.
"There's no question that it's going to give them additional economies and flexibility," said Dennie M. Welsh, general manager of I.B.M. Global Services, the consulting, maintenance and computer-services unit that is a chief rival of Electronic Data.
E.D.S. unbound is unlikely, however, to become E.D.S. unstoppable. In the hot, high-growth computer services business, International Business Machines' $12.7 billion in sales last year surpassed E.D.S.'s $12.4 billion, according to the Gartner Group, a research firm in Stamford, Conn. (E.D.S. calls the I.B.M. revenue figure suspect.)
To prosper, E.D.S., which is based in Plano, Tex., just north of Dallas, must show clients how far it has come from its origins under Ross Perot, as a regiment of computer specialists with management skills borrowed from the military.
Although Mr. Perot sold the company to General Motors in 1984, as recently as last summer, at Mr. Perot's midterm political convention in Dallas, the House minority leader, Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, referred to "E.D.S., Ross's company." E.D.S. executives shuddered.
"For the first time in our history we're not under the shadow of either Perot or G.M.," Lester M. Alberthal Jr., the company's chief executive, said in an interview this week, with a contented grin. "Our challenge is to carve out either an image or a brand."
If E.D.S. is looking for a more human face, it won't be his. "C.E.O.'s aren't going to buy business because they see my face on television," said Mr. Alberthal, the shy, guarded antithesis of a modern computer baron.
E.D.S. has been looking for ways to let people know how often it sets up everything from automated bank teller and airline reservations systems to World Wide Web pages. Late last year, with the split with G.M. pending, E.D.S. hired Bates Worldwide as its first major, global advertising agency.
Its ultimate audience consists of chief executives. Rivals like Andersen Consulting have had greater success in advising chief executives how technology can transform their companies and then carrying out these plans.
E.D.S. hoped to buy its way into the thick of management consulting with its $600 million purchase last year of A. T. Kearney. But analysts say that E.D.S. employees are still learning how to present themselves as canny corporate advisers "instead of how people know them, which is with the Ross Perot 'take the beach' mentality," as Bonnie Digrius, a Gartner Group vice president, put it.
E.D.S. executives complain that their reputation have lagged behind their evolution. "Nobody who has met me can say that E.D.S. is a highly regimented bunch of robots," said Gary J. Fernandes, the company's vice chairman. (He may have been an Army first lieutenant from a military family, but he collects rare first editions of Bertrand Russell, the philosopher and pacifist.)
Because the split with G.M. was announced in August, analysts foresee no great surprises in the stock market on Monday.
Under G.M.'s ownership. E.D.S. was listed as General Motors class E stock. "E.D.S. has traded as if it were an independent company for an awful long time," said Bill Rabin of J. P. Morgan Securities. Some new buyers might show up, he said, especially among institutional investors forbidden from owning special stock issues like G.M. class E. The company's expected inclusion in the Standard & Poor's 500 index will also produce demand.
Independence is also likely to help E.D.S. with acquisitions. Because the class E shares had no direct ownership or transaction value, E.D.S. had to pay cash. Now it can use its new stock, although Federal regulations require it to wait two years to begin realizing the full financial advantages.
Don't expect any mega-deals, however.
"We haven't gone through what we've gone through to become independent only to throw that independence away," Mr. Alberthal said. E.D.S. will instead hunt for smaller, niche and foreign acquisitions. Major alliances with communications or computer-hardware companies are also possible, he added, noting that E.D.S. and Sprint were already doing much more business together.
Mr. Fernandes, the company's chief deal maker, said that while G.M.'s ownership provided expertise in manufacturing and in running a vast, global computer web, it also killed a planned merger with Sprint as well as several other deals.
Mr. Alberthal observed that his telephone conference negotiations with General Motors were often shared by more than 30 lawyers.
G.M. plans to gradually seek other bidders for computer services.
E.D.S. faces the delicate task of marketing talents gained from its work for G.M., which reached nearly $4 billion last year, without having its former parent or its rivals suspect E.D.S. of trafficking in trade secrets.
E.D.S. executives describe their initial assignments for other auto companies -- in areas like consulting and systems integration, or linking computer equipment from different makers -- as modest. But these give E.D.S. its first inroads into the broader, $36 billion information technology market among auto makers other than G.M.
The separation will open other new fields as well, E.D.S. says. A few years ago, a company executive approached John C. Malone, chief executive of Tele-Communications Inc., the cable television giant, about a partnership. His response was curt. "No way would we ever do a deal with someone trying to put us out of business," he said, alluding to the satellite-television plans of G.M.'s Hughes Electronics unit.
"We're not trying to put you out of business," the E.D.S. executive responded.
"But you're a fellow traveler," Mr. Malone shot back.
Now that E.D.S. is a fellow traveler no more, its executives hope that Hughes rivals in aerospace, military contracting and electronics, and competitors of G.M.'s finance unit, will emerge as potential customers.
Rival auto makers in particular, Mr. Voiers, said, have awakened to the new virtual reality. Since last year, he said, their attitude has changed from, "Gee, I wonder how we can do business with these guys who are owned by G.M." to "Gee, I wonder how they can help us."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "For the first time in our history we're not under the shadow of either Perot or G.M.," said Lester M. Alberthal Jr., chief executive of Electronic Data Systems. (Mark Graham for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (90%); IBMC (BRU) (54%); IBM (NYSE) (54%); IBM (LSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS541513 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (85%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (85%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (85%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (85%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (87%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (87%); CONNECTICUT, USA (68%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (87%); 

COMPANY: ELECTRONIC DATA SYSTEMS CORP; GENERAL MOTORS CORP MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (94%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (90%); HP ENTERPRISE SERVICES (85%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: ELECTRONIC DATA SYSTEMS CORP; GENERAL MOTORS CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (87%); TEXAS, USA (87%); CONNECTICUT, USA (68%); DALLAS, TX, USA (87%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); INDUSTRIAL AUTOMATION (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); INTERVIEWS (73%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (72%); VIRTUAL REALITY (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); 

PERSON: MYERSON, ALLEN R; PEROT, ROSS; ALBERTHAL, LESTER M JR ROSS PEROT (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 1996



245 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1340 words

HEADLINE: As Trade Booms, Little Fear of a Communist

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: ANCHORAGE, June 5

 BODY:
Surrounded by beaver coats, ermine jackets and fox trim hats, Perry Green happily remembered the recent morning here when 13 Russian women walked into his store empty-handed -- and walked out with 15 mink coats.
But conversation in his chilly fur vault heated up when the rotund Alaskan furrier looked at the coming presidential elections on the far side of the Bering Strait. Noting that only a year ago he opened another store, at Anchorage's airport, to cater to Russian tourists who come for the variety, quality and low prices they do not find at home, he said: "I don't think the Communists will win. Even if they do, once you have tasted freedom, you can't shut it off." 
 Five years ago this week, with the advent of regularly scheduled air service by Aeroflot and Alaska Airlines after the collapse of the Soviet Union, the decades-old "ice curtain" effectively melted between the Russian Far East and the American Northwest.
While Russian-American trade has grown by about $1 billion a year since 1992, some of the fastest growth has been registered in sales from Alaska, Oregon and Washington. With container ships now leaving Tacoma, Wash., each week for the Russian Far East, exports from the Pacific Northwest now total about half a billion dollars a year, giving the region a healthy trade surplus with the Far East, in contrast to the United States' overall trade deficit with Russia.
After opening a trade office in Vladivostok, the largest city of the Russian Far East, Washington State now sells apples, computers and Boeing jets to Russia. Seattle entrepreneurs have exported a microbrewery to Vladivostok and are lining up bands for a grunge rock concert this fall: Vladirockstok.
Russia opened a consulate in Seattle in 1993, its first new one in the United States in 20 years. Today, frost-free Seattle is fast becoming a Miami for the Russian Far East, with about 45,000 Russians in residence. Some of these are affluent Russian businessmen who have bought houses and apartments there, and, fleeing the gangland violence of Russia's "wild East," have moved their families over.
Here in Alaska, Russia's stamp is as ancient as the colonial place names: Nikolai, Tolstoi Point, and Glory of Russia Cape.
Today, Anchorage is virtually equidistant by jet from Los Angeles and Vladivostok. As trans-Bering interchanges intensify, 14 Alaskan cities and towns have signed sister city agreements with Russian Far East municipalities. Regular flights now link Anchorage to cities of Russia's Pacific Rim. From Fairbanks, Jack Randolph, a regional director for Rotary International, last month chartered six new Rotary Clubs across the Russian Far East.
After five years of soaring business and cultural ties, many Alaskans and Washingtonians are now closely following Russia's June 16 presidential elections, in which President Boris N. Yeltsin is facing a strong challenge from a Communist candidate, Gennadi A. Zyuganov.
Here, in the shadow of the onion domes and robin's-egg blue trim of the new Russian Orthodox Cathedral, Father E. Nicholas Harris warned darkly of the threat posed by Mr. Zyuganov, saying, "We are very leery that the Communists would come back and take over again."
"We Americans forget very, very fast," said the priest, whose church is part of an archipelago of 88 Russian Orthodox communities along Alaska's southern coastline. "There were 70 years of Communism -- and, after five years of business, we put it out of our minds."
In recent weeks, by signing a peace treaty with Chechnya, abolishing the draft and stressing previous economic failures under Communism, Mr. Yeltsin appears to have gained an edge with the electorate. But even if he were to lose, many Alaska business people cannot imagine that a new Russian government would try to turn back the clock.
At an office near the port here, with electronic mail from Russia glowing on the computer screens of the Alaska Russia Company, David A. Heatwole asked oratorically: "What happens if Yeltsin loses? Nothing.
"What people don't realize is that changes in Russia are driven by the people," said Mr. Heatwole, president of the company, which exports food and earth-moving equipment to Magadan, a gold mining city close to the Arctic Circle built by Stalin 60 years ago as a gateway to the gulag. "Politicians are politicians -- to remain in power they have to provide economic growth," he said.
At an Anchorage Wal-Mart, four Russian businesswomen were inspecting cosmetics on Tuesday, talking contentedly in Russian about "the little prices, the little prices." They were from Sakhalin, a vast island, much of which was occupied by the Japanese in the first half of this century. The entire island was off-limits to foreigners until the early part of this decade.
A hometown booster, Nadezhda A. Snezhkina, pressed on a curious American a full-color, bilingual Russian-English tourist brochure, prepared by the Mayor of her city, Kholmsk.
"No one seriously thinks that we could return to history -- maybe there will be some limitations," reflected Mrs. Snezhkina, who directs a municipal trading company.
A similar view came from Charles B. Neff, director of the American Business Center, an organization that is financed by the United States Government and has given small business training to 7,000 Russians in the last three years.
"We are past the point of going back to Brezhnev," said Mr. Neff, whose organization, based in Anchorage, concentrates on the Russian Far East. "Most people think that if Zyuganov comes and tries some things in the old style, he will eventually have to try the way of the market."
In what would be a major commitment to the market, the Marathon Oil Company is expected to announce within two weeks that the international consortium it leads, the Sakhalin Energy Investment Company, will go ahead with a multibillion-dollar oil and gas investment for the island.
Alaska is expected to be the staging area for many of the companies in the project.
"Everyone is just holding out and waiting for the big oil development in Sakhalin," said Anne Sudkamp, editor of Russian Far East News, a business monthly published by the University of Alaska. Reflecting growing business interest, a rival monthly, Russian Far East Update, is published in Seattle.
Determined to win a major share of the oil service business, Alaska has signed a sister state accord with Sakhalin. Alaska Airlines is studying expanding service to the provincial capital, Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk. In 1991, this airline made a cautious foray into Russia, with summer service to two cities. Now, it has year-round service to four cities: Khabarovsk, Magadan, Petropavlovsk and Vladivostok.
As stores here continue to stock 220-volt appliances for visiting Russian tourists, many Alaskan business executives predict that trade will grow with the Russian Far East -- in part because of the region's traditional autonomy from far-off Moscow, and in part because of its heavy reliance on imports.
Last year, after supplies failed to arrive from Moscow, one Russian Far East province turned to the Tesoro Alaska Petroleum Company for imports of jet fuel and gasoline. Now the oil company is looking for a Russian partner to open a chain of gasoline stations in Vladivostok.
The Russian Far East, an area about two-thirds the size of the lower 48 states, imports about 75 percent of its food. Few traders here believe that a Communist president would risk closing off food imports from the United States, a natural supplier.
"Even if the Communists do come back, they won't be able to switch everything back," said Michael J. Francis, food purchasing manager for Slava Export, an Anchorage trading company that on any given day has about five food containers on ships shuttling from Tacoma to the Russian Far East.
As Mr. Francis talked here on Tuesday, Slava's president, Steve Zelner, was in Khabarovsk signing leases on apartments that he planned to renovate and sublet to visiting American businessmen this fall.

GRAPHIC: Map shows cities in the U.S. and Russia that have built economic bridges. (pg. B9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AFLT (RTS) (56%); BOE (LSE) (53%); BAB (BRU) (53%); BA (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (56%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (95%); WASHINGTON, USA (95%); BERING SEA (92%); NORTHWEST USA (92%); OREGON, USA (92%); WEST USA (92%); 

CITY: ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (94%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%); TACOMA, WA, USA (79%); FAIRBANKS, AK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AEROFLOT RUSSIAN AIRLINES OAO (56%); BOEING CO (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; ALASKA; OREGON; WASHINGTON (STATE); PACIFIC NORTHWESTERN STATES (US); UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); ALASKA, USA (95%); WASHINGTON, USA (95%); BERING SEA (92%); NORTHWEST USA (92%); OREGON, USA (92%); WEST USA (92%); ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (94%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%); TACOMA, WA, USA (79%); FAIRBANKS, AK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ELECTIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS AIRLINES (90%); FUR & LEATHER CLOTHING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); AIR SERVICE (88%); EXPORT TRADE (87%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (87%); CITY LIFE (86%); FUR APPAREL STORES (78%); AIRPORTS (75%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (72%); TRENDS (72%); CITIES (69%); POP & ROCK (68%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (63%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES; YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES); ZYUGANOV, GENNADI A BORIS N YELTSIN (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 1996



246 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 2056 words

HEADLINE: ATLANTA LEADERS SEE RACIAL GOALS AS OLYMPIC IDEAL

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK 

DATELINE: ATLANTA, June 9

 BODY:
All across America, affirmative action has been chased into retreat by lawmakers and judges. But here in Atlanta, the private corporation that is staging this summer's Olympic Games has awarded almost a third of its $387 million in construction and vending contracts to companies owned primarily by minorities and women.
Experts on affirmative action say such numbers are unheard-of in the private sector. But to city leaders, the commitment to minority participation is a reflection of a political reality so entrenched that it has come to be known as "the Atlanta way." 
Twenty-two years ago, after Atlantans elected Maynard H. Jackson Jr. as their first black Mayor, the city pioneered the practice of encouraging joint ventures between white-owned companies and those with minority or female owners. Two decades later, even as such programs elsewhere are being attacked as reverse discrimination, Atlanta's political establishment still embraces affirmative action with enthusiasm.
"Everybody who is a person of color in this country has benefited from affirmative action," said Mayor Bill Campbell, the third black to lead a city that is now 67 percent black. "There's not been anybody who's gotten into a college on their own, nobody who's gotten a job on their own, no one who's prospered as a businessman or businesswoman on their own without affirmative action.
"The sad truth in this country, the sad truth even in the city of Atlanta, is that without our affirmative-action programs, our minority businesses would wither."
In 1973, the year Mr. Jackson was first elected, a tenth of a percent of the city's contract dollars went to companies with minority and female owners. Last year, the figure was 40 percent, exceeding the goal of 36 percent the city had set by statute. And these companies tend to have far more minority employees than do white-owned companies. (Black-owned companies here get far more business than do those owned by women or other minorities.)
When bidding to be host of the 1996 Olympic Games, leaders here used Atlanta's history as the birthplace of the civil rights movement to sell the city to the International Olympic Committee, particularly members from third-world countries. Now they say they have used the Olympics to demonstrate how the political victories won in the civil rights era can produce economic benefits, too.
Under pressure from Atlanta's black leaders, the Atlanta Committee for the Olympic Games, the private corporation established by city officials to run the event, made it clear to businesses seeking contracts that it expected them to have significant partnerships with companies owned by minority members and women. While the committee never adopted formal quotas or goals, it used the city's 36 percent goal as a benchmark.
Companies that submitted bids with insufficient minority participation did so at their peril. Those that said they could not find qualified minority partners were provided with lists of names compiled by the Olympic committee. "People soon realized that the team with the greatest minority participation was usually the team that won the contract if all things were equal," said former Mayor Andrew J. Young, a co-chairman of the committee.
As a result, virtually every new site for the Summer Games, which begin on July 19, was built with significant minority participation. Almost every purchasing and vending contract signed by the Olympic committee includes a minority partner.
As of March, 32 percent of the committee's $387 million in procurement contracts had been granted to minority companies, including 35 percent of the $297 million spent on design and construction.
Olympic officials like Shirley C. Franklin, who oversees the committee's equal economic opportunity program, said it would leave a lasting legacy of biracial business relationships.
"The whole idea of the Games is to bring people together in peaceful competition," Mr. Young said, "and we did that in our contracts and services as well as on the playing fields."
The beneficiaries vary from Herman J. Russell, whose company, the H.J. Russell Company, the nation's largest black contractor, won a 29 percent share of the $207 million spent to build the Centennial Olympic Stadium, the Games' main arena, to Thomas L. Harris Jr., a black landscaper who was hired to help install the stadium's track.
Six years ago, Mr. Harris founded a lawn care service, earning $8,000 in his first year by toting a mower around town in the trunk of his car. Last year, his company collected revenues of $525,000, most of it from his Olympic joint venture contracts, and he had as many as 35 employees.
His partnership with Mondo S.P.A., the Italian company hired to make and install the stadium's vulcanized rubber track, began several years ago when Mr. Harris peered out his office window and noticed a man with a tripod surveying the site that was to become a warm-up track for Olympic athletes.
Mr. Harris said he wandered out to chat with the surveyor, a Mondo official, and extended a standing offer to the man to use his office as a refuge from the Atlanta sun. His Southern hospitality paid off months later when the surveyor called Mr. Harris to ask whether he was interested in becoming the company's minority partner.
"I said, 'Sure but I don't have any experience with tracks,' " Mr. Harris said. "He said, 'No problem; we plan to train you.' "

A Divisive Scramble, Then Acceptance
Getting to this point has not always been easy. As Marva Jones Brooks, a former city attorney, said, "One of the most incendiary, combustible mixes in public life is race and money."City leaders past and present said it took some tough persuasion by Mr. Jackson, who was Mayor in the early 1990's, to persuade Billy Payne, the Olympic committee's chief executive officer, that he should have an affirmative-action plan.
"It was the last clearly divisive moment for the Olympics," said Michael L. Lomax, the former chairman of the Fulton County Commission in Atlanta. "Everybody was scrambling to get their piece of the pie and it was ugly."
It was not the first time Mr. Jackson had fought this battle. When he first took office, in 1974, he infuriated the white business community by holding up the construction of Hartsfield Atlanta International Airport until contractors took on minority partners. "I still have the scars on my back to prove that the resistance was brutal," he said.
But for two decades, the city's commitment to affirmative action has not wavered. Since 1989, when the Supreme Court ruled that public contracts could be set aside for female- and minority-owned companies only if governments could demonstrate current effects of past discrimination, dozens of cities and states, from New York City to Louisiana, have moved to dismantle their programs. Atlanta, by contrast, responded to the ruling by commissioning a study that documented past discrimination, and its program has not been successfully challenged.
Like states and cities elsewhere, Atlanta has had problems over the years with fraudulent joint ventures, in which minority contractors are hired by white-owned companies to provide the necessary racial balance but do little actual work.
"There were not that many qualified people around, so you had shams," said Marvin M. Black, a prominent white contractor based in Norcross, an Atlanta suburb. "Businessmen have a way of accomplishing these things. That's called good old American ingenuity."
Atlanta's program has also been criticized for adding costs to some public works projects, for temporarily supporting minority businesses that later failed, and for disproportionately helping a few minority companies win big contracts.
"I think it's worked to put money in the hands of a few politically powerful blacks," said Robert J. Proctor, a white lawyer who has filed a reverse-discrimination lawsuit against the Atlanta Board of Education. "It's used as a cover for political patronage."

While Some Benefit, Others Feel Blocked
The defenders of joint venture programs acknowledge the problems, but contend that they have eased over time with the help of rigorous contract reviews. And grumbling has been minimal during Olympic preparations, largely because Atlanta's economy is so strong that work has been plentiful.
Some white Atlantans, of course, oppose affirmative action on principle or because they feel locked out by the joint venture system. "I don't believe I should be denied a contract that I'm the lowest responsible bidder on just because I'm white," Mr. Black said. "If that's not discrimination, I don't know what is."
The system in Atlanta can be particularly difficult for small, white-owned businesses squeezed out when minority companies are linked with large white-owned companies that have plenty of capital.
Paul Muldawer, a white architect and longtime political ally of Mr. Young, is deeply embittered that he failed to win a piece of an Olympic contract for designing a promenade linking the campuses of the Atlanta University Center. Mr. Muldawer said he was excluded even though he did 470 hours of preliminary studies of the project for the Olympic committee at no charge.
"When it came time to bid, I wasn't even short-listed, even though they used my plan as the basis for bidding for architectural selection," he said. Mr. Young said, "There was some serious injustice there."
Like many of his white competitors, Mr. Black says he rarely bids on public works projects now because of the difficulty in finding minority partners and the increased paperwork required of joint ventures.

Will the Jobs Last Beyond the Games?
But other white contractors say they overcame their early resistance to joint ventures and eventually came to accept it as the only way to win public contracts in Atlanta.
Robert M. Holder Jr., chairman of a large construction company and a co-chairman of the Olympic committee, formed a lasting and lucrative relationship with Mr. Russell that has brought the two companies nearly $1 billion in contracts over the last 20 years. "Originally, we had huge concerns about competence and all of our prejudices were solidly in place," Mr. Holder said. "But we've learned more than we knew then, and there's been a high degree of growth in the competence of the minority infrastructure."
Yet many established black contractors, architects and engineers still find it difficult to win private-sector business, making them heavily dependent on government joint ventures. "I've been in business here for 20 years and a lot of people know I exist," said Oscar L. Harris Jr., a leading black architect. "But I don't get a lot of phone calls."
Even Mr. Russell, whose company has 1,500 employees and revenue of $179 million, says the playing field remains tilted. "You have to prove yourself much harder than your white counterparts," he said. "It's just taken for granted when people look at the color of your skin that you don't have your act together."
 Despite the success of Atlanta's affirmative-action programs, much of the city remains impoverished. The city grew blacker and poorer in the last 25 years as white residents fled to the suburbs.
While the percentage of black residents in managerial and professional jobs has increased slightly, the percentage of black families living in poverty has grown from 25 percent in 1970 to 32 percent in 1990, according to the Census. In 1990, the average black family's income was 26 percent of the average white family's, down from 52 percent in 1970.
Many civic leaders worry that post-Olympic Atlanta may face deepening racial and economic problems, particularly if the private sector does not join local governments in providing opportunities for minority businesses.
"What will happen to the class of African-Americans who have been so successful over the last 20 years?" asked Mr. Lomax, the former chairman of the Fulton County Commission. "Is this city going to embrace them with the same kind of opportunities their experience warrants or is there going to be a glass ceiling for them?
"Los Angeles ended the 1984 Olympics with this tremendous aura of success. And a decade later it was a city in flames because there was still this deep divide between the haves and have-nots."

GRAPHIC: Photos: OVERCOMING ODDS -- "You have to prove yourself much harder than your white counterparts," said Herman J. Russell, an Atlanta contractor; FIGHTING BACK -- Robert J. Proctor is suing over affirmative action. "It's worked to put money in the hands of a few politically powerful blacks;" HELPING HAND -- Thomas L. Harris Jr. is a landscaper in partnership with an Italian company to install the arena's track. (Photographs by Alan S. Weiner for The New York Times) (pg. B11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: ATLANTA COMMITTEE FOR THE OLYMPIC GAMES OLYMPIC GAMES (88%); ATLANTA COMMITTEE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: ATLANTA COMMITTEE FOR THE OLYMPIC GAMES ATLANTA COMMITTEE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA (GA); UNITED STATES (94%); GEORGIA, USA (94%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: AFFIRMATIVE ACTION; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); WOMEN; BLACKS; OLYMPIC GAMES (1996); SUMMER GAMES (OLYMPICS); LABOR; SMALL BUSINESS AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (94%); OLYMPICS (92%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (91%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MINORITY BUSINESS CONTRACTING (89%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (89%); WOMEN (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (77%); DISCRIMINATION (77%); POLITICS (76%); CITY LIFE (76%); MAYORS (75%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (74%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (72%); JOINT VENTURES (69%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (67%); 

PERSON: SACK, KEVIN THOMAS L HARRIS JR (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 1996



247 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 84 words

HEADLINE: Corrections

 BODY:
An article in Business Day on May 20 about the job prospects of recent college graduates with journalism degrees misattributed an estimate of where the graduates are seeking work. The statement that three-quarters of journalism graduates will seek jobs in print, radio, television and Internet journalism was based on interviews with educators, placement directors and professionals around the country. It was not a finding of a survey of graduates by Professor Lee Becker of Ohio State University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Correction

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY (57%); OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY (57%); OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; CORRECTION STORIES; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; NEWSPAPERS COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); EMPLOYMENT (88%); INTERNET JOURNALISM (85%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (85%); 

PERSON: LEE BECKER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 1996



248 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 338 words

HEADLINE: Federal Reserve Board Has Too Much Power

 BODY:
To the Editor:
I'm one of many who disagree with your strong endorsement (editorial, June 8) of Alan Greenspan's record as chairman of the Federal Reserve Board. 
 Thousands of jobs and billions of dollars' worth of useful work have been sacrificed in the name of a threat of inflation that was faint to nonexistent.
Unjustified interest rate increases have imposed burdens on home buyers, small business, consumers and others whose borrowing costs were raised.
But the central issue is far more important than who should head the Fed. It is the legitimacy of an institution that combines enormous power with virtually no accountability to the public or its elected representatives.
Conceived early in this century as a rational solution to real problems, the Federal Reserve Board has become master instead of the servant it was designed to be.
Mr. Greenspan supports legislation that would strike from the 1978 Full Employment and Balanced Growth Act, known as Humphrey-Hawkins, the Federal Reserve Board's responsibility to encourage full employment as well as to guard against inflation.
With fiscal policy essentially neutered by a bipartisan compact, this would eliminate the only mandate, weak though it is, that preserves the original vision of the drafters and their predecessors who understood that public policy is the only bulwark against the renewal of large-scale, continuing unemployment.
Mr. Greenspan's decisions are eloquent evidence that an economy whose level of employment relies primarily on decisions and policies of the Federal Reserve will continue to impose high levels of unemployment and underemployment, stagnant real earnings and widespread economic insecurity.
We need a national discussion about our central bank's power and accountability. Without it, it will matter little whether Mr. Greenspan or someone else wields power that no one should have.
 
SUMNER M. ROSEN
New York, June 9, 1996
 
The writer is professor emeritus of social policy at Columbia University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (53%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); WRITERS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%); SMALL BUSINESS (56%); INTEREST RATES (56%); 

PERSON: ROSEN, SUMNER M; GREENSPAN, ALAN ALAN GREENSPAN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 1996



249 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 1996

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Science Desk 

LENGTH: 2008 words

HEADLINE: Crashes of Asteroids Shed Tiny Diamonds In Glittering Trillions

BYLINE: By WILLIAM J. BROAD 

 BODY:
SPEEDING rocks from space that have slammed into Earth periodically over the ages are usually seen as agents of destruction and death, begetting global palls of dust that block sunlight, disrupt the climate and do in creatures like the dinosaurs.
But it turns out that the same upheavals that blast craters in solid granite and spew tons of incandescent rock into the sky also tend to produce diamonds, trillions of them, more than any thief ever dreamed of. 
 Alas for gem lovers and investment bankers, most of the impact diamonds are microscopic. But some are larger -- the size of match heads or peanuts -- and are considered good enough for industrial use, if not jewelry.
But over all, experts say, the discovery is likely to be more of a boon for understanding Earth's cataclysmic past than for commercial diamond mining. That history is important because periodic strikes from space are thought to have repeatedly shaped life's evolution, killing off some species and making room for others. Yet such violent episodes tend to be surrounded by mystery and debate.
Scientists have now found diamonds in more than a half-dozen impact zones around the globe and are hunting for other places where the enormous heats and pressures of cosmic collisions have turned plain old carbon into the hardest substance known to humans. To date, it appears that no crater examined for diamonds has failed to reveal them.
"The question is whether diamond is going to be a ubiquitous phase in the ejecta," Dr. Peter S. Fiske, a planetary scientist at the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory in California, said in an interview. "It's just a question of going to look at these other craters."
The American Geophysical Union, the world's largest professional group devoted to earth studies, based in Washington, recently held its first meeting on impact diamonds and mineralogy, which Dr. Fiske helped organize.
The rocks of old craters, experts say, probably hide thousands and perhaps millions of tons of diamonds. The rub is getting them. Candidate rocks can be very deep, buried over the eons by such geological processes as erosion and sedimentation.
And even when in hand, raw rocks have to sit for weeks and months in caustic baths that slowly eat away softer rock with deadly cocktails of nitric, hydrochloric, perchloric and sulfuric acids, among other nasty substances. But the residue is pure diamond.
Western experts say that the Russians have investigated mining impact craters for diamonds in remote parts of Siberia and that Western companies are quietly conducting similar studies.
"It may be that a lot of craters have diamonds," Dr. Richard A. F. Grieve, a geophysicist at the Geological Survey of Canada who is a leading crater-identification expert, said in an interview. "You never know, in the right place they might be commercial grade."
One company, Dr. Grieve added, is now looking for gemstones in a North American crater. "They don't think it's commercial, but they don't want to get caught with their pants down," he said, adding that he was not allowed to disclose the company's name.
The world's largest known crater, named Sudbury after a nearby town, is a giant scar some 155 miles across in Ontario, Canada.
Earth's face is marred by 150 or so authenticated impact craters. More are added at the rate of up to five a year as geologists find new evidence of collision fury. But some candidates repeatedly fail to make the list. The problem is knowing how to distinguish the scars of cosmic impacts from those made by volcanoes and earthquakes and gentler processes like sedimentation and glacial action.
Diamonds are seen as a likely new way to identify eroded impact craters and to investigate the planet's violent past. The durability of diamonds, experts say, may shed light on extremely old impact scars that have lost their other characteristic features.
"There's no reason they can't to go back to the Cambrian," Robert M. Hough, a diamond-crater expert at the Open University in England, said in an interview of impact diamonds from the geological age 600 million years ago when marine creatures ruled the earth.
"Diamond is very interesting," agreed Dr. Virgil L. Sharpton, a crater expert at the Lunar and Planetary Institute in Houston. "It helps distinguish features produced by these very high-pressure impacts from all the other things they can be confused with. That's a tremendous tool."
Scientists estimate Earth's surface has been struck by perhaps hundreds of thousand asteroids and comets big enough to carve out craters more than a half-mile wide. Most of those craters have vanished without a trace in the past few billion years, often carried deep into Earth's interior through geologic action.
Dr. Sharpton said new signposts like diamonds might eventually quadruple the number of known craters, raising the total from 150 to 600 or more. "There are plenty out there to be discovered," he said.
Diamonds are traditionally thought of as travelers from Earth's deep interior, from depths of roughly 100 miles and perhaps as deep as 300 miles. How they form there is well known. Crushing pressures and blistering heats work in unison to squeeze carbon into stones of unrivaled hardness.
Some of the deep carbon may be elemental graphite, the same greasy-feeling, black stuff used in lead pencils. Another source may be carbonate rocks like limestone, which are driven into the planet's interior by the slow, continuous motion of Earth's tectonic plates. Diamond is simply carbon in which the atoms are packed closer together than in graphite.
The tidy picture of diamond production began to blur as scientists found that meteorites were often riddled with tiny diamonds. They were believed to have formed by the shock of collision between solar-system bodies, like asteroids, as well as by distant stellar explosions billions of years ago. Some of these extra-solar diamonds, whose discovery was announced in 1987, were smaller than viruses and their tiny widths measured in numbers of atoms.
Scientists have known for decades that earthen scars from cosmic collisions display all kinds of alchemy from shock waves made of enormously high heats and pressures -- a process known as shock metamorphism, which causes irreversible changes in rocks. The effects include melting, conical fractures known as shatter cones, microscopic distortions in minerals and various glasses and high-pressure minerals.
It was the Russians, however, who discovered that shock metamorphism can transform the carbon of bedrock into diamonds. Not only that, the diamonds are often much larger than the ones found in meteorites and sometimes easy to see with the naked eye.
Western experts say the discovery was made in the early 1970's and was kept a state secret for nearly two decades. With the collapse of the Soviet Union, much information began to leak out, including the fact that the Russians had investigated mining impact craters for diamonds.
A main exploratory site is the Popigai crater in the wilds of northern Siberia. About 60 miles in diameter, it was formed 35 million years ago. Viktor L. Masaitis of the Karpinsky Geological Institute in Leningrad reported on its diamond content at the recent geophysical union meeting, saying the shock metamorphism had occurred in bedrock graphite. He also showed photographs of the resulting diamonds.
"Some are peanut-sized," said Dr. Fiske of the Livermore laboratory. "They're really impressive."
Dr. Grieve of the Geological Survey of Canada said that Russians had drilled about 500 bore holes into Popigai to map its diamond distribution in three dimensions. "We eventually realized it was to look at economic potential," he said, adding that the unfinished work had now collapsed with Russia's lack of research money.
In Europe, the trail of diamond evidence was picked up by a team of scientists from the Open University, Oxford University, Cambridge University and University College in London. In southern Germany they probed the Ries Crater, the 15-mile wide hole dug by a colliding asteroid 15 million years ago.
They found billions of tiny diamonds embedded in the melted rock of a characteristic local stone, named suevite. The largest diamond was the size of a pinhead.
"They'd make good engagement rings for an ant," Dr. Iain Gilmour of the Open University told reporters, "but Liz Taylor won't be very impressed." He added that the same kind of diamond-laden rock was used to build the church and the town hall in the medieval town of Nordlingen, which lies in the Ries crater.
Atomic evidence suggested the diamonds came not from the exploding asteroid, whose load of diamonds, if any, probably vaporized during the fireball, but from condensation of vaporized bedrock. And the condensation apparently occurred in midair in the hot fireball, where pressures were lower than in the ground and shock waves less powerful. Thus, the diamonds were smaller.
The main clue to the midair formation was that most of the diamonds formed in combination with silicon carbide, a union also seen in a common industrial process for the production of diamonds known a chemical vapor deposition.
The team announced its results last Nov. 2 in Nature, the weekly British journal. Dr. Christian Koeberl, a geochemist at the University of Vienna in Austria, writing in Nature, hailed the discovery.
"Never before have such composites of diamond and silicon carbide been found in nature," he said.
The British team is now hunting for diamonds in rocks from the 14-mile Rochechouart crater in France and the six-mile Mien crater in Sweden.
A final aspect of the new discoveries about diamonds concerns tiny diamonds created and thrown hundreds and even thousands miles by one of the biggest known collisions of all, the one that 65 million years ago probably helped do in the dinosaurs and definitely dug a crater 105 miles wide, the remnants of which lie below the Yucatan Peninsula of Mexico. The crater is known as Chicxulub, for a town near its heart.
That asteroid kicked up iridium-rich dust that has been discovered around the globe.
Beginning in 1991, scientists began finding billions of tiny diamonds, which were often mixed with iridium. Both occurred in the rocks of geological boundary between the Cretaceous and Tertiary periods 65 million years ago. And no diamonds were found in sediments immediately above or below that layer.
The first such diamonds were found in Alberta, Canada, then in Colorado, New Mexico and Mexico, with the diamonds getting progressively larger the closer they came to the Chicxulub impact crater.
"It represents a very important discovery," said Dr. Hough of the Open University, who reported on the Mexican find at the geophysical union meeting. "The diamonds that we found there are larger than ones in the Western United States."
He added that the British team was broadening its hunt for Cretaceous-Tertiary diamonds to Italy and New Zealand.
Dr. Sharpton of the Lunar and Planetary Institute said that the diamond signature of the Cretaceous-Tertiary impact in time might surpass that of iridium in importance. "In many cases there is no iridium anomaly" in the global rocks of the period, he said. "So it's very handy."
The suspicion among scientists is that the bigger the impact, the bigger the diamonds.
This logic would make Sudbury in Canada and Chicxulub in Mexico prime targets for diamond investigation.
With a laugh, Dr. Sharpton, an expert on the Chicxulub crater, noted that its eroded remnants were so deep beneath the land's surface than they were impossible to retrieve except with long drills, which are too small for a mining operation.
Many scientists say reward enough is the new understanding of the planet's dim past that the diamond finds promise to deliver.
"It's a time-consuming process," Dr. Sharpton said of the months of acid baths often needed to extract the impact diamonds. "But it's something from which we can get important results."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The impact of a giant meteorite created the 4,000-foot-wide crater at Barringer, Ariz., and, perhaps, diamonds. (pg. C9)
 
Diagram: "Beauty From a Beast"
Killer asteroids produce enough heat and pressure in their fireballs to make trillions of diamonds, a form of carbon in which atoms are packed in a tight lattice.
 
"A Trail of Glitter"
The relatively low pressures at the edge of the fireball apparently make smaller diamonds; meanwhile, higher pressures in the bedrock below produce larger ones. All told, geologists know of 150 or so impact scars from cosmic collisions and have so far found diamonds associated with eight of them, circled on the map at left. (Sources: Dr. Richard A. F. Grieve/Geological Survey of Canada; Dr. Robert M. Hough/the Open University)(pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (68%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (51%); 

STATE: EARTH (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (68%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (51%); EARTH (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: DIAMONDS; MINES AND MINING; METEORS AND METEORITES; SPACE PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (90%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (88%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (88%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); DIAMOND MINING (76%); INTERVIEWS (69%); 

PERSON: BROAD, WILLIAM J

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 1996



250 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 11, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 25; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: On My Mind;
Color Them White

BYLINE: By A. M. ROSENTHAL 

 BODY:
Think of it: 34 white-congregation churches, synagogues or mosques are burned down in one part of the country, 23 in the last 17 months.
Would it take the President a year to talk to the American people about it? Or Republican Presidential candidates? Would the public be satisfied when the Federal law enforcement establishment -- Attorney General, F.B.I. and Federal attorneys -- said they had not been able to break the case but had not run across any evidence of conspiracy? 
 Would much of the press and TV wait until we got to number 20 or so before deciding it was a big story?
And how about ordinary, non-press, non-official Americans? When would they wake up to it? Would it take 30 and counting before supposedly alert and involved Americans would say, as a few did at a lunch this weekend -- "Say, how long has this been going on? I just heard about it."
Would every major Christian and Jewish organization across the country come up with money to rebuild the houses of worship or would that be left to a few, the rest sitting on their pews and purses?
We know what would happen and what would not, don't we -- no use pounding the point. But there is use, if only for the soul's sake, in saying that the reaction to the burning of black churches, now climbing to epidemic, is not disgraceful -- it is disgusting. Little political commotion, late press attention, relief efforts ranging from zero to mingy. If I were a black man I would say it is because the churches are black, not white. As a white man I say exactly the same thing.
We do not know if there is one conspiracy or several or if there are just so many race-sick people around to copy each other. But we do know that the same law enforcement establishment was unable to track down the Unabomber for 17 years until his brother turned him in. It failed to enforce warrants issued against the "Freemen" of Montana -- free of everything but their own hatreds -- until they were able to use their children as hostages. So the police have had to sit around for months while the haters inside make a clown of the law.
The figures in the first paragraph are conservative. They come from Morris Dees, founder of the Southern Poverty Law Center, who has done as much as anybody to alert law enforcement agencies to the lethal dangers of organized hatred. The National Council of Churches said last month that 53 churches had been burned since 1990, including 23 so far in 1996.
Whatever the correct figures, I believe the fires came from the hatreds of segregation -- either its embers or the beginning of a new blaze. Segregation is usually preached by extremists, white and black. They feed and live by it. But although they denounce the thought it can also come from liberals who have decided that integration has failed and are ready to give up on it.
In his new book about integration, "Tragic Failure," Tom Wicker says the mainstream parties appear to have neither the will nor leadership to bring about economic advances for most African-Americans and the "social leveling" that would accompany it. His remedy is for blacks to form a new party "dedicated to economic growth for black and white."
Mr. Wicker never says what would happen to blacks running for public office if all blacks split off into a new party, what cracks would widen to chasms in American society, what utter joy it would give to white and black supremacists to see blacks march off to a political ghetto. He does not fill in the idea. He just puts it forward two or three times and his publisher blurbs it up good. Like Wernher von Braun, he fires the missile and lets it land where it may. I think it is a dud but I want to do my bit to water it out.
Mr. Wicker is peeved at writers, including me, who urged more blacks to come out against Louis Farrakhan.
Whether the church fires are an actual conspiracy or several, or a copycat conspiracy of the mind, the worst thing that could happen to America would be more of the ghettoization, mental and physical, that is the fuel of race hatred.
As in the case of Louis Farrakhan I think it is the job of white and black, both, to renounce and turn away from ghettoization -- yesterday, today and forever.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (61%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (61%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: SOUTHERN POVERTY LAW CENTER (61%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTHERN STATES (US); UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: BLACKS; FIRES AND FIREMEN; ARSON RELIGION (94%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FIRES (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); JEWS & JUDAISM (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); LAWYERS (76%); TERRORISM (75%); CONSPIRACY (75%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (73%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (73%); ARSON (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (57%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, A M THOMAS GREY 'TOM' WICKER (71%); LOUIS FARRAKHAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 1996



251 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 397 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Falls on Profit Taking And German Rates Outlook

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
The dollar slipped against the German mark and Japanese yen yesterday, weakened by profit taking and by speculation that Germany might delay further cuts in interest rates.
The dollar has been bolstered recently by signs of robust economic growth in the United States, suggesting that the Federal Reserve will be prompted to raise short-term interest rates. Higher rates typically make the dollar more attractive by increasing the returns on United States deposits. 
 On Friday, unexpected strength in the May employment report confirmed currency traders' expectations that rates would rise, and the dollar surged against the yen to its highest level in more than two years.
But traders sold dollars yesterday after remarks by Hans Tietmeyer, president of the Bundesbank, were interpreted to mean that the central bank might defer action on interest rates until it had more data on Germany's broadest measure of its money supply, known as M-3. Those data are due in a few weeks.
"The emphasis on the M-3 number may have stymied the market," said Hillel Waxman, chief foreign exchange dealer at the Bank Leumi Trust Company.
Speculation has persisted that Germany must lower rates further to stimulate its anemic economy. The prospect of lower rates has put pressure on the mark and strengthened the dollar, so any suggestion that rates will remain constant in Germany can weaken the dollar.
Further hurting the dollar yesterday was selling whenever the dollar neared 110 yen.
In late trading in New York, the dollar fell to 109 yen, from 109.23 yen on Friday. The dollar also traded at 1.5350 marks, down from 1.5366 marks. The British pound slipped to $1.5345 from $1.5380.
Both Mr. Tietmeyer and his chief economist, Otmar Issing, said they foresaw a decline in the growth of M-3, which German monetary officials watch closely because they consider it a barometer of inflation. But traders said that any public discussion of M-3 by these officials was enough to suggest that there would be no Bundesbank action on rates until the information was released.
"I think it allows us to assume that a rate cut is sidelined at this point," Mr. Waxman said.
The dollar's weakness against the yen came despite a Japanese Government report that Japan's trade surplus shrank by 45 percent in April. Such news has tended to strengthen the dollar in the past. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: LUMI (TASE) (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (94%); JAPAN (94%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK LEUMI LE ISRAEL BM (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; JAPAN; UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (94%); JAPAN (94%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); GERMAN MARK (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); MONEY SUPPLY (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); BRITISH POUND (70%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (64%); 

PERSON: HILLEL WAXMAN (64%); HANS TIETMEYER (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 1996



252 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 1996

SECTION: Section C; Page 15; Column 3; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1142 words

HEADLINE: Images of Revolutions Old and New

BYLINE: By ALAN RIDING 

DATELINE: PARIS, June 10

 BODY:
Starting his career as a photographer in the early 1950's, Marc Riboud was lucky enough to have the founders of the Magnum photo agency as friends and advisers. While Henri Cartier-Bresson tried to broaden the young Frenchman's education, telling him what to read and what museums to visit, Robert Capa encouraged him to learn English and even arranged his first professional assignment.
Yet despite the help of these role models, Mr. Riboud said he always felt uncomfortable among photographers. "They had their own jargon, they knew how to push, they were tough," he recalled. "I was very shy. I had trouble looking people in the face. Eventually I thought, I have to go somewhere else." 
 So in 1956, he bought a second-hand Land Rover from George Rodger, another Magnum founder, and drove from London to Calcutta. For almost a year, working and traveling alone, he took photographs throughout India. But he wanted to go still farther East. And finally, on Dec. 31, 1956, after months of waiting for a visa, he crossed from Hong Kong into China and boarded a train for Beijing.
It was a major coup for him to become one of the first Western photographers to enter China since the Communist takeover of 1949. But more relevantly, he was allowed to return at regular intervals over the next four decades and witness China's transformation from a backward peasant land dominated by Mao Zedong to a money-driven society that seems ready to forget its ancient culture and customs in the name of profit.
Now white-haired but still full of energy at 72, Mr. Riboud is presenting his record of this astonishing metamorphosis at the Centre National de la Photographie in Paris through July 29. The show, "Marc Riboud: 40 Years of Photography in China," will go to Beijing in the fall and to the International Center of Photography in New York in the summer of 1997. A book with 134 black-and-white photographs from the exhibition is to be published next year by Harry N. Abrams.
Mr. Riboud insists that he is no expert China watcher. And he notes that he was not in China at many crucial political moments, including the height of the Cultural Revolution in the late 1960's, the deaths of Chairman Mao and Zhou Enlai in 1976 and the killing of pro-democracy students in Tiananmen Square in 1989. "I am not an analyst," he said in an interview at his Paris home. "I just collect impressions." But he was nonetheless a rare Western witness to both past and present of China, and his photographs serve as a memory.
On his first four-month trip, he was able to photograph Mao and Zhou at a banquet for a visiting Polish Prime Minister. But authorized to travel the country, he found he was more interested in the day-to-day lives of ordinary Chinese workers, peasants and students. Wandering the streets of Beijing, which he remembers as still having the atmosphere of a village, he found circus performers, puppeteers and peddlers. A few years later, they were no longer to be seen.
Visits to factories and universities were more complicated, Mr. Riboud recalled, because he was invariably accompanied by "a guardian angel," as he nicknamed his official guides. "I was shown students, but not those who were learning English," he said. "It was tricky. I would try to 'get lost,' but I couldn't make the guide feel I had done it on purpose or else he would lose face and the next day I would have nothing."
Still, in 1957, after only eight years under Communism, China was more relaxed than when he returned for another four-month visit in 1965. "By then the regime was consolidated," he said. "Huge Stalinist buildings were going up everywhere. People talked even less to foreigners. Street life was disappearing. Everyone was being made equal, and they all seemed equally poor." One photograph from that visit shows grim-faced children undergoing military training with wooden rifles.
At the time, though, Mr. Riboud felt sympathy for the Chinese revolution. "Coming from India, I could see a big difference," he said. "There was less misery than in India. One had the impression of a bit more dignity. In the West, we had understood that the Soviet Union was a complete failure. But I was tempted to believe that China could be the answer to societies where the rich become richer and the poor become poorer."
Only later did disillusionment set in. "The big disappointment was the total failure of the Great Leap Forward in the early 1960's, which led to millions of people dying of starvation," he said. "But in 1965, we didn't know that. I wanted to visit the Huang Shan Mountains in 1965 and was told it was not possible. I later learned that 1.5 million people died of famine in the region. Girls were fed less than boys, so girls died first."
This disaster was followed by the Cultural Revolution, when Westerners were decidedly unwelcome. Mr. Riboud was able to return in 1971, but he was refused a visa to cover Mao's funeral in 1976. "They told me, 'We know you're a friend of China, but our house is in disorder,' " he said.
After 1983, when he was finally allowed to travel to Huang Shan, Mr. Riboud returned to China often. Even then it was only in the late 1980's that he began to see China change before his eyes. Since 1992, he has traveled there 10 times. "When I crossed into Shenzhen for the first time 40 years ago, it was a fishermen's village," he said. "Today, it has three million people and rivals Hong Kong."
In the exhibition, the magnitude of China's economic revolution is startlingly evident in photographs that show the old and the new side by side: the uniformly drab Mao suits and the latest Western fashions, streets crowded with bicycles and today's traffic jams, traditional Chinese homes and glass-covered skyscrapers. But the two faces of China also coexist: a street scene in Shenzhen photographed in 1993 shows an impoverished man walking past posters of a pinup girl and of a baby.
Mr. Riboud finds the pace of change disturbing. "It's a bit like someone who becomes a millionaire in one week," he said. "If it's not good for an individual, I can't believe it's good for a country. Today money is suddenly the only value. No one speaks about politics, no one speaks about Tiananmen Square, no one speaks about Confucius. It's as if the Mao period were one big dramatic parenthesis, and now the Chinese have gone back to being tradesmen."
What worries him is the threat this poses to traditional Chinese culture. "The poetry, opera and painting that were part of the Chinese identity for a thousand years have gone," he said. "Bookstores are closing. All the music comes from Hong Kong. They're selling all their antiquities abroad. Everything in the West is being imitated. But their pride is still Chinese. They're all convinced that China will become the most important country in the world."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Marc Riboud, the French photographer, in Paris. (Stephane Korb, 1988)(pg. C17); Top left, children on a back street of Beijing in 1957; above, a couple being photographed with a backdrop of the Forbidden City in Beijing in 1957; top right, Young Pioneers training with wooden rifles in Shenyang, Liaoning Province, in 1965. (Photographs by Marc Riboud)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: CHINA (98%); FRANCE (92%); INDIA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED STATES (53%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); NORTHEAST CHINA (87%); LIAONING, CHINA (71%); WEST BENGAL, INDIA (57%); NEW YORK, USA (53%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); KOLKATA, INDIA (56%); 

COMPANY: CENTRE NATIONAL DE LA PHOTOGRAPHIE (PARIS) HARRY N ABRAMS INC (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRE NATIONAL DE LA PHOTOGRAPHIE (PARIS)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (98%); FRANCE (92%); INDIA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED STATES (53%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); NORTHEAST CHINA (87%); LIAONING, CHINA (71%); WEST BENGAL, INDIA (57%); NEW YORK, USA (53%); PARIS, FRANCE (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); KOLKATA, INDIA (56%); 

SUBJECT: PHOTOGRAPHY; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); EXHIBITIONS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (68%); TRENDS (67%); PRIME MINISTERS (60%); 

PERSON: MAO ZEDONG (1893-1976); RIBOUD, MARC; RIDING, ALAN HENRI CARTIER-BRESSON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 1996



253 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 735 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Rate Fears Push Prices Down Again

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
The bond market continued to slide yesterday as prices remained under heavy pressure from investors who increasingly expect the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates next month.
The 30-year Treasury bond, a benchmark for the market, plunged 1 5/32, to 86 5/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction of its price, rose 10 basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point, to 7.12 percent, its highest level in more than a year. Between Friday and yesterday, bondholders have lost about $25 for each $1,000 invested. 
 Traders and analysts attributed yesterday's negative sentiment to carry-over selling from the drop of nearly one and a half points on Friday, the response to a stronger-than-expected labor report. The 30-year bond's yield has not been so high since May 4, 1995, when it was 7.16 percent.
John Burgess, managing director at Bankers Trust Investment Management, said he was not surprised by the market's behavior yesterday.
"On Thursday the market was coming to grips with the fact that the Fed might raise rates," he said. "so that Friday's report was a shock for the fixed-income market and today is a continuation of that trade."
"We think the Fed will tighten by August,' Mr. Burgess added, "but the market has yet to price that in, including upcoming supply."
Mr. Burgess predicted that rates would reach 6.5 percent on a two-year note and 7.25 percent on the long bond before the selling was through. "We have not seen any weak numbers thus far," he said. "One can't make an argument of weakness in the second half of the year."
Prices for commodity futures also rose yesterday, a reminder that inflation could accelerate if the economy was to continue to show signs of heating up. That would hurt bond investors by eroding the value of their investments. So far this year the flash points have been the volatile sectors of food and energy costs but now market participants are worried that wages may see an inflationary rise.
Bond prices eroded even further because the market was concerned with this week's inflation reports that could also show stronger-than-expected increases.
Commenting on possible Fed action, Greg Jones, an economist with MMS International in San Francisco, said: "While a tightening appears to be likely, it is not inevitable. Evidence of strong growth is plentiful, evidence of rising inflationary pressures is not."
Today, the Government will issue the Producer Price Index for May, with a view of price pressures at the manufacturing level. Tomorrow, it will report on prices at the consumer level. Expectations by economists polled by Bloomberg Business News are that producer prices rose two-tenths of 1 percent last month, compared with four-tenths of 1 percent in April, while consumer prices climbed three-tenths of 1 percent, down from four-tenths of 1 percent in April.
"The fear of tighter monetary policy is gripping the Treasury market," said Sung Won Sohn, chief economist at the Norwest Corporation in Minneapolis. But he added that a tightening at the July or August meeting of the Federal Reserve's Open Market Committee, which sets rate policy, was not a foregone conclusion.
"Another hike in interest rates as part of a series of tightening moves is one thing," he said. "Reversing the course of monetary policy from easing to tightening is something else."
At the Treasury's weekly bills auction, interest rates were up and the results were a bit below average.
Traders said the average rates were 5.16 percent and 5.34 percent, for a three-month and six-month bill, respectively. The disappointing results, they said, are likely because of the increased size of the auction and weak bidding.
The following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of new three and six-month bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

 	 	 		3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Average Price	98.696	97.300	Discounted Rate	5.16%	5.34%	Coupon Yield	5.30%	5.57%	High Price	98.701	97.305	Discounted Rate	5.14%	5.33%	Coupon Yield	5.28%	5.55%	Low Price	98.696	97.295	Discounted Rate	5.16%	5.35%	Coupon Yield	5.30%	5.58%	Accepted at low price	40%	13%	Total applied for	$53,797,577	$57,839,574	Accepted	$15,726,581	$15,574,277	Noncompetitive	$1,423,065	$1,213,029	

Both issues are dated June 16. The three-month bills mature on Sept. 12 and the six-month bills Dec. 12.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "3-Month Treasury Bills" tracks average discounted rate, in percent at weekly auction auction, since February. (Source: The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (72%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (72%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES BONDS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); INFLATION (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PRODUCER PRICES (89%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); FUTURES (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); COMMODITIES TRADING (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT JOHN LAWRIE BURGESS (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 1996



254 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 735 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
A White House Gaffe Puts Clinton in China's Corner

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 10

 BODY:
As the Clinton Administration heads into the last week of a showdown with China over its failure to live up to a major trade agreement, an oversight by the White House is putting President Clinton in the politically delicate position of having to assert that China is opening markets and lowering its barriers to American companies.
The assurance would come in the form of a certification that is ordinarily part of routine renewal of the basic trade agreement that underlies all American trade ties with China. 
 On Friday, after a bipartisan group of Congressional opponents of renewing Beijing's preferential trade status declared that Mr. Clinton had failed to sign the certification last year, the White House said they were wrong. Senior officials in the United States trade representative's office said they were certain Mr. Clinton had signed the renewal more than a year ago and had simply failed to publish the notification in the Federal Register.
But today the White House and the trade office retracted that, saying that after a weekend check of the files, no one could find any evidence that the President had actually made a determination that China had "satisfactorily reciprocated" to a lowering of barriers by the United States. They also said there was no evidence that he had not signed it.
"This is an administrative error and we have taken steps to correct it," said Jay Ziegler, spokesman for Charlene Barshefsky, the trade representative, adding that a copy of the certification was being sent to Mr. Clinton for signature this week. "It has no legal significance."
The legal ramifications of the oversight probably are insignificant. By making his determination now, Mr. Clinton can assure that Congress goes ahead with its debate over extending most-favored-status treatment to China, which gives Beijing the benefit of the lowest tariffs and best trading arrangements the United States offers.
Congress has 60 days to review the President's decision to renew that preferred status. While the debate is expected to be heated, in the end China's trading status seems likely to be renewed, though perhaps under conditions Beijing may find onerous.
The political ramifications of the White House error, though, are harder to predict. The opponents of renewing trade preference -- who include liberals angry about China's human rights record and conservatives angry about its harassment of Taiwan -- are looking for any way they can to declare Mr. Clinton's strategy of "comprehensive engagement" with China a failure.
By discovering the White House's mistake and forcing the President to sign the determination this week, they put him in the potentially embarrassing position of declaring that China is making progress at the same time he is threatening sanctions because the Chinese have kept out American products and produced counterfeits of American goods.
Trade officials insisted today that there was nothing inconsistent in that stance. The sanctions threat, they said, was narrowly aimed at solving a specific problem: the illegal production in China of roughly 200 million compact disks and CD-ROM's a year. In contrast, most-favored nation status was critical to a sustained economic relationship.
Ms. Barshefsky is expected to make that argument at hearings on Tuesday by the House Ways and Means Committee on China's trade status. She is likely to run into considerable opposition from lawmakers who want to turn the debate into a referendum on Chinese behavior.
Five House members wrote to Mr. Clinton on Friday, asking why he had failed to certify that China was making progress in trade. They quoted the Administration's own report on trade barriers, which said, "China still maintains a large number of nontariff administrative controls to implement its trade and industrial policies." It cited curbs on the types of companies that could engage in foreign trade, curbs on imports and "prohibitively high" tariffs.
Administration officials also said today that China was showing signs it wanted a solution to the standoff over intellectual-property rights before sanctions went into effect next Monday. Over the weekend, four plants were reported raided by the Chinese authorities, who seized illegally produced CD's. It was unclear whether the crackdown was largely to avoid sanctions or whether the factories had been closed for good. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (97%); TAIWAN (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE (88%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (88%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (97%); TAIWAN (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; MOST-FAVORED-NATION TREATMENT; INDUSTRIAL ESPIONAGE AND PIRACY; MOTION PICTURES; COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; COMPUTER SOFTWARE; MUSIC; RECORDINGS (AUDIO); RECORDINGS (VIDEO) ; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; CUSTOMS (TARIFF) INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (85%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (79%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); INDUSTRIAL ESPIONAGE (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (64%); RECORD INDUSTRY (64%); COUNTERFEITING (60%); MUSIC (59%); ESPIONAGE (59%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 1996



255 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 616 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Are Down, With Dow Falling 9.24

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
The stock market pared its early losses yesterday to close moderately lower, withstanding another weak day in the bond market as interest rates continued to climb.
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 9.24, to 5,687.87, after being down more than 30 points several times during the session. On Friday, the Dow ended up nearly 30 points, shrugging off an early 85-point slide spurred by inflation worries after a surprisingly strong employment report. Other broader market indexes also fell, although the Nasdaq composite index ended with a modest gain. 
 Trading was quiet as investors moved to the sidelines in advance of this week's reports on inflation at the producer and consumer levels during May.
"You didn't see any major selling," said A. Marshall Acuff Jr., a market strategist at Smith Barney. "There was no rush to take action one way or the other" before today's report on producer prices report and tomorrow's on consumer prices.
"It was more like the buyers were on strike -- legitimately so after the volatility on Friday," he said.
In the bond market, investors remained worried about inflationary pressures and the possibility that the Federal Reserve might raise interest rates.
The yield on the 30-year Treasury bond -- a benchmark used to determine the interest rate charged on many types of loans -- rose to 7.12 percent, from 7.02 percent late Friday and 6.89 percent late Thursday.
Some analysts said stock investors remained hopeful that the economic strength indicated by recent employment reports would translate into rapid earnings growth, outweighing the risks of higher interest rates.
Declining issues outnumbered advancers by a margin of almost 12 to 11 on the New York Stock Exchange, where volume totaled just 337.2 million shares as of 4 P.M., down sharply from Friday's 445.7 million.
The Big Board's composite index fell 0.44, to 360.17, and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 1.15, to 672.16. But the Nasdaq composite index rose 0.28, to 1,230.04, and the American Stock Exchange's market value index rose 0.17, to 599.48.
Westinghouse Electric, up 7/8, to 19 5/8, gave the Dow a boost after announcing it may split the conglomerate into separate industrial and broadcasting concerns.
J. P. Morgan, down 1 3/8, at 85 5/8, was among the weakest issues in the Dow industrials, reflecting the worsening interest rate environment. Higher interest rates mean a smaller profit margin on loans by financial institutions. The Dow also was weighed down by economically sensitive issues. Du Pont fell 1 1/8, to 79 7/8, and United Technologies lost 1, to 113 3/8.
Despite a return to the more cautious tone that preceded the May employment report, analysts were not as leery of this week's inflation numbers.
The Consumer Price Index and the Producer Price Index "have been relatively favorable for some months, so there's no precedent for people to be as anxious," Mr. Acuff said.
Among other issues, Kellogg fell 2 7/8, to 72, after it announced price cuts averaging 19 percent on 16 cereal brands.
Community Health Systems jumped 8 1/2, to 51 7/8, after Forstmann Little agreed to acquire the company for $52 a share.
Storage Technology rose 4 1/2, to 39 1/2, after I.B.M. agreed to resell the company's storage subsystems. Iomega surged 6, to 43 7/8, after I.B.M. said it would include Iomega's popular high-density Zip drives in a new model of its Aptiva personal computer. I.B.M., meanwhile, rose 7/8, to 102 5/8.
Chiron rose 2 1/2, to 99 1/2, and Cephalon added 1/8, to 23 1/4 after an advisory panel of the Food and Drug Administration voted to allow early access to their Myotrophin drug for Lou Gehrig's disease.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UTX (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE) SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (56%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%); NYSE MKT LLC (52%); UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INFLATION (91%); BONDS (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); STRIKES (52%); 

PERSON: A MARSHALL ACUFF JR (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 1996



256 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 11, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 946 words

HEADLINE: $1 Billion in Borrowing Is Sought for School Work

BYLINE: By JENNIFER PRESTON 

DATELINE: TRENTON, June 10

 BODY:
Assembly Speaker Jack Collins proposed a 25-cents-a-pack increase in the state's cigarette tax today to pay for a $1 billion bond issue that would in turn help pay for the state's most ambitious school-construction program in decades.
With many school districts facing increasing enrollments and some urban areas struggling to educate children in crumbling buildings, Mr. Collins, a Republican from Salem County, said the bond act would help districts without burdening property owners with higher taxes. 
 Mr. Collins said his four-year school construction program would complement Gov. Christine Todd Whitman's new school-financing plan aimed at ending a 25-year dispute over the disparity in spending between the state's richest and poorest school districts. The Governor's plan would give more money to help school districts comply with new curriculum standards, but it does not suggest how to pay for major construction projects.
This is the first major initiative announced by Mr. Collins since he was elected Speaker in January. He said the bond issue would give school districts, particularly needy ones, the resources to improve schools and build new ones to meet the new curriculum standards -- paying for new laboratories to meet the science requirements, for example.
"The funding formula will provide financial parity," Mr. Collins said. "The core curriculum will provide program parity. But if the learning environment is not conducive to success, then our objective of providing a thorough and efficient education for all students, especially those in urban areas and financially struggling communities, will not and can not be achieved."
The plan was welcomed by education groups who have long complained that New Jersey has failed to meet its obligation to help districts improve and add buildings. Many districts have postponed construction projects because they have been reluctant to burden taxpayers. Other districts are now being forced to pay for projects without the state assistance that they had anticipated.
"This is the most ambitious undertaking that has been proposed to date," said Dr. Robert E. Boose, executive director of the New Jersey School Boards Association.
Mr. Collins outlined his plan to Governor Whitman and the Senate president, Donald T. DiFrancesco, a Republican of Scotch Plains, who both promised to review it.
Governor Whitman had recommended a 25-cent increase in the cigarette tax late last year to help pay for the state program that reimburses hospitals for providing free medical treatment to the uninsured. But Mrs. Whitman was unable to win support for the tax increase in the Legislature, primarily because Democrats refused to go along with any rise in taxes, and Republicans insisted that they would support only a bipartisan measure.
At the time, Mr. Collins was reluctant to go along with a cigarette tax increase to pay for charity care. But he said he believes such an increase is entirely appropriate to help pay for a school construction program, and he expects Democratic support for the measure.
"But it will be up to the voters to decide," Mr. Collins said.
Under the plan, voters would need to approve a constitutional amendment in November authorizing the state to increase the cigarette tax and dedicate that revenue for the bond act. A traditional bond issue requires voter approval and is repaid from state general revenues, but in this case, the state's Economic Development Authority would issue the bonds and pay the debt service with proceeds from the cigarette tax increase.
Dale Florio, a lobbyist who represents Philip Morris, the tobacco company, said that he expected that efforts to raise the tax in New Jersey would drive down sales and reduce overall cigarette tax revenues.
Although the state projects some loss in cigarette tax revenues because of an expected increase in bootlegging and lost sales to neighboring states, New Jersey budget officials estimate a 25-cent increase would generate $135 million a year in new revenues. The increase would raise the state cigarette tax to 65 cents, the highest in the region, from 40 cents, increasing the average cost of a pack to $2.60, from $2.35. The state cigarette tax in New York is 56 cents; it is 31 cents in Pennsylvania and 24 cents in Delaware.
Of the $135 million in annual proceeds, Mr. Collins said that $75 million would be used to pay debt service on a $1 billion bond sale. The remaining $60 million would be used to pay for the state's share of local debt service on existing capital construction programs.
The state now covers only 58 percent of what it is supposed to pay for those local debt service costs.
"Our plan would provide immediate relief and put this wrong to right," Mr. Collins said.
Mr. Collins said half of the money from the $1 billion bond act would be used to help fix schools or build new ones within 113 school districts that have been designated by the state as the most financially needy. The other $500 million would be available to the remaining 480 districts.
David Sciarra, executive director of the Education Law Center, a not-for-profit public interest group which brought the lawsuit against New Jersey demanding parity between the wealthiest and poorest districts, said that the plan still depends too heavily on property taxes.
To appear on the ballot in November, the proposed amendment to the state constitution would have to be approved by three-fifths of each house by August.
The measure would not need the Governor's signature to get on the ballot, but certainly Mrs. Whitman's support would be critical to the bond issue's survival. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SMOKING AND TOBACCO; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TAXATION SCHOOL DISTRICTS (91%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (90%); INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); SCHOOL BONDS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); CURRICULA (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (90%); BOND ISSUES (90%); CORE CURRICULUM (90%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); BONDS (90%); TAX LAW (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATION (79%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); SCHOOL BOARDS (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); CONSTRUCTION DELAYS & STOPPAGES (72%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (71%); HOSPITALS (70%); EXECUTIVES (60%); 

PERSON: PRESTON, JENNIFER; COLLINS, JACK (SPEAKER) CHRISTINE TODD WHITMAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 1996



257 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1258 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
The Trouble Selling Kodak in Japan, Land of Fuji

BYLINE: By SHERYL WuDUNN 

DATELINE: TOKYO, June 10

 BODY:
In the small town of Odaicho on Japan's east coast, Isamu Yoshida says he would love to carry Kodak film in his little photo shop.
But the Fuji film salesmen visit regularly, and provide posters and advertising as well as twice-a-day film pickup and delivery of photos. In contrast, Mr. Yoshida says that he has never met a Kodak salesman and that Kodak offers no film pickup in his area. 
 "I don't think Kodak is making enough effort," said Mr. Yoshida, a photo buff who likes the color tones of Kodak products. "You can't just sell film and think that's the end of it. People want to bring it back for developing."
Mr. Yoshida's harsh verdict -- that Kodak Japan Ltd., a unit of the Eastman Kodak Company, is not trying hard enough in this country -- may be less merited in the future. Kodak is working to build up its network of retailers and labs in Japan -- and it is also trying a short cut, by bringing United States Government pressure, to raise its market share in this $10 billion business.
This week, the United States trade representative's office is expected to file a suit on behalf of Kodak with the World Trade Organization. It would be the first major case that the United States initiates at the W.T.O. against Japan, and a test of trade policy in both countries.
The world's two largest and most competitive photo film companies, Kodak and Fuji, have been locked in an ugly battle for the snapshot memories of Japan, hurling pointed salvos back and forth and virtually calling each other liars. In many ways, it is emblematic of the fight for market access that has dogged many American companies coming to Japan: Kodak says that after decades of effort, it still feels itself running up against an invisible wall.
Kodak's frustrations arise partly because it is fairly clear that the Fuji Photo Film Company's dominance of the Japanese market derives in great measure from Japanese Government policy in the past. Government favoritism may have ended, but its effects linger: Tokyo's effort helped build Fuji's market share to 70 percent today, compared with 10 percent for Kodak.
"The whole buildup of the market, which was bolstered by the Government, has made it so hard for foreign competitors to come in," said Jiro Tamura, a professor of anti-monopoly law at Keio University. "But if the Government wants Kodak to get access to the market and sell to the retailers, the answer will only come from the consumer. It's hard for the Government to provide any kind of affirmative action for Kodak."
Still, Kodak says that when it tries to break into Japan's small film shops, like Mr. Yoshida's in Odaicho, it cannot because the film market is clubby, secretive and discriminatory. Kodak also says that the Japanese Government should enforce monopoly laws against Fuji, but it is hampered a bit in making this argument because similar complaints are made in the United States about the dominance of Kodak there.
So Kodak has an uphill battle. Yet conversations with two dozen film retailers around Japan suggest that while Fuji's dominance may in itself be a source of pressure and influence, overwhelming retailers, the main problems that Kodak faces may be partly of its own making.
For example, Kodak offers minimal discounts, of about 10 percent, it says, which may not be enough to get customers to switch from Fuji; its advertising does not seem to make much of an impression; it seems hesitant to build a sales and distribution network that would rival Fuji's; it does not have nearly as many laboratories to process film as Fuji.
Naturally, Fuji has the home-court advantage, as Kodak does in the United States, where market-share proportions for the two are the reverse of what they are in Japan. But some scholars and business executives say that Kodak has not clearly demonstrated that it understands the Japanese market, for it has stumbled in its business judgment in the past.
A main problem for Kodak lies in the perception of consumers. Retailers say many consumers believe that Fuji film is superior. Several retailers said that even with a roll of Kodak film selling at 20 percent less than Fuji, consumers choose Fuji. When prices are the same, the task of selling Kodak becomes more challenging yet.
"I try to sell Kodak film, but if I don't say anything, people buy Fuji," said a manager who runs a photo lab tied to Kodak in Sanjo, a small city of 86,000 in Niigata prefecture, about 150 miles north of Tokyo. Fuji, the manager added, outsells Kodak by a margin of 2 to 1.
Kodak will not disclose details, but says it has talked to some retailers who say that they have been pressed by Fuji into not letting Kodak film upstage its own. Most retailers denied this, including Mr. Yoshida in Odaicho.
Indeed his shop still has an old Kodak sign, from the days when he did sell Kodak film before demand dried up, and now in addition to Fuji, he carries Konica and Polaroid film, as well as an obscure Korean brand.
In a country town in Mie prefecture, Akihisa Kashiwagi runs a small convenience store, where film is only a tiny part of overall sales. Until two months ago, he carried Kodak film. But sales did not go well, so his main headquarters stopped sending Kodak to his store, and now he carries only Fuji.
On Friday, he said, a Kodak salesman visited him for the first time -- offering to sell the company's film and processing for essentially the same price as Fuji, with one exception. He said that Kodak's print costs would be one-fifth the price of Fuji's per picture, though the company would not comment on this. This would save money for his customers but mean a smaller commission for the shopkeeper.
Mr. Kashiwagi says he was delighted by the visit but will probably not take Kodak on. His store is in a small, lightly trafficked town, and he says he is skeptical that the lower prices will bring in more customers, so that he could end up with a smaller profit on the processing of pictures.
Mr. Kashiwagi says he has never been strong-armed by Fuji. But to a small retailer Fuji looms large, and when asked whether taking on Kodak's deal might bring him pressure or other problems from Fuji, he replied slowly: "It is possible."
In another sign of Fuji's weight in the market, distributors may also be wary of helping Kodak. Heisaburo Okawara, a senior managing director at the Omiya Photo Supply Company, one of Fuji's four main channels, said that his company was highly dependent on Fuji and that he was unlikely to carry Kodak products. He called Kodak's marketing strategy incompatible with his company.
Kodak argues that some redress is necessary, although it has not clearly articulated exactly what it wants. It says it is impractical for it to replicate a distribution network like Fuji's.
But some scholars say that the film industry is changing rapidly and Kodak has a few good opportunities, if it works fast. More and more film is being sold through discounters, convenience-store chains and even vending machines, and Fuji is already moving aggressively on those fronts. Traveling around Japan, one frequently sees Fuji film and disposable cameras being sold in vending machines, but not Kodak.
"Small labs and convenience stores are very independent from Fuji's film companies, and there may be room for newcomers like Kodak to construct new types of distribution channels," said Kyoichi Ikeo, a marketing professor at Keio University. "Now the situation is changing, so that a new strategy could be very effective for Kodak." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: 4901 (TSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3861 PHOTOGRAPHIC EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (84%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

COMPANY: EASTMAN KODAK CO; KODAK JAPAN LTD; FUJI PHOTO FILM CO; WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION EASTMAN KODAK CO (94%); FUJIFILM HOLDINGS CORP (84%); KODAK JAPAN LTD (69%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (82%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: EASTMAN KODAK CO; KODAK JAPAN LTD; FUJI PHOTO FILM CO; WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (82%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

SUBJECT: PHOTOGRAPHY; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET PHOTOGRAPHIC CHEMICALS & SUPPLIES MFG (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); RETAILERS (89%); MARKET SHARE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (87%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (65%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (64%); MONOPOLIZATION (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); SUITS & CLAIMS (52%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (50%); 

PERSON: WUDUNN, SHERYL ISAMU YOSHIDA (74%); JOHN MAJOR (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 1996



258 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 629 words

HEADLINE: Negotiations Begin on Auto Industry Pact

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: DEARBORN, Mich., June 10

 BODY:
Officials from the United Automobile Workers union and the Ford Motor Company were carrying baseball bats when they showed up here today for the ritual of opening negotiations on a three-year labor contract, but their meeting was cordial and largely ceremonial.
Stephen P. Yokich, the president of the U.A.W., and his aides brought two baseball bats given to them by activists who urged them to "go to bat" to stop auto makers from buying more parts from outside companies. Warned how Mr. Yokich had armed himself for the talks, Alexander J. Trotman, Ford's chairman and chief executive, picked up his own bat to show that he could play ball with the union. 
 But while the baseball bats may have evoked images of the 1930's, when Ford security officials sometimes beat up union organizers, auto industry labor negotiations have long since settled down to a series of rituals with a lot of theater. Today was no exception, and similar ceremonies scheduled at the Chrysler Corporation on Tuesday and at the General Motors Corporation on Wednesday are likely to be the same.
Mr. Yokich and Mr. Trotman made brief presentations to the two sides' negotiating teams during a meeting here this morning that lasted a little over an hour. But the serious bargaining may not come until Aug. 22, when the union will choose one of the Big Three auto makers as its primary target for negotiating a contract that the union will then try to impose on the others.
Ernest Lofton, the U.A.W. vice president in charge of relations with Ford, said this afternoon that the union would not even make its opening offer to the company until early next week. While the U.A.W. adopted broad goals for its negotiating strategy at a bargaining convention here in April, the union has had to work out the details of its specific demands to each company.
In addition to reducing the purchase of outside parts, the union wants the auto makers to reduce overtime by hiring more workers, and would like to hold on to past gains in wages and pension benefits. The auto makers all want to hold down overall labor costs, but have varying positions on issues like health care costs, pension benefits and the parts purchases. Ford officials said they would discuss the possibility of a contract lasting more than three years, but Mr. Yokich professed little enthusiasm.
At news conferences this afternoon, union and company officials alike played down the possibility of a strike this autumn. The U.A.W.'s current three-year contracts with G.M., Ford and Chrysler are scheduled to expire on Sept. 14.
"We never go into these negotiations with a strike in mind, we go into these negotiations with a tentative settlement in mind," Mr. Lofton said.
But for all the expressions of harmony, basic disagreements were apparent in the negotiators' remarks this afternoon. And those differences are even sharper at G.M. and Chrysler, which have cooler relationships with the union than Ford does.
Mr. Yokich complained that the Big Three, including Ford, had relied too heavily on forcing existing workers to put in many hours of overtime, instead of hiring new workers. Workers putting in six- and seven-day weeks have suffered needless injuries while fatigued, Mr. Yokich said. The U.A.W. wants to expand its dues-paying base of workers during the current economic expansion, but the auto makers have been slow to do so.
But Ford officials were equally firm in expressing their reluctance to hire more workers. Thomas M. Brown, Ford's executive director of labor affairs, said the company needed the flexibility of overtime to deal with variations in demand for cars and trucks, and did not want to hire workers during prosperous times only to lay them off during economic downturns. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (96%); F (NYSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (UAW); FORD MOTOR CO; CHRYSLER CORP; GENERAL MOTORS CORP FORD MOTOR CO (96%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (83%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (69%); INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (UAW); FORD MOTOR CO; CHRYSLER CORP; GENERAL MOTORS CORP INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; LABOR; GIVEBACKS (COLLECTIVE BARGAINING); HIRING AND PROMOTION AUTOMOTIVE MFG (91%); LABOR UNIONS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); OVERTIME (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); STRIKES (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (60%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH; YOKICH, STEPHEN P; TROTMAN, ALEXANDER J STEPHEN P YOKICH (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 1996



259 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 642 words

HEADLINE: In Naming a New Executive, G.M. Tightens Reins at Saab

BYLINE: By ROBYN MEREDITH 

DATELINE: DETROIT, June 10

 BODY:
The General Motors Corporation took tighter hold of the reins at Saab Automobile A.B. today by naming an executive close to G.M.'s chairman, John F. Smith Jr., to run the Swedish auto maker.
Robert W. Hendry, a G.M. vice president and group executive, will become president and chief executive of Saab in August. Saab is a joint venture between General Motors and Investor A.B., the Swedish holding company controlled by the Wallenberg family. 
 The appointment of Mr. Hendry, who is 51, along with other recent executive moves, signals that General Motors is redoubling its efforts to make Saab consistently profitable. Just last week, Saab announced that Joel K. Manby, an executive at G.M.'s much-admired Saturn small- car subsidiary, would become president and chief executive of Saab Cars USA Inc., Saab's American marketing arm. Moving to Saab with Mr. Manby is Saturn's director of consumer marketing, John J. Orth, who today was named vice president for sales at Saab Cars.
Mr. Hendry replaces Keith Butler-Wheelhouse, who is leaving after four years to join Smiths Industries, the British conglomerate, as an executive director and board member. Mr. Hendry will retain his high post at G.M. while he runs Saab. Mr. Butler-Wheelhouse, who worked for the Ford Motor Company for two decades before joining Saab, is not an officer of General Motors, signaling that Mr. Hendry's link with the parent company will be stronger.
General Motors paid $500 million for a half interest in Saab in 1990, and has invested another $500 million since. During that time, Saab cut its work force in half and adopted many streamlined manufacturing techniques.
Saab's goal is to sell 150,000 cars a year worldwide by the year 2000, up from 98,700 last year. It also wants to raise its annual United States sales from 25,595 last year to about 40,000. Saab plans to start selling a new sedan and station wagon next year. The sedan, referred to as project 640, will be more luxurious than Saab's 9000 hatchback, and will be sold in a station-wagon version -- informally called project 641 -- starting in 1999, said Karl Olof Axelson, Saab Automobile's vice president for communications.
Mr. Hendry's mandate to finish turning Saab around comes after he helped Mr. Smith and other executives stanch the hemorrhaging at G.M. in 1992. Serving as chief financial officer for G.M.'s North American operations, Mr. Hendry had authority over every major capital spending proposal. "He was on the front lines during the stop-the-bleeding years," said Scott F. Merlis, president of Merlis Automotive International, an independent automotive research firm in Westport, Conn.
Mr. Hendry also led G.M.'s New United Motor Manufacturing Inc., a California joint venture with the Toyota Motor Corporation in which G.M. learned Japanese lean-production techniques while building Toyota Corollas and Geo Prizms.
Indeed, the new team at Saab could be preparing to link the G.M. subsidiary more closely with the company's Saturn division. "There has been a lot of talk about a Saturn/ Saab alignment," said Lincoln C. Merrihew, an auto analyst for DRI/ McGraw-Hill, an economic forecasting company in Lexington, Mass. "There is sort of a similarity in the psychological makeup of Saab and Saturn buyers," he said, since both customer bases are famously loyal. Saab and Saturn products do not compete against each other because Saturn's small cars fill the lower end of the market, Mr. Merrihew said.
Mr. Butler-Wheelhouse told The Financial Times of London last week that some Saturn dealers might eventually sell Saab cars, too, and that the two would cooperate more behind the scenes.
Mr. Hendry was not available for comment. But Mr. Axelson of Saab acknowledged that the auto maker hoped to make its buyers happier by adopting some of Saturn's ways. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (92%); INVE.B (STO) (91%); INVE.A (STO) (91%); FORDP (PAR) (91%); F (NYSE) (91%); TYT (LSE) (84%); TM (NYSE) (84%); 7203 (TSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (91%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (67%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SAAB AUTOMOBILE AB; GENERAL MOTORS CORP; SMITHS INDUSTRIES PLC MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (96%); NATIONAL ELECTRIC VEHICLE SWEDEN AB (94%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (92%); INVESTOR AB (91%); FORD MOTOR CO (91%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (84%); NEW UNITED MOTOR MANUFACTURING INC (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: SAAB AUTOMOBILE AB; GENERAL MOTORS CORP; SMITHS INDUSTRIES PLC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (67%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); SEDANS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); JOINT VENTURES (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); AUTOMOTIVE RESEARCH (73%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (73%); SALES & SELLING (67%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (63%); 

PERSON: MEREDITH, ROBYN; HENDRY, ROBERT W; BUTLER-WHEELHOUSE, KEITH JOHN F SMITH JR (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 1996



260 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 615 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Employers' Rights Upheld In Early-Retirement Plans
In a closely watched labor case involving Lockheed Martin, the Supreme Court unanimously ruled that employers can require workers to give up various legal claims against a company as the price of receiving an early-retirement buyout with enhanced pension benefits.
The court overturned a finding by a Federal appeals court that Lockheed had violated Federal pension law when it made a new early-retirement program available only to employees who were willing to waive any claims against Lockheed based on violations of labor laws. [Page A1.]
 
Kellogg Cuts Many Cereal Prices
Kellogg cut prices by an average of 19 percent on Frosted Flakes, Raisin Bran and 14 other brands of cereal that represent two-thirds of its domestic sales. Supermarket scanner data had warned the company that its industry-leading market share was rapidly eroding in the face of across-the-board 20 percent price cuts announced earlier in the spring by Post and Nabisco cereals. [D4.]

Forstmann to Buy Hospital Chain
Making its first purchase in health care, Forstmann Little, the New York investment firm, said it would buy Community Health Systems Inc., a Nashville-based chain of 38 hospitals, which are mainly in the Southeast and Southwest, for $1.1 billion. [D4.]

Exxon Wins an Insurance Trial
A Texas jury awarded Exxon $250 million from Lloyd's of London and other insurers that sold policies to protect it from liabilities incurred in the Exxon Valdez oil spill. [D8.]
 
Exxon reached an agreement with Russia that clears the way for its consortium to begin work on oil and gas fields off Sakhalin Island. [D8.]
 
Bond Prices Keep Skidding
Bonds continued to slide as prices remained under heavy pressure from investors who expect the Federal Reserve to raise short-term interest rates next month. The yield on the 30-year Treasury bond rose to 7.12 percent, the highest level in more than a year. [D17.]
 
Stocks rebounded from early losses to close moderately lower. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 9.24 points to 5,687.87. [D10.]
 
White House Trade Gaffe
Even as the Clinton Administration heads into a showdown with China over its failure to abide by a key trade agreement, an oversight at the White House has put President Clinton in the awkward position of having to assert that China is opening markets and lowering barriers to American companies. [D7.]
 
U.A.W. and Ford Start to Talk
Officials from the United Automobile Workers union and Ford Motor carried baseball bats when they showed up for the ritual of opening negotiations on a new three-year labor contract, but their meeting was cordial and largely ceremonial. Similar labor talks begin at Chrysler today and General Motors tomorrow. [D2.]

G.M. Names New Chief at Saab
General Motors, which holds a 50 percent stake in Saab Automobile A.B., took tighter hold of the Swedish auto maker by naming an executive close to the G.M. chairman, John F. Smith Jr., to run it. [D2.]

Phone Giants Embrace the Internet
Projecting that the volume of computer-based communications traffic would soon surpass that for voice communications, MCI and British Telecom said they planned to merge their international high-speed data networks and to significantly expand their Internet capacity. [D5.]

Russian Bank Tightens Credit
Struggling to limit the damage from President Boris N. Yeltsin's costly campaign promises, Russia's central bank imposed a series of measures to keep inflation down. [A6.]
 
No Games, Just Recaps
ESPN plans a third channel, ESPNEWS, a 24-hour all-sports-news network. [B19.]


GRAPHIC: Dow Industrials -- 5,687.87, down 9.24
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 7.12%, up 0.10
The Dollar -- 109.00 yen, down 0.23

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (70%); F (NYSE) (70%); CYH (NYSE) (68%); LMT (NYSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (80%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (80%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS622110 GENERAL MEDICAL & SURGICAL HOSPITALS (68%); SIC8062 GENERAL MEDICAL & SURGICAL HOSPITALS (68%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (66%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (66%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (68%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); 

CITY: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ELECTRIC VEHICLE SWEDEN AB (80%); FORD MOTOR CO (70%); COMMUNITY HEALTH SYSTEMS INC (68%); LLOYD'S OF LONDON (UK) (66%); LLOYD'S OF LONDON (GAMBIA) (66%); LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%); SAAB GENERAL MOTORS (59%); UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: SAAB GENERAL MOTORS (59%); UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (68%); TEXAS, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS EARLY RETIREMENT (91%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); BREAKFAST CEREAL (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BONDS (89%); BOND MARKETS (88%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (79%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (79%); EMPLOYMENT (79%); VERDICTS (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); JURY TRIALS (78%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); DAMAGES (77%); PRICE CUTTING (77%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); APPOINTMENTS (74%); MARKET SHARE (74%); LABOR UNIONS (74%); INSURANCE (73%); APPEALS COURTS (73%); HOSPITALS (72%); HEALTH CARE (72%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (70%); OIL SPILLS (69%); TREASURY SECURITIES (68%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (68%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (65%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (64%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (64%); LAYOFFS (58%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (57%); COMPUTER SCANNERS (54%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 1996



261 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 11, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 411 words

HEADLINE: Closing Long Chapter, Dole Looks Ahead

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 10

 BODY:
Hours before leaving the Senate, Senator Bob Dole declared that he had "no illusions about the difficulties ahead of us," but he told supporters at a black-tie Republican fund-raiser here that they should not despair about the next chapter in his political life: his campaign for President.
"I want all of you always to remember this moment," Mr. Dole said, his voice echoing across a cavernous hall filled with more than 4,000 Republican supporters who had each paid $1,000 for the political dinner. "I want you to remember when the media dismissed our chances. I want you to remember when the White House was not just confident, but overconfident, to the point of arrogance. I want you to remember that our belief was still strong." 
Mr. Dole made his remarks at a fund-raiser for the National Republican Congressional Committee and the National Republican Senatorial Committee. Although none of the money will go to his Presidential campaign, the sponsors -- who reported raising $8 million tonight -- framed the evening around Mr. Dole, since it coincided with Mr. Dole's last night as a United States Senator.
Mr. Dole was in good humor. "It's good to see all the faces that match the names on the White House enemies list," he said, glancing at his audience.
He said that as he prepared to leave the Senate, his "biggest disappointment" was not passing a balanced-budget amendment to the Constitution. He was referring to the amendment's defeat by three votes last week. Mr. Dole knew the measure would fail when he brought it up, but he calculated that a loss would allow him to leave the Senate with an issue he could use against President Clinton.
Mr. Dole said his main campaign focus would be on the economy, and he chastised the news media for questioning his central economic precept: that he can cut taxes and balance the budget.
"We can make the economy grow and balance the budget and cut taxes at the same time," he said. "Don't let the media fool you. It can be done, and we will do it."
Mr. Dole shared the evening with Speaker Newt Gingrich, whose unpopularity, in the view of some of Mr. Dole's political advisers, accounts for some of the Senator's political problems. But while Mr. Dole and Mr. Gingrich were on the same program, they were separated by about half a football field across the Washington Convention Center. There were three stages in the room, and the two men traded compliments from opposite sides of the hall.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US); CONGRESS (US) NATIONAL REPUBLICAN CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US); CONGRESS (US) NATIONAL REPUBLICAN CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 FUNDRAISING (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); TAX LAW (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (62%); 

PERSON: NAGOURNEY, ADAM; DOLE, BOB (SEN) BILL CLINTON (58%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 1996



262 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 949 words

HEADLINE: CORPORATION WINS IN PENSION RULING

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 10

 BODY:
The Supreme Court ruled in a closely watched labor case today that an employer could require employees to give up various legal claims against a company as the price of receiving an early-retirement buyout with enhanced pension benefits.
The Court ruled unanimously in favor of the Lockheed Martin Corporation. A Federal appeals court found last year that the company had violated the basic Federal pension law, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, when it made a new early-retirement program available only to employees who were willing to waive any claims against Lockheed based on violations of labor laws. 
 On a second question in the case, the Court split 7 to 2 in ruling that the members of Lockheed's retirement committee, who administered the pension plan, could not be sued because the Federal law, known as Erisa, does not forbid a quid pro quo under which employees gain a benefit if they meet a particular condition set by the employer.
The section of Erisa at issue in the case "simply does not address what an employer can and cannot ask an employee to do in return for benefits," Justice Clarence Thomas wrote in a majority opinion that encompassed both of the questions that were before the Court.
Early-retirement options are a popular management technique in an era of corporate downsizing, and this case, framed by the highly technical provisions of the Erisa law, posed the basic question of whether there are legal limits on what an employer can demand while offering a lifeline to workers who might otherwise face involuntary layoffs.
Unsurprisingly, the Court did not answer all the questions that can come up in such situations -- for example, whether there are certain legal rights, like the right to collect workers' compensation for injuries, that employees cannot be asked to waive under any circumstances. At issue in this case was credit for earlier years of employment that had not been counted in a pension plan.
The case was brought by Paul L. Spink, an aerospace engineer who retired from a Lockheed plant in Burbank, Calif., in 1990 at age 72. He took a pension of less than $100 a month rather than waive his right to sue for his retroactive pension credit. He was recruited to Lockheed in 1979, when he was 61 years old and ineligible for the pension plan under a company policy that barred participation by employees who were over age 60 when they were hired.
Congress passed a law in 1986 that made such age-related exclusions from pension plans illegal. Lockheed then gave Mr. Spink pension credit beginning in 1988, refusing to credit him retroactively. In a separate portion of the ruling today, the Court found that Lockheed was correct and that Congress had not intended the provision to have retroactive effect.
One of Mr. Spink's lawyers, Bert Voorhees, said in an interview today that the case would proceed on various legal theories that were not before the Supreme Court, including whether Lockheed should be held to promises it made to Mr. Spink that it would provide him with a pension.
Mr. Spink sued Lockheed in 1992 under a provision of Erisa, Section 406, that makes illegal certain transfers of pension plan assets or the use of the assets to benefit the company. He contended that the company and the pension plan's administrators were harming the overall health of the pension plan by diverting tens of millions of dollars to employees who were willing to retire with enhanced pensions in return for giving up their legal rights.
He lost in Federal District Court in Los Angeles before winning last year in the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco. The appeals court ruled that the company was illegally using the pension plan for its own benefit.
The ruling alarmed many employer groups, which urged the Supreme Court to review the case. For example, the United States Chamber of Commerce told the Justices that "employee benefit plans simply could not function" under the Ninth Circuit's approach. "In a free-market economy, an employer always provides employee benefits in return for valuable benefits from the employee," the chamber's brief said.
In the decision today, Lockheed v. Spink, No. 95-809, the Court found two grounds for overturning the Ninth Circuit's opinion. First, Justice Thomas said, while Lockheed sponsored the pension plan and the amendment that made the buyout available, the company did not have fiduciary responsibility for running the plan. Under the section of Erisa at issue, "a plaintiff must show that a fiduciary caused the plan to engage in the allegedly unlawful transaction," so, the section does not apply to Lockheed at all, Justice Thomas said. The Court was unanimous on that point.
While the plan's administrators did act as fiduciaries, their behavior was not illegal because "the payment of benefits is in fact not a 'transaction' in the sense that Congress used that term in Section 406," Justice Thomas said.
He said Congress meant to prohibit "commercial bargains that present a special risk of plan underfunding because they are struck with plan insiders, presumably not at arm-length" and that therefore have the potential to harm the plan. "The payment of benefits conditioned on performance by plan participants cannot reasonably be said to share that characteristic," he said.
Justices Stephen G. Breyer and David H. Souter dissented from this portion of the decision. They said the question of plan administrators' liability under these circumstances was a "difficult one" that would "benefit from further development in the lower courts" before being resolved at the Supreme Court level.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LMT (NYSE) (86%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (86%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (86%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (86%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SUPREME COURT (US); LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (86%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT (US); LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; LABOR US EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT INCOME SECURITY ACT (93%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (91%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (91%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (91%); EARLY RETIREMENT (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); VERDICTS (78%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); APPEALS COURTS (73%); INTERVIEWS (60%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, LINDA CLARENCE THOMAS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 1996



263 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1114 words

HEADLINE: Mayor and Council Leaders Agree on $32.8 Billion Budget

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS 

 BODY:
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and leaders of the City Council reached a tentative agreement early this morning on a $32.8 billion budget that would make sharp cuts in spending on municipal services but include a plan to borrow $1.4 billion for repairs to New York City's public schools over the next four years.
The agreement -- the third under Mr. Giuliani, a Republican who pledged to cure the city's fiscal ills -- reflected the grim realities of the city's sluggish economy and the ever-rising costs of municipal expenses, like interest on the city's debt and health benefits for unionized employees. 
 With the city facing a projected shortfall of $2.7 billion, the Mayor and the Council's leaders agreed to postpone almost all of the $428 million in tax cuts that Mr. Giuliani had originally proposed.
They agreed to extend the city's temporary 12.5 percent surcharge on the personal income tax that was to have expired in December -- a move that the Mayor's senior aides derided as a tax increase only a few months ago -- to keep the budget balanced.
The Mayor and the Council leaders finished negotiations just before 1 this morning after a last, protracted day and night of wrangling between the two sides. The Council Speaker, Peter F. Vallone, signaled the deal after emerging from the Mayor's office, and strode through the lobby of City Hall, still crowded with anxious lobbyists. An announcement of an agreement was delayed when the Mayor left City Hall abruptly just before 11 P.M. to visit a police officer who was shot and wounded in East New York.
The agreement would leave in place most of the fiscal and political priorities contained in the Mayor's executive budget a month ago. It included more than $1.1 billion in cuts in spending to the city's myriad agencies that would affect municipal services used by most New Yorkers.
At a news conference at City Hall early this morning, the Mayor praised the Council's Democrats for making what he called significant changes, but ones that remained within the parameters of his original proposal.
"This is a budget that is fiscally sound," Mr. Giuliani said. "At the same time, I think some historic things have been done."
The Council's leaders declared a major victory, pointing to the Mayor's acceptance of a plan to provide an infusion of cash for school repairs. The proposal would pay for much-needed work -- from minor patchwork to new windows and roofs -- for the city's aging, overcrowded schools, although the Council has not yet released a list of specific projects.
But the Council's proposal has undergone significant changes since Mr. Vallone announced it in January and made it his top priority in this spring's budget battle. Moreover, the financing for the version Mr. Giuliani has accepted remains unresolved after the first year, and the total package could end up costing the city billions more in interest and strain its ability to borrow money.
The Council dropped its initial proposal to pay for the repairs with $1.4 billion in revenues from an extension of the personal income tax surcharge over four years. Instead it accepted the Mayor's demand to raise the same amount by issuing new bonds that will be repaid with interest over the next 30 years.
The problem, however, is that the city already faces a state constitutional limit on its debt. The prospect that the city would reach the limit in 1998 forced Mr. Giuliani to propose cutting capital spending by $1 billion over the next four years when he unveiled his budget last month.
With an agreement to spend $1.4 billion in schools, the city will again bump against the debt limit.
To sidestep the limit, the Mayor also proposed the creation of a new public authority to issue bonds for schools, bridges and mass transit. The Council has yet to agree to that proposal, which has already raised concerns among legislators in Albany, who would have to approve it or any changes in the limit.
The Council officials acknowledged the uncertainty surrounding the money for schools, considering the legislative logjams that often leave the city empty-handed. But they said they were confident that the State Legislature would ultimately go along.
The agreement still requires the approval of the entire Council, but that is a mere formality, if the past is any guide, since the Speaker holds tight reins over the Democratic majority.
In addition to the school repairs, the Council focused much of its efforts on blocking some of the Mayor's budget cuts from taking effect. The tentative agreement early this morning restored about $115 million in spending for a variety of programs, like the city's libraries, its museums and treatment for alcoholics and the mentally ill.
The Council's black and Latino caucus -- representing 22 of the Council's 51 members -- insisted on restoring at least part of the city's subsidy to the Health and Hospitals Corporation, which the Mayor had proposed cutting by $110 million, to only $37 million. The agreement put back $20 million.
Mr. Giuliani has maintained all along that his budget cutting has had little or no effect on municipal services. Other elected officials, however, have disputed his claims, including Public Advocate Mark J. Green and Borough President Ruth W. Messinger of Manhattan, whose offices each released reports in the last week detailing eroding services, from street cleaning to youth programs.
"Anybody who thinks we're going to get through this budget without pain is living an illusion," said Councilman Herbert E. Berman, a Democrat from Brooklyn and the chairman of the Council's Finance Committee.
Last night's tentative agreement ended an unusual budget process that began in January with the Mayor's preliminary budget proposal and over the next few months experienced radical changes midstream.
The Mayor's preliminary plan proposed $691 million in spending cuts, and Mr. Giuliani vowed to press ahead with his campaign pledges to reduce taxes. But he also softened his message of fiscal austerity.
He promised to protect the city's most vulnerable citizens -- children, the elderly. To do so, he relied heavily on risky assumptions of help from Albany and financial maneuvers that provided immediate infusions of cash but that raised the concerns of fiscal monitors and bond raters.
By the time Mr. Giuliani submitted his formal budget proposal to the City Council last month, much of that preliminary plan had changed. Prompted by the warnings from the monitors and raters, the Mayor eliminated some of the overly optimistic assumptions, including a plan to sell the city's parking meters for $150 million to $300 million.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: CITY COUNCIL (97%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY COUNCIL (97%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; CITY COUNCILS; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TAXATION; INCOME TAX CITY GOVERNMENT (93%); BUDGETS (92%); TAX LAW (90%); CITIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LOBBYING (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (79%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (73%); TAX RELIEF (73%); TAX INCREASES (73%); INCOME TAX (73%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (72%); TRENDS (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (64%); LABOR UNIONS (54%); 

PERSON: MYERS, STEVEN LEE; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 1996



264 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 287 words

HEADLINE: Federal Reserve Board Has Too Much Power;
Ask Mr. Greenspan

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Your June 8 editorial "The Unfair War on Alan Greenspan" rightly asks the Senate promptly to confirm Alan Greenspan's reappointment by the President as Federal Reserve chairman. To delay confirmation to permit a "great debate" on Mr. Greenspan's economic policies ignores that Mr. Greenspan would not be there to present his side of the debate. 
 Fortunately, a true great debate can take place next month when Mr. Greenspan appears before the Congressional banking committees for their semiannual review of monetary policy. Some questions that might be put to Mr. Greenspan:
* If the Fed discerns inflationary signs in particular sectors -- say, rapidly increasing overtime in labor markets or capacity shortages in the trucking industry -- why not consult with the President and Congress to explore whether there aren't specific solutions for these problems that make it unnecessary to raise interest rates across the board?
* Before moving to raise interest rates generally, which would restrain not only consumer spending but also inflation-fighting business investment in plant and equipment, why not recommend that Congress repeal the income tax deduction for interest on home-equity loans of up to $100,000, a perverse incentive to spend the tax savings on consumer goods, both domestic and imported?
* At a time when many are calling the stock market inflated, and when a blow-off could destabilize the entire economy, why isn't the Fed using its statutory power to order a modest increase in stock margin requirements?
 
HENRY S. REUSS
Belvedere, Calif., June 9, 1996
 
The writer, a former Representative from Wisconsin, headed the House Banking Committee from 1975 to 1981.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC POLICY (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MONETARY POLICY (77%); CONSUMER LENDING (75%); INTEREST RATES (73%); WRITERS (73%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (68%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); TRUCKING (54%); INCOME TAX (52%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (51%); 

PERSON: REUSS, HENRY S; GREENSPAN, ALAN ALAN GREENSPAN (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 1996



265 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 126 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
ALCOA ANNOUNCES CLOSING OF SAN DIEGO PACKAGING PLANT

BYLINE: Dow Jones 

 BODY:
The Aluminum Company of America said yesterday that it had closed its Alcoa Electronic Packaging plant after failing to find a buyer for the subsidiary, which makes ceramic packages for microprocessors. Alcoa, based in Pittsburgh, has been winding down operations at the San Diego plant since the beginning of the year after its principal customer, the Intel Corporation, said it would not be placing any new orders. In March, Alcoa laid off virtually all of the plant's roughly 600 regular employees. Alcoa said closing the plant would reduce its second-quarter earnings by $40 million after taxes. The charge is related to the expected loss from the sale of equipment and inventories. In the second quarter last year, Alcoa earned $219.4 million.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AAI (ASX) (96%); AA (NYSE) (96%); INTC (NASDAQ) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (96%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (96%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: ALCOA ELECTRONIC PACKAGING INC; ALUMINUM CO OF AMERICA (ALCOA) ALCOA INC (96%); INTEL CORP (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: ALCOA ELECTRONIC PACKAGING INC; ALUMINUM CO OF AMERICA (ALCOA)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (90%); ELECTRONICS PACKAGING (90%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (88%); LAYOFFS (88%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (88%); PLANT CLOSINGS (88%); FACTORY ORDERS (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); MICROPROCESSORS (87%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (85%); COMPANY EARNINGS (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 1996



266 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 1996
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1958 words

HEADLINE: After Newark Takeover, Hopes Fade for Quick Fix of Schools

BYLINE: By NEIL MacFARQUHAR 

DATELINE: NEWARK, June 9

 BODY:
The state government promised to end the rampant failure of Newark's students when it evicted the top administrators and the elected board from New Jersey's largest school district 12 months ago.
There would be a new emphasis on classroom instruction, they said, and no tolerance for abuses of the past, when board members kept cars and restaurant accounts while students lacked basic amenities like bathroom partitions and toilet paper. But the new administration was circumspect about when the system would alter its course, and as the academic year ends, there are few tangible signs of change. 
 The old board has been banished, and all 82 school buildings that were crumbling and covered inside and out with often-obscene graffiti were given an $8 million face lift last summer. But aside from the remodeling, the administration says the year was mostly dedicated to hiring a host of consultants. Their tasks included evaluating 182 principals and vice principals and studying the food service, the central administration, previous contracts for possible abuse and the way schools are policed.
Their reports, due later this year, are supposed to point the way toward revitalizing an urban school system in which only about a quarter of the high school students pass the standardized tests needed for graduation and few students perform at grade level. But in making improved student performance the No. 1 priority on their list, the imported administration raised expectations that the takeover would quickly improve classroom instruction. For many parents, teachers and students, the sense that the school system is still not focusing on its students is tarnishing those expectations.
Dr. Beverly L. Hall, a former deputy chancellor in New York City whom the state hired as Newark Superintendent for four years, acknowledges that some problems, like poor attendance, have actually worsened. She knows Newark residents would prefer action to waiting for yet another round of expert reports.
"This is a hard concept to explain to the public, who wants to see the same kind of change they saw in the physical appearance of the buildings after eight weeks," Dr. Hall said.
Changes are in the offing. She has vowed to make significant layoffs, especially at central headquarters and among cafeteria or maintenance workers, to shift money to the classrooms. Forty kindergarten classes, include 14 new ones, will move to all-day programs in the fall. Barringer Preparatory School, a school consisting only of ninth graders, and one of the city's most violent, with 61 violent incidents reported this year, will close its doors at the end of school on June 26. The recently formed school planning teams will help develop rough reform plans by that time.
But even the few plans actually enunciated have created considerable friction, especially with the Newark Teachers Union, which represents 4,400 teachers and aides. The tug-of-war with the union over the school teams delayed their start for several months, and the group is now considering pickets for June 20 as well as a lawsuit to stop what it calls ebbing conflict-of-interest questions. Both the union and parents say they fear that privatization of some instruction and services will mean fewer jobs for local people.
Perhaps one of the most significant hurdles is the resentment born of the fact that seven top managers and several consulting firms were imported from New York City. Locals grumble about carpetbaggers from another decayed system and have taken to referring to their own town as "Newark, New York" when out of earshot of the new management. Dr. Hall bridles at the comparison.
"There are lots of pockets of excellence in New York," she said. "When it comes to the scores you can't compare New York to Newark. We should only get to where New York is. That is not the ideal, but at least you are on the move."
In Newark, reading and math scores, for example, are coming out later this month. But officials say they anticipate little change in the scores because there were no curriculum changes this school year.
Of about 20 states that have passed legislation allowing takeovers for failed academic standards, New Jersey has been among the most aggressive in intervening. Its three largest districts are in state hands. The lurking fear in Newark is that as in earlier takeovers in Jersey City in 1989 and Paterson in 1991, the state will fail to improve academic achievement within the five years mandated by state law and either extend its stay or leave without a successful overhaul.
"That old school board is sitting back and waiting just like the Devil," Sabriyyah Muslima-Boyd said during a recent raucous public meeting of the state-appointed board.
 
Hopes Were High, Maybe Too High
Everyone acknowledges that expectations may have been too high when the state concluded a decadelong review of the Newark public schools and announced that a takeover was warranted by extended student failure on standardized tests and widespread incompetence. All the top administrators and the elected school board were removed last July.
"I assumed that it would get better now that we have experienced people heading our schools," said Stephanie Foard, a 14-year-old at University High who complained that her classrooms were still packed and her course options too limited. "It seems as though after the state took over, we got metal detectors and a coat of paint."
Dr. Hall pointed out in an interview that the main reason for the lack of change is that only the top layer of 30 managers was replaced. "The reality is the principals are still there, so the ones who are competent continue to do their job and the ones who are not continue to not be competent, that hasn't changed," she said. "It will be some time before we begin to see a change in the delivery of instruction."
Active principals are considered the linchpin in successfully remaking any school, with some of the stagnation in Jersey City and Paterson attributed to the state's being too timid in making such personnel changes. Principals and vice principals in Newark deemed incompetent could lose their jobs later this year, Dr. Hall said. Officials at the 360-member City Association of Supervisors and Administrators, the union representing principals, said that at least 40 principals and vice principals were rated unsatisfactory in the first of three evaluation rounds.
"I will not deny that there may be some that need strengthening, but we abhor the 'I gotcha' mentality," said one union member, speaking on condition of anonymity for fear of losing his job.
Those being rated hint darkly that there is a hit list downtown, and union officials attribute one man's mild stroke and the sick leaves taken by five other administrators to the stress caused by being summoned to headquarters to hear an unsatisfactory rating. They also complain that administrators are judged for tasks that they were not assigned, that there is no formal means to rebut low scores and that the quality of the evaluators is uneven.
"Here's a guy putting my 35 years of education on the line in five hours and he falls asleep in a staff meeting," said John D. Petrozzino, the principal at Barringer Prep. "His head went down, his head went back and the guy was out."
Dr. Hall will not specify how many employees she plans to let go, but charged that the previous administration treated the school system like a job agency for friends and relatives. Joseph Del Grosso, the president of the teachers' union, said threatened reductions include up to 350 teaching positions, including a heavy reduction in elementary art and music courses to save money. Dr. Hall said principals were asked to make some budget reductions, but said the teachers would probably be reassigned within the system.
With its annual budget of $550 million, Newark's cost per pupil was more than $10,000, one of the highest in the state. Dr. Hall said too much was eaten up by administrative costs, and said she planned to find at least $4 million in the budget to shift from headquarters to the classrooms. The system also faces a $30.5 million cut in state aid in 1997 because its enrollment dropped to 45,805 this year from 47,500 in 1991. State aid had been frozen at 1991 levels.
 
New Boss Warns Teacher Union
Dr. Hall warned in a June 4 letter to the unions that without some concessions on job sharing and furloughs, "the reorganization will result in significant layoffs for economy and efficiency." As an example, Dr. Hall said in an interview that many cities manage to gain extra money from the Federal food subsidies for poor children, but Newark's cafeteria staff is so costly that the district has to supplement the program with $16 million a year.
Critics of the state-run administration resent that in tandem with threatened cuts, the state-run board has invested at least $1.65 million in eight outside consulting contracts, including $450 a day to Leonard Hellenbrand, a former budget director with the New York City Board of Education, hired to revise the Newark budget.
"They certainly made it a jobs program for people they like," said Houston Stevens, the head of the Parent-Teacher Organization at University High. "They are bringing in consultants, they are bringing in people from New York and people from the suburbs. But they are attacking the wage and benefits package for people who live in Newark and need these jobs."
Both parents and the union also fear creeping privatization. The administration signed a $1.25 million contract through June 1997 with Sylvan Learning Systems of Columbia, Md., for remedial reading classes, starting with three high schools this spring.
The company painted and carpeted and put air-conditioning in classrooms. Three students were assigned per teacher per hourlong session. Attendance fell markedly after the High School Proficiency Test in April. Dr. Hall said their results would be reviewed to determine if the contract should be extended.
William H. Harris 3d, who runs the program at Barringer, said many of the students read at an elementary level. Getting students to attend is largely a question of attitude. "It's an issue of pride: 'Hey, I'm in the 11th grade. Why do I have to work on short vowel sounds?' " he said.
To help overcome that, Sylvan issues a series of chits for classroom shops, which students can exchange for things including raspberry shower gel and sunglasses.
Newark teachers resent that Sylvan did not choose from their ranks for instructors and that developing a similar homegrown program was never broached. "They were allowed to rebuild their classroom as this plush temple of learning," said one Barringer teacher, speaking on condition of anonymity, "while we get 35 students to a class."
The school planning teams were supposed to be elected in February and have three months to develop reform programs for each school. The changes were to be paid for with $300 per pupil under a state program. But the union objected to its employees working on the planning without pay. So a wage scale of $30 per hour, with a cap of $900, was worked out, with parents subsequently awarded a $25 stipend per meeting.
The wrangling added at least $700,000 to the cost of the program and created a brooding resentment on all sides, especially since the elections were hastily called in April and the teams are only beginning to work at year's end.
"It shouldn't be a money issue, it was supposed to be for the children," said Miriam Bey, a vocal parent. "Dr. Hall probably needs more time to do what she needs to do, but it is almost a year now and you don't really see that much of a difference."

CORRECTION-DATE: June 19, 1996, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on June 11 with an article about changes in the Newark school system after a state takeover misidentified the school shown. It was Barringer High School, not Barringer Preparatory School.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Students left classrooms and walked in the hallways at Barringer Preparatory School in Newark yesterday. Many parents, teachers and students say the new school administration is still not focusing on its students. (Dith Pran/The New York Times); Sabriyyah Muslima-Boyd is among those parents who fear the state will fail to improve academic achievement within five years. (Lenore Victoria Davis for The New York Times)(pg. B6)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH ;

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; NEWARK (NJ) ; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION; CONSULTANTS STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (88%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (78%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); PARAEDUCATORS (77%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (76%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (76%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (73%); TEACHER UNIONS (73%); RESTAURANTS (71%); LABOR UNIONS (65%); LAYOFFS (60%); 

PERSON: MACFARQUHAR, NEIL; HALL, BEVERLY

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 1996



267 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 556 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Producer Prices Fell in May, Easing Threat of Inflation
Prices at the producer level fell unexpectedly in May, the Government said, offering fresh evidence that inflation remains tame despite Wall Street's fears. Tumbling energy prices and stable food costs helped push the Producer Price Index down one-tenth of 1 percent in May, the Labor Department said. Excluding volatile food and energy costs, the core rate was unchanged after rising one-tenth of 1 percent in each of the three prior months.
Economists had expected the overall and the core rates to increase by two-tenths of 1 percent in May. [Page D2.]

Conflict Over China Trade
A top State Department official accused Japan and the European Union of criticizing America's efforts to force China to respect trade accords, while seeking to cash in on its growing market. [A1.]
 
Airline Alliance Raises Questions
Officials of American Airlines and British Airways formally announced their plans for a broad marketing alliance, setting off criticism from rivals and raising questions about the likelihood of their partnership winning approval from Government officials in both countries. [D4.]

Orange County Files Lawsuits
Orange County, Calif., filed lawsuits that seek more than $2 billion in damages against brokerage firms, lawyers and a rating agency that the county contends could have warned it of an impending financial crisis. The lawsuits were filed on the eve of the county's emergence from bankruptcy. [D5.]
 
Conoco and Phillips Break Off Talks
Conoco and Phillips Petroleum said they had been unable to reach an agreement to merge their refining and marketing businesses and had broken off talks. [D3.]

NatWest to Buy Greenwich Capital
The NatWest Group agreed to pay $590 million in cash to acquire Greenwich Capital Holdings, a bond-trading business, from the Long Term Credit Bank of Japan. [D3.]

Indicator Shows Rebound for Chips
The semiconductor industry's leading indicator rebounded slightly in May, though it still pointed to weak demand. [D4.]

Stocks Fall After Rally
Stocks ended lower as enthusiasm about an encouraging inflation report proved fleeting. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 19.21 points, to 5,668.66, retreating from an early advance of nearly 41 points. [D10.]
 
An early bond market rally fizzled on profit taking, leaving the yield on the 30-year Treasury bond at 7.12 percent. [D20.]

Lexmark Missing Technology Boom
Even in the robust market for new technology stocks, some initial public offerings have stalled. That is the case with Lexmark International, a maker of computer printers. Market Place. [D10.]
 
A Union Decision at Hoover
Union workers at a Hoover vacuum cleaner plant in Ohio faced a painful choice -- approve a company offer to lower wages for starting workers or watch jobs leave to a nonunion plant. They voted against the plan. [A16.]
 
G.M. Cuts Indonesian Investments
General Motors has suspended plans for further investments in Indonesia in a trade dispute. [D21.]

Cathay Pacific Makes Itself Heard
It is difficult to be heard in the din of advertising in New York, but it is hard to miss the news that Cathay Pacific Airways will begin flights to Hong Kong from Kennedy International Airport. Advertising. [D7.]

GRAPHIC: Graph: "TODAY"
 
Consumer Price Index
 May figures due at 8:30 A.M. Eastern.
 Expected: +0.3%
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 5,668.66, down 19.21
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 7.12%, Unchanged
The Dollar -- 109.43 yen, up 0.43

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: COP (NYSE) (85%); LXK (NYSE) (81%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (53%); GM (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (85%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (85%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (85%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (85%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (85%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (85%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (85%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (85%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (85%); NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC3577 COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (81%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (56%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (53%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (71%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CONOCOPHILLIPS (85%); LEXMARK INTERNATIONAL INC (81%); BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (56%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (56%); BANK OF JAPAN (53%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (56%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (71%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS LITIGATION (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PRODUCER PRICES (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); VACUUM CLEANER MFG (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BONDS (89%); BOND MARKETS (88%); PRINTER MFG (79%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); FOOD PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); DAMAGES (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); LABOR UNIONS (76%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); LAWYERS (74%); SECURITIES TRADING (74%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (74%); ELECTRONICS (73%); AIRLINE ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (73%); AIRLINES (73%); MERGERS (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (73%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (68%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (66%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (65%); TREASURY SECURITIES (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 1996



268 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 715 words

HEADLINE: Damages Sought in Bankruptcy

BYLINE: By LESLIE WAYNE

 BODY:
On the eve of its emergence from bankruptcy, Orange County, Calif., filed five lawsuits yesterday -- seeking more than $2 billion in damages -- against a number of brokerage firms, lawyers and a rating agency that it contended were in a position to warn of an impending financial crisis at the county, but did not.
 "These lawsuits reveal a pervasive and systemic failure of the county's former municipal finance professionals to perform services with independence and regard for the laws," said Jan M. Mittermeier, the county's chief executive. "Each of these defendants had a clear opportunity and professional responsibility to prevent serious damage." 

 Lawsuits were filed against Morgan Stanley & Company, for selling the county "risky and exotic" securities that the county contends violated California law; against the law firm of LeBoeuf, Lamb, Green & MacRae for failing to disclose risks in the county's investment pool and against a financial adviser, Rauscher Pierce & Refsnes of Dallas, for also failing to warn of risks in a county investment pool that lost $1.6 billion.
 The county also sued Standard & Poor's Rating Group, a unit of McGraw-Hill, for an "erroneous evaluation." The county, in a statement, said the rating group "played a pivotal role in falsely assuring taxpayers, county officials, the press and the financial community" that the county's investment strategy was safe. Michael Dorfman, a spokesman, said the ratings group would not comment.
 And the county sued the Student Loan Marketing Association, known as Sallie Mae, for what it called a secret kickback arrangement with Merrill Lynch & Company, the county's former broker, to disguise compensation paid to Merrill. The county already has a $2 billion lawsuit pending against Merrill, accusing it of securities fraud. Sallie Mae issued $913 million in securities to the county's investment pool.
 Gisela Vallandigham, a Sallie Mae spokeswoman, said, "We find it inconceivable that any liability would be attached to the Sallie Mae debt obligation that ultimately wound up in the Orange County investment portfolio." Merrill said, "This is an old allegation with no merit."
 Also yesterday, the county negotiated the return of $62 million in collateral held by CS First Boston since the county filed for bankruptcy in December 1994, as well as undisclosed sums from other brokers.
 CS First Boston had been named as a potential defendant by the county, along with Normura Securities International, Dean Witter Reynolds, Paine Webber and Bear, Stearns, in an earlier disclosure statement. But the county and these potential defendants agreed to hold off on any case pending the outcome of the Morgan Stanley litigation.
 Each of the defendants in the suits filed yesterday is being sued for $500 million, except for Sallie Mae, which is being sued for around $100 million.
 "These defendants are representative of other parts of the story behind the financial crisis of December 1994," said Bruce Bennett, the county's lawyer. "It is an integrated story of an overall failure by professionals. Had any of these professionals done the job imposed on them by the law, at least some of these losses would have been avoided."
 Perhaps the most unusual charges are those leveled against Standard & Poor's. Mr. Bennett said that in May 1994, an S.& P. official received a presentation from the county detailing the risks of the investment pool. Yet, when John Moorlach, the county's treasurer, was running for office in 1994 and warned that the investment pool was excessively dangerous, the same S.& P. official stated that the investment pool was safe.
 "The Moorlach criticism was drowned out by a major institution that had unquestioned credibility in this field," Mr. Bennett said. "The effect of this cannot be understated."
 The county also has a lawsuit pending against KPMG Peat Marwick, the county's former auditor. Any proceeds from that litigation will be used to pay off some $800 million to Orange County municipalities that had put money in the county's investment pool but agreed to hold off on their claims.
 Orange County, which filed for bankruptcy on Dec. 6, 1994, after losing $1.69 billion on the risky investments, will emerge from bankruptcy today. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (85%); SLM (NASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (58%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (58%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (54%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY & CO; LEBOEUF LAMB GREENE & MACRAE' RAUSCHER PIERCE & REFSNES; STANDARD & POOR'S CORP; STUDENT LOAN MARKETING ASSN; MERRILL LYNCH & CO; STUDENT LOAN MARKETING ASSN; CS FIRST BOSTON; MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%); MORGAN STANLEY (85%); MORGAN STANLEY INTERNATIONAL LTD (70%); DEWEY & LEBOEUF LLP (58%); SLM CORP (54%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: MORGAN STANLEY & CO; LEBOEUF LAMB GREENE & MACRAE' RAUSCHER PIERCE & REFSNES; STANDARD & POOR'S CORP; STUDENT LOAN MARKETING ASSN; MERRILL LYNCH & CO; STUDENT LOAN MARKETING ASSN; CS FIRST BOSTON;

GEOGRAPHIC: ORANGE COUNTY (NY);; UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: SUITS AND LITIGATION; BANKRUPTCIES; DERIVATIVES (FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS); SUITS & CLAIMS (95%); DAMAGES (91%); LITIGATION (91%); LAWYERS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); STUDENT LOANS (86%); COUNTIES (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (77%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (77%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (62%); EXECUTIVES (55%); 

PERSON: WAYNE, LESLIE; BRUCE W BENNETT (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1996



269 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; National Desk; Education Page

LENGTH: 1345 words

HEADLINE: In Era of Smaller Schools, One County Finds Improvement From Consolidating

BYLINE: By MARY B. W. TABOR

DATELINE: GREENSBORO, N.C.

 BODY:
Just a few years ago, the 93 public schools in Guilford County, a rolling expanse of cities and towns nestled between the Blue Ridge Mountains and Carolina coastal plains, needed help.
 Test scores and dropout rates varied widely among schools. Classrooms were crumbling, and some students graduated barely able to read. So, Guilford County voters reluctantly agreed to an overhaul. 

 While the trend around the country has been for big school districts to break into smaller units, the three districts in Guilford County decided to merge.
 The result has been marked improvements in most areas, better morale among most teachers, parents and students and a recognition of Guilford as a national model of how to succeed despite the crowding and budget freezes that have chewed away at similar efforts.
 "If you can pull three faculties into one system and show improvement at the same time, I'd say that's pretty significant," said John N. Dornan, executive director of Public School Forum, a nonprofit public policy center based in Raleigh, N.C.
 John F. Jennings, director of the Center on National Education Policy in Washington, says the new 57,000-student system, one of the nation's 65 largest, as an example of a district doing something right.
 "Guilford has been an interesting case study in whether a school system can get its own house in order," he said. "They are facing the dilemma of regaining public confidence in schools, and they are doing it by making difficult decisions on administrative matters, holding the line on taxes and trying to improve quality, all at the same time."
 By most accounts, Guilford has succeeded in marrying the economies of merger with the virtues of small-district administration, like redirecting savings into classrooms, focusing on core subjects and strong-arming principals and teachers into more accountability. But the price of change -- program cuts, heightened anxieties and a rising dropout rate -- has not gone unnoticed.
 For much of this century, local schools, eager to share resources or seeking an antidote to segregation, formed unified districts with their neighbors. But in recent years, many districts have found that bigger systems often create new problems, like inpenetrable bureaucracies, rather than saving money and desegregating. Consequently, across the country, behemoth systems have been breaking up.
 In Guilford County, the 1993 merger of two city districts -- Greensboro and High Point -- with the county district, was born of the need to cut costs, equalize resources, bolster achievement and curb the suburban flight of white families and businesses.
 "The key to making it work has been to rebuild the system," said Jerry D. Weast, who was recruited from the Sioux Falls, S.D., public schools to be superintendent of the newly merged system and who has since been called both a visionary reformer and a power-hungry Robespierre. "But you don't just change the organization. You have to change it's caliber."
 Unlike many superintendents, Dr. Weast has had the full support of a newly elected board of education, which undertook the merger with the slogan "achievement up, costs down." And because a state right-to-work law, Dr. Weast did not face unions, only teacher tenure laws.
 His first step was a careful audit. Looking at figures for the year before the merger, he discovered, spending in each of the former districts was well above the state average of $4,517 per student. Still, science and computer labs were under-equipped, and students were being crowded into mobile classrooms.
 In addition, while parents complained about poor teachers and achievement scores ranked Guilford students last or near last among North Carolina's large urban districts, principals had given all but a few teachers high evaluations.
 "It was Lake Wobegon here," Dr. Weast said. "Everyone was above average." Some principals had become lax in their reviews, he said. Others did not know how to give poor evaluations without inviting legal problems.
 But changes required money, and without new resources, Dr. Weast had to find the financing within his existing budget and staff.
 To lower costs, he cut the combined central office staff of 590 by 73 positions, saving $3 million.
 Another $2.36 million came from trimming district programs, including peer and college counseling, school based administrators and elementary foreign languages. And $1 million a year has been saved by using the district's maintenance staff instead of private vendors for most grounds keeping and repair.
 Other changes were made as well. In place of summer school, for example, tutors now offer after-school help to keep students from falling hopelessly behind. Two magnet programs and several undersubscribed high school electives have been eliminated as well -- changes that continue to raise objections.
 One mother, Carol Groover, was disappointed that her son's science and technology magnet program at Washington Elementary School was being dismantled. "This school's program has served a population that really needs it," she said.
 To improve teaching, the administration gave principals training in navigating a tenure system that protects incompetent as well as competent teachers and asking them to identify, improve or remove failing teachers. Principals, told they would be judged on their evaluation skills, submitted the names of 111 tenured and 19 nontenured teachers as needing help. By the end of last year, half were no longer in the system. Most others had been given "improved" status.
 Using money saved from program cuts, teachers and administrators have also been offered extra training, from computer and technology seminars to diversity counseling.
 But improving student performance, Dr. Weast said, has been his ultimate goal. Focusing intently on early intervention to improve reading, Dr. Weast quickly set up six new pre-school classrooms and pooled Federal school aid to send elementary school teachers to Ohio State University for training in a reading program.
 At a recent school board meeting Tommy McNulty, a kindergarten teacher of 30 years, said she had planned to resign from the Fairview School, one of the county's poorest, until she saw the students' benefits from the program. "I'm amazed at the difference it has made," she said. "Now I have to stick around and see how these children do in first and second grade."
 Extra teachers have also been assigned to help with reading and discipline problems.
 Trying to whip Guilford's 14 high schools into shape has been more difficult. Before the merger, many of the courses offered to the estimated 75 percent of students who would not attend or complete four-year colleges provided what Dr. Weast called "a second-rate education."
 Now, all students must take beginning algebra and a new work-preparedness program. And local businesses have joined an ambitious apprenticeship program.
 Despite such efforts, the merger report card is not all good news.
 High school test scores have shown less improvement than those for the lower grades. The mobile classroom count has doubled to about 300. The drop-out rate has gone up, from 2.7 percent of students in 1993-94 to 3.26 percent last year, in part because of higher standards, teachers say. And teachers and principals said that while schools now have better lab equipment and improved access to the Internet, they must coordinate programs and needs across a sea of schools and bureaucrats.
 Still, even Hannah H. Turner, president of the Guilford County P.T.A.'s who led opposition to merger three years ago, said while she was wary about the district's large size, its schools were better and safer now.
 She and others cite the slight, but welcome, rise in reading and math scores and improved S.A.T. scores. "The schools are never up to where the public thinks they ought to be," she said. "But a lot of schools, especially low-achieving ones, have made great strides since merger. There has really been a marked difference."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Merging three North Carolina school systems accomplished enough that Tommy McNulty, rear, plans to stay on to see how her kindergarten students do. She was joined by Dr. Jerry Weast, the superintendent. (Catherine Bauknight for The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (90%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); 

CITY: GREENSBORO, NC, USA (92%); SIOUX FALLS, SD, USA (79%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA; GUILFORD COUNTY (NC);; UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (90%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); GREENSBORO, NC, USA (92%); SIOUX FALLS, SD, USA (79%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; FINANCES; STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); CHANGE MANAGEMENT (75%); FAMILY (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); BUDGETS (74%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); CASE STUDIES (65%); SUBURBS (50%); 

PERSON: TABOR, MARY B W; JERRY D WEAST (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1996



270 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 867 words

HEADLINE: Economic Data Sending Conflicting Signals

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
A new round of statistics released yesterday were but the latest in a recent series of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde economic numbers. Pleasant, optimistic statistics alternate with scary ones, leaving economists, Government officials, politicians and ordinary people wondering what's ahead in this election year.
 Yesterday's scary Mr. Hyde number reported that Americans, in increasing numbers, are failing to pay their credit card debts on time. But if that sounds like a downer for the economy, just four days earlier, the Labor Department released a hugely optimistic employment report for May, featuring the creation of hundreds of thousands of new jobs. 

 Just in the last month, Government data and private-sector surveys have bristled with puzzling contradictions. The overall economy expanded briskly in the first quarter, but manufacturing weakened. Home construction was strong, but consumer confidence edged down. Interest rates are rising in apparent expectation of inflation, but the Producer Price Index for May, released by the Labor Department yesterday, declined by one-tenth of 1 percent. [Page D2.]
 Perhaps most puzzling of all, retail sales and consumer demand are reported to be strong, but debt is a problem. Not only are credit card payments increasingly delinquent by 30 days or more, but bankruptcies are also up -- personal and corporate -- and some mortgage payments are late. No one really knows how to reconcile these contradictions, but two possible explanations are offered.
 One holds that consumers, pressed for cash, will soon cut back, pulling down the economy in the process. That is a minority view among economists. The more widely held view portrays the population as divided between the better-off and the not so well-off. The former, 40 percent or so of the total population, have benefited from rising wealth conferred mainly by a booming stock market, and their buying lifts the economy. The latter belong to households with $30,000 or less in annual income and little saved, and they are now stretched.
 The latter had not qualified for credit cards until the early 1990's. But with more than 6,000 banks and other institutions competing to issue credit cards, the less affluent were finally offered cards, and the rise in delinquencies is apparently mostly among them.
 "Normally, I would say yes, this could be the beginning of a consumer slowdown, but now I would hesitate to make that argument," said David S. Levy of the Levy Institute, an economic forecasting company. "The delinquencies could suggest that while lower-income Americans are suffering, the economy is thriving on the spending of wealthier people."
 Some 3.34 percent of all holders of credit cards issued by banks were behind in payments by 30 days or more in the first quarter, the American Bankers Association reported yesterday. That is the highest level since 1981, a recession year, when the rate hit 3.58 percent.
 "There has been a tremendous democratization of credit card use," said Alicia Munnell, a member of President Clinton's Council of Economic Advisers. "When you push cards on a broader population, it is not startling that there are more delinquencies."
 Delinquency rates for other forms of consumer debt have not risen, the Bankers Association said yesterday. Still, Americans took on new consumer debt at a slower pace in April than in any previous month this year, with total debt rising by 7 percent, to $1.14 trillion, compared with rises of 10 percent or more in the previous three months, the Federal Reserve reported yesterday.
 But if credit card delinquencies were centered on a narrow group, other data suggest that a larger number of Americans might be strained financially. Installment payments are at unusually high levels as a percentage of available income. Mortgage payment delinquencies have risen, particularly in cases where the down payment on a home was relatively small, suggesting that buyers stretched themselves to afford their new homes, according to several groups that gather these data.
 Personal bankruptcies in the first quarter reached 253,000, or 1.01 million at an annual rate, a record level if the first-quarter pace continues through the year, and 15 percent above last year's level. And corporate bankruptcies are inching up, Dun & Bradstreet reports, having reached 32,164 for the year through May, or 4.9 percent above last year's level for the corresponding period.
 "The delinquency rates, bankruptcies and debt service levels suggest that we are not at the edge of some new consumer boom," said John Lipsky, chief economist at Salomon Brothers. Despite this obstacle, Mr. Lipsky, like many other economists, argues that the economy will thrive as long as new jobs continue to be created at the current rapid pace, and a rising stock market adds to the wealth of millions of Americans.
 The trouble would come if the economy stumbles, perhaps because of some unexpected event, like a war or the bankruptcy of a huge corporation. "Then the debt burden would accelerate a slowdown," said Henry Kaufman, an economist and money manager. "But we are not at the stage when the economy begins to top out."

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Delinquency on the Rise" tracks percentage of credit-card accounts that were overdue at the end of the month, since 1980. (Source: American Bankers Association); "Consumer Borrowing" tracks net change in total consumer installment credit outstanding, seasonally adjusted, from November 1994 through April 1996. (Source: Federal Reserve Board) (pg. D2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: ANALYSISEconomic Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (60%); AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (59%); AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (59%); AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT CARDS AND ACCOUNTS; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION; CREDIT; ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); STATISTICS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); CREDIT CARDS (89%); POLITICS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); RECESSION (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (76%); PERSONAL DEBT (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (75%); INTEREST RATES (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (65%); RETAIL SALES (52%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS; JOHN LIPSKY (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1996



271 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1696 words

HEADLINE: When Lifetime Jobs Die Prematurely;
Downsizing Comes to Japan, Fraying Old Workplace Ties

BYLINE: By SHERYL WuDUNN

DATELINE: TOKYO, June 11

 BODY:
When a major Japanese tire-and-rubber company asked a 53-year-old senior researcher to retire early last year, he refused.
 So the company moved him to a bare desk in the corner of a factory and told him that every two weeks, he would have to turn in a report on the same topic: "My Second Life." For six months, he stubbornly stuck it out, writing about himself until he had nothing left to say. In desperation, he turned to a friend, Kiyotsugu Shitara, who gave him two books on insects and animals, which turned out to be his salvation. 

 "He said, 'I can read about the lives of butterflies and animals and then I can write thousands of reports,' " said Mr. Shitara, who runs a union for managers. "He is still writing."
 His friend's predicament may not seem so bleak, in light of the armies of unemployed white-collar workers in Europe and the United States. After all, he still has a job.
 But his plight is one of numerous signs that after five years of economic troubles, the tight link between Japan's companies and its workers -- symbolized by the concept of lifetime employment -- is starting to come undone.
 The changes are modest and evolutionary in most cases, but together they may add up to a revolution that would have far-reaching reverberations for Japan and for competing economies in the United States and elsewhere.
 Seniority is losing out to performance in raising pay. Young and ambitious recruits are quitting to start their own companies. Employees are spurning their employers -- if only by occasionally quitting work a few hours earlier -- to indulge in family life.
 But the backdrop is the harsh new reality that the guarantee of a lifelong job, declared on the way out before but still a staple of many of the country's biggest companies, is finally beginning to break down. Mr. Shitara's friend may be hanging on, but Japan Inc. has succeeded in ridiculing, ostracizing and bullying other idle workers off the payroll.
 The traditional Japanese system that bound loyal workers and paternalistic employers to each other, in good times and bad, produced a level of commitment and a lack of labor unrest that were unknown in the West -- factors that helped make Japan a world economic power.
 But one cost was a bloated work force, particularly in the white-collar sector, which proved to be a painful drag that prolonged the economic troubles. While the recovery is now finally under way, Japan's maturing economy is bringing slower growth than before the troubles began -- and pressure is building for action aimed at greater productivity, including downsizing. That could mean American-style chronic unemployment as well as a redefinition of the concepts of loyalty, team dynamics and security.
 If Japan emerges stronger from the process -- more open, flexible, efficient and entrepreneurial, as in the Western economic model -- then American companies will have a new challenge on their hands. But if Japan has trouble adapting, then its workers and companies may find themselves adrift, without the familiar anchor of the past, and increasingly at odds with each other.
 For now, the only thing certain is that a shift has begun.
 "The long-term-employment system is crumbling gradually, even in the large corporations," said Kazunori Morishita, president of the Pasona Bright Career Company, a job placement agency for managers in Tokyo.
 In a nod to the continuing power of corporate identity, people here still sometimes introduce themselves with their company name, before offering their own.
 But polls of workers are now reflecting a spreading sentiment that the notion of a one-company career may no longer be ideal. When asked in 1987, in a survey by the Labor Ministry, to choose between keeping a frustrating job or switching to a more satisfying one, only 42.3 percent said they would dare move. Last year, those willing to jump rose to 63.4 percent.
 Indeed, while the shift away from security is highly painful for some, like Mr. Shitara's friend, for others it is liberating, auguring a period of greater job-hopping. This new spirit offers both a release from a single-minded devotion to work and a chance to pursue greater job satisfaction. It also means Japanese companies will not have the kind of control over their workers that they used to enjoy.
 To be sure, the promise of lifetime employment has never been a universal one in Japan, generally applying only to male employees working for big companies. Over all, only about one in five workers in recent years have been offered "jobs for life." And it has long been the case that the promise did not prevent employers from "encouraging" some older workers to retire.
 That happened to Yoshio Atsuda, a 63-year-old graduate of Kyoto University, a decade ago. His bosses at Nippon Steel suddenly told him one day that he was being transferred from his engineering post to a headhunting job, which he regarded as an extreme insult.
 "In Japan, someone with a good education can't do such a low-class task, where usually 9 out of 10 people are going to refuse your telephone call," Mr. Atsuda said. "Within a week, the telephone began to feel heavier and heavier, and I no longer wanted to make phone calls."
 He added, "The aim of Nippon Steel was to put people like us into such places so we would become unable to tolerate it and would quit."
 Mr. Atsuda endured for a while, but his life was miserable, with nightmares and marital problems. After six months, he jumped to a job at a patent office.
 Now, however, that office is revamping, and Mr. Atsuda fears he will lose his job again. "These days, there's a feeling that employers can do restructuring anywhere in Japan," he said.
 While statistics on such harsh treatment are hard to come by, anecdotal evidence indicates that more people are now being pushed toward the door -- enough so that Mr. Shitara operated a call-in service last week to offer advice and consolation to people like his friend.
 Nonetheless, some economists say that pronouncements about the decline of the lifetime-employment system are overdone. The system is still a basic tenet of the business ethos and philosophy of Japan, they say, adding that while the tectonic plates of Japanese industry may be shifting in fundamental ways, the process of change is proceeding at a geological pace akin to an inch a year.
 Layoffs remain minuscule, these experts say, even after the long economic downturn, which has included real estate and stock market crashes and a banking crisis.
 Remarkably, they note, Japan's unemployment rate is still only 3.4 percent, compared with 5.6 percent in the United States and more than 10 percent in much of Europe. But other data show that productivity in Japan lags behind both the United States and most other Western economies.
 So now, many economists say that Japan would be better off with a harsher approach.
 "A faster pace of layoffs in inefficient industries probably would have been a net benefit to companies and shareholders as a whole," said Robert Alan Feldman, chief economist at the Tokyo branch of Salomon Brothers Asia Ltd. "Without more layoffs and a sense that they have to change their ways, they won't prepare for the future in the long run."
 About one-third of Japanese companies are now trying to cut employment, according to a survey conducted recently by the Labor Ministry. But the gingerly methods that some are still using tend to take a great deal of time, further dampening productivity.
 When the NKK Corporation, the nation's second-largest steel manufacturer, wanted to cut 1,500 white-collar employees a couple of years ago, department managers were involved in the search to find new places for some of their unlucky subordinates.
 "We have overemployment but we have to secure jobs for our employees," said Fumikatsu Ito, a personnel manager at NKK.
 Many companies have been proceeding cautiously for fear of depressing morale or being caught short-handed when the economy rebounds. Moreover, sagging birth rates mean that the size of the labor force is likely to decline after the year 2000, and so companies want to insure that they have adequate staffing for the future.
 Yet while many companies may be struggling to find the right mix, it is increasingly likely that the promise of lifetime employment will not be held out to many new hires.
 "College students are now in permanent oversupply and there is no reason why lifetime employment should be valid for all of them," said Takashi Kiuchi, head economist at the LTCB Research Institute, a private research center in Tokyo.
 Eventually, economists say, if companies want to remain competitive, they will have to become more cold-hearted in evicting longtime workers who are not needed.
 "If unemployment is not tolerated in the long run, this will erode business," said Haruo Shimada, a labor economist at Keio University. "It will be the slow death of the Japanese economy."
 That means, Mr. Kiuchi said, that Japanese companies "are moving much more toward the direction of U.S. companies," where labor mobility is a given -- and not necessarily a bad thing.
 Some managers, like Kazuhiko Tashiro, have already gotten the message.
 In 1991, when Mr. Tashiro did not like the managerial post he was given, he asked for a transfer. His company, the Sumitomo Corporation, one of the nation's most prestigious, sent him to the Okura Yusoki Company, a midsized manufacturer of conveyors that had a distant relationship with Sumitomo.
 Okura paid a fee to Sumitomo, and Sumitomo paid Mr. Tashiro's salary. But four years later, when Mr. Tashiro, an energetic 58-year-old with a degree from Tokyo University, wanted to return to Sumitomo, his bosses explained that there was no job for him at headquarters and he should stay at Okura.
 Mr. Tashiro refused. So, last November, after 33 years at Sumitomo, he took early retirement. Now, he works at Sugiyama Shoji, a small apparel company, where he travels door to door, drumming up sales of men's socks and T-shirts.
 "It is fun," he said cheerfully, "to go about doing work yourself."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Yoshio Atsuda was transferred from his engineering job at Nippon Steel to a head-hunting job, which he regarded as a severe insult; Kazuhiko Tashiro left the Sumitomo Corporation when a transfer to a lesser position became permanent. He now sells socks and T-shirts door to door. (Fumiko Asahi for The New York Times) (pg. D1)
 
Graphs: "So Much for Loyalty" shows results of Japanese Government surveys used to determine which workers value more highly: company loyalty or job satisfaction. Figures are for 1987, 1992, and 1995. (Source: Japan's Labor Ministry) (pg. D1); "Lagging Productivity" compares figures for workers in industrialized countries in 1993, with respect to Japan. (Source: Japan Productivity Center) (pg. D8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN;; JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; WAGES AND SALARIES; LAYOFFS (90%); RUBBER & SILICONE (78%); EARLY RETIREMENT (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (74%); LABOR FORCE (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (72%); FAMILY (71%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (70%); 

PERSON: WUDUNN, SHERYL; KIYOTSUGU SHITARA (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1996



272 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1158 words

HEADLINE: A Union Standing Fast Now Stands to Lose

SERIES: AN AMERICAN PLACE: Management and labor at odds.

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINERIP

DATELINE: NORTH CANTON, Ohio, June 11

 BODY:
It was one of those awful moments when people can feel the future of their community shift and they tremble a little inside. At 4:25 on Monday afternoon, Raymond Eldreth, one of 1,490 union workers for the Hoover vacuum cleaner company who had crowded into the downtown civic center for the big vote, rushed out shouting, "They voted it down!"
 "Down big time!" shouted Bill Black, a 24-year veteran of Hoover, following him out the door. 

 The management at the Hoover Company, which has been manufacturing vacuum cleaners here since 1907, had given its workers one of those dreaded marketplace choices of the 1990's: Either accept a lower tier of wages for new hires (a $7.50-an-hour average, versus a current average of $14.50), or Hoover would build its new model of vacuum at a nonunion plant in El Paso.
 Hoover has long been considered here to be a benevolent employer. But the workers' rage was plain, and there was nothing ambiguous about their response. They voted by 1,300 to 188 to reject the lower tier of wages, even if that meant losing jobs to Texas.
 "If you take a yes vote, you might as well work in a sweatshop," said Debra Martin, a group leader on a motor line who has spent 17 years at Hoover. "It's just a damn shame this has got to happen in Ohio."
 Said Terry King, a 27-year Hoover veteran: "We made so many concessions in the 1980's, when this company was having trouble. And now that they're making big money, they turn around and cut our throats."
 Since W. H. (Boss) Hoover set up shop here at the turn of the century, Hoover has been the largest employer in North Canton, a prosperous, conservative Canton suburb of 15,000 people. Everything major in this city, from the library to City Hall to the Fire Department's hook and ladder to the Little League fields, has been financed with donations from the company and the Hoover family.
 But in 1986 Hoover was sold to a Chicago holding company, and in 1989 it was sold again, to the Maytag Corporation of Newton, Iowa. And even though Hoover has been a top earner for Maytag, there has been an edginess here about the corporation's commitment to North Canton.
 How many jobs will be lost to Texas is unclear, but as Daryl Revoldt, a City Councilman, said today, "No one can find anything hopeful in this."
 Company officials say that none of the 2,000 union workers here in Stark County will be affected for the present and that 200 new jobs will be created in Texas. But if the new upright product is as successful as the company hopes, union officials say, between 600 and 1,500 jobs could be lost here in coming years. There are already people in North Canton who fear that this could be the beginning of the end for Hoover here.
 "This will suck a lot of jobs down there," said Dan Mareno, chief steward for the union, a local of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers.
 Lynne Dragomier, a Hoover vice president, said company officials were disappointed and surprised by the vote and had given the union a choice because Hoover had hoped to put the new jobs in North Canton. The vacuum cleaner field is highly competitive, she said, and Hoover has to keep prices down. "There is a market-share battle under way that is very critical for the Hoover Company and its employees," she said.
 If the people of North Canton want to see what could lie in store, they can look to Hoover's closest competitor, the Eureka Company, owned by Electrolux of Sweden. In the early 1980's, just before Eureka opened a new plant in El Paso, it had all 1,200 of its manufacturing jobs in Bloomington, Ill. Today there are 400 jobs in Bloomington, 878 in El Paso. Last month the company announced that it was planning 390 new jobs in El Paso, raising the work force there to 1,268. Those new Eureka jobs will pay $7.25 an hour.
 The dilemma for Hoover's workers offers another example of the mixed state of the national economy. Unemployment here is about 5 percent, a big improvement on the 8 percent rate of four years ago. Everywhere there are "now hiring" signs. But that oft-repeated workers' lament is also true here: "There are plenty of jobs -- I've got three of them."
 In a poll taken by The New York Times in Stark County last month, 28 percent of respondents said someone in their household had taken on an extra job in the last three years; 19 percent said someone in their home had lost a job to downsizing in the last five years.
 When asked whom they blamed for such job losses nationally, 52 percent placed "a lot" of blame on corporations; 19 percent blamed unions a lot.
 Stark is a county that tends to vote as the nation does in Presidential elections, and, although a lot of workers here deserted the Democrats in the 1980's, they returned in 1992 to help Bill Clinton carry the county. As the Hoover workers waited for the union ballots to be tabulated on Monday, there were not many who had nice things to say about corporations or Republicans.
 Roger Davis, a 23-year Hoover veteran, said the experience made him more likely to vote for President Clinton. "This tier-wage system," he said, "is exactly how Republicans think life should be."
 Many were angered that this was happening at so profitable a company. Maytag had record profits as recently as 1994, and Susan Gallagher, an analyst for Natwest Securities, said 1996 should be another "very strong year."
 "It's like they want to eliminate the middle class," said Bob Black, a 25-year Hoover veteran. "It's pretty typical of Republicans. I haven't seen management say they'll take a 10 percent cut across the board."
 The new proposal by Hoover would actually have created a third tier of wages. In 1988, during a company reorganization, the union agreed to 250 layoffs, a three-year wage freeze and a two-tier system. As a result, there are now 1,600 Hoover workers earning $15.50 an hour and 400, in the second tier, earning $9.50. Wages in the third tier, rejected on Monday, would have ranged from $6.50 to $8 an hour.
 Denise Foster, a 20-year Hoover veteran, said: "People lost their jobs in 1988, their homes, marriages broke up -- it was terrible, terrible. We gave these concessions, and this is what we get. What's the point?"
 In April, when Jim Repace, president of the union local, was asked by a reporter how he felt about Hoover as an employer, he was effusive, saying, "People have it nice here, they really do."
 But the month since Hoover gave him the third-tier alternative has been miserable, he says. At the Monday meeting, he made no recommendation to his members. After the vote, when the civic center was empty and quiet, a reporter asked how he felt about Hoover now. Mr. Repace looked shaken, and in a quiet voice he spoke words like "disappointed" and "betrayed."
 
Throughout the Presidential election year, articles in this series will examine Canton, Ohio, and surrounding Stark County, a political bellwether for decades

GRAPHIC: Photo: Workers at the Hoover Company's plant in North Canton, Ohio, rejected a management proposal that would have created a lower tier of wages for new hires. The outcome could ultimately be the loss of hundreds of jobs. (Barney Taxel for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: SERIESSeries

TICKER: WHR (NYSE) (80%); 0669 (HKSE) (71%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS335228 OTHER MAJOR HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS335224 HOUSEHOLD LAUNDRY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS333991 POWER-DRIVEN HANDTOOL MANUFACTURING (71%); SIC3635 HOUSEHOLD VACUUM CLEANERS (71%); SIC3546 POWER-DRIVEN HANDTOOLS (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (93%); IOWA, USA (79%); 

CITY: EL PASO, TX, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: HOOVER CORP; WHIRLPOOL CORP (80%); TECHTRONIC INDUSTRIES CO LTD (71%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOOVER CORP;

GEOGRAPHIC: CANTON (OHIO); STARK COUNTY (OHIO);; UNITED STATES (94%); OHIO, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (93%); IOWA, USA (79%); EL PASO, TX, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; VACUUM CLEANERS; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; VACUUM CLEANER MFG (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); LAYOFFS (77%); GARMENT WORKERS (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); SWEATSHOPS (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); JOB CREATION (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (66%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (61%); 

PERSON: WINERIP, MICHAEL;

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1996



273 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 1996

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Living Desk

LENGTH: 1511 words

HEADLINE: What to Give The Newlyweds? Just Be Practical

BYLINE: By SUZANNE HAMLIN

 BODY:
AS the 1996 wedding season unofficially opens, many of this year's 2.5 million nuptial couples have some requests. Please, no more lava lamps, knitted pillowcases, temple bells from Thailand, electric forks, plastic trays laminated with sequins, monthly bagel shipments or cheese boards with chain-attached knives.
 Instead, when selecting a gift, consider something that the couple have actually said they want. 

 An eminently practical present, like top-quality kitchen equipment or appliances, is high on this year's list of newlywed must-haves. Something notably luxurious but still functional, like beautiful bed linens, will not be scorned, either. And when in doubt, don't hesitate to give money, "an absolutely acceptable gift -- I love it myself," said Martha Stewart, America's home and entertainment mentor.
 Along with several other contemporary arbiters of tasteful giving and getting, Ms. Stewart was asked what she thought of a cash gift, the No. 1 choice in two wedding-gift surveys. One was a 1994 random sample survey of 218 newlyweds, commissioned by American Express, and it found that money was spent on trips, household items, bills and mortgage payments.
 Money was also popular in a large sampling compiled by Modern Bride magazine in November and December 1995. In the magazine's mail survey of about-to-be brides, 512 completed extensive questionnaires; 88 percent said they would prefer cash to other gifts.
 No matter what their economic circumstances, most couples said they were hesitant to ask for money directly for fear that they would appear crass. But Cele Lalli, editor in chief of Modern Bride, said, "Money is a fine gift, and in some cultures it's standard."
 It appears, though, that old-fashioned gift-giving has not disappeared, even if the gifts have changed from formal to practical. And the brides and grooms of 1996, many of whom have already established households, know exactly what they want.
 In another Modern Bride survey, in June 1995, 87 percent of 500 newlyweds, whose average wedding cost $14,900, reported that they had registered at one or several places for wedding presents, and more than half said they were as happy to have received household items as money.
 More affluent than the American Express group, whose income average was $38,170 a couple, the Modern Bride respondents, who with their spouses had an average income of $54,507, asked for small kitchen appliances, cookware and bakeware, followed by crystal stemware, bath linens, china, cutlery and bed linens.
 Sally Fischer, whose wedding date is June 23, is not being coy when she says she prefers gifts to money. "By giving us things for a household, people are recognizing that Elliott and I are really establishing a life together," said Ms. Fischer, 40, who owns a public relations business in Manhattan. She is marrying Elliott Upton, 49, a widower who is a staff developer for schools in the South Bronx. It will be her first marriage, "an event I've been planning since I was born," she said.
 In Mill Valley, Calif., Audrey Sadler, 30, said that she, too, preferred presents to cash. "It's very touching when people give you something for your home," said Ms. Sadler, a graphic designer who is marrying Ron Martinez, 43, the chief executive of Postlinear Entertainment, an interactive media company, on June 22. "Your friends and family become a real part of your everyday life."
 Ms. Fischer and Ms. Sadler signed up with their fiances at bridal registries, listing specific gift choices, from modest to extravagant. Ms. Fischer registered at Bergdorf Goodman, ABC Carpet and Home, Bloomingdale's and Crate and Barrel; Ms. Sadler at Macy's and Williams-Sonoma. They are part of the $32 billion-a-year wedding business, a large part of which takes place in the second half of the year. (August is the most popular month for weddings, followed by June and July.)
 "The bridal registry solves all kinds of problems," Mrs. Lalli said. "It's easy to find out where a couple has registered by asking them or their family.
 "The couple can list inexpensive as well as big-ticket items, and people get what they really want. They don't -- or shouldn't if the computer system works properly -- get duplications. The registry knows where to send the gifts. And anyone can call those 800 numbers, tell the store how much they want to spend, and order from anywhere in the world."
 For Modern Bride readers, the most popular department store registries nationwide are J. C. Penny, Dillard's and Macy's; for mail-order catalogues, Service Merchandise; for housewares, Crate and Barrel.
 Kathy Paddor, the director of marketing at Crate and Barrel headquarters in Chicago, said that bridal registration in the chain's 62 nationwide stores "now accounts for a huge part of our business."
 Four years ago, Crate and Barrel, which sells everything from bathmats to sofas, changed its "bridal registry" to just plain "gift registry" to accommodate a wide spectrum of recipients. "We now list people as registrant and co-registrant instead of bride and groom, which makes everyone comfortable, including gay couples," said Tammy Dorward, the furniture manager at Manhattan Crate and Barrel, at Madison and 59th Street.
 For those who have everything, don't want money and have failed to register, there are still some magnanimous possibilities. A case of wine produced in the year of the wedding. Or a pre-arranged grand restaurant dinner, beginning with Champagne. Or anything from Tiffany's.
 Marjabelle Young Stewart, who lives in Kewanee, Ill., and is the author of 15 books, including "Your Complete Wedding Planner" (St. Martin's Press, 1989, $14.95), said her standard wedding gift for years has been Tiffany's crystal candlesticks. "You just can't have too many of them," she said.
 "Who cares if you get duplicates?" said Anne Teshima of Manhattan, who testified that Tiffany graciously accommodates returns. A commercial real estate agent who was married in December to Steven Martin Cohen, a toy inventor and novelist, Ms. Teshima added that she much preferred her four identical Tiffany vases to the present sent by her husband's former girlfriend: coffee mugs laminated with photos of Mr. Cohen in the throes of a severe case of adult chicken pox.
 Martha Stewart, who wrote "Martha Stewart Weddings" (Clarkson N. Potter, 1987, $70), suggests giving the most luxurious version you can afford of the most practical gift. Her own favorites are "the very, very finest down comforter, or a bouquet a month for a year from a favorite florist, or a library of books, such as Random House's Everyman's Library."
 Of course, "if the couple has a house I give them a great lawn mower, or if they're real gardeners, the very best shovels," said Ms. Stewart, who added that she thought "a gift is a little bit better than money, even if it's the same amount of money."
 To those who still prefer cash, which some people feel uncomfortable giving, gift-givers have dress-up options. American Express suggests its gift checks, which can be used like traveler's checks. And several enterprising travel agents are suggesting cash through a "honeymoon fund," set up to finance a trip the couple have chosen.
 Those who do give gifts should send them ahead, not bring them to the ceremony. "The worst thing to do," said one recent bride, who bemoaned last-minute arrivals. "One gift got stolen, several cards were lost, and my brother got stuck with packing everything up and storing it for us until we got home from our honeymoon."
 The amount spent on a present should not be contingent on the lavishness of the ceremony, or lack thereof, Mrs. Lalli said. "What you give should be based on two things: what you can afford, and what your relationship is to the couple," she added, estimating that the cost of gifts nationwide was $50 to $100, and often much more in urban areas.
 "Don't forget sharing, either," she said. "It's perfectly fine to get together with some friends and give the couple one very good thing."
 For recipients, unbreakable rules of weddings are that if the wedding is canceled, the gifts must be returned to the givers, no exceptions. And as for those thank-you notes, get busy.
 In a perfect world run by mothers and wedding consultants, thank-you notes would be written the day the gift is received. In less controlled circumstances, up to three months is considered acceptable for hand-written expressions of gratitude. (In the case of a large wedding, a printed card acknowledging receipt of the gift is fine as long as it is followed shortly by a personal note.)
 And the multimarried should be assured that they have all the rights and privileges of the first time out.
 Marjabelle Stewart, the wedding adviser, is adamant about this. "Every time Elizabeth Taylor gets married again, people call me and ask if they should send a gift," she said, sounding incredulous that anyone would even ask. "Of course she should get gifts. Every marriage is a new beginning, not a number."

GRAPHIC: Drawings

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (58%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); THAILAND (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (50%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (58%); AMERICA'S HOME PLACE INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); THAILAND (73%); NEW YORK, USA (50%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS; GIFTS; WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (92%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); 

PERSON: HAMLIN, SUZANNE; MARTHA STEWART (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1996



274 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 344 words

HEADLINE: Economy Poor, Germans Yield On Store Hours

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: BERLIN, June 11

 BODY:
Chancellor Helmut Kohl's governing party agreed today to allow stores to stay open longer in the hopes of increasing employment and stimulating the sluggish German economy.
 The long-debated change has been opposed by many trade unions as anti-family but supported by harried shoppers. It would allow stores to stay open until 8 P.M. during the week and until 4 P.M. on Saturdays. 

 Currently, most stores are required to close by 6:30 P.M. on weekdays and 2 P.M. on Saturdays, with only occasional exceptions.
 The compromise would also lift a law in force since before World War II that even forbids bakeries from baking bread on Sundays. The strict rules are often a source of frustration to Germans rushing to buy groceries after work and to tourists.
 Although Germans have debated this major shift for years, support for longer store hours has grown as the economy weakens. Unemployment is currently about 10 percent and growth is stagnant.
 A Government-commissioned study last year estimated that longer shop hours would mean an additional $13 billion in the economy.
 The Christian Democrats, led by Mr. Kohl, and its sister party, the Christian Social Union, approved the changes today, putting all three coalition partners in agreement.
 The liberal Free Democrats, the smallest member of the governing coalition, had called on the other partners at its party meeting on Friday to reach a compromise.
 The staunchly conservative Christian Social Union had held out on agreeing to the changes, especially the Saturday extensions, arguing that longer hours would cut into family time for store employees.
 Wolfgang Schaeuble, parliamentary leader for the parties, said the new regulations would be passed and in effect no later than Jan. 1.
 At a news conference on Monday, Mr. Kohl mentioned his recent trip to Washington, noting with approval how stores in the Georgetown section were open at midnight. He said it was getting harder and harder to explain to foreigners why such all-night groceries were illegal here.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: GERMANY (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: CHRISTIAN SOCIAL UNION (82%); CHRISTIAN SOCIAL UNION (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHRISTIAN SOCIAL UNION (82%); CHRISTIAN SOCIAL UNION (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY;; GERMANY (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TRENDS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT (74%); BAKERIES (74%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (74%); RETAILERS (73%); CONSERVATISM (72%); LIBERALISM (72%); APPROVALS (66%); WORLD WAR II (55%); 

PERSON: KOHL, HELMUT (CHANCELLOR); WOLFGANG SCHAEUBLE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1996



275 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 608 words

HEADLINE: Phillips and Conoco End Talks About Merging Operations

BYLINE: By ALLEN R. MYERSON

DATELINE: DALLAS, June 11

 BODY:
Conoco Inc. and the Phillips Petroleum Company said today that they had been unable to reach a final agreement to merge their refining and marketing businesses and had broken off talks.
 Executives familiar with the discussions said the companies could not agree on the value of the businesses to be merged -- in particular, the value of the refineries -- and on how much cash each company was to have received in the deal. 

 The companies had announced plans on May 14 to form a 50-50 joint venture that was to be the first of its kind between major oil companies in the United States. Phillips said today that it would look for other partners, but Conoco, which is owned by E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Company, said it would not.
 Conoco apparently believed that its refineries were worth more than those of Phillips. Though Archie W. Dunham, Conoco's chief executive, declined to comment on the talks, he said that Conoco's refineries deserved some sort of premium. "It's critical that the shareholders receive full value for those assets because it's taken tremendous amounts of precious cash to build them," he said in an interview tonight.
 The Mobil Corporation and British Petroleum P.L.C. agreed in February to combine their European refining and marketing. In the United States, refiners and distributors trying to cut costs have reduced their inventories, contributing to the recent rises in gasoline prices. Conoco and Exxon agreed several weeks to turn their separate refineries in Karlsruhe, Germany, into one.
 The partnership between Conoco and Phillips would have sold gasoline through more than 12,000 stations and drawn $13.6 billion in annual sales. The companies, citing confidentiality agreements, offered only a brief explanation of why the talks ended, saying they could not agree on "significant commercial issues."
 Analysts elaborated on that, saying questions of valuation had been crucial. "They couldn't come to an agreement on what their assets were worth," said John D. Hervey of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette. "That's the bottom line."
 Conoco, which is based in Houston, and Phillips, which is based in Bartlesville, Okla., wanted to combine refineries, gas stations and transportation systems into a new company. That company was to borrow on its own behalf to pay the partners for the operations. Though Phillips planned to contribute $2.6 billion in assets and Conoco $2.4 billion, those are just accounting values. In practice, the companies could not agree on the initial payouts each would get.
 The incentives for a merger arise from especially tight margins in the refining and selling of gasoline. Oil companies have been cutting their staffs and costs. But combined, large refiners could achieve further economies by measures like closing gas stations in overlapping markets.
 Phillips and Conoco had agreed on many questions of the management and direction of the venture, one person with knowledge of the talks said. And though the rise in gasoline prices has prompted several Federal investigations of the industry, both companies said no regulatory obstacles had blocked their deal.
 In the statement, Wayne W. Allen, the chief executive of Phillips, said he would keep looking for "creative ways to enhance the value of our assets -- including joint venture opportunities." But Rob Phillips, a company spokesman, said he knew of no talks with other companies.
 The two companies disclosed the end of the talks as the stock market closed. Phillips shares closed down 75 cents, at $40.75, on the New York Stock Exchange; those of Du Pont fell 62.5 cents, to $79.25. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: COP (NYSE) (98%); DUPP (PAR) (70%); DD (NYSE) (70%); BP (NYSE) (57%); BP (LSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (98%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (98%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (98%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (98%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (98%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (98%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (98%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (98%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (98%); NAICS325510 PAINT & COATING MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (70%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (70%); SIC2851 PAINTS, VARNISHES, LACQUERS, ENAMELS & ALLIED PRODUCTS (70%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (70%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (57%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (69%); 

STATE: OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: CONOCO INC; PHILLIPS PETROLEUM CO; CONOCOPHILLIPS (98%); E I DU PONT DE NEMOURS & CO (70%); MOBIL CORP (67%); BP PLC (57%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONOCO INC; PHILLIPS PETROLEUM CO;

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (69%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (90%); MERGERS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); GAS STATIONS (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); JOINT VENTURES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (75%); INTERVIEWS (73%); CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENTS (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); CHEMICALS (70%); CHEMICALS MFG (70%); GASOLINE PRICES (69%); 

PERSON: MYERSON, ALLEN R;

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1996



276 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 356 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES MARKETS;
Copper Plunges on Worries Of Possible Big Sales in Japan

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News

 BODY:
Copper prices tumbled yesterday as a market already nervous about supply was roiled by speculation that a management change at a big Japanese trading company could lead to a selloff of its copper holdings.
 Traders said that rumors that Yasuo Hamanaka, the chief copper trader at the Sumitomo Corporation, had resigned sent copper prices plunging. Traders were betting that the company would sell its copper positions, said Wolfgang Becker, a trader at Iceni Commodities Brokerage in Hamburg, Germany. 

 The selling in copper spilled over into precious metals, which were also weakened by data showing moderate inflation in the United States.
 Mr. Hamanaka has been a focus of attention in the copper market since last month, when his title was changed from general manager of nonferrous metals to assistant to the general manager. Mr. Hamanaka had been in charge of copper trading at Sumitomo, which traders believe controls about 70 percent of the copper stockpiles held in the London Metal Exchange warehouse in Long Beach, Calif. That warehouse holds 23 percent of the exchange's worldwide stockpile.
 Copper traders have been speculating about the meaning of Mr. Hamanka's change in title, and the rumor yesterday was that he had left the company, suggesting to some traders that Sumitomo intended to sell off its copper, flooding the market at a time when rising production has begun to outstrip demand.
 Sumitomo officials in New York denied that Mr. Hamanaka had left, calling the job shift "part of a normal policy of rotating managers."
 But copper prices, which fell sharply on the London Metal Exchange, continued to drop in New York. Copper for July delivery fell 6.65 cents, or 6 percent, to $1.013 a pound on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, its lowest since June 1, 1994.
 Gold prices were also lower on the Comex. Investment demand for gold cooled in response to a Labor Department report showing a decline of one-tenth of 1 percent in producer prices in May.
 Gold for August delivery fell $1.60, to $386.90 an ounce -- its lowest closing price since Nov. 22, 1995. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8053 (TSE) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (72%); NAICS423830 INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (72%); SIC5084 INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (72%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (91%); GERMANY (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (76%); NEW YORK, USA (71%); 

CITY: HAMBURG, GERMANY (77%); 

COMPANY: SUMITOMO CORP; SUMITOMO CORP (72%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (53%); LONDON METAL EXCHANGE (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUMITOMO CORP; LONDON METAL EXCHANGE (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (91%); GERMANY (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (76%); NEW YORK, USA (71%); HAMBURG, GERMANY (77%); 

SUBJECT: COPPER, BRASS AND BRONZE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING; COMMODITIES BROKERS (91%); COPPER INDUSTRY (91%); COPPER MARKETS (91%); FUTURES (91%); METALS MARKETS (89%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (89%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (89%); BASE METALS MARKETS (89%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (64%); 

PERSON: YASUO HAMANAKA (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1996



277 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 598 words

HEADLINE: Fall in Producer Prices Signals That Inflation Remains Tame

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 11

 BODY:
Prices at the producer level fell unexpectedly in May, the Government said today, offering fresh evidence that inflation remains tame despite Wall Street's worries that the economy's strength will unleash a pickup in prices.
 Tumbling energy prices and stable food costs helped push the Producer Price Index down one-tenth of 1 percent in May after a four-tenths of 1 percent increase in April, the Labor Department said. 

 Excluding volatile food and energy costs, the closely watched core rate of the Producer Price Index was unchanged last month after rising a mere one-tenth of 1 percent in each of the three prior months.
 Economists had expected both the overall and the core rates of the Producer Price Index to increase by two-tenths of 1 percent in May.
 "What more can you ask for?" asked Sung Won Sohn, an economist at the Norwest Corporation. "Healthy economic growth and low inflation -- this is economic heaven."
 The Government is scheduled on Wednesday to report on consumer prices for May, and economists have been expecting a three-tenths of 1 percent increase, down from April's rise of four-tenths of 1 percent.
 Economists said the drop in the overall Producer Price Index took some pressure off the Federal Reserve to push up interest rates to keep inflation in check.
 "I don't see anything that demands them to do anything immediately," said Robert Dederick, Northern Trust Corporation economist.
 On Friday, a stronger-than-expected employment report shook the financial markets and raised expectations that the Fed's policy makers were more likely to increase interest rates at their meeting in early July.
 The report on producer prices initially cheered the financial markets today, and stock and bond prices rallied as interest rates slipped. But both markets later gave up their gains. The Dow Jones industrial average closed down 19.21 points, at 5,668.66, while the yield on the Treasury's 30-year bond ended the day unchanged at 7.12 percent.
 The report showed that energy prices slid six-tenths of 1 percent in May after surging more than 2 percent in each of the two prior months because of tight petroleum supplies.
 Heating oil prices fell 7.3 percent -- the biggest drop in more than one and a half years -- while gasoline was unchanged after soaring 6.1 percent in April and 7.1 percent in March.
 Economists expect energy prices will remain under pressure in the months ahead as suppliesease.
 Food prices were unchanged in May after falling three-tenths of 1 percent. Vegetable costs fell 19.5 percent, the largest decline in 16 months. Pork prices jumped 8.6 percent, the largest rise in nearly seven and a half years. Fruit prices rose.
 Tobacco prices, meanwhile, jumped 3.2 percent, the largest rise in nearly two and a half years.
 Economists said bargain-hungry consumers, fierce competition among retailers and global competition among producers were combining to keep a lid on prices.
 "The markets out there are still highly competitive," said Cynthia Latta of DRI/McGraw-Hill Inc.
 While economists were mostly pleased with the report and said it showed inflation was under control, some cautioned that the threat of higher prices was not entirely removed. They pointed to recent rises in labor costs and other factors.
 Prices of intermediate goods -- those that require further processing such as flour, synthetic fibers and leather -- rose five-tenths of 1 percent after rising three-tenths of 1 percent in April. Prices of raw materials climbed 1.3 percent in May after rising 5.3 percent in April.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Producer Prices" tracks index of finished goods prices, seasonally adjusted, from December 1994 through May 1996. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NTRS (NASDAQ) (82%); WFC (NYSE) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US); NORTHERN TRUST CORP (82%); WELLS FARGO & CO (69%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRODUCER PRICE INDEX; PRODUCER PRICES (95%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); FOOD PRICES (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); BONDS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (86%); STOCK INDEXES (79%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (79%); HEATING OIL PRICES (79%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); HEATING OIL (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); PORK (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); TREASURY SECURITIES (70%); BOND MARKETS (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); PORK & HOG MARKETS (65%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (64%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1996



278 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 570 words

HEADLINE: Bond Firm Being Sold To NatWest

BYLINE: By PETER TRUELL

 BODY:
The NatWest Group, which is trying to build a substantial global investment bank, agreed yesterday to pay $590 million in cash to acquire Greenwich Capital Holdings Inc. from the Long Term Credit Bank of Japan. The acquisition, which was negotiated over the last several months, had been widely expected.
 Greenwich, which is based in Greenwich, Conn., is a bond-trading business with more than 400 employees. It focuses on United States Treasury securities, mortgage- and asset-backed securities as well as the government debt of the world's biggest economies. In the Treasury market, it is one of the 37 primary dealers that deal directly with the Federal Reserve. 

 "This is a recognition by NatWest that we are absolutely determined to become a premier-league global investment bank," Peter Hall, deputy chief executive of NatWest Markets, the company's investment banking unit, said in an interview yesterday. "It's not easy to define precisely what that means, but we want to be seen by institutional clients as one of their top providers of investment banking services."
 NatWest recently sold NatWest Bancorp, its North American branch-banking network, to Fleet Financial Group for $3.5 billion, saying it wanted to focus on building an international investment bank.
 NatWest, with its National Westminster Bank, is one of Britain's biggest banks. It is not alone in trying to buy its way into New York's investment banking business. Large European banks, like Deutsche Bank A.G. of Germany, Union Bank of Switzerland and Swiss Bank, are also spending heavily to set up New York operations. They are just the latest wave of foreigners with big ambitions in the world's biggest, and most competitive, financial market.
 Many New York financial experts are skeptical about the chances for success of these ventures. But the European banks insist that they have to build big investment banks in New York if they are to survive and prosper, because international financial markets are now so closely integrated that their biggest and most important customers require them to have a presence on Wall Street.
 As part of the Greenwich transaction, Gary F. Holloway and Konrad R. Kruger, who are co-chief executives of Greenwich Capital, will head Greenwich NatWest, the new name for the global bond business of NatWest Markets, which now has about 7,000 employees.
 Including subordinated debt, Greenwich had capital of $465 million, with net assets of $243 million on Dec. 31, 1995, a year in which it made profits of $75 million before taxes. It became a primary dealer in Treasury securities in 1984 and now ranks among the 10 most active primary dealers. Long Term Credit Bank of Japan acquired Greenwich for about $145 million in 1988.
 Mr. Hall said that Greenwich would also complement the existing North American businesses of NatWest Markets. He said that NatWest already had a significant equities business after its November 1995 purchase of Gleacher & Company, a merger-and-acquisition advisory business that Natwest bought for $135 million.
 Analysts were not surprised by the purchase. "In general, since NatWest made the decision to sell off their consumer and small-business banking it was pretty clear they were going to concentrate on investment banking," said Charles N. Cranmer, an analyst at M. A. Schapiro & Company. "Whether it works out, time will tell." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (91%); BAC (LSE) (91%); 8648 (TSE) (91%); UBSN (SWX) (84%); UBS (NYSE) (84%); DEUT (JSE) (83%); DBK (FRA) (83%); DBK (BIT) (83%); DBETN (JSE) (83%); DBA (ASX) (83%); DB (NYSE) (83%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (83%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (83%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (83%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (83%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GERMANY (54%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: GREENWICH CAPITAL HOLDINGS INC; NATWEST GROUP; LONG TERM CREDIT BANK OF JAPAN; GREENWICH NATWEST; BANK OF AMERICA CORP (91%); NATIONAL WESTMINSTER BANK PLC (90%); UBS AG (84%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (83%); BANK OF JAPAN (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: GREENWICH CAPITAL HOLDINGS INC; NATWEST GROUP; LONG TERM CREDIT BANK OF JAPAN; GREENWICH NATWEST;

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GERMANY (54%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; BANKING & FINANCE (92%); INVESTMENT BANKING (92%); HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); BONDS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); BANK BRANCHES (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); EXECUTIVES (68%); 

PERSON: TRUELL, PETER; HOLLOWAY, GARY F; KRUGER, KONRAD R; PETER REGINALD FREDERICK HALL (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1996



279 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 404 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Gains Against the Yen, But Is Mixed in Other Trading

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
The dollar rose against the yen yesterday on growing expectations that Japanese interest rates would stay low, but it ended mixed against other major currencies.
 Officials at the Japanese Ministry of Finance announced yesterday that it planned to resume direct purchases of Government bonds this week for the first time in three years. Currency traders said the purchases would help keep rates from rising. Demand for the bonds would tend to bolster prices, which move in the opposite direction from yields. 

 "That indicates Japan is not going to be raising official interest rates any time soon, and on that a short-term trader should buy dollars against yen," said Robert Nelson, managing director of foreign exchange sales at Westdeutsche Landesbank.
 In addition, Japan's sluggish economy is likely to need low interest rates for some time to stimulate growth, traders said.
 The dollar rallied almost one yen after the comments by the ministry officials, hitting a fresh 28-month high of 109.70 yen before slipping a bit on profit taking, traders said.
 "The dollar was bid all day against the yen," Mr. Nelson said.
 In late trading in New York, the dollar was quoted at 109.43 Japanese yen, up from 109 yen on Monday. The dollar fell to 1.5347 German marks from 1.5350 marks. The British pound rose to $1.5350 from $1.5345.
 As the dollar approached the psychological barrier of 110 yen, Japanese trust banks and United States investment funds started selling, capping the currency's rally, traders said.
 But the outlook remains good for the dollar, based on the strength of the United States economy compared with those in Europe and Japan and more attractive investment returns promised by American stocks and bonds, dealers said.
 "Any time we see a selloff it seems to be met with buying interest," said James Kemp, chief spot dealer at Citibank. "There are plenty of reasons to buy the dollar."
 The Labor Department's report that prices at the producer level fell last month bolstered the bond market and the dollar. A Federal Reserve governor, Edward W. Kelley Jr., told an audience in Basel, Switzerland, that he was encouraged by the apparent lack of inflation pressures in the United States economy, which also helped the dollar.
 "People generally want to buy dollars and if there's no extraneous noise in the market, that's the way they will go," Mr. Kemp said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CGP (LSE) (53%); C (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (56%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); SWITZERLAND (92%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: BASEL, SWITZERLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: WESTLB AG (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN;; JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); SWITZERLAND (92%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); BASEL, SWITZERLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; CURRENCIES (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); BONDS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); INFLATION (78%); GERMAN MARK (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BOND MARKETS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); BRITISH POUND (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); 

PERSON: JAMES KEMP (66%); ROBERT NELSON (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1996



280 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 404 words

HEADLINE: Slight Rebound In Indicator of Chip Demand

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE M. FISHER

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, June 11

 BODY:
The semiconductor industry's leading indicator rebounded slightly in May, although it still pointed to weak demand, providing a first sign that the five-month-old slump might be nearing an end, a trade group said today.
 The report came after the close of the stock market, but analysts said it was likely to bolster semiconductor stocks, many of which are trading at historic lows. A protracted glut of memory chips has caused a free fall in prices, prompting several large manufacturers to cut back production plans. 

 The Semiconductor Industry Association, which is based in San Jose, Calif., reported a book-to-bill ratio of 0.84 for the three-month period ending in May, up from a revised figure of 0.81 for the April period. The April book-to-bill ratio was revised upward from 0.78. The association said the most recent period marked a significant pickup in new orders for the first time in 1996.
 The book-to-bill compares orders with shipments. Thus, a book-to-bill of 0.84 means that for every $100 worth of product shipped, $84 worth was ordered, which would normally indicate declining demand. But since the ratio is measured in dollars, not units, a steep decline in the price of memory chips has served to push the ratio lower than actual unit demand might indicate.
 "These are very positive developments. They suggest that the industry's first-quarter doldrums are truly over," said Doug Andrey, director of information systems and finance for the association.
 "We're still seeing a slight decline in billings, but that's a leftover from the weak bookings of the first quarter," he said. "Together, these figures appear to show that the industry has stabilized."
 New chip orders in May totaled about $3.20 billion, a three-tenths of 1 percent increase from the $3.19 billion worth of bookings recorded in April, but 24.2 percent lower than the $4.22 billion in bookings in the comparable period a year ago, when the overall book-to-bill ratio reached 1.18.
 Shipments for May reached $3.79 billion, a decline of 3.3 percent from April's billings of $3.92 billion, but a 5.9 percent increase over the May 1995 billings total of $3.58 billion.
 "Orders are still decelerating slightly, and that's partly due to some pretty tough comparisons; it was just about this time last year that memory prices hit their peaks," said Jonathan Joseph, an analyst with Montgomery Securities. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY ASSN; SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (83%); SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY ASSN; SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (83%); SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; COMPUTER CHIPS; ELECTRONICS (92%); SEMICONDUCTORS (91%); COMPUTER CHIPS (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (89%); MEMORY CHIPS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); NEW ORDERS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); 

PERSON: FISHER, LAWRENCE M; CHIP DEMAND (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1996



281 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 12, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1060 words

HEADLINE: U.S. BLAMES ALLIES FOR UNDERCUTTING ITS CHINA POLICY

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 11

 BODY:
The State Department's top official for Asian affairs said today that the Administration's efforts to force China to respect trade accords and halt the spread of weapons were being exploited by Europe and Japan, which he said were happy to "hold our coats" while they "gobble up our contracts."
 The unusually blunt assessment by the official, Winston Lord, in testimony before the House Ways and Means Committee, came a day after Prime Minister Li Peng explicitly warned that he would use China's growing economic power to send more business to non-American companies unless Washington dropped its efforts to force China to change its ways. 

 Mr. Li, in an interview with The Financial Times, praised European leaders because "they do not attach political strings to cooperation with China, unlike the Americans who arbitrarily resort to the threat of sanctions or the use of sanctions."
 Mr. Lord, a former Ambassador to China who is now Assistant Secretary of State for East Asia and the Pacific, and other Clinton Administration officials have privately expressed their frustration in recent months that Japan and the European Union have criticized America's tactics with China -- while turning the tensions to their own benefit.
 They have noted, for example, that among the biggest beneficiaries of America's crackdown on the piracy of music and video recordings in China are the Sony Corporation of Japan and Bertelsmann A. G. of Germany.
 Through industry associations in Washington, the companies have lobbied the Administration heavily to take a tough line against China on behalf of their American subsidiaries.
 But in Japan and Germany, the same companies and their Governments have stayed on the sidelines.
 European nations, along with Canada and Mexico, have their own complaints about the Administration's mix of trade and politics. In recent months the European Union has expressed outrage over Mr. Clinton's decision to impose sanctions on companies around the world who do business with Cuba. Last week the State Department sent letters to the top executives of companies doing business in Havana warning that they may be barred from entering the United States.
 Europe has also objected to legislation now making its way through Congress that would penalize companies, particularly in France and Germany, that are striking billions of dollars in oil deals with Iran. On Wednesday, Jacques Santer, the new president of the European Commission, is scheduled to meet President Clinton, amid suggestions from Europe that American companies will be subject to retaliation if their business in the United States is hurt.
 In his testimony today, which focused on the Administration's efforts to renew China's "most favored nation" trade status, Mr. Lord was trying to make the case that the best way to deal with China was to remain fully engaged with Beijing, but to threaten specific sanctions for specific offenses -- from trade violations to the shipping of nuclear weapons to rogue states.
 He quickly acknowledged, however, that the sanctions are only truly effective when China's other major trading partners join in. "One of our biggest problems in China is that our friends in Europe and Japan hold our coats while we take on the Chinese, and they gobble up the contracts," he said.
 "And I've said it directly to our friends," he added. "If we could get more European and Japanese support of intellectual property rights, for example -- where they have a clear interest -- on nonproliferation, on human rights, whatever we did, targeted or not, would be much more effective. It's one of our biggest problems. We're working on it, but we need more help from our friends around the world."
 After his testimony, Mr. Lord said in an interview that he did not believe that Europe and Japan were always seeking to profit from differences between China and the United States. "Sometimes there are real policy differences over China, and we have to respect that," he said. "There are times when they genuinely disagree on the most effective approach or tactics."
 But he was clearly disturbed by Mr. Li's comments on Monday, the baldest statement by China yet that American companies will be punished for the pressure placed upon Beijing by Washington.
 In April, China gave a $1.2 billion aircraft order to Airbus Industrie that had been expected to go to the Boeing Company, and Japanese auto makers have used the recent tensions between Washington and Beijing to win approval for new plants in China. A number of American companies with large or potential investments in China have urged Washington to calm the waters, declaring that they are being held hostage.
 European business executives are unapologetic for their efforts to get into the Chinese market at America's expense.
 "Don't ask too much from the Europeans," Klaus Friedrich, the chief economist of Dresdner Bank Group, Germany's second-largest commercial bank, said today. "It's too early. We can't play world cop." If the United States was unhappy with Europe's failure to back the threats of unilateral sanctions, he advised, "then don't do what you're doing."
 By explicitly raising the possibility of sending more business to Europe, Mr. Li and other Chinese leaders appear to be betting that they can further fracture the United States business community about the wisdom of confronting China.
 Whether that tactic pays off may become clearer by Monday, the Administration's deadline for imposing roughly $2 billion in sanctions unless Beijing agrees to enforce a 15-month-old agreement to protect foreign-produced compact disks and programs contained on CD-ROM's.
 In the last several days China has begun a last-minute crackdown on the plants, raiding several of them and closing their doors. "There's action under way," Charlene Barshefsky, the acting United States Trade Representative, said today.
 But while their body language suggests a deal is in the works to avert sanctions, Administration officials say China has yet to do enough to get the United States to drop its threats. That could be a negotiating ploy, or it could be a reflection of the odd set of negotiations now under way -- talks in which the American side is uncertain who in the Chinese leadership is actually making the decisions.

 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SON (LSE) (66%); SNE (NYSE) (66%); 6758 (TSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (70%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (70%); NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (66%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (66%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (66%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (98%); EUROPE (97%); JAPAN (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); GERMANY (92%); CANADA (79%); FRANCE (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); MEXICO (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); CUBA (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (58%); 

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (70%); SONY CORP (66%); BERTELSMANN AG (66%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; JAPAN; EUROPE;; UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (98%); EUROPE (97%); JAPAN (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); GERMANY (92%); CANADA (79%); FRANCE (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); MEXICO (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); CUBA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; ARMS SALES ABROAD; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (87%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); ARMS TRADE (78%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LEGISLATION (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); POLITICS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (76%); FINES & PENALTIES (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); TRENDS (71%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E; LORD, WINSTON (ASST SEC); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); LI PNEG (PRIME MIN); BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1996



282 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1260 words

HEADLINE: Bradley, Retiring Senator, Pondering His Next Shot;
He Hasn't Decided What His Role Will Be

BYLINE: By IAN FISHER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Twelve pounds heavier from nights of burgers and room service, Bill Bradley returned recently from a trip around the country to promote the book he wrote that made him realize he no longer wished to be a United States Senator.
 His head was overfull with the issues he wants to tackle, now that he will soon be free of elective office as he stews, maybe for the last time, over whether he could, or even should, try to become President. 

 "And that raises my wife's question," Mr. Bradley said in his office here the other day. "Which is, O.K., what's your job?"
 The answer is, less than six months before he is to retire, the senior Senator from New Jersey says he has no earthly idea of what comes next. The general job title he is thinking about -- a sort of public intellectual -- has few models. In fact, as Paul E. Tsongas, the former Senator from Massachusetts, and Mario M. Cuomo, the former Governor of New York, have learned, the public cares little when a former politician speaks out unless it thinks he has ambitions for higher office, especially the highest.
 The risks of irrelevance or perceived sanctimony seem not to concern Mr. Bradley at the moment. He is clearly laying the groundwork for something, even if he is not sure exactly what it is. At 52, he has begun to take computer lessons, working at the machine only recently installed at his office. (He is interested in learning how grass-roots organizations can use the Internet.)
 His unusual book, "Time Present, Time Past," written not with a computer keyboard but with a No. 2 pencil, can be read as either a valedictory summing up or a verbal launching pad for the Presidency in four years. The book has sold 125,000 copies and spent eight weeks on the best-seller lists.
 The reception has pleased Mr. Bradley, who chatted at his desk recently over his usual Washington lunch, a green salad with one cherry tomato, two cans of apple-cranberry drink and several saltines, which he likes to swab in the residue dressing and eat with a plastic fork.
 Speaking of his book and his travels to promote it, he said: "I would remark on various points of the tour that, if I walked out of the radio station today and somebody hit me with a car and it's over, well, there it is. That's what I think. It's great to reach a point where you say: There it is, it's O.K."
 His professed contentment aside, the book more than hints that there may be another chapter in Mr. Bradley's life in elective office -- that he will finally answer the question that has dogged him since high school in Crystal City, Mo. These days, with Bill Clinton doing well in the polls, Mr. Bradley has stopped hinting about an independent run for President this year, telling people that he would run only a race he thought he could win.
 But that only underscores what has become a central feature of his political persona: that of a talented, articulate, at times difficult Democrat who is good at saying what is wrong but has not stepped forward himself to fix it.
 Democrats, many disappointed that Mr. Bradley announced he was leaving Congress when the going for Democrats looked rough, are watching closely. Will his next move be aimed at a run in 2000? Or will he follow the path of another talented, articulate and difficult Democrat, Mr. Cuomo, who is the host of a radio show and misses public service? Or, will he shuck the party entirely and run as an independent?
 Mr. Bradley, a combination of substance and outright coyness, will not commit himself.
 "You know, that used to be a question that used to give me a lot of trouble," he said of whether he will run for President. "But it is no longer that much of a problem for me to deal with."
 He recounted how since 1992, when he decided not to run, his wife, Ernestine Schlant, developed breast cancer (now in remission), both his parents died, two colleagues were killed in plane crashes and a friend committed suicide.
 "For me, it was a time when I realized nothing is forever and that catastrophe overtakes the best-laid plans," Mr. Bradley said. "The only way to operate is to live life a year at a time, go out and serve as best you can.
 "I mean, would I want to do it? In the right circumstances, yes. But life is too fragile. And I also think that we need to try to find a different way of doing things, so that what comes forward is not so much process but the substance of dealing with the underlying issues that I think are out there."
 Mr. Bradley is clear about several things. One is that his immediate reason for leaving the Senate was not that he feared a repeat of the 1990 race, when he barely won re-election against a little-known Christine Todd Whitman. He said he could not tend to his constituents and devote full time to speaking out on the three issues that most matter to him: campaign finance reform, the changing economic life of the middle class and race.
 He is typically thoughtful on all three issues, perhaps on race particularly -- a problem he has faced since his days in an integrated high school and in his first career as a forward with the New York Knicks.
 "In the last year, what has the focus been on?" he asked. "It's been on three African-American males: O. J. Simpson, Louis Farrakhan and Colin Powell. One was ridiculed, one was demonized and one was idealized.
 "Well, that isn't the way that true racial harmony occurs. It occurs only when you put yourself on the line in a candid expression of your own views, about yourself, your values and what you perceive to be the other person's circumstances, problems, attitudes."
 The framework for his thinking these days is based on what he calls "public power," which steers a middle course between the Democrats' expansive view of government and the Republicans' narrower one. The idea is for government to make a difference without overburdening citizens or business with yet more government across the board.
 An example, one of several he sketches in his book, is to require companies to provide health insurance for one year to employees who are laid off.
 "How is that going to happen?" he asked. "It's going to happen with public power. That's all. It's not some giant bureaucracy delivering a program. It's simply saying: Look, these are the rules of the game."
 Still, summoning the voice of his more practical wife: What will he do? And will anyone listen to Bill Bradley, private citizen?
 "That's a good question," he said. "I mean, I like to think that, if you are saying something that is clear, that is on a subject that most of the American people care about or wonder about and you are saying something fresh, that you are going to be able to get an audience."
 "There is no slot" for his current ambition, he acknowledged. But still, he hints. When asked about his concept of leadership, he talks about the need for both a big idea pushed by a national figure as well as strength from the grass roots. He sounds as if a high-minded United We Stand would be perfect, with himself as a cerebral and stretched-out Ross Perot.
 He waved off several suggestions as unknowable: president of a college, head of a foundation, founder of a new political party or movement. Would he rule anything out?
 "I'm sure there are certain things that if you mentioned I would rule out," he said. "But I can't go out and say everything I've excluded from my mind."
 Would he rule out, oh, say, wing walking?
 "Yeah," he said. "I'm too heavy." He did have another idea, however: "Designated foul shooter?"

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bill Bradley, Democrat of New Jersey, who is leaving the Senate after 18 years, being greeted by Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, Democrat of New York, in a hall outside the Senate Chamber in Washington. (Associated Press)(pg. B6); Less than six months from his retirement as a Senator from New Jersey, Bill Bradley is laying the groundwork for something, even if he is not sure what it is. (Associated Press)(pg. B1)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: INTERVIEWBiography

TITLE: TIME PRESENT, TIME PAST: A MEMOIR (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESS (US); SENATE (US);

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US); SENATE (US);

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFOMRATION; LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BOOK SALES (78%); BESTSELLERS (78%); GOVERNORS (72%); 

PERSON: BRADLEY, BILL (SEN); FISHER, IAN; ANN LIVERMORE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1996



283 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 20; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 397 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasury Prices Lose Early Gains

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO

 BODY:
A report showing an unexpected decline in producer prices sent Treasury prices surging yesterday, but profit taking in the afternoon erased the gains.
 Bond prices have been under pressure since Friday, when the May employment report showed surprising strength, suggesting that the Federal Reserve would raise short-term interest rates next month. In two sessions, the yield on the 30-year Treasury bond -- which moves in the opposite direction from the bond's price -- rose to 7.12 percent -- its highest level in more than a year. 

 But the Labor Department's report on producer prices indicated that inflation was remaining stable, despite other signs of robust growth, thus leaving the Federal Reserve room to leave interest rates unchanged next month.
 The Labor Department said the Producer Price Index fell one-tenth of 1 percent in May. Many economists had been expecting an increase of two-tenths of 1 percent. The so-called core rate of the index, which excludes the volatile categories of food and energy, was unchanged last month.
 "The P.P.I. statistics for May are another indication of there being no inflation in the pipeline," said Elliott Platt, director of research at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette Securities.
 Ken McCarthy, founder of the Economic Intelligence Company, a market research and analysis firm, said, "Despite the acceleration in the pace of economic growth and the recent increases in grain and energy prices, the overall rate of inflation remains subdued." Still, ahead of today's report on consumer prices, Mr. Platt said, the "market improvement is probably more a relief rather than a bona fide rally."
 
 The morning rally soon ran out of steam as market participants used the uptick in bond prices as an opportunity to sell.
 The price of the 30-year Treasury bond ended up 2/32, to 86 7/32, leaving its yield unchanged at 7.12 percent. Shorter-term maturies ended slightly higher, with the yield on the two-year note dropping to 6.36 percent, from 6.39 percent on Monday.
 The enthusiasm of the market was also muted yesterday because it needed to see confirmation of moderate inflation in today's report on consumer prices.
 Mr. Platt of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette Securities said that despite the decline in producer prices he was still expecting a rise of three-tenths of 1 percent in the Consumer Price Index.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Treasury Yield Curve" plots yields of selected Treasury securities, in percent. Yields for short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale. (Source: Technical Data) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT; CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT; US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES;; UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES; BOND MARKETS (93%); BONDS (92%); PRODUCER PRICES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); INFLATION (89%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (71%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (71%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (71%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT; ELLIOTT PLATT (80%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1996



284 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 790 words

HEADLINE: Business Travel;
President Clinton's proposal to increase the international departure tax raises some hackles.

BYLINE: By Edwin McDowell

 BODY:
AIRLINES and the travel industry have usually supported taxes earmarked for improvements in aviation or infrastructure. But President Clinton's recent proposal to raise the tax on international departures from $6 a passenger to $16, with the money used to help offset the cost of attending college, has gone over with the business travel community like the proverbial lead balloon.
 The Air Transport Association termed the proposed increase "an absolute outrage to air travelers who already pay a long list of taxes and fees totaling more than $6 billion annually." Carol Hallett, the association president, said the proposal would cost an additional $500 million a year, "and not a dime will be used to fund runways, radar systems, or anything else that benefits aviation safety or overall system capacity." She added that the tax would lead to a new round of bankruptcies and layoffs by aircraft makers. 

 The Travel Industry Association of America said travelers "should not have to shoulder a disproportionate part" of the President's initiative.
 And the National Business Travel Association, which represents more than 1,650 corporations, vowed to fight the measure in Congress. In a letter to President Clinton, the association's executive director, Norman R. Sherlock, wrote: "Raising the departure tax would substantially increase the financial burden on business travelers and would impact the operative balances of many corporations who operate in the global arena. This type of measure is counterproductive since the overriding policy of the United States should be to promote business enterprise and travel because of the enormous benefits this generates for the economy."
 In a separate statement, Judie Shyman, the executive director of the National Business Travel Association, declared, "Washington must learn that business travel is a national asset, not a gold mine of last resort."
 
Sheraton Expands in China
 
 The ITT Corporation said yesterday that its Sheraton subsidiary had signed agreements to manage seven new hotels in China, all of which will be operational "in the near term." The seven include the Beijing International Club, in which Sheraton has acquired a 31 percent interest, valued at $54 million. Together with the five hotels it already manages in China, Sheraton will have more than 5,000 rooms in the country.
 
Hotel of the Future
 
 While hotel occupancy and room rates are steadily rising, a recent survey by Arthur Andersen and New York University's Center for Hospitality, Tourism and Travel Administration found that the hotel of the future would increase profits more from new services and products sold to guests rather than from traditional room sales. According to Roger Cline, worldwide director of hospitality consulting services for Arthur Andersen, these services and products could range from computer links to gain access to stock prices and brokers to shopping in the hotel's electronic store or ordering books from the hotel's affiliate bookstore.
 
Turning Back the Clock
 
 While the Waterfront Center Hotel in Vancouver, British Columbia, is as modern as they come, the five-year-old hotel -- recently rated one of the world's top 10 business hotels by a leading Canadian business magazine -- has resorted to a centuries-old tradition: it employs a page. That's right, the same kind of hotel messenger who served in medieval inns, and who last served in a Canadian Pacific hotel in 1981. (Waterfront Center is one of 26 Canadian Pacific hotels, as is Quebec's Chateau Frontenac.)
 The best known page in this country was Albert (Johnny) Altieri, who worked at the Stratfield Hotel in Bridgeport, Conn., and was hired by Philip Morris in 1935. For the next 25 years his trademark "Call for Philip Morris" was one of the best-known commercials on radio and television.
 Waterfront Center's page, Claude Dery, is on duty Monday through Friday from 10 A.M. to 6:30 P.M., decked out in a pill box hat, white gloves and silver tray. His duties include paging guests in the lobby, assisting at the elevator and delivering faxes and messages. He has proved so popular in his two weeks on the job that a spokeswoman said yesterday that the 489-room hotel was thinking of hiring another page for weekends.
 
Coffee, Tea or Cuffs?
 
 Whatever happened to the friendly skies? The current Frequent Flyer magazine has an article titled "At the Zoo," about the increasing number of bizarre and sometimes violent incidents aboard airplanes. As if to underscore that trend, Travel Management Newsletter reported this week that some British charter airlines "plan to have handcuffs on board this summer to restrain disruptive passengers." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ITT (NYSE) (65%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS335314 RELAY & INDUSTRIAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (65%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (65%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (57%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (68%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (68%); 

COMPANY: ITT CORP (65%); AIRLINES FOR AMERICA (57%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (56%); NATIONAL BUSINESS TRAVEL ASSOCIATION (55%); NATIONAL BUSINESS TRAVEL ASSOCIATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: TRAVEL INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (56%); NATIONAL BUSINESS TRAVEL ASSOCIATION (55%); NATIONAL BUSINESS TRAVEL ASSOCIATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (68%); BEIJING, CHINA (68%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; FINANCES; FEDERAL TAXES (US); TUITION; AIRLINES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (79%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); STUDENT EXPENSES (77%); TUITION FEES (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (76%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (76%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (75%); AIR TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (74%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (70%); RADAR SYSTEMS (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (68%); CONSULTING SERVICES (64%); POLLS & SURVEYS (64%); BOOKSTORES (61%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 1996



285 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 680 words

HEADLINE: Stock Prices Retreat, with Dow off by 19.21

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Stocks ended lower yesterday as enthusiasm about an encouraging inflation report proved fleeting and a morning rally in the bond market faded.
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 19.21 points, to 5,668.66, retreating from an early advance of nearly 41 points. A series of computer-guided "sell" orders exacerbated the decline, subtracting 33 points from the Dow industrials, according to Birinyi Associates Inc., a research firm that tracks computer-guided trading. 

 Many broader measures also turned negative as bonds shed early gains that were prompted by an unexpected decline in producer prices in May. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 1.19 points, to 670.97,
 But the Nasdaq composite index edged up 0.72 point, to 1,230.76, as several industry bellwethers posted gains. Intel gained 1 1/8, to 75 1/4, and Microsoft rose 1 1/2, to 122 1/8.
 Stocks initially followed bonds higher after the Labor Department reported that producer prices -- the prices that manufacturers and farmers charge for the products they sell to retailers, distributors or other buyers -- fell one-tenth of 1 percent in May.
 The report muted concerns generated by Friday's report on May employment that robust growth would cause inflation to accelerate and prompt the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates.
 Higher rates would increase increase borrowing costs for companies and draw investors away from stocks.
 But by midafternoon, bonds began to slide on profit taking, sending the yield on the 30-year Treasury bond -- a benchmark for corporate and consumer interest rates -- back up to Monday's level of 7.12 percent, the highest the yield has been in more than a year.
 Analysts said that a further rise in rates would hamper stocks.
 "The bond market is very close to its May reaction low," said Ralph Bloch, chief market analyst at Raymond James & Associates of St. Petersburg, Fla. "If that low is taken out, I think the bond market will fall sharply.
 "Stocks can't take much more competition from the bond market." He added that if the yield ran to 7 1/4 percent, stocks were going to get hurt.
 Declining issues outnumbered advancers by a slim margin on the New York Stock Exchange, where volume totaled 405.4 million shares, up sharply from Monday's anemic pace before the report on producer prices.
 Among the Dow industrials' biggest decliners, Boeing fell 1 1/2, to 84 7/8; General Electric fell 1 3/8, to 84 5/8, and Sears fell 1 1/4, to 51 3/4.
 Gold stocks fell as the price of gold declined on commodity markets. Gold is traditionally a hedge against inflation, and the producer prices report helped ease inflation concerns. Gold for August delivery fell $1.60, to $386.90 an ounce -- its lowest closing price since Nov. 22, 1995.
 Newmont Gold fell 1 1/8, to 52 3/4, and Battle Mountain Gold slipped 1/8, to 8 1/8.
 Shares of Kellogg fell 1 7/8, to 70 1/8, a day after the company said it would cut prices on some of its top cereal brands
 Storage Technology rose for a second day after I.B.M. announced a deal to sell Storage Technology's computer-disk storage systems under the I.B.M. brand name. And yesterday Lehman Brothers raised its rating on the stock, which rose 3 3/8, to 42 7/8.
 Several new stocks posted strong gains on their Wall Street debut.
 McLeod Inc., which provides local and long-distance telecommunications services to small and medium-sized businesses, soared 5 1/8, to 25 1/8.
 Verilink surged 7, to 23. The company makes integrated access products for telecommunications. And Infoseek, an Internet search services company, rose 2, to 14.
 Shares of Tower Semiconductor tumbled 3 1/8, to 10 7/8. The Israeli chip maker and Hewlett-Packard terminated their relationship. Shares of Data Systems and Software, which owns about 25 percent of Tower, fell 1 1/4, to 6 3/4. It derives a significant portion of its profits from Tower.
 AMR, the parent of American Airlines, fell 5/8, to 93 3/8, while American depository receipts -- with each A.D.R. representing 10 ordinary shares -- rose 2 1/8, to 86 3/4.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (56%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%); GNE (PAR) (51%); GEC (LSE) (51%); GE (SWX) (51%); GE (NYSE) (51%); BOE (LSE) (51%); BAB (BRU) (51%); BA (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE); INTEL CORP (56%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%); RAYMOND JAMES & ASSOCIATES INC (52%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (51%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (51%); BOEING CO (51%); SHARES OF TOWER SEMICONDUCTOR (73%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE); SHARES OF TOWER SEMICONDUCTOR (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STOCK INDEXES (95%); BONDS (92%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); PRODUCER PRICES (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (67%); RETAILERS (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 1996



286 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 1996

SECTION: Section C; Page 11; Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1217 words

HEADLINE: Why Commercial Off Broadway Is All but Wiped Out, for Now

BYLINE: By PETER MARKS

 BODY:
Daryl Roth, a veteran theater producer, had just about given up hope. For months, her efforts to find an Off Broadway house in which to bring back "Old Wicked Songs," a critically acclaimed play that had a successful limited run last fall, had come to naught: the commercial playhouses of Off Broadway were booked solid with new productions and established hits.
 Then, about six weeks ago, the logjam broke suddenly. Play after Off Broadway play closed. Several new productions flopped and several established hits fizzled. Theater owners who had been offering Ms. Roth places on their waiting lists suddenly wanted to offer her something else: their places. 

 "It was amazing," said Ms. Roth, whose production of "Old Wicked Songs" is to begin performances on Aug. 16 in the Promenade Theater on the Upper West Side, one of the premier Off Broadway spaces. "I was lucky I heard from the Promenade, because I love the theater," she said. "But it seemed like as soon as I got that call, other theaters started opening up, too."
 The reversal of fortune that benefited Ms. Roth spelled trouble for other Off Broadway producers. This spring, virtually the entire lineup of shows in commercial Off Broadway theaters faded, folded, or decided to hit the road in search of new audiences.
 In quick succession, eight of the most expensive and highest-profile Off Broadway shows closed or announced they would this month: "Zombie Prom," "After-Play," "Below the Belt," "Nixon's Nixon," "I Do! I Do!" "The Food Chain," "Picasso at the Lapin Agile" and "Mrs. Klein." Among recent openings at major commercial houses, only three remain: the well-received "Cowgirls," a musical; "Curtains," a dark comedy, and "Papa," a one-man show about Ernest Hemingway.
 "It was a big wipeout," said Gerald Schoenfeld, chairman of the Shubert Organization, one of the producers of "Nixon's Nixon," a play that closed at the Westside Theater on West 43d Street last month after a surprisingly brief and anemic run. "Despite excellent notices, 'Nixon's Nixon' never was able to attract an audience, for reasons which I cannot understand."
 The question echoes through suddenly vacant playhouses all over town: What killed the artistically rich Off Broadway season? Was it competition from an unexpectedly robust Broadway? Was it the rising cost of an Off Broadway ticket (top price: $45) or a shrinking audience for serious theater? Had the life of each production simply run its course, or were some shows yanked before their time by producers fearful of the summer doldrums?
 In the complex marketplace of New York theater, the answer, it seems, is all of the above. Some Off Broadway producers and theater executives say the season's collapse reflects the very nature of Off Broadway, where small houses and narrow profit margins make the life of a production especially precarious. Others, however, say that a combination of factors peculiar to this season conspired to do Off Broadway in. In particular, an extraordinary number of Broadway plays and musicals opened to strong reviews in March and April.
 "There is only so much theater dollar, and there was so much competition," said Robert Straus, one of the producers of "The Food Chain," Nicky Silver's comedy of manners and appetites, which closed Sunday after a 10-month run. "I did better in the depths of winter than I did in the springtime, when I thought I would break out and do wonderfully."
 Mr. Straus said he thought "The Food Chain" could have survived a couple of strong plays on Broadway, but at best became the fourth or fifth choice for playgoers who were opting at the season's end for Broadway plays like "A Delicate Balance," "Master Class," "Buried Child," "An Ideal Husband" and "Seven Guitars." Complicating the struggle to survive, all of the Broadway plays were competing with "The Food Chain" at the Theater Development Fund's half-price TKTS booth in Duffy Square.
 "The economics of the business are that you do live off the booth," Mr. Straus said. "And when every show except one or two are at the booth, where in the pecking order does the smaller play fit in?"
 Not everyone is convinced that Broadway's gains were Off Broadway's losses. "How about the play just ran out of gas and closed?" Ben Sprecher, an owner and manager of several commercial Off Broadway houses, including the Promenade, said, referring to several of the plays that were shut. Still, Mr. Sprecher was upset about two of the longer-running plays that are abruptly closing in two of his theaters, "Mrs. Klein" and "Picasso." He said in those cases, producers were leaving before they had to.
 "I really don't understand," Mr. Sprecher said. "Their grosses were terrific. I think they were closed prematurely."
 The producers of both shows -- two of the few to earn back their investments this season -- said they had decided to close to pursue opportunities elsewhere. (In an unusual confluence of events, both plays are reopening in San Francisco this summer with their New York casts.) But declining popularity also played a part. Joan Stein, a producer of "Picasso," said market research indicated the play had faced an increasingly uphill battle to fill seats in the coming months.
 Off Broadway, Manhattan theaters with 100 to 499 seats, encompasses two theater worlds: nonprofit companies like the Manhattan Theater Club, the New York Shakespeare Festival and the New York Theater Workshop and independent commercial houses, like the Minetta Lane in Greenwich Village, the Variety Arts on the Lower East Side and the Westside Theater in midtown. Together, they have become the creative engine that drives New York theater.
 In each of the last three years, for example, the Pulitzer Prize for drama has been given to a production that began Off Broadway. And while Off Broadway has long been regarded as the home of the serious play, this year, two of the biggest musical hits on Broadway, "Rent" and "Bring In da Noise, Bring In da Funk," also originated Off Broadway.
 It is the commercial part of Off Broadway, which lacks the subscriber-based audiences of many of the nonprofit institutions, that suffered most at the end of the season, a predicament that may be a reflection of the limited popularity of playgoing rather than the quality of any individual production.
 "Some of those shows, like 'Picasso,' have already had healthy runs," said George Wachtel, president of Audience Research and Analysis. He said they might have gone through the supply of traditional theatergoers and simply could not appeal to tourists, a group that has long proved resistant to Off Broadway.
 "I don't think any of these shows crossed over to the out-of-town audience, where the Broadway crossover would have had an impact," Mr. Wachtel said.
 In the end, however, the death of so many plays at once may just have been an inevitable fact of the cycle of life both Off Broadway and on. "There is a huge glut of plays looking for houses right now," said Mr. Sprecher, who owns the theater in which Ms. Roth's play will be presented. "I can name 10 plays that are financed and ready to go, and want a theater."
 Another fact: for producers like Ms. Roth, who is bringing in "Old Wicked Songs" at a cost of $425,000, hope springs eternal.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Steve Mellor and Gerry Bamman as Henry A. Kissinger and Richard M. Nixon (Joan Marcus/"Nixon's Nixon"); Mark Nelson as Albert Einstein (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times); Uta Hagen as Mrs. Klein, (Carol Rosegg/"Mrs. Klein"); In "The Food Chain," Spencer Rochfort, front, and Rob Leo Roy, ex-lovers. (Carol Rosegg/"The Food Chain")

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (84%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (84%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SHUBERT ORGANIZATION INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY;; UNITED STATES (84%); NEW YORK, USA (84%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; THEATER (93%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); 

PERSON: MARKS, PETER; RICHARD NIXON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 1996



287 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 814 words

HEADLINE: State Approves Bronx Paper-Recycling Mill

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA

 BODY:
A plan for a $485 million paper-recycling mill in the South Bronx -- which officials say would be the largest private-sector manufacturing plant built in the city since World War II -- has cleared two major hurdles, receiving approval from state officials for an environmental permit and for low-cost financing.
 While the developers must still complete detailed engineering studies and round up the rest of the financing, they say the state's decision removes some of the biggest obstacles to the project. The state approvals are expected to be announced today. 

 The mill would produce newsprint from waste paper collected by the city's Department of Sanitation and private sources. It would provide 600 permanent jobs and 2,200 temporary construction jobs in the Mott Haven section of the Bronx, one of the poorest neighborhoods in the city. Related community projects are expected to add another 350 jobs.
 Gov. George E. Pataki said yesterday that the state had agreed to use its power to sell tax-free bonds to secure $75 million in low-cost financing for the project, and he pledged to help push it to completion. The 33-acre plant would be built on the site of the old Harlem River rail yard, which has been abandoned for more than 25 years.
 "If we are successful, this project would create more than 2,800 jobs, encourage recycling and reduce the waste stream," Mr. Pataki said in a statement. "As we move to close the Fresh Kills landfill by the end of 2001, this plant could represent an important piece of the New York City waste disposal solution."
 The plant is being developed by the Natural Resources Defense Council, a major environmental group, and the Banana Kelly Community Improvement Association, a civic group in the Bronx. The two nonprofit groups will then turn it over to a for-profit corporation, NYC Paper Mill, which is obtaining additional financing for the plan from private investors.
 The site is within a state economic development zone and the newly created Federal Empowerment Zone, which will qualify the development for Federal and state benefits intended to encourage projects in poor areas.
 The newsprint mill is the successor to a plan to produce de-inked paper pulp on the site, which was abandoned last year when two international paper companies withdrew after a delay caused by a lawsuit. The newsprint would be used by newspapers in the region, and several newspaper publishers, including Advance Publications, the Gannett Company, News Corporation and The New York Times Company, have said they would each be willing to buy part of the plant's output.
 Most newsprint mills have been built in rural areas, where trees are abundant and costs are low. But the developers of the Bronx mill are seeking to take advantage of the vast amounts of paper discarded in the city every day. Because the mill would be situated within a few miles of its raw material, savings of about $60 a ton on transportation costs are expected to help offset the higher costs for labor and utilities.
 The project would also break new environmental ground by using partly treated sewage water from the city's water treatment plant on Ward's Island. Paper processing consumes large amounts of water, about three million gallons a day in this case, but by using waste water the plant would reduce its water costs and not be a burden for the city's supply of fresh water.
 Allen Hershkowitz, a senior scientist at the Natural Resources Defense Council, said that the group was sponsoring the project because of its environmental benefits and to reduce some of the bureaucratic and social obstacles that discourage private investors from building factories in older urban locations.
 "Our role here was to insure the environmental integrity of the project while reducing the costly and complicated entry risks that have to date prevented the private sector from building a manufacturing plant in New York we could support," he said.
 Mr. Hershkowitz said he expected environmental groups increasingly to attempt to foster environmentally beneficial development projects rather than concentrate on stopping harmful ones, as they have done. But he said the resources council would have no role in operating the plant and would receive no fees for its development role.
 NYC Paper Mill has raised $20 million in equity capital from paper industry investors. The company's president, Niilo Hakkarainen, said the group hoped "to complete equity raising and other financing before the fall of this year, and begin construction immediately thereafter."
 The plant would provide a local market for paper collected by the city and private trash haulers. An agreement calls for the mill to pay the city for delivering the waste paper; currently the city must pay to have recyclable paper processed and shipped to mills outside the region.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (84%); GCI (NYSE) (81%); NWS (NASDAQ) (61%); NWS (ASX) (61%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (84%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (84%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (84%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (81%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (61%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (61%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES CO (84%); GANNETT CO INC (81%); NEWS CORP (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; SOUTH BRONX (NYC);; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: NEWSPRINT; RECYCLING OF WASTE MATERIALS; LABOR; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; PLANT CONSTRUCTION (90%); NEWSPRINT (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); PAPER & PACKAGING (89%); PAPER MILLS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (78%); SOLID WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (78%); LANDFILLS (78%); PAPER MFG (78%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); APPROVALS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); ENGINEERING (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL PERMITS (77%); WORLD WAR II (72%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (70%); LITIGATION (70%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (68%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (67%); BONDS (67%); SUITS & CLAIMS (65%); 

PERSON: HOLUSHA, JOHN; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); EDDIE GEORGE (69%); EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 1996



288 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 21; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: Real Estate;
Newbury Street in Boston is changing from boutiques to chains, including a Niketown.

BYLINE: By Susan Diesenhouse

DATELINE: BOSTON

 BODY:
OF the delight of some and the dismay of others, the largest retail project in 70 years is now under construction on Newbury Street in the historic Back Bay neighborhood of Boston.
 For years the street has been known for its high-priced, one-of-a-kind retail shops. They occupy the first or second floors of the Victorian-era red-brick row houses that dominate the eight blocks of Newbury Street, from the Public Gardens to Massachusetts Avenue. 

 Now, on the site of a former parking lot, a $14.5 million, four-story, 42,000-square-foot masonry and glass building with parking for 69 cars is being developed by the 200 Newbury Street Corporation, an affiliate of the Boston-based Sawyer Enterprises.
 Sawyer, an owner of four parking lots downtown, will occupy the top floor of the new building, which is on the corner of Exeter Street. The remaining three stories, with 30,000 square feet of space, will be occupied by a Niketown store.
 Nike Inc. has opened four Niketown stores since 1991: in Portland, Ore.; Chicago; Costa Mesa, Calif., and Atlanta. This year, it will open stores in Seattle, Los Angeles and Manhattan. The Manhattan store, with 85,000 square feet of space, will be the largest. In Boston, Nike has taken a long-term lease on undisclosed terms from the developer. Construction of the store, at 200 Newbury Street, began last November, and the opening is expected in the spring. The architect is Childs Bertman Tseckares Inc. of Boston.
 The building is one of the few new retail buildings to be developed in the city since the collapse of the commercial real estate market in 1990. It also represents a change in Newbury Street's traditional character.
 "Newbury street is hot and the whole flavor is changing from small, local boutiques to large chains that can offer landlords more money," said Deanna M. Caron, vice president of the Hunneman Real Estate Corporation. "These companies have long wanted to be here, but the neighborhood association blocked them."
 Soon, another national chain, which she declined to name, will lease an existing four-story building there, she said.
 Chain retailers have moved onto Newbury Street since the late 1980's but have not had the commanding presence that the Niketown store will have. As a relatively large building that will primarily be occupied by one store, it represents a departure and has attracted criticism.
 Susan Park, president of the Boston Preservation Alliance, said that while the architect tried to make the building sympathetic with its context, it was too big, with too much glass and illumination.
 "Most of the retail stores on Newbury Street are small one-of-a-kind stores that occupy 1,000 square feet," Ms. Park said. "This is too big. It's like putting the QE2 on the corner."
 Also voicing concern was Susan D. Prindle of the Neighborhood Association of the Back Bay. "We're concerned that in the long term, the large national retailers who can pay more rent will drive out the smaller merchants," she said, "and Newbury will become a street of restaurants, bars and chain stores."
 The architect, Richard J. Bertman, said the building was somewhat smaller than the zoning allowed, and, in terms of lighting, would respect whatever guidelines the neighborhood established.
 Newbury Street and the entire Back Bay neighborhood were developed for residences in the late 19th century as the tidal flats that surrounded the original city were filled in, said William S. Young, a preservation planner for the city.
 Of the district's four east-west streets -- Beacon Street with its views of the Charles River, Marlborough Street and Commonwealth Avenue, a wide boulevard -- Newbury was the least fashionable, with residential hotels and apartments.
 During World War I, retail uses began to appear on Newbury Street. By 1927 with the completion of the Ritz Hotel on Newbury and Arlington Streets facing the Public Garden, a rash of retail shops opened in converted residential space to cater to the hotel's guests, Mr. Young said.
 During the real estate boom of the 1980's, rents rose, national and international retailers arrived, and the street acquired a cachet as a tourist attraction. In the 1990 recession, rents fell by 25 to 50 percent, depending on the location, to a range of $20 to $50 a square foot.
 Now the street has about 600,000 square feet of retail space. Over the last year, the amount of space available has fallen to 2.6 percent from 4 percent while the average asking rent has risen to $59.64, Ms. Caron of Hunneman said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NKE (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS316210 FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3149 FOOTWEAR, EXCEPT RUBBER, NEC (85%); SIC3021 RUBBER & PLASTICS FOOTWEAR (85%); SIC2339 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' OUTERWEAR, NEC (85%); SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (85%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (64%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (97%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (78%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (97%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: NIKE INC; NIKE INC (85%); HUNNEMAN REAL ESTATE CORP (64%); BOSTON PRESERVATION ALLIANCE (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: NIKE INC; BOSTON PRESERVATION ALLIANCE (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON (MASS);; UNITED STATES (97%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (97%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (78%); BOSTON, MA, USA (97%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; RETAILERS (91%); SHOE STORES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (90%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (90%); RETAIL CONSTRUCTION (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (75%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (70%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (63%); 

PERSON: DIESENHOUSE, SUSAN;

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 1996



289 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 749 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Lexmark makes money but does not excite investors.

BYLINE: By Laurence Zuckerman

 BODY:
WITH a robust market for new technology stocks, it is easy to forget that there have been some initial public offerings that have stalled -- even offerings from technology companies with actual profits. That is the case with Lexmark International Group, a maker of laser and inkjet printers for computers.
 Since going public at $20 a share in November, Lexmark shares have traded as low as $15.50 and as high as $23.25. Yesterday, the shares fell 12.5 cents, to $21.75, on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 That is a pretty feeble performance compared with Internet stars like Netscape Communications or Yahoo, which both soared after going public despite meager earnings.
 While Lexmark may lack those companies' Internet cachet, it did have more than $2 billion in revenue last year and earned $32.4 million. It is also selling its products into a hot market: corporations are hooking laser printers to their networks and consumers are snapping up low-priced color inkjet printers to create their own greeting cards and drawings or to print out pages from the Internet's colorful World Wide Web.
 Once the printing division of I.B.M., Lexmark was spun off in a leveraged buyout financed by the firm Clayton Dubilier & Rice in 1991. Since then it has managed to cut its debt to $176 million from $940 million and is growing at a healthy pace.
 For the most recent quarter ending in March, the company, which is based in Greenwich, Conn., saw its earnings jump 88 percent, to $21.6 million, or 29 cents a share, compared with $11.4 million, or 15 cents a share, for the corresponding period a year earlier.
 "I call Lexmark the Rodney Dangerfield of printer companies," said Steve Milunovich, an analyst at Morgan Stanley & Company, which co-managed the company's November offering. "It doesn't get the respect it deserves."
 One reason, it seems, is that Lexmark lives in the shadow of the Hewlett-Packard Company, which holds about a 70 percent share of the market for laser printers and more than 50 percent of the market for inkjet printers.
 "H.P. is a tough competitor," said Charles LeCompte, editor and publisher of The Hard Copy Observer, a newsletter in Newton, Mass. "It has raised the standard for the industry. Lexmark has to play its hand perfectly every time."
 And the competition is about to get tougher. In March, a five-year agreement between Lexmark and I.B.M. not to compete against each other expired. Later this month, I.B.M. is expected to announce that it will introduce network laser printers that will compete directly with Lexmark's products.
 So far, though, Lexmark has more than held its own against Hewlett Packard and Canon, the other big maker of laser and inkjet printers. Lexmark estimated that its share of the network laser-printer market grew 40 percent last year and that it now had 6.5 percent of the inkjet-printer market after entering the business just 15 months ago.
 "Our strategy is to gain share and we are optimistic about our ability to do that," Marvin Mann, Lexmark's chairman and chief executive, said.
 Volume is important because, in one respect, the inkjet-printer business is just like the razor business: replacement cartridges are more lucrative than the printers themselves. Those sales, which average two to three cartridges for each printer, also provide a stable stream of earnings.
 A report by a Goldman, Sachs analyst, Richard C. Schutte, estimated that printer supplies accounted for 17 percent of sales last year for Lexmark but 29 percent of gross profit; that should rise, he said, to 40 percent of revenue and 57 percent of gross profit by 1999.
 On the strength of that business, Mr. Schutte said Lexmark's stock should hit $28, or 15 times 1997 estimated earnings, by the end of the year.
 But the company may hit some bumps before then. Lexmark's recent departure from the low-margin business of manufacturing keyboards for I.B.M. and a new, less profitable, licensing agreement with Big Blue will hurt revenues in the next few quarters, Mr. Mann said. He also warned that intense price competition among inkjet-printer makers could also compound the problem.
 As a result, technology investors -- who have for the most part avoided Lexmark to date -- have little reason to buy the stock. As Dick Goers, chief technology strategist at Zurich Kemper Investments in Chicago, put it: "I heard about the economics of the replacement cartridges and felt great about owning H.P." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: LXK (NYSE) (94%); HPQ (NYSE) (81%); MS (NYSE) (65%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3577 COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (94%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (65%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (65%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (72%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (72%); CONNECTICUT, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: LEXMARK INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC; LEXMARK INTERNATIONAL INC (94%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (81%); MORGAN STANLEY INTERNATIONAL LTD (65%); MORGAN STANLEY (65%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); CLAYTON DUBILIER & RICE INC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: LEXMARK INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC;

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (72%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (72%); CONNECTICUT, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (90%); COMPUTER PRINTERS (90%); PRINTER MFG (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (77%); MARKET SHARE (76%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (73%); 

PERSON: ZUCKERMAN, LAURENCE;

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 1996



290 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 12, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 464 words

HEADLINE: Not All the Comfort Is Being Left Behind

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 11

 BODY:
When Bob Dole announced on May 15 that he was resigning from the Senate, he said he would be leaving behind "all the trappings of power, all comfort, all security," and was off to seek the Presidency "with nothing to fall back on but the judgment of the people."
 But Mr. Dole will not be in financial free fall. 

 Quite apart from his other assets -- he reported a total asset value ranging from $758,000 to $1.97 million on his 1994 financial disclosure form -- his retirement from the Senate today makes him eligible for as much as $107,000 in annual pension payments starting in August, as estimated by David Keating of the National Taxpayers Union, a fiscal watchdog group.
 Unlike most private-sector pensions, Federal pensions are adjusted for inflation. Assuming annual inflation of 4 percent, Mr. Dole's yearly benefits would rise to about $178,000 by the time he reached the age of 86, which is the life expectancy of a man now 72, as he is.
 Not all of that benefit will come from the taxpayers. During his 35 years in Congress, Mr. Dole has contributed as much as 8 percent of his own salary toward his pension.
 In any event, he has said that he is considering giving all his pension benefits to charity. "I'm trying to get another job," he told USA Today last week. "I haven't decided whether I'm going to take it or not. I might give it away."
 Nor has Mr. Dole been receiving Social Security benefits, even though he could have been collecting about $17,000 a year. An aide said the Senator had simply never applied for Social Security benefits, because he was still working.
 As Senate majority leader, Mr. Dole has been receiving an annual salary of $148,400. He also receives a veteran's disability payment of $17,700 a year, and that will not change with his retirement. But if he is elected to the Presidency, which pays an annual salary of $200,000, he must defer his Senate pension until he leaves office.
 Mr. Dole's 59-year-old wife, Elizabeth -- who was a Cabinet officer in the Reagan and Bush Administrations, spent 28 years in government and in 1994 reported an asset range of $2.38 million to $6.16 million, less liabilities of $300,00 to $600,000 in loans -- will be eligible in three years for a Federal pension whose benefits to her could total $1,947,000 by the time she reaches 86, her own life expectancy.
 Given the couple's two pensions, plus her survivor benefits in the event of Mr. Dole's death (assuming he has opted for a spousal survivor benefit), they could collect more than $6 million, Mr. Keating said, by the time she turns 86.
 Mrs. Dole is on leave from the presidency of the American Red Cross and has said that if her husband is elected President, she will return to that post, whose yearly salary is $200,000.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESS (US); SENATE (US); USA TODAY (54%); NATIONAL TAXPAYERS UNION (56%); NATIONAL TAXPAYERS UNION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US); SENATE (US); NATIONAL TAXPAYERS UNION (56%); NATIONAL TAXPAYERS UNION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES;; UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS; LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); MILITARY DEPENDENTS (85%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (70%); INFLATION (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); 

PERSON: SEELYE, KATHARINE Q; DOLE, BOB (SEN); RONALD REAGAN (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 1996



291 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 321 words

HEADLINE: Pension Agency Recommends An Increase in Benefit Limit

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 11

 BODY:
The Government agency insuring workers' pensions urged Congress today to increase benefit limits on its multi-employer plan to make up for 16 years of inflation.
 Multi-employer plans are collectively bargained pension programs to which more than one employer is required to contribute, such as in the construction, trucking and retail-food industries. 

 When a multi-employer plan becomes insolvent, the agency, the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, provides financial assistance to pay benefits at the guaranteed level from premium revenues received from insurance plans.
 In a report to Congress, the agency said that the plan, which insures 8.7 million people in 1,963 programs, was financially sound.
 But, it added, the benefit guarantee has not been changed since 1980. Since then, wage inflation has cut the real value of the guarantee by more than half. As a result, fewer than 1 percent of all workers and retirees would get their promised benefits if their plans ran out of money. The agency recommended changes that would extend full coverage to 75 percent of participants.
 If enacted, the proposal would more than double the maximum guarantee for a retiree with 30 years of service, to $12,870 a month from $5,850. The increase would not require any change in the annual premium of $2.60 a participant.
 The new guarantee would equal the participant's years of service multiplied by 100 percent of the first $11 of monthly benefit plus 75 percent of the next $33. The limit now is 100 percent of the first $5 of monthly benefit and 75 percent of the next $15.
 President Clinton first proposed the rise when he outlined his Retirement Savings and Security Act in April. Legislation is pending in both houses of Congress.
 The agency said that the multi-employer plan, which had a $8.5 million deficit in 1980, has had a surplus for the last 14 years. The current surplus is $192 million.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (72%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: PENSION BENEFIT GUARANTY CORP; PENSION BENEFIT GUARANTY CORP (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: PENSION BENEFIT GUARANTY CORP;

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES;; UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); INFLATION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); INSURANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (54%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 1996



292 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 908 words

HEADLINE: Singapore Journal;
Youth's Flogging Exposes 'the Importance of Skin'

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS 

DATELINE: SINGAPORE

 BODY:
"No culture shock! Zilch!" the American cries happily. "I felt right at home the minute I came here."
It is all downhill from there in Singapore's most popular recent play, a rollicking and dead serious exploration of the East-West divide that ends with the characters spitting racial insults at one another. 
 "You yellow bastard!" the American snarls, after a Singaporean co-worker taunts him for his unconscious assumption of superiority.
The catalyst in the play -- as it was two years ago in a real-world episode of international culture shock -- is the flogging of Michael Fay, an American teen-ager who confessed to spray-painting graffiti on cars.
The flogging shredded cultural skin, the play suggests, as painfully for Singaporeans as for the teen-ager.
The leitmotif of the play is a series of quotations from 19th- and early 20th-century Western travelers who set the tone of cultural superiority, dismissing the natives as "half-barbarous people" and "a pack of lunatics."
There is no flogging scene, and the name of Mr. Fay is never pronounced in the one-act play, "Six of the Best," by Tan Tarn How, who is the Beijing bureau chief for The Straits Times.
And the play, which recently ended its run, does not try to explore the merits of corporal punishment, though it presents the contrasting views of its characters.
But the details of the incident remain as vivid to people here as they are to the characters -- an American, a Briton and four Singaporeans working together in a local advertising agency.
In May 1994, despite a plea for clemency by President Clinton, Mr. Fay, then 18, received four lashes with a rattan cane (reduced from a sentence of six lashes) after signing and then recanting an admission to a 10-day spree of spray painting and egg-throwing.
Some people here remember him as "that nasty little vandal," some as "the poor American boy." But whether he is recalled with contempt or sympathy, the furor still troubles Singaporeans -- a moment when many in the West turned a cold eye toward them and branded them bullies.
Singapore is indeed the most Westernized of Asian nations, where most people speak English and where the pristine cityscape looks like the schematic drawing of a southern California property developer.
It is easy for an American, like the character in the play, to feel right at home. But as the play suggests, many of these similarities are only skin deep, and many of the snubs from colonial days still sting.
"It is strange to see them at their grub, with their little basins close to their mouths in one hand and their chopsticks, which they so daintily and cleverly use, in the other," a traveler named Hugh Wilkinson wrote in 1883, in an account quoted in the play. "They are all cast in the same mold, and are consequently exactly alike."
Or: "What thinks she, I wonder -- if she thinks at all -- of the pale European."
Such colonial-era disdain is the backdrop for today's attitudes, said the play's director, Ong Keng Sen, as Singapore asserts itself as a model of economic development and social order. And it is the backdrop, he asserted, for America's dudgeon over the caning of Mr. Fay and for Singapore's stubborn response.
"Western media interpretation of the events and American 'intervention' raised the old hackles," Mr. Ong said. " 'Don't tell us what to do. We are a sovereign nation. Leave us to our ways. Let us govern ourselves.' "
But along with the legacy of hurt, the colonial era has also left an evident desire to be embraced by the West.
Despite lectures by Senior Minister Lee Kuan Yew on the superiority of "Asian values," Singaporeans still yearn to meet Western standards as well. Just as the angriest of the Singaporean characters in the play nevertheless seeks career advancement by working for an American-run company, it is sometimes said here that an American or British university degree has the cachet of a designer fashion label.
"At first we thought, wow, six strokes, that much," said a Singaporean journalist who was in the audience the other night. "We were feeling sorry for the poor American boy. But then we were branded uncivilized brutes who will torture this child."
Like the American character in the play who thought he was just like everybody else here, the journalist said, Singaporeans themselves had begun to forget about their differences from the West.
"It didn't help when William Safire started saying all those things and urging an economic boycott," said the journalist, who asked that his name not be printed. "Ouch, that hurts. It was one ridiculous thing after another. Maybe we execute people by having an elephant walk on their head. We thought we got along with the rich world, and all of a sudden these huge chasms were showing up."
In the play, the cultural rifts emerge as the characters discuss the flogging of "that boy." The rising tension is broken periodically by surreal tableaux that include the apparition of a uniformed flogger who parades an outsized cane.
"Let me discourse on the importance of skin," the flogger says in the play's coda. "The skin is a covering, but my job is to remove it, opening up the skin to discover the human in us, to reach for the primal scream, the primal hurt. The skin is mere covering, but the skin is all-important. To find what's underneath, what's inside, to see if it's mere shell, or flesh, or feeling, or life -- that's my job."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Cast members of the Singapore production of "Six of the Best" act out one of the play's more emotional confrontations. The play was inspired by the caning of an American teen-ager, Michael Fay, in 1994. (Reuters)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: SIX OF THE BEST (PLAY)

COUNTRY: SINGAPORE (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (58%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SINGAPORE; SINGAPORE (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (58%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (50%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; CORPORAL PUNISHMENT; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ADOLESCENTS (90%); THEATER (77%); THEATER & DRAMA (77%); VANDALISM (75%); GRAFFITI (74%); 

PERSON: MYDANS, SETH; FAY, MICHAEL BILL CLINTON (53%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1996



293 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 13, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
Medical savings accounts: a solution without a problem?

BYLINE: By Peter Passell 

 BODY:
IF legislation giving workers the right to keep their health insurance when they change jobs breathes its last, the cause of death will almost certainly be a political stalemate over medical savings accounts. But is this idea, so loved by House Republicans and so detested by the White House, really worth the fuss?
Not according to researchers at the Rand Corporation led by Emmett Keeler, whose report in the Journal of the American Medical Association last week suggested that the tax-sheltered accounts created by the House bill would have little effect on either total outlays for health care by people under age 65 or on accessibility of insurance for the very sick. And not according to Joe Newhouse at the Kennedy School of Government, who argues that the politicians are fighting over ways to improve a health care delivery system -- fee for service -- that is rapidly fading. "This debate is largely symbolic," he concludes. 
 When bread is very cheap, Mikhail S. Gorbachev discovered, farmers feed it to their livestock. Similarly, a landmark experiment completed by Rand in the early 1980's showed that Americans were inclined to waste medical care when the price to the patient was far less than the actual cost in economic resources. Those with first-dollar insurance coverage used 25 to 30 percent more health care than their counterparts facing hefty co-payments. Even so, the penny pinchers apparently spent enough. Co-payments had "little or no adverse effect on health for the average person," Mr. Newhouse, the senior author of the study, writes.
To some, the practical lesson here is that the health establishment can be squeezed without making patients squeal. Hence the push for managed care and state regulations limiting the numbers of hospital beds and MRI scanners. But true believers in free markets came away with a very different conclusion: Americans buy too much coverage because employer-paid insurance premiums are sheltered from taxation.
What to do about it? Discouraging belt-and-suspenders coverage by eliminating tax breaks for health insurance seems a political nonstarter. That largely explains why some conservative economists, notably John Goodman, the head of the National Center for Policy Analysis in Dallas, opted for the carrot rather than the stick.
Under the House Republican bill passed in April, those who bought only catastrophic coverage -- a minimum $3,000 deductible a family at the time of passage -- would also be permitted to deduct deposits to medical savings accounts. Withdrawals from the accounts to pay medical bills would not be taxed. Savings accumulated in the accounts and withdrawn after age 59 1/2 would be taxed as ordinary income.
Supporters look to the old Rand experiment and envisage cost savings in the hundreds of billions of dollars. But the just-released Rand study, a simulation intended to project consumer behavior if medical savings accounts are made available, concludes that the incentives of a $3,000 deductible would reduce total health care spending by, at most, 2 percent. Expenditures may even rise, the researchers found, if enough very sick people switched to catastrophic insurance that required no cost sharing on outlays above $3,000.
Limiting insurance coverage to expenses over $5,000 would, by contrast, suck a lot of healthy people out of traditional insurance and inhibit use of health care by 7 to 13 percent. Indeed, the number may even be larger if the migration of healthy people from community-rated insurance plans make it impossible for those who remain to foot the bill for high-quality coverage. But Uwe Reinhardt of Princeton University is certain that employers would not voluntarily opt for such bare-bones catastrophic policies. "Corporate America prefers a more socialized system in which healthy employees subsidize the care of the sick ones," he argues.
Perhaps the most striking aspect of the political debate is its near irrelevance. Republicans are still focused on the flawed market incentives for health care and looking for clever fixes. But health care is rapidly moving away from a world in which people have much choice about the amount of service they get and toward one in which doctors must please insurers as well as patients, state regulators keep a lock on investments in hospitals and costly equipment and access to expensive procedures is guarded by insurance company "gatekeepers."
The battle over medical savings accounts seems like an exercise in ideology -- much like the battle over raising the minimum wage from a pittance to a near pittance. "Medical savings accounts are like earrings for men," muses Mark Pauly at the Wharton School. "I wouldn't have one for myself, but I don't think they should be discouraged by public policy."

GRAPHIC: Drawing. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: RAND CORP RAND CORP (72%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (57%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: RAND CORP AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (57%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; FINANCES LEGISLATION (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); POLITICS (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (76%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (76%); TAX LAW (75%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (75%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (73%); WRITERS (64%); COMPUTER SCANNERS (50%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1996



294 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 13, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 7; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 573 words

HEADLINE: Bangladeshis Vote in Big Numbers on a Calm, Even Festive, Day

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS 

DATELINE: DHAKA, Bangladesh, June 12

 BODY:
Voters turned out in record numbers today for a general election that many people here hope will put an end to political turmoil that has stunted economic growth and even raised fears of a new military takeover.
Voter turnout in many of the 300 parliamentary districts was reported as high as 70 percent, considerably higher than in the last national election in 1991. 
 As important for hopes that the election results will eventually be accepted by the country's feuding political parties, the voting appeared to have been conducted impartially in most areas and to have been largely free of the violence that has been a hallmark of politics in Bangladesh.
"It's been the dream of our people, casting a free ballot," the chief election commissioner, Muhammed Abu Hena, said as accounts came in from across the country of long lines and a festive atmosphere at many of the 26,000 polling stations.
Independent monitoring organizations, including some from Europe and the United States, offered preliminary endorsements of the election, saying the voting arrangements seemed to have assured a mostly fair poll. The Bangladesh Army, which ruled for 15 of the 25 years of the nation's existence, made no visible attempt to influence the outcome.
Partial returns late tonight pointed toward a neck-and-neck contest between the two principal contenders, the Awami League and the Bangladesh National Party, with a strong showing by a third group, the Jatiya Party, that could end up holding the balance of power.
With about half the vote counted in 220 districts that had reported returns to the election commission, the Awami League and the Bangladesh National Party were each leading in about 90 districts, with the Jatiya Party leading in 30 other districts. Other groups, including the Muslim fundamentalist Jamaat-i-Islami, were leading in 10 other seats.
A few violent incidents were reported today, one of them a shootout between rival political groups in the port city of Chittagong that left two men dead.
Final results are not expected until Thursday. But if the trend holds up, the country could be confronted with a situation that many here fear could lead to further instability, with neither of the main parties emerging as a clear winner and both inclined to claim that outright victory was snatched from them by election fraud.
Before the vote, the women who lead both parties, Hasina Wazed of the Awami League and Khaleda Zia of the Bangladesh National Party, laid the ground for challenges to the election outcome by asserting that election arrangements had been rigged. Both parties are committed to free-enterprise policies, but their leaders are personal rivals whose family histories have suffered from the political assassinations that have afflicted Bangladesh.
Further complicating the situation was the fact that the leader of the Jatiya Party, the possible kingmaker if the election produces a hung Parliament, is the imprisoned former military leader, Gen. Hussein Muhammed Ershad, who has indicated that the price he would exact for supporting a new government would be his release from jail.
One voter here, Zennur Hussein, a 39-year-old coal trader, said: "At least today, we are the ones who count. But what matters is what happens tomorrow -- whether the political parties will accept the result, or start the fighting again. Once it starts, it will be hard to stop."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BANGLADESH (98%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: DHAKA, BANGLADESH (71%); 

COMPANY: JATIYA PARTY (76%); BANGLADESH NATIONAL PARTY (73%); AWAMI LEAGUE (73%); 

ORGANIZATION: JATIYA PARTY (76%); BANGLADESH NATIONAL PARTY (73%); AWAMI LEAGUE (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGLADESH; BANGLADESH (98%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); DHAKA, BANGLADESH (71%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS ELECTIONS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); POLITICS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (89%); ELECTION FRAUD (78%); TRENDS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (73%); FAMILY (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (69%); ASSASSINATION (50%); 

PERSON: BURNS, JOHN F

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1996



295 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 758 words

HEADLINE: President Of Colombia Is Absolved In Drug Case

BYLINE: By DIANA JEAN SCHEMO 

DATELINE: BOGOTA, Colombia, June 12

 BODY:
Nearly a year after President Ernesto Samper became the target of an unprecedented inquiry into allegations that his election was financed by Cali drug lords, the Congress here voted late tonight to drop all charges against him.
The 111-to-43 vote, which had been expected, officially ends the legal tribulations of the 45-year-old President, but leaves him vulnerable to continued political opposition across the spectrum of business, religious and civic groups that have called for his resignation. 
 Mr. Samper, who made no immediate statement, has consistently denied the allegations.
The President is expected to make overtures to heal rifts with the business sector, which blames the case for a deepening economic downturn, and to name a new cabinet.
Supporters of Mr. Samper who were interviewed after the vote said they hoped a new troubled chapter would begin tonight. Others predicted serious consequences, domestically and internationally.
"From the beginning, nobody believed in this process," said a Conservative Representative, Roberto Camacho. "It is not just that this trial is a farce, but that it's a farce to call it a trial."
In a meeting this afternoon, the Conservative party pledged systematic opposition in the Congress, and a group of industrialists announced that a new cabinet would not end their discontent. The country also faces a further worsening of relations with the United States.
The vote came after 14 days of frequently windy debate, with many of the 76 deputies who took the floor speaking for several hours. Because the House was charged simply with determining whether there was cause to send the charges onto the Senate, rather than ruling on the President's guilt or innocence, the debate did not include testimony by any witnesses, prosecutors or the President's defense attorney.
The investigation and interview of witnesses was handled solely by the chairman of the Accusations Committee, Heyne Mogollon, who offered a six-hour speech spanning two days that proved to be the President's most avid defense. Mr. Samper had been indicted on four charges, including illicit enrichment, falsification of documents, fraud and obstruction of justice.
Mr. Mogollon, who recommended dropping the charges, came under investigation by the Supreme Court for "neglect of duty" after he dropped a related charge against the President last December. Doubts have been raised about the authenticity of transcripts of his interrogation of the President, which lack any of the legally required observations about the defendant's reactions to questions, equivocations or hesitations.
With many people inside and outside Colombia predicting that the largely Liberal Congress would drop the charges, the debates appeared almost like waltzes without music, adhering to the formal procedures while largely disregarding serious evidence against the President and contradictions in testimony.
Mr. Samper's supporters argued, for example, that the President could not be accused of "illicit enrichment" because the drug traffickers who reportedly financed his campaign had yet to be sentenced. The House, however, generated a firestorm of protest after it threw out a bill to this effect in December after it had passed the Senate.
His supporters also argued that even if drug money had found its way into his campaign, there was no "reigning proof" that Mr. Samper knew of it, a conclusion -- given the evidence -- that appeared to be a confession by the President. Mr. Samper's defenders contended that the charges were nothing more than barbs thrown by political enemies and the hyperactive media.
Mr. Samper's presumed ties to the Cali underworld haunted him even before he was elected. In November 1993, Robert S. Gelbard, the Assistant Secretary of State for International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs, said he put Mr. Samper on notice that American officials "knew" his campaign had accepted "a couple of million dollars" from drug traffickers.
At the time, Mr. Samper strongly denied that drug money could have entered his campaign, Mr. Gelbard said. He said he warned Mr. Samper that if the practice continued and he won the election, the two countries would face an "extremely bad relationship."
Publicly, Mr. Samper denied the meeting ever took place, but days after his election two years ago, the first explosive recordings of drug exporters discussing contributions to Mr. Samper's campaign surfaced. The issue has crippled Mr. Samper's presidency, and his country, ever since.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: COLOMBIA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (78%); 

COMPANY: LIBERAL CONGRESS (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: LIBERAL CONGRESS (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: COLOMBIA; COLOMBIA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (78%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; FINANCES INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); TESTIMONY (89%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (89%); WITNESSES (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INDICTMENTS (78%); LAWYERS (73%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (68%); SUPREME COURTS (67%); RESIGNATIONS (56%); RELIGION (56%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%); 

PERSON: SCHEMO, DIANA JEAN; SAMPER, ERNESTO (PRES) ERNESTO SAMPER (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1996



296 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 599 words

HEADLINE: Public Cost of Teen-Age Pregnancy Is Put at $7 Billion This Year

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 12

 BODY:
In the most comprehensive study to date on the effects of teen-age pregnancy, a group of scholars has calculated that taxpayers this year will spend nearly $7 billion to deal with social problems resulting from recent births by girls under the age of 18.
The study, sponsored by the Robin Hood Foundation, a New York City charity, is the first that tries to isolate the costs of adolescent pregnancy. It is to be made public on Thursday at the White House, where President Clinton is expected cite it in highlighting a $30 million program in his 1997 budget for prevention of teen-age pregnancy. 
 In the past, studies of teen-age pregnancy have compared the lives of women who gave birth to their first child during their teen years with women who did not. As a result, such studies often compare young girls of wildly different economic, educational and social backgrounds.
In contrast, the study looks at the consequences for teen-age mothers, their children and the fathers of the babies, compared with people from the same social background when pregnancy was delayed until the woman was 20 or 21.
To determine the costs of such pregnancies, the researchers looked at the differences over the last 13 years between welfare payments to teen-age mothers and the other mothers, as well as at the use of publicly financed health care, abuse and neglect cases that resulted in a child being placed in foster care, and prison incarceration rates for the children born to teen-age girls.
The study found that teen-age child bearing cost the country an additional $2.2 billion annually in welfare and food stamp benefits, $1.5 billion in medical care costs, $900 million in increased foster care expenses and $1 billion for additional prison construction. In addition, the study concluded that governments lose about $1.3 billion a year in tax revenue from the reduced productivity of women who bear children as teens.
"That's $7 billion a year that's going right out the window," said Rebecca Maynard, professor of Education and Social Policy at the University of Pennsylvania who was the chief editor of the study. "We could spend $7 billion to fix this problem and end up no worse or better off financially."
Sociologists who conducted the study say its calculations are conservative since they only looked at the result of childbirth for girls under 18. As a group, they give birth to 175,000 children each year. All told, about 500,000 children a year are born to girls 15 to 19, 72 percent of them unmarried.
To the surprise of social workers, however, the study found that teenagers gained no economic advantage by delaying childbirth until they were 20 or 21. Indeed, from the age of 19 to 30, those who have their first child as a young teen average higher incomes from welfare benefits, child support payments from fathers and earnings, than girls who put off having a baby until they are 20 or 21.
"Certainly that wasn't the thought when the study was commissioned," Ms. Maynard said. "We had hoped to have a bigger number to flash in front of teens."
In rewriting their legislation to overhaul welfare, Republicans in Congress are again considering requiring teen-age mothers to live at home with their parents or risk loss of cash benefits. President Clinton has twice vetoed the legislation, saying it was too harsh.
Two years ago, the Administration proposed spending $400 million over five years on an effort to cut the teen-age birth rate. The proposal was part of Mr. Clinton's welfare plan, which made little headway in a Democrat-controlled Congress.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: ROBIN HOOD FOUNDATION

ORGANIZATION: ROBIN HOOD FOUNDATION

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: ILLEGITIMACY; RESEARCH; CHILDREN AND YOUTH PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (96%); CHILDREN (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (87%); SOCIOLOGY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (78%); WOMEN (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); FOSTER CARE (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); SPONSORSHIP (71%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (69%); PRISONS (69%); PRODUCTIVITY (68%); FOOD STAMPS (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%); 

PERSON: HOLMES, STEVEN A; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1996



297 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 409 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Down Against Mark And Yen in Quiet Trading

BYLINE: By Reuters 

 BODY:
The dollar finished lower against the Japanese yen and German mark yesterday after spending most of day in narrow ranges in quiet trading.
The dollar slipped to fresh lows late in the day as speculators took advantage of the thin market volume to push the currency lower. 
 "Some people got tired of doing nothing so they tried to push through some support," said Jack Griffin, manager of corporate foreign exchange at the Fuji Bank. "We were unable to break higher earlier, so they decided to try the lows."
The dollar was also dragged down by a late afternoon selloff in the United States Treasury market.
But the recent slump in bonds has been driven by concerns over robust economic growth and interest rate increases that are likely to come as a result: factors that should ultimately bolster the dollar, traders said.
"The dollar is showing good resistance to weakness in the bond market, which implies the dollar is being supported by the strength of the U.S. economy," said Chris Widness, international economist at Chase Securities.
In late trading in New York yesterday, the dollar fell to 109.05 yen from 109.43 yen on Tuesday. The dollar also traded at 1.5325 marks, down from 1.5347 marks. The British pound rose to $1.5355 from $1.5350.
Earlier in Asian trading, the dollar received a mild boost from the governor of the Bank of Japan, Yasuo Matsushita, who told reporters in Tokyo that Japan would keep interest rates at current historically low levels. But the brief rally faded quickly.
"That news from Japan should have been bullish for the dollar, but the market shrugged it off," said Bill Marr, foreign exchange manager at Credit Commerciale de France.
During trading in New York, the dollar weathered a warning about the dollar's strength against the yen by a United States auto maker.
A further rise in the dollar against the yen "will put a serious drag" on American manufacturing, the chairman of the Chrysler Corporation, Robert J. Eaton, said in a statement after he and other auto industry executives met with Clinton Administration officials.
Other auto officials have warned that a rally above 110 yen will damage their competitive position in export markets.
"The market will be watching for any change in rhetoric out of the Administration," Mr. Marr said. "They have been very clearly in favor of a higher dollar and if they say anything to the contrary, the dollar will get hit hard." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%); GERMANY (90%); ASIA (79%); FRANCE (56%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (63%); BANK OF JAPAN (54%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; JAPAN; UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%); GERMANY (90%); ASIA (79%); FRANCE (56%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (91%); GERMAN MARK (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (85%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BONDS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); BRITISH POUND (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (67%); AUTOMAKERS (62%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1996



298 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 13, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1134 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Mediator Survives Political Crossfire in Ulster

BYLINE: By JAMES F. CLARITY 

DATELINE: BELFAST, Northern Ireland, June 12

 BODY:
When former Senator George J. Mitchell was formally installed early this morning as chairman of the new broad-based Ulster peace talks, he had just survived his first personal lesson in the emotional, often vicious, sectarianism that has riven this British province for decades.
After being appointed chairman by the British and Irish Governments, he quietly endured two days of vilification by hard-line leaders of the Protestant unionist parties. They want the province to remain British, and they see Mr. Mitchell as an agent of change who will give the Roman Catholic minority more political power, cement closer links between Ulster and the Irish Republic and pave the way for an eventual British surrender of control. 
 Unionist leaders resent American involvement because Northern Ireland Catholics have long felt that only the White House could press Britain into serious peace talks. And Mr. Mitchell, with his close ties to the White House, is the target of their anger and fear.
The attacks characterized him as an Irish-American Catholic who would be prejudiced against the Protestant majority in the North.
"You simply accept it as part of the process; I didn't take it personally," Mr. Mitchell, 62, said in an interview at the Europa Hotel (which used to call itself the most bombed hotel in Europe because of attacks by the Irish Republican Army).
"In one respect, this is a new experience for me," he added. "In 30 years in American politics, no one ever asked what my religion is or where my parents were from.
"Last night, after it was all over, I joked that they had gone a long way to make me feel back in the Senate: talking all day, voting late at night."
The attack that delayed his installation was led by the Rev. Ian Paisley, the flamboyant leader of the hard-line Democratic Unionist Party. Mr. Paisley was once ejected from the European Parliament in Strasbourg, France, in 1988 for heckling Pope John Paul II.
After the Ulster Unionist Party, the largest Protestant group, agreed late Tuesday to install Mr. Mitchell, Mr. Paisley and members of another unionist group stalked out of the Castle Buildings. They said they would take part in sessions selectively, but would not attend full sessions at which Mr. Mitchell is chairman.
Part of Mr. Paisley's attack is involved with his need to siphon votes away from the Ulster Unionist Party of David Trimble in the next British parliamentary election, which could be held this fall. Mr. Trimble is also under pressure from dissidents in his own party.
The Paisley unionists promised to keep up the harassment they had aimed at Mr. Mitchell, a Maine Democrat, a former Senate majority leader and a close adviser to President Clinton. Mr. Mitchell never responded directly to the attacks, but issued a statement today that he would be fair and impartial.
Mr. Paisley, who does not deal in understatement, had said Mr. Mitchell wanted to be "pope" of the talks. He said Mr. Mitchell was Mr. Clinton's agent, bent on winning Irish-American votes for the President. He said Mr. Mitchell was "a crony of Gerry Adams," the president of Sinn Fein, the political wing of the I.R.A.
Ulster Protestant leaders are infuriated with President Clinton because he has allowed Mr. Adams to travel and raise money in the United States. Mr. Adams has welcomed the appointment of Mr. Mitchell.
Sinn Fein has been excluded from the talks until the I.R.A. renews the 17-month cease-fire that it ended in February with bombings in London. Mr. Paisley has said that if Sinn Fein is admitted to the talks, he will not talk to its representatives.
Mr. Paisley's son, Ian Paisley Jr., an aide to his father, matched his invective. Told that Mr. Mitchell had international credentials, he said, "Well, Mickey Mouse has international credentials."
Mr. Mitchell declined to discuss specifics of the talks. But he said he had never thought much about Ireland or his Irish heritage until President Clinton asked him to be his economic adviser on Ireland in 1994.
"I am not an Irish-American," he said, referring to his paternal grandparents' roots. "I am not a Lebanese-American," referring to his mother's birthplace.
"I am not a hypenated American. My father and mother would speak Arabic to each other, but all the emphasis was on America, on being American. I can't remember my father ever mentioning Ireland. He was a janitor; she worked nights in the textile factory."
Mr. Mitchell, who can still speak some Arabic, said he has never been to Lebanon and had been to Ireland only once before he became officially involved.
His father, Joseph Kilroy, was an orphan adopted by a Lebanese family whose Arabic name had been anglicized to Mitchell, and Mr. Mitchell was raised a Maronite Catholic by his Lebanese mother.
Mr. Mitchell said he was interrupting his Washington law practice for the unpaid job of chairman of the peace talks. He is also a director of the Walt Disney Company, Federal Express and Xerox.
After declining Mr. Clinton's offer in 1994 to appoint him to the Supreme Court, Mr. Mitchell agreed to be the President's economic adviser for Ireland. That led to his appointment late last year as chairman of an international commission on the disarmament of the I.R.A. and Protestant paramilitary groups. The commission's report provided grounds for the compromise that produced the talks that began on Monday.
His appointment by the British and Irish Governments marked the end of Britain's historical policy of refusing to allow foreigners to become involved in what London considered internal security problems. Ireland has been an ardent supporter of Mr. Mitchell's involvement and, with the White House, persuaded Britain that he should be chairman.
Under the compromise reached this morning, his chairmanship will be reviewed by all the parties, with the possibility of altering some of the powers the Irish and British Government proposed. But drastic reduction of his power is not expected, and officials who know how he worked as Senate majority leader say he does not rely on strict adherence to procedures but on gaining the confidence of those he is trying to move.
Under the Government-proposed rules, Mr. Mitchell may cut off filibusters; resolve issues by unanimous agreement or, failing that, with majority approval by Catholic and Protestant parties, and decide whether groups with paramilitary links, like Sinn Fein and smaller Protestant loyalist parties, fulfill requirements that they unequivocally renounce violence and agree to peaceful acceptance of whatever the majority decides. He may order the talks to continue even if one party, like Mr. Paisley's, walks out.
But Mr. Paisley said this afternoon: "The battle is not over. We'll be coming back to haunt them."

GRAPHIC: Photo: George J. Mitchell, chairman of the Northern Ireland peace talks. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: NORTHERN IRELAND (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); IRELAND (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); 

STATE: MAINE, USA (79%); ALSACE, FRANCE (69%); 

CITY: BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (54%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (54%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHERN IRELAND; NORTHERN IRELAND (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); IRELAND (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); MAINE, USA (79%); ALSACE, FRANCE (69%); BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION PEACE PROCESS (91%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (89%); RELIGION (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); BRITISH PARLIAMENT (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (76%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (75%); EUROPEAN UNION (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (71%); 

PERSON: CLARITY, JAMES F; MITCHELL, GEORGE J GEORGE J MITCHELL (92%); BILL CLINTON (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1996



299 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 19; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 638 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasury Prices Post Sharp Drop

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Treasury prices ended sharply lower yesterday despite a report that showed inflation remaining moderate.
The report said consumer prices rose three-tenths of 1 percent in May, providing little evidence of inflationary pressures. But the numbers only matched the market's expectations and were not weak enough to shake fears that inflation could still begin to accelerate. 
 Indeed, the nervousness and uncertainty has made the market vulnerable to rumors about selling by large funds and about the Federal Reserve's next move.
Bond prices bounced off morning lows, but ended the session down lower as buyers position themselves ahead of the next important economic report, today's data on retail sales.
"Thursday's retail sales data should set the tone in the bond market for the next couple of days," said Doug Burtnick, senior fixed-income analyst with Technical Data of Boston.
"The Street presumes that consumers came out of their cave in May and spent furiously," he said. If this assumption is true, the bearish tone that pervaded the market for the past several months will find a new set of fans."
The price of the 30-year bond ended down 24/32 , to 8515/32 . The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the bond's prices, rose to 7.19 percent, from 7.12 percent on Tuesday. The yield is currently at its highest level since May 3, 1995, when it was 7.24 percent.
Shorter-term maturities fared a little better, with the yield on the two-year note rising to 6.39 percent from 6.36 percent and the yield on the 10-year note rising to 7.06 percent from 6.98 percent.
Yesterday's report on consumer prices confirmed indications that inflation remains contained. Excluding the volatile categories of food and energy, the so-called core rate of the Consumer Price Index edged up only two-tenths of 1 percent, with a year-to-year gain of 2.7 percent.
The two price reports are consistent with a view -- albeit a minority opinion in the market -- that the Federal Reserve will leave short-term interest rates unchanged when Fed policy makers meet on July 2 and 3, said Bruce Steinberg, an econmist with Merrill Lynch & Company.
"Many worry that even though inflation is currently subdued the economy is currently growing too fast, which will lead to inflation problems down the road," Mr. Steinberg said. "That concern is understandable, but there are two reasons we believe it will not materialize. First we think that the economy's growth potential is higher than the pathetic 2.2 percent that many believe it to be.
"Second, interest rate developments so far this year are likely to slow the economy sharply during the next six months, short-circuiting any budding inflation problem."
But the market was busy yesterday pricing in a strong retail sales number expected today. Still, additional signs of strength will likely lead to more selling and a retesting of the market's lows.
The May report is expected to show a gain of 1 percent, and excluding autos, a gain of nine-tenths of 1 percent.
In the corporate market, Chase Manhattan Bank sold $2 billion in asset-backed securities in two parts through a Chase Manhattan Credit Card Trust.
The banking company joins companies like Chrysler, Advanta and the Providian Corporation that have repackaged about $65 billion of credit card, auto, home equity and other loans and sold them as bonds so far this year.
The Chase securities, which are backed by credit card receiveables, are equally divided between an expected maturity date of 1999, that is priced to yield 6.831 percent, or about 28-hundredths of a percentage point more than a comparable Treasury issue, and one with an expected maturity date of 2001 that is priced to yield 7.147 percent, or about 37-hundredths of a percentage point more than a comparable Treasury.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Freddie Mac Yields" tracks average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates since Feb 1996. Yields track changes in fixed-rate mortgages. (Source: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (84%); MER (NYSE) (84%); 8675 (TSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS BOND MARKETS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INFLATION (91%); BONDS (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (75%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (70%); RETAIL SALES (69%); INTEREST RATES (67%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1996



300 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 29; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 505 words

HEADLINE: A Billion-Dollar Dam Scam

BYLINE: By Thomas E. Petri; Thomas E. Petri is a Republican Representative from Wisconsin.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Congress is again being asked to approve the most expensive dam in United States history -- the Auburn Dam on California's beautiful American River. Its stated purpose is to protect Sacramento from floods that even the dam's proponents admit would occur about once every five centuries, although it is designed to last only one century.
The dam would destroy up to 50 miles of deep, richly forested canyons that provide habitat for wildlife and support recreation for 500,000 people a year. Taxpayers around the nation -- many of whom live with far more serious flood threats than the American River poses -- would pay 75 percent of its nearly $1 billion cost. 
 The project has a long, troubled history. First authorized as a $425 million irrigation project in 1965, it was scrapped after engineers raised doubts about earthquake safety. Revived in 1992, the dam was rejected by the House of Representatives by a bipartisan vote of 273 to 140.
The plan looks all the more ridiculous in 1996 as Congress struggles to cut spending. Both Republicans and Democrats should agree on that.
Dam proponents argue that this billion-dollar "investment" would save $16 billion in future flood damage costs. But they conveniently ignore the time value of money. If we invested the $1 billion in government bonds instead at 3 1/2 percent real interest, by the expected average date of the epic flood 250 years from now, we'd have over a trillion inflation-adjusted dollars with which to cover the $16 billion in damages. That investment would be 60 times better than building a dam. Even this understates the comparison, because the epic flood is nothing but an absurd extrapolation of a mathematical formula.
Why then the big push for the dam? Critics say the real game plan is to turn it into a water supply project for areas near the dam, although that water could be obtained in other ways. State Assemblyman Phil Isenberg, who represents flood-prone areas of Sacramento but nevertheless opposes the dam, says the drive behind the project "is to get people in Florida, Maine, Texas and Los Angeles, San Diego and San Francisco to pay huge costs for a dam that will benefit primarily land developers."
According to the Army Corps of Engineers and many local officials, improving the existing flood control dam and reservoir, and strengthening levees can protect Sacramento from the worst floods reasonably imaginable, at far less cost. It is no wonder that the Army is not recommending the dam. The Environmental Protection Agency and the Fish and Wildlife Service actively oppose it.
Finally, the Auburn Dam would still be built on a fault-riddled section of the Sierra Nevada foothills. Its failure in an earthquake could send a 40-foot wave of water cresting against the State Capitol. (Now, that would be an epic flood!) Earlier this year, a report from the United States Geological Survey reinforced earlier questions about seismic safety.
Clearly this pork-barrel monster should be killed again, this time for good.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (79%); 

CITY: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: AMERICAN RIVER; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES; SACRAMENTO (CALIF); UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (79%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; AUBURN DAM; FLOODS FLOODS & FLOODING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (89%); FLOOD CONTROL (89%); ENGINEERING (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (79%); LEGISLATION (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); APPROVALS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); FLOOD ZONES (78%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (77%); WILDLIFE (77%); BUDGETS (75%); DAMAGES (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); IRRIGATION (73%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); BONDS (66%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (65%); ARMIES (64%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (50%); MATHEMATICS (50%); 

PERSON: PETRI, THOMAS E (REPR) THOMAS E PETRI (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1996



301 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1186 words

HEADLINE: As Russian Vote Nears, Investors Are Anxious

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 12

 BODY:
Having endured crime, a chaotic financial system and an economy that promises better days but has yet to deliver, American and other foreign companies that do business in Russia do not rattle easily.
But despite public displays of bravado and a small flurry of new deals in the last few months, big corporations and other international investors have clearly been shaken by the possibility of a Communist victory in Russia's upcoming Presidential elections. 
 Analysts and executives at some companies said they have to take at face value the platform supported by the Communist candidate, Gennadi A. Zyuganov, which calls for increased government control over key industries, curtailing the International Monetary Fund's economic stabilization program, erecting trade barriers and limiting foreign influences.
So although President Boris N. Yeltsin's rebound in the polls has made them more optimistic about the outcome, many companies are holding back on investment decisions until after the elections.
Just last week, for example, Unilever N.V., the Anglo-Dutch consumer products company, said it would like to expand in Russia, but that it would only do so if Mr. Yeltsin won.
"In general terms, for foreign investors any thoughts of future commitments are definitely on hold," said Z. Blake Marshall, vice president of the U.S.-Russia Business Council, which promotes the interests of American companies operating in Russia.
There have been exceptions. The Exxon Corporation said on Monday that it had reached an agreement to begin work on a new oil field in the Russian Far East. The General Electric Company just reached a deal to build jet engines in Russia. Citicorp opened an office in St. Petersburg a few months ago to complement its operation in Moscow. Pepsico Inc. and two American partners unveiled a plan in April to spend $550 million expanding soft-drink production across Russia.
"We think we can survive and prosper whatever the regime is going to be there," said F. David Jones, Pepsi-Cola's president for eastern Europe. "Whatever happens, we don't think any government is going to turn back the clock on consumers and deny them modern, Western brands."
Mr. Jones added, however, that Pepsi and its partners plan to invest their $550 million over five years, and that if the political situation changes dramatically during that period, they can always pull back.
It is unclear what economic policies the Communists would pursue if they won the Presidency, and Mr. Zyuganov has repeatedly promised that there would be no confiscation of private property. But there would undoubtedly be strong pressures within the party for the government to exert greater control over some of the industries, like energy and telecommunications, that have attracted much of the foreign investment -- if not to renationalize them. Mr. Yeltsin's plan to sell to foreign investors nine percent of Gazprom, the Russian natural gas company, would almost certainly be canceled if the Communists won.
American companies said they are not taking any specific actions to prepare for the possibility of a Communist government. U S West, the telecommunications company that is two-thirds owner of a joint venture to improve phone service in Russia, believes that new business opportunities could "slow down initially" if the Communists win, said Bruce Amundsen, a spokesman for the company. "But we don't think there will be any drastic change, at least not affecting us."
The Atlantic Richfield Company, which invested $330 million over the last year to acquire an 8.8 percent stake in Lukoil, Russia's largest oil company, is "going ahead with business as usual," said Albert Greenstein, a spokesman for Arco.
Business as usual in Russia, though, is a relative term. Most companies have kept their investments small, saying they will decide on making a bigger commitment only after the situation becomes more clear. Arco, for example, plans to spend an additional $3 billion on joint ventures with Lukoil -- but has not yet committed itself to investing a single penny of it.
Avon Products Inc. ships its products into the country from Western Europe rather than building factories in Russia, and to minimize currency risk it converts its rubles into dollars each day and transfers the funds out of the country.
The political uncertainty is only exacerbating what some analysts consider to be one of the country's biggest problems: that despite the presence of many big-name American and other foreign companies, Russia has been attracting an extremely low level of foreign investment and needs much more to modernize its economy.
Although estimates vary, Russia is believed to have attracted about $2 billion last year in foreign direct investment -- the purchase by foreign companies of existing factories plus their spending on building new businesses. Russia received an estimated $4 billion last year in all types of foreign investment, including money flowing into the Russian stock market.
By contrast, China received $38 billion in foreign direct investment alone last year, according to preliminary estimates from the United Nations Council on Trade and Development. Poland, with a population roughly a quarter that of Russia's, received $2.5 billion in foreign direct investment last year.
David A. Lipton, the Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for International Affairs, cited statistics in a recent speech showing that between 1989 and 1994, Hungary received foreign direct investment equal to $671 per capita, compared to $11 per capita for Russia during the same period.
"It's a pathetic trickle of foreign investment into the Russian economy," said Mr. Marshall.
That trickle is unlikely to become a flood even if Mr. Yeltsin wins the election and reaffirms his sometimes wavering support for a free market economy. Many of the impediments to foreign investment are a result of problems like a confusing and often arbitrary tax system and a lack of legislation to protect investors, Western executives say.
American and other foreign oil companies, for example, are ready to commit billions of dollars to helping their Russian counterparts develop oil and gas fields. But almost none of the deals has gone through because the Russian Parliament has failed to clarify a host of tax, legal and regulatory issues involving joint ventures, access to pipelines and exports.
"Russia must treat its early investors fairly if it wishes to attract more investors," Mr. Lipton said.
In the meantime, investment has been largely limited to consumer products companies that want to establish their brand names and grab share in a market where consumer loyalties are up for grabs. Avon, for one, is not at all reluctant to continue its aggressive marketing and sales effort there despite the political uncertainty.
"We don't know who will be in power or what kind of attitude they will have," said Susan J. Kroph, Avon's president for central and eastern Europe. Ms. Kroph said, "but I think, maybe with some naivete, once Russian women get a taste of this they cannot stop it."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (82%); PEP (NYSE) (82%); UNIA (AMS) (69%); UNA (BIT) (69%); UNA (AMS) (69%); UN (NYSE) (69%); ULVR (LSE) (69%); UL (NYSE) (69%); GNE (PAR) (66%); GEC (LSE) (66%); GE (SWX) (66%); GE (NYSE) (66%); OGZD (LSE) (60%); GAZP (RTS) (60%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (82%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (82%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (82%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (82%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS311411 FROZEN FRUIT, JUICE & VEGETABLE MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS311225 FATS & OILS REFINING & BLENDING (69%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (60%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (60%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (60%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (60%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (60%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); 

CITY: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (82%); PEPSICO INC (82%); UNILEVER PLC/NV (69%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (66%); OAO GAZPROM (60%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES (55%); VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES (55%); VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ELECTIONS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); POLITICS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); NATIONALIZATION (78%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (78%); TRENDS (76%); NATURAL GAS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (69%); AIRCRAFT ENGINE MFG (64%); SOFT DRINKS (63%); SOFT DRINK MFG (63%); BEVERAGE MFG (62%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W BORIS N YELTSIN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1996



302 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 12; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 860 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
May, too, was rich for mutual funds -- a year in five months.

BYLINE: By Edward Wyatt 

 BODY:
CASH flows into mutual funds that invest in stocks slowed a bit in May from April's level, but demand remained strong, with aggressive growth funds continuing to attract the largest portion of assets, an industry group estimated yesterday.
Mutual funds that invest primarily in stocks took in an estimated $22.5 billion in net new cash in May, down from April's total of $26.4 billion but still the third-highest monthly total on record, according to the Investment Company Institute of Washington. Bond funds added about $500 million in new cash, roughly equal to their growth in April, the group estimated. 
 Over all, Americans have added $130.6 billion to stock and bond mutual funds in the first five months of this year -- more than the net amount flowing into stock and bond funds in all of 1995.
Last year, $123.4 billion in net new cash flowed into stock and bond mutual funds, though that total represented $128.1 billion of cash going into stock funds and $4.7 billion flowing out of bond funds. So far in 1996, stock funds have taken in $121.6 billion, still slightly below the full-year total for 1995 and the record $129.6 billion in 1993.
Still, several large fund companies have already seen this year's equity cash flows exceed last year's; among them, the Vanguard Group, T. Rowe Price Associates, State Street Research and the Scudder Funds, a unit of Scudder, Stevens & Clark, have all taken in more in the first five months of 1996 than in the 12 months of 1995.
That is not the case for every fund, however. the country's largest mutual fund, Fidelity Magellan, a property of the FMR Corporation, suffered net outflows close to $1 billion in May, according to data released yesterday by Fidelity.
Assets in the Magellan fund fell to $55.2 billion at the end of May from $56 billion at the end of April, even though the value of the fund's investments grew nearly one-half of 1 percent in May.
Long a top-selling fund at Fidelity, Magellan has suffered this year as its performance lagged. The poor performance and attendant negative publicity stemmed from decisions beginning late last year by Jeffrey N. Vinik, the fund's former manager, to place as much as 20 percent of its assets in bonds and an additional 15 percent in cash. Mr. Vinik resigned at the beginning of this month.
In May, net cash flows into aggressive growth funds, which are intended to offer investors the highest potential reward but also carry the most risk of sharp, short-term losses, "appeared to be on a pace with April's strong levels," said John Rea, chief economist at the Investment Company Institute. In April, aggressive growth funds took in $7.5 billion of the $26.3 billion that flowed into stock funds.
While total cash flows into bond funds were estimated to be about even with those the previous month, funds that invest in municipal bonds continued to have outflows, the institute said. Since January 1994, municipal bond funds have had such outflows in 23 of 29 months.
The estimates released yesterday are based on a survey of funds that account for about 97 percent of industry assets. Final cash-flow totals, along with a breakdown of net flows into specific categories of funds, will be reported at the end of the month.
Nearly any way the Investment Company Institute's figures are viewed, this year has been a banner one for mutual fund companies. May marked the fifth straight month in which stock fund inflows exceeded $20 billion, for instance; before this year, neither stock nor bond funds had taken in more than $20 billion in a single month.
But with the size of the mutual fund industry growing so rapidly, the dollar amount of inflows "isn't of record magnitude relative to assets," Mr. Rea said. Just as a 50-point drop in the Dow Jones industrial average is not as big a deal as it used to be, with the Dow at record levels, so too should the dollar amounts flowing into funds be viewed in perspective, he said.
So far in 1996, net inflows as a percentage of stock fund assets have averaged about 1.75 percent a month, with the highest percentage, 2.27, coming in January. At the end of May, according to the institute's estimates, stock fund assets totaled $1.49 trillion, up from $1.27 trillion at the end of 1995 and $866 billion at the end of 1994.
But for periods of several months each in the early 1990's and in the mid-1980's, stock fund inflows were at higher percentages. For instance, in the first half of 1983, fund inflows for several months ran above 2 percent of assets. Similar periods occurred in 1986, 1987 and 1993. And in August 1984, fund inflows were 4.22 percent of assets.
These typically surge in the first four months of a year, as investors make annual payments into profit-sharing and retirement plans before the April 15 tax deadline.
While current inflows are below record levels, however, they are not far below. And for more than 50 years, each time a six-month moving average of fund inflows has exceeded 2 percent of assets, the trend has reversed course. While still below record levels, Mr. Rea said, "we are currently in the upper range of our experience." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TROW (NASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (94%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (94%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (94%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (94%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

COMPANY: FMR CORP (94%); T ROWE PRICE GROUP INC (54%); VANGUARD GROUP INC (54%); DEUTSCHE ASSET MANAGEMENT SCUDDER INVESTMENTS (54%); INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (57%); INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (57%); INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS MUTUAL FUNDS (99%); BOND FUNDS (92%); BONDS (90%); CASH FLOW (89%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (89%); 

PERSON: WYATT, EDWARD JEFFREY NV INIK (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1996



303 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1130 words

HEADLINE: Orange County: Hard Lesson in Safety of Municipal Debt

BYLINE: By LESLIE WAYNE 

 BODY:
When Orange County, Calif., emerged from bankruptcy yesterday, ending an 18-month cliffhanger over the fate of this wealthy enclave south of Los Angeles, there was a Hollywood ending: Worried bondholders got paid in full, taxpayers did not have to raise a dime to pay off a $1.6 billion loss and the municipal market, after being burned once by the county, eagerly lent it $800 million more.
But the neat resolution to the crisis, the largest municipal bankruptcy in United States history, could not hide the fact that the most fundamental tenet of municipal finance had been shaken -- the once ironclad belief that municipalities always pay their debts. 
 This shared value, the underpinning of the $1.5 trillion market, ultimately prevailed in Orange County. Yet many worry that the market could well be lulled into complacency when it should instead be concerned about the red flags raised by Orange County since it filed for bankruptcy in December 1994.
"Things that were once unthinkable are now being thought of," said Joe Mysak, editor of Grant's Municipal Bond Observer, a trade publication. "This wasn't like nothing happened. This was a big deal. Yet I don't think people appreciate the risks that this crisis revealed, because they haven't been touched by them yet. There's just a lot less security in municipal finance. This is a seismic event. Yet it will take a while to measure the reverberations."
Unlike the corporate bond markets, in which risk is scrutinized from a variety of angles and security holders know that they could lose most of their money, the municipal markets have always been viewed as sleepier and less risky. There has been less scrutiny of the underlying risk of municipal deals, of the creditworthiness of municipalities and the risk of default, because investors have always been assured that municipalities would raise taxes to pay off their borrowings -- and if they did not, the state would step in to help. That, in fact, is how financial crises in New York, Philadelphia and Cleveland were resolved.
In Orange County, not only did the county do the unthinkable -- make its creditors fight it out with the county in bankruptcy court -- but it did not raise taxes to cover its debts. And the State of California made it clear that it would not step in to help.
"The municipal system did receive some interesting tests," said Paul S. Maco, head of the Securities and Exchange Commission's office of municipal securities. "The edges of the envelope were tested."
In the end, the crisis was resolved when Orange County engineered an elaborate plan, dubbed Project Robin Hood, to divert funds coming into some of the county's agencies and use them instead to repay bondholders. In addition, some Orange County municipalities agreed to accept only 80 cents on the dollar for claims they had against the county from the losses in the county's investment pool, with the rest to be made up from any proceeds of litigation filed by the county against its former financial advisers.
"Investors will interpret the resolution of Orange County as an affirmation that there is no risk in municipal debt," said Chris Varelas, an adviser to the county at Salomon Brothers. "But Orange County proves that the safeguards to investors may not be there. We've recalculated risk. What does 'full faith and credit' mean when you have no ability to raise taxes and you have a community with high antitax sentiment. Does it mean you will be paid in full?"
He added: "The risk was always there. But people's perception of risk was not calibrated with the actuality of it."
Orange County exposes the risks inherent in municipal finance: that municipalities can file for bankruptcy, that their elected officials may not be responsible or right-thinking, that default is possible and that financially pressed municipalities may have neither the resources nor the willingness to always honor their obligations. Especially in an era of taxpayer revolt and the shifting of the burden for costly health and welfare services from the Federal Government to cash-short local governments, these issues are expected to come into play even more in the future, experts say.
"Orange County gave us a fundamental lesson that wasn't there before," said Jeremy Ragus, a municipal portfolio manager for Scudder, Stevens & Clark, a mutual fund company. "Before, the willingness of any major voting group to pay was never in question. There are now limits of what you can do with taxes -- you just can't raise them."
In addition, Orange County's bankruptcy was the catalyst for several other trends. There is some debate about whether the apparently successful resolution will encourage more municipalities to seek bankruptcy protection.
Some argue that it has given the S.E.C. a broad platform to make its case for greater financial accountability by public officials and more prudence in the investment of public funds. And there may well be a shift in the type of borrowing used by municipalities -- more toward project finance, with limited protection given to borrowers, and away from general obligation bonds and their unlimited promise to repay investors.
At least two groups are thinking about proposing amendments to the Federal Bankruptcy Code to make it more difficult for municipalities to seek bankruptcy protection. As this goes on, some say that Orange County has moved municipal bankruptcy from the unthinkable to a possible financial tool. Others say that the pain and disruption that resulted in Orange County show how costly a tool this is.
Bankruptcy, after all, does not reduce the payment of obligations, it only slows it down. In Orange County's case, the county has $800 million more in long-term debt than when it filed for bankruptcy, and services to many of its citizens, mainly the poor, are being drastically cut.
With some Orange County officials facing civil and criminal charges over their roles in the county's $1.6 billion loss, a warning shot has been fired against poor public oversight. "There's a great level of fear and concern among local officials over the S.E.C. enforcement actions," said Robert Dean Pope, a bond attorney with Hunton & Williams, a Richmond firm.
James Spiotto, a lawyer with Chapman & Cutler in Chicago, added: "It won't be amateur hour any more. The professionals and the officials will be required by the S.E.C. and by the market to know and stand by their product."
One market analyst, who insisted that he not be named, said: "Orange County was a near miss. Every time this happens, all bets are off. Before, the market got used to municipalities doing what they promised for bondholders and then more. Now municipalities may well just do what they promised -- and no more." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ORANGE COUNTY (CALIF); UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BONDS; BANKRUPTCIES; CREDIT; URBAN AREAS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (91%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); BONDS (90%); BOND MARKETS (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (73%); CORPORATE BONDS (72%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (67%); PUBLIC FINANCE (67%); 

PERSON: WAYNE, LESLIE

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1996



304 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 982 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
There's Gold in Spain That the Romans Left

BYLINE: By AL GOODMAN 

DATELINE: BELMONTE DE MIRANDA, Spain

 BODY:
The old Roman gold-mining pit cuts across this secluded valley, where the trained eye can still identify zigzag lines that were canals carrying water down from the hills to wash away soil and expose the treasure.
Using slaves and the best hydraulic technology known 2,000 years ago, the Roman Empire fed its gold appetite from this gash in northwestern Spain. Now, Rio Narcea Gold Mines Ltd. of Denver is preparing to dig a little deeper and take what the Romans left behind. 
 Based on extensive test drilling, Rio Narcea executives say that the valley will be the focal point of Western Europe's largest gold mine, in an area with minimum gold reserves of 1.8 million ounces. They expect to produce 100,000 ounces annually.
"They say if you go down 900 feet, you'll find gold; I don't know about that," said Zoilo Llano, 78, who reluctantly sold his dairy farm for $315,000 as part of Rio Narcea's $3 million buyout of his neighbors in the valley.
The company hopes that banks and investors will be less skeptical when asked to provide $40 million in fresh capital so that a gold-processing plant can be built near here and drilling started by late next year.
Rio Narcea is paying $1 million for a feasibility study of its own rosy predictions. The independent report is expected early in July, and banks will decide whether to back the mine based on its findings.
"It looks as if we've got a pretty sweet project," said Chris von Christierson, Rio Narcea's 48-year-old chairman, a South African who formerly worked for Gold Fields mining company of Johannesburg. "I'd be surprised if we weren't in a position to take a production decision."
Mr. von Christierson said the company's owners, including two Spanish coal-mining concerns and a Denver nuclear-fuel trader, Oren Benton, had spent nearly $20 million so far on drilling, property rights and development.
Europe's largest gold reserve, over all, is in Bulgaria, where Navan Resources of Dublin is mining an area containing 3.6 million ounces of gold, compared with Rio Narcea's estimated reserves of 1.8 million ounces, according to a London mining analyst, Jim Taylor of Yorkton Securities.
Spain accounts for just over 1 percent of world gold deposits. South Africa is the leader with 40 percent, and the United States has moved into second place with 10 percent, largely due to mining and assaying techniques developed in the last two decades. This technology permits the location, digging and processing of tiny gold flecks dispersed in rock as deep as 950 feet.
Rio Narcea is applying similar technology in northern Spain. Mr. von Christierson said that Anglo American of South Africa, the huge mining-based conglomerate, had spent $20 million drilling for gold in Spain, starting in the 1980's, without grasping the full potential of what the Romans had left over.
Mr. Benton's Concord group, a Spanish coal company and Anglo American formed a joint venture in 1992, but Anglo American pulled out because it saw only limited potential, said Mr. von Christierson, who once worked for Concord. Rio Narcea started in 1994, with his participation, as a publicly traded company on the Toronto Stock Exchange, and the Roman gold pits were studied more thoroughly.
"Essentially, the districts which the Romans exploited, most of the 60 big pits, we have under control," said Eugene Spiering, Rio Narcea's vice president for exploration.
Mr. Taylor, the London analyst, said "the potential is enormous."
Investors have seconded that notion this year. Rio Narcea shares, after languishing just over $2 (Canadian) for 18 months, have more than doubled this year. [On Wednesday, they closed in Toronto at $4.85.]
Rio Narcea's studies show a high grade, or concentration, of gold per ton of rock that is churned up by the noisy mechanical diggers. With less rock to process before getting to the gold, Rio Narcea aims for production costs of $180 to $200 an ounce, compared with the global average of $240 an ounce, Mr. Taylor said. The current price of gold is $384.30 an ounce.
The company would also cut costs by building a $25 million processing plant to make gold bars in the valley, not far from Mr. Llano's old dairy barn. Mr. Spiering envisions an armored truck climbing the narrow, winding highway every so often to pick up a shipment.
He said Rio Narcea might ask officials to authorize a new, straighter road for easier access. Getting permission may not be difficult, given the official support the company has already secured in the Asturias region of Spain, which is suffering from 20 percent unemployment.
The regional government has agreed to offset 15 percent of the operating costs of the project for as long as it lasts, and recently paid nearly $2 million. The Spanish Government offers additional subsidies and, Mr. von Christierson said, has demanded no royalty payments.
"We all want this project to go forward," said Inigo Alvarez, an Asturias government spokesman. "But there's not gold fever. Here we are very cautious. We prefer prudence."
One man who senses advantage is the Mayor of this community of 2,500, Roberto Perez, a Socialist. The Mayor keeps a handwritten wish list on his desk that he wants to discuss before issuing more operating permits. He would like Rio Narcea to open an office in Belmonte de Miranda and hire local workers. The company's operations so far have been based in a rival town nearby, Salas.
Environmentalists, who are skeptical about Rio Narcea's pledge to use cyanide sparingly to leach gold from the rock, and to fully restore the spent mining areas, concede that it is difficult to fight city hall when gold is at stake. "It's impossible to stop the project when it enjoys the full support of government," said Carlos Lastra, a University of Oviedo biology professor, who has helped lead unsuccessful campaigns seeking to block the project.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The zigzag landscape of a valley in the Asturias region of northwestern Spain, where Royal Narcea Gold Mines Ltd. of Denver hopes to operate and exploit the most productive single gold mine in Western Europe. (Tiempo) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LUN (TSX) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (84%); NAICS212231 LEAD ORE & ZINC ORE MINING (84%); NAICS212222 SILVER ORE MINING (84%); 

COUNTRY: SPAIN (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (91%); SOUTH AFRICA (90%); WESTERN EUROPE (88%); BULGARIA (50%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (93%); ASTURIAS, SPAIN (72%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (93%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (79%); 

COMPANY: RIO NARCEA GOLD MINES LTD LUNDIN MINING CORP (84%); GOLD FIELDS MINING CORP (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: RIO NARCEA GOLD MINES LTD

GEOGRAPHIC: SPAIN; EUROPE; SPAIN (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (91%); SOUTH AFRICA (90%); WESTERN EUROPE (88%); BULGARIA (50%); COLORADO, USA (93%); ASTURIAS, SPAIN (72%); DENVER, CO, USA (93%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GOLD; MINES AND MINING GOLD MINING (91%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); CLASSICS (78%); MINES & MINING (78%); COAL MINING (78%); DAIRY FARMING (67%); ENERGY MARKETS (62%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (58%); 

PERSON: GOODMAN, AL CHRIS VON CHRISTIERSON (67%); JIM TAYLOR (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1996



305 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1229 words

HEADLINE: Signs Emerge Of China Deal On Sanctions

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 12

 BODY:
China invited United States trade officials today to fly to Beijing immediately as new signs emerged that a last-minute Government crackdown on factories pirating American software, music and videos might persuade Washington not to impose $2 billion in sanctions on Chinese imports.
The acting United States trade representative, Charlene Barshefsky, said she planned to leave for Beijing on Thursday. Still, she met this afternoon with China's Ambassador to Washington, Li Daoyu, telling him that "while plenty of progress has been made, it is insufficient," according to American officials familiar with the discussion. 
 In another significant dispute with an Asian trade partner, American officials said they would announce on Thursday that after a yearlong investigation into charges by the Eastman Kodak Company that the Japanese Government had colluded with private industry to exclude foreign-made film in Japan, they would begin steps to take the case to the World Trade Organization. That is a disappointment to Kodak, which wanted Washington to threaten sanctions. But it puts a contentious trade issue off until after the Presidential election in November.
In the China case, Ms. Barshefsky renewed her threat that sanctions would go into effect on Monday unless China took more steps. Those steps include enacting a long-term mechanism for monitoring plants to insure that once closed they do not reopen unless they negotiate licenses with foreign companies to produce their goods legally.
Despite the tough stance, American officials said they were growing optimistic that a deal was in the making. "There is no question they got the message," one senior American official said. "They clearly want to get out of this situation."
Ms. Barshefsky said in a statement that "we have confirmed that the Chinese are engaged in efforts to close pirate CD factories," though she has declined to say how many. For the first time, representatives of the recording industry, who are already in Beijing with Ms. Barshefsky's deputies, suggested that they had seen a change of attitude among Chinese officials, who until recently dismissed demands for a crackdown.
Clearly, both sides are eager to avoid the imposition of sanctions. Despite China's threat to retaliate with sanctions against American goods, Beijing has far more to lose than the United States does.
For its part, the Clinton Administration is anxious to put the last of a series of major confrontations with Beijing behind it, in hopes of ending a downward spiral in relations. Since March, the clash over China's harassment of Taiwan has faded and the State Department received a somewhat ambiguous assurance from China on nuclear arms that allowed Secretary of State Warren Christopher not to seek sanctions for a small shipment of nuclear materials to Pakistan.
Other arms-shipment issues remain, including questions about whether Pakistan is preparing to deploy Chinese-supplied M-11 missiles that could be nuclear-equipped. But the trade dispute over piracy is the largest point of friction outstanding.
"Obviously, we'd like to get past this," a senior Administration official involved in many aspects of the China relationship said this week.
But Ms. Barshefsky is under pressure to proceed with considerable caution, particularly because White House officials fear that any settlement will become fodder for Bob Dole's campaign for President.
As a result, Ms. Barshefsky must come home with something significantly beyond the closing of a dozen or so factories and China's assurances that it will increase border inspections and live up to a 1995 agreement to open its market to legitimate CD's and CD-ROM's.
"We don't need another agreement," Ms. Barshefsky said earlier this week. "We have an agreement. We need a system of enforcement."
The key to such a system may be drawn from arms-control talks of a decade ago: Inspection rights for American officials or the American recording industry. In discussions with her staff, Ms. Barshefsky has several times borrowed a line from President Ronald Reagan, who in turn had borrowed it from Soviet leaders: "Trust, but verify."
Assuring those inspection rights, however, may be difficult. Many of the factories are controlled by officials from provincial governments, not Beijing. Some are controlled by Chinese gangs, or the military. Some plants are not registered with the Chinese Government at all, though yesterday China published a circular warning that no new CD factories would be authorized, and that unregistered factories would be closed.
The circular also said that there would be severe penalties for importing presses that produce compact disks. Though their import is restricted by the 1995 agreement with the United States, there are widespread reports that presses have been smuggled into China through Hong Kong.
American officials say China has also not yet begun to seriously discuss opening its market to legitimate American CD's and CD-ROM's, an issue of particular sensitivity to the Chinese Government.
In the Kodak case, American trade officials said that on Thursday the United States would conclude an investigation into complaints by Kodak, finding that the Japanese Government has "tolerated anticompetitive practices" for years in the film market in an effort to protect the Fuji Photo Film Company.
But rather than threaten sanctions -- the Administration's tactic last year in an auto dispute -- officials said it would move to take the case to the World Trade Organization. That would give the Geneva-based arbiter of international trade disputes its highest-stakes case yet.
The decision is significant because the Administration appears to be bowing to complaints by its allies that it has threatened American sanctions too often and that it is undercutting the trade organization.
Japan itself has urged greater use of the organization, believing that it has a far better chance with its panels of judges than it does in direct negotiations with the United States. Such talks almost always have the overlay of the American-Japanese military relationship, giving the United States a never-articulated but substantial bit of leverage -- its role at the linchpin of Japan's national security.
Kodak urged the Government to take far tougher action, fearing that its complaint could be tied up at the trade organization indefinitely. And American officials fear that many of Japan's trade barriers are so indirect that the organization does not have the mandate or the power to change them.
Today, however, American officials maintained that in the 60 days of formal consultations that would precede the actual filing of a complaint with the organization, Japan might change its mind.
"I've heard and read that Japan welcomes our taking them to the W.T.O.," one official said. "But after they review our case, and see the degree to which we will bring many of their practices to light, they may feel differently about it."
At the core of the case is Kodak's assertion that Fuji has made deals with distributors that exclude Kodak film from the shelves, particularly outside Tokyo and Osaka, Japan's two largest cities. For a year, the two companies have exchanged charges -- Fuji maintains Kodak has pulled many of the same exclusionary tricks in the United States. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: EK (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (83%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); PAKISTAN (92%); JAPAN (92%); TAIWAN (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (95%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (92%); 

COMPANY: EASTMAN KODAK CO; WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION EASTMAN KODAK CO (83%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: EASTMAN KODAK CO; WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; JAPAN; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); PAKISTAN (92%); JAPAN (92%); TAIWAN (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (95%); BEIJING, CHINA (92%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; PHOTOGRAPHY ; MUSIC; COMPACT DISKS; INDUSTRIAL ESPIONAGE AND PIRACY ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (85%); ARMS TRADE (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TRADE DISPUTES (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (76%); INDUSTRIAL ESPIONAGE (73%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (72%); FINES & PENALTIES (72%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (70%); RECORD INDUSTRY (70%); ESPIONAGE (66%); HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TRANSPORT (62%); MILITARY WEAPONS (60%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E; BARSHEFSKY, CHARLENE ; DOLE, BOB (SEN) HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1996



306 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1146 words

HEADLINE: Hard-Luck City Bets On Casino Riverboats

BYLINE: By DON TERRY 

DATELINE: GARY, Ind., June 12

 BODY:
If enough losers come to town, this hard-luck city is betting that it can make a comeback.
Less than a generation ago, when the steel mills on the edge of Gary were going full blast day and night, people had money in their pockets and plenty of department stores and restaurants to spend it in. 
 But now, the mills employ a fraction of the workers they once did, and unemployment hovers in the double digits. Broadway, Gary's main business street, is a ghostly thoroughfare of burned-out and boarded-up buildings.
This city of 116,000 residents frequently has one of the highest homicide rates in the country, and the illegal drug trade is among Gary's biggest employers of its young and desperate. The local bail bondsman and the pawn shop do a brisk business, and last summer, Indiana state troopers were called in to help patrol.
So to change its luck, this city, like so many others across the United States, has turned to riverboat casino gambling. The enabling legislation was passed in 1993.
On Tuesday, along the rocky shoreline of Lake Michigan, two floating casinos, one of them owned by Donald Trump, officially opened for business. But because of a 1951 Federal law prohibiting gambling on Federal waters, including the lake, the boats are not allowed to leave the dock, which is about five miles from Gary's sad downtown.
Still, a steady stream of cars and vans, many of them from Chicago about 30 minutes away, made the trip down the new road leading to the boats, ignoring the cold, all-day rain and the thick morning fog.
And soon those cars may also be going to the nearby city of Hammond, Ind., where a riverboat will be owned Empress Casinos, and to East Chicago, Ind., where a riverboat operated by Showboat will open in the fall. The new riverboats will perhaps turn the coastline, marred by smokestacks, electrical lines and squat refineries,into a Vegas by the dunes.
In Gary, city officials say they expect to rake in more than $20 million in new taxes, Gary's cut from the losers at the blackjack tables and slot machines. Currently, the city's budget is $67 million, and it can barely afford to run its understaffed police department. Gary's 232 police officers are among the lowest paid in the country.
Scott King, the newly elected Mayor of Gary, said he plans to use most of the casino money for street repairs and to hire more officers.
"We're going to devote a lot of those dollars to public safety," Mayor King said. "But we're never going to make the mistake we made with steel and rely on one industry. If we use the money wisely, the city can draw a lot of different kinds of business to Gary."
Some here say allowing the boats is like making a deal with the devil and will bring even more crime to the city and little substantial economic development for the city or the individual boat workers.
And even Mayor King said that although he was "happy about the jobs," he "was concerned that there is some part of the population that might fall victim to the problems of gambling."
The former Mayor, Thomas V. Barnes, pushed hard for the boats because of the jobs, tourists and tax dollars they promised to pull in.
"We looked at it as an opportunity to pump some real money into Gary," he said.
Each boat will have a staff of about 1,000, and Mr. Barnes said the boat owners had agreed to hire at least 67 percent of them from the job-starved city. Mr. Barnes said that the boat owners had also agreed to a percentage of local ownership but that they have not followed through on the agreement and that a lawsuit has been filed. Mayor King dismissed the suit as an effort by "disgruntled individuals" to block the city's progress. There is a court hearing scheduled for June 20.
Don H. Barden, the owner of Gary's other boat, the Majestic Star Casino, said that more than 50 percent of his workers were hired from Gary and that that number would increase.
"There's no substance to the suit," he said, as he watched a couple of hundred people pour tokens into his slot machines. "The City of Gary will have enormous benefits from the boats."
Back in the heart of Gary, Vane Wilson, who has lived here for most of his 37 years and now teaches in a local high school, looked around downtown Tuesday and said, the boats "can't hurt."
"The boats will bring some jobs and those are desperately needed around here," Mr. Wilson said. "Those mills used to employ 30,000 people. Now, maybe 5,000 work there. The city has lost so many people, I don't know if we can ever recover, but we got to try something."
Indeed, the city has been trying to spruce itself up lately by spending more than $50,000 on putting up brightly painted false plywood fronts on some of the burned-out and abandoned buildings that line Broadway. Tom Grey, executive director of the National Coalition Against Legalized Gambling, says using casinos to boost a municipal economy is also a false front.
"They are using a poor community to leverage themselves," Mr. Grey said of the boat owners. "Gambling takes from those who can least afford it. It's a race to the bottom."
And it is a race, Chicago politicians may begin to think more about, especially after they see the parade of cars leaving their city for Gary, a place Cassander Singleton, a 30-year-old customer service clerk from Chicago's South Side, never thought about going -- until the boats came.
"There was nothing to do here before," Ms. Singleton said, sitting in front of the River Gambler slot machine, a plastic cup full of tokens in her lap.
Eleanor Jordan, 65, a retired secretary, drove from a suburb of Chicago to gamble in Indiana. Although Illinois has several riverboats, the boats in Gary are closer to Ms. Jordan's home. She lost $5 and decided to quit. When she told friends that she was going to Gary, many of them, especially her male friends, expressed surprise and dismay.
"They have the impression that if you go to Gary, you'll never come out," she said, shaking her heard. "But this is easy to get to. It's prefectly safe. Sometimes men are big chickens."
Because the boats are so far from downtown Gary, gamblers can spend all day on them and never see the city, that, despite its problems, has plenty of good people and pretty neighborhoods overlooking the lake.
"I don't know if we're trapped in Gary or we stay because we like it," Mr. Wilson, the teacher, said. "I stay because it's all I know and because I remember what it was."
Whether a boat full of gamblers will help Gary recapture its past, no one knows. Wendell Childs, a salesman at Gary Loan, a pawn shop on Broadway, puffed on a pipe and said, "Gambling might bring a little money to Gary, and it might make it worse." He added: "I don't gamble. I'm religious. I think a lot of people are going to lose their houses and everything. It might bring the pawn shop a little more business."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Don H. Barden, who owns one of two casino riverboats that just opened in Gary, Ind., said the city "will have enormous benefits from the boats;" Cassander Singleton, 30, drove to Gary from Chicago to visit a casino riverboat. "There was nothing to do here before," she said; "The boats will bring some jobs, and those are desperately needed around here," said Vane Wilson, a 37-year-old teacher in Gary. (Photographs by Cynthia Howe for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (94%); LAKE MICHIGAN (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); 

CITY: GARY, IN, USA (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: INDIANA STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); INDIANA STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INDIANA STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); INDIANA STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GARY (INDIANA); LAKE MICHIGAN; UNITED STATES (94%); INDIANA, USA (94%); LAKE MICHIGAN (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); GARY, IN, USA (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: GAMBLING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CASINOS CASINOS (91%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); GAMING (90%); LAKES (90%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); CITIES (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); CRIME RATES (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); LEGISLATION (72%); RESTAURANTS (72%); RETAILERS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (70%); TRENDS (70%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (70%); CARD GAMES (67%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (64%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (55%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (54%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (50%); 

PERSON: TERRY, DON DONALD TRUMP (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1996



307 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 825 words

HEADLINE: Report on Consumer Prices Shows Inflation Is Well Contained

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 12

 BODY:
Inflation remains well contained, despite an increasingly robust economy and the lingering effects of pinched oil supplies earlier in the year, Government figures showed today.
In one of the few recent reports that closely matched analysts' expectations, consumer prices climbed three-tenths of 1 percent in May, with the so-called core rate that excludes energy and food rising still less. 
 Today's report on consumer prices followed one on Tuesday showing an unexpected one-tenth of 1 percent decline in prices at the producer level last month. Together, the reports would appear to ease the pressure on the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates this summer to check inflation.
"There's enormous price stability -- no inflationary pressures in the economy," Joseph E. Stiglitz, chief economic adviser to President Clinton, said in an interview. And the items that have caused nervousness in recent months, mainly energy and grains, are now unwinding and will "be taking taking away from inflation through the end of the year," he predicted.
Although consumer inflation for 1996 will very likely reach 3 percent for the first time since 1991 -- last year's was 2.5 percent -- there is little chance it will surge, analysts agreed. Today's report showed that the core rate was 2.7 percent for the three months through May, exactly the same as in the preceding three-month periods ending in February and November.
Such stability is "hardly cause for alarm," Laurence H. Meyer & Associates, a St. Louis consultant, told clients.
At Merrill Lynch & Company, Bruce Steinberg said concerns about overrapid growth was "understandable." But he dismissed this argument by saying it underestimates the economy's growth potential and fails to allow for the retarding effect of interest rate increases already in place.
The financial markets showed little reaction when the unsurprising report on consumer prices was released this morning. Later in the afternoon, however, bond prices fell, pushing the yield on the Treasury's 30-year bond to 7.19 percent, from 7.12 percent on Tuesday.
In a related report today, the Labor Department said average weekly earnings edged down one-tenth of 1 percent in May as higher hourly earnings were offset by higher prices while the length of the workweek was unchanged.
About one-quarter of the rise in the Consumer Price Index last month reflected a 1.1 percent jump in the energy component, the sixth consecutive increase but a smaller one than in March or April.
Energy prices fell, however, at the producer level in May and now also seem to be retreating at service stations. The Consumer Price Index is considered a lagging indicator, shifting direction only after movements in the economy at large.
Petroleum-based energy soared at a 40.8 percent annual rate during the first five months of the year, pushing prices up in transportation, housing and other components.
Food prices edged up slightly last month as a decline for fruit and vegetables offset increases in the other major grocery store groups. Cereal and bakery products rose six-tenths of 1 percent -- but are likely to decline in June to reflect this week's price cuts by Kellogg -- while beef prices fell 1.7 percent.
This was the sixth straight decline for beef, reflecting the forced sale of herds by farmers unable to feed them because of high grain prices.
Housing, which accounts for 41 percent of the Consumer Price Index, rose a modest two-tenths of 1 percent as declines for electricity and fuel oil more than offset a rise for natural gas, while local phone service charges climbed 2.2 percent.
Local phone charges had dropped 2.4 percent in April, the erratic moves largely reflecting a one-time refund in the New York area and the return in May to regular rates.
Transportation costs surged seven-tenths of 1 percent last month, with motor fuel accounting for two-thirds of the increase. Gasoline was up 2.5 percent and would have been up nearly another full percentage point had it not been for a quality adjustment for gasoline meeting higher air-quality mandates in California.
Indexes for new cars and automobile finance charges moved negligibly higher but used cars skidded nine-tenths of 1 percent, the report also showed. Airline fares rose 2.3 percent, the main factor in a 2 percent increase for public transportation.
Medical costs climbed three-tenths of 1 percent for the third straight month, bringing the 12-month pace down to 3.7 percent.
Elsewhere, admissions to movies, theaters, concerts and sporting events rose 1 percent while tobacco and smoking products increased five-tenths of 1 percent.
The purchasing power of the 1982-84 dollar now stands at 63.9 cents, while that of the 1967 dollar stands at 21.3 cents.
At 156.6, the latest reading of the Consumer Price Index for urban consumers means that a basket of goods and services that cost $10 in the 1982-84 period now costs $15.66.

GRAPHIC: Table: "Consumer Prices" shows index for May 1996 and percent change from previous month and year, for the U.S. and major metropolitan areas. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (84%); MER (NYSE) (84%); 8675 (TSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (84%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); CREDIT; INTEREST RATES ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INFLATION (91%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); STATISTICS (89%); BONDS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (79%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (79%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (79%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); GAS STATIONS (78%); AVERAGE WORK WEEK (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (75%); INTERVIEWS (73%); BOND MARKETS (67%); WAGES & SALARIES (65%); AVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGS (65%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (60%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (60%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR BILL CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1996



308 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 12; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 721 words

HEADLINE: Stocks End Mixed, With Dow Off by 0.37

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

 BODY:
Stocks ended mixed yesterday as an afternoon slump in the bond market threw cold water on a rally led by semiconductor issues.
The Dow Jones industrial average closed down 0.37 point, to 5,668.29, after gaining more than 36 points earlier in the day.
The Dow's decline was led by Caterpillar, down 1 1/8, to 64 3/4; Boeing, down 7/8, to 84, and Exxon, down 7/8, to 84 1/8.
Broader indexes were also lower. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 1.93 points, to 669.04.
But semiconductor stocks rallied after an important barometer of chip demand rose for the first time in seven months.
The so-called book-to-bill ratio climbed to 0.84 in May from a revised 0.81 in April, suggesting to some that a turning point had been reached.
As a result, the Nasdaq composite index, which includes many of the largest semiconductor makers, rose 4.71 points, to 1,235.47.
Bond prices fell as a report showing moderate inflation at the consumer level failed to shake concerns that robust growth would accelerate inflation.
The yield on the 30-year Treasury bond -- a benchmark for corporate and consumer interest rates -- rose to 7.19 percent, from 7.12 percent on Tuesday. Bond prices and their yields move in opposite direciotns.
Shares of drug and telephone companies also dropped, showing that investors are moving away from "consumer staples" and toward "cyclically oriented companies," whose earnings are more sensitive to the economy's expansion, said Phil Schettewi, managing partner at Loomis Sayles & Company in Washington, whose office oversees $4 billion in assets.
Bond yields rose to the highest levels in more than a year as investors could not shake concern that faster inflation might result from a quickening economic pace.
The yield on the benchmark 30-year Treasury bond rose 7 basis points, to 7.19 percent, even as today's consumer price report showed May prices rose three-tenths of 1 percent, the smallest increase in three months.
The Hewlett-Packard Company, the computer maker, fell 3 1/2, to 102 7/8.
The Intel Corporation, Novellus Systems Inc. and LSI Logic Inc. were among the semiconductor shares that gained after the industry's ratio of new orders to shipments increased for the first time since October.
Intel rose 1 1/2, to 76 3/4; Novellus jumped 1 3/4, to 44 1/4, and LSI Logic gained 1, to 28 1/2.
The Philadelphia Stock Exchange's semiconductor index rose 3.98 points, to 197.87.
Still, chip stocks have room for improvement, said Jim Solloway, director of research at the Argus Research Corporation .
"Prices are still weak, and there's a lot of capacity, thanks to the very strong demand" in the last few years, he said.
Microsoft shares rose to another record. Its shares rose 2 7/8, to 125, ahead of a conference today at which it is expected to provide details of products for corporate networks using the Internet.
But Hewlett-Packard fell on concern that earnings would not meet earlier expectations. The computer maker fell 3 1/2, to 102 7/8.
Shao Wang, an analyst at Smith Barney, cut his earnings estimates for the fiscal third and fourth quarters, citing concern about its transition to new products and customer demand in the high-end computer market.
The Monsanto Company surged 1 3/4, to 32. The company's chairman told analysts at a meeting that new drugs, including one to treat arthritis, and pesticides could generate more than $4.5 billion in sales, said Donald Carson, an analyst at J. P. Morgan & Company.
The DSC Communications Corporation rose 1/4, to 29, after a Texas judge awarded the telecommunications equipment maker $136.7 million in a trade secrets lawsuit against the Next Level Communications Corporation and two of its co-founders.
Circuit City Stores Inc. rose 2, to 38 1/4, a day after the retailer detailed its plan to open 8 to 10 CarMax used-car dealerships in 1997 and operate more than 80 by 2001.
Everen Securities yesterday raised its rating on the stock to short-term "outperform" from "market perform."
The Kmart Corporation tacked on 13/16 , to 13 7/8, after Merrill Lynch reinstated coverage of the retailer's stock with a "buy" rating.
The Edmark Corporation shares fell 3 1/4 to 21 after the education software company warned that slow sales will cause earnings to be well short of analysts' estimates.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (83%); HPQ (NYSE) (63%); BOE (LSE) (57%); BAB (BRU) (57%); BA (NYSE) (57%); LSI (NASDAQ) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (50%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (50%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (83%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (63%); BOEING CO (57%); LOOMIS SAYLES & CO LP (53%); LSI CORP (51%); NASDAQ OMX PHLX INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (50%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (50%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (94%); BOND MARKETS (91%); BONDS (91%); ELECTRONICS (90%); SEMICONDUCTORS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (89%); PRICE CHANGES (88%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COMPUTER CHIPS (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (77%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); COMPUTER MAKERS (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); SHIPMENTS (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (65%); INTEREST RATES (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1996



309 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-13
 
SECURITY TIGHTENED IN MOSCOW
Security was tightened in Moscow after a subway bombing Tuesday, as more than a hundred thousand people attended a rock concert for President Boris N. Yeltsin. A1
 
U.S. TROOPS MAY STAY IN BOSNIA
Defense Secretary William J. Perry said American ground troops may have to remain in Bosnia beyond their original December pullout date and well into next year. A10
 
MITCHELL ENTERS FRAY IN ULSTER
Former Senator George J. Mitchell was installed as chairman of the new Northern Ireland peace talks, after two days of vilification by hard-line Protestant leaders. A3
 
DISPUTE OVER PAKISTAN MISSILES
Over State Department objections, intelligence agencies are arguing for a finding that could trigger economic sanctions against Pakistan and China for a missile deal. A5
 
ELECTION IN BANGLADESH
Voters in Bangladesh turned out in record numbers for an election many hope will put an end to political turmoil that has raised fears of a new military takeover. A7
 
NEW SUSPICIONS ON IRAQI ARMS
The leader of the United Nations team charged with disarming Iraq said there was a "high probability" that Baghdad was still hiding weapons or arms materials in buildings barred to inspectors. A11
 
Singapore Journal: A play revisits the chasms of colonialism. A4
 
National A14-27, B9-12
 
CURBS ON INTERNET BLOCKED
Parts of a law written to regulate indecent speech on the Internet were declared unconstitutional, so the law will be unenforceable. A1
 
LOTT IS ELECTED MAJORITY LEADER
Senate Republicans elected Trent Lott as their leader, putting conservative Southern Republicans in control of both houses of Congress. A1
 
Man in the news: Mixing conservatism and polished strategy. A24
 
NEW STATUS FOR THE GUINEA PIG
Researchers have declared that the guinea pig, famed as a child's pet and medicine's sacrificial lamb, has never been a rodent. A1
 
HOUSE APPROVES BUDGET PLAN
The House approved a compromise 1997 budget resolution that steers the Government toward a balanced budget in six years and promises tax cuts and eases the cuts in many domestic programs. A25
 
UNABOM TRIAL SITE SEEN
The Federal Government is likely to hold its first trial in the Unabom case in Sacramento, Calif., law enforcement officials said. B9
 
GETTING F.B.I. FILES WAS EASY
Until recently the Clinton White House could easily obtain F.B.I. personal files of prominent Republicans no longer in office. A27
 
The President spoke out against church burnings. A24
 
MONTANA RADICALS FREE A YOUTH
The Freemen released the last minor from their besieged stronghold, apparently moving one more step closer to surrender. A14
 
Metro Report B1-8
 
NEW FOCUS IN L.I. BEATING
The Suffolk County District Attorney's office today presented a new scenario of the Memorial Day Weekend beating of a black man, one in which a white New York City police officer did not assault the victim but rather held bystanders at bay with a gun while a companion did the pummeling with a steel club. A second suspect was also arrested in the attack. A1
 
MOVING LEGISLATION QUIETLY
An insurance industry bill that could erode many consumer protections on life insurance is quietly making its way through the state legislature in Albany. Some of the most well-known lobbyists in Albany were trying to push the bill through the legislature with no public hearings. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Arts/Entertainment C15-20
 
Hollywood's song-and-dance women seek funds to restore films. C15
 
Greek and Roman treasures for J. Paul Getty Museum. C17
 
Theater: Tribute to Joey Adams. C16
 
Music: Critic's Choice C15
 
"Turandot" in Central Park. C15
 
"Mamelles de Tiresias." C20
 
Dance: Bill T. Jones at Joyce. C15
 
Books: On alcoholism. C18
 
The Home Section C1-14
 
Sports B13-19
 
Obituaries D24
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A28-29
 
Editorials
 
The Arabs and Mr. Netanyahu.
 
No victory for crumbling schools.
 
Benefits of an airline alliance.
 
Letters
 
William Safire: Eloquence not dead.
 
Maureen Dowd: Boom! goes the White House.
 
Sue Halpern: Before the printouts, the printed page.
 
Thomas E. Petri: A billion-dollar dam scam.
 
Chronicle D30
 
Bridge C17
 
Crossword C13

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%); BANGLADESH (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); CHINA (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (70%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%); BANGLADESH (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); CHINA (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (70%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS BOMBINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BUDGETS (88%); RODENTS (86%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); PEACE PROCESS (76%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (75%); DISARMAMENT (74%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); APPROVALS (74%); APPROPRIATIONS (74%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); POP & ROCK (72%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (72%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (70%); INTERNET & WWW (70%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); TAX LAW (64%); LEGAL VENUE (60%); POLICE FORCES (57%); 

PERSON: GEORGE J MITCHELL (72%); TRENT LOTT (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1996



310 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1049 words

HEADLINE: Baptists Censure Disney For Gay-Spouse Benefits

BYLINE: By GUSTAV NIEBUHR

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS, June 12

 BODY:
In a striking sign that formal recognition of homosexual relationships is emerging as a bitter political flash point, the Southern Baptist Convention voted today to censure the Walt Disney Company in part for having adopted a policy last year extending health insurance benefits to the same-sex partners of employees.
The resolution, adopted overwhelmingly by the nearly 14,000 people attending the denomination's annual meeting in the Superdome here, stopped short of calling for an immediate boycott of the entertainment giant by the nation's nearly 16 million Southern Baptists. 
 But those at the meeting toughened the resolution's language by adding an amendment calling on Southern Baptists to "boycott Disney Company stores and theme parks if they continue this anti-Christian and anti-family trend."
Nancy Victory, the chairwoman of the denomination's resolutions committee who helped oversee the statement's drafting, said: "The Disney Company is not the same Disney that it was years ago when we were growing up. We find there is a philosophical shift at the highest levels of the company, which is not friendly to families and people of faith."
Shortly after the resolution was passed, Disney criticized it. "We find it curious that a group that claims to espouse family values would vote to boycott the world's largest producer of wholesome family entertainment," the company said in a formal statement issued from its headquarters in Burbank, Calif.
Because the statement carries no timetable for a boycott and because such resolutions are advisory in a denomination that includes 37,000 autonomous churches, its effect cannot be foreseen.
But Bill Merrell, a vice president of the denomination's Executive Committee, said a formal call for a boycott of Disney theme parks and products could take place in less than a year. "It is dependent on the response of the Disney Company to this action," Mr. Merrell said.
Southern Baptists, members of the nation's second largest religious body after the Roman Catholic Church, represent a politically and economically formidable group, especially in the Southeast and Texas.
Still, initial response from a sampling of Southern Baptists was divided. Suzanne Allen, a 35-year-old mother of four in Nashville, said she would take part in a boycott if one was called. Homosexuality as a sin "is cut and dried in the Bible -- it falls under the Ten Commandments as adultery," Mrs. Allen said.
But another Southern Baptist in Nashville, the Rev. Mark Caldwell, pastor of the 500-member Glendale Baptist Church, said he would tell his congregation on Sunday that he opposes the censure.
"I don't believe in singling out gay and lesbian people to be ostracized from anything," Mr. Caldwell said, rejecting as "mistaken" the belief that homosexuality is a sin. The Southern Baptist Convention, he added, needs to be "more Christ-like in this regard."
The resolution faulted Disney for "hosting" gay and lesbian "theme nights" at its parks. "In recent years, the Disney Company has given the appearance that the promotion of homosexuality is more important than its historic commitment to traditional family values," the resolution said.
In response, John Dreyer, a Disney spokesman, said, "What they are talking about is an event that's dubbed 'gay day' by its organizers," a gay and lesbian group in Orlando, Fla., that for several years has held an annual gathering of homosexuals at Disney World in late June. "Those who decide they're going to the park go out and buy tickets just like any other guest would."
Mr. Dreyer said company officials would be willing to talk with leaders of the Southern Baptist Convention. "However, we will not drop our new health program," he said. "We will not discriminate against people who come to our parks."
In a larger sense, controversy over the recognition of homosexual partnerships is becoming a highly visible point of contention in national politics. Congress is considering passage of a bill that would deny Federal recognition of same-sex marriages. And President Clinton has said he will sign the bill if it reaches his desk, a promise that has upset many politically active gay men and lesbians.
In Orlando, home of Disney World, the Rev. Steve Rayburn, 48, pastor of the Delaney Street Baptist Church, said he agreed with the convention that "there has been a shift in Disney's position of its traditional support of traditional family values." He also said that while he was unlikely to bring the issue before his congregation, he thought "the congregation would support the censure, because we have people here that are employed by Disney that are not happy with Disney."
Another minister in the Orlando area, the Rev. Mark Matheson, 41, pastor of the First Baptist Church of Windermere, said he would address the Disney censure with his 1,800-member congregation.
"I have dozens of employees at Disney World who are active members of my congregation and depend upon Disney for their livelihood," Mr. Matheson said. "They see their job as a ministry. It is important to separate corporate policy from the philosophies and beliefs of people who work at Disney."
Mr. Matheson criticized in particular the movie "Priest," by Miramax, a Disney subsidiary. The convention's resolution also mentions "Priest," which deals in part with a Catholic priest wrestling with his homosexuality, as a reason for censuring Disney.
But in Nashville, one Southern Baptist couple, Ron and Gwyn Bergthold, said the Disney movie their 4-year-old daughter, Carly, cares about is the animated feature, "The Lion King." "I tell her it doesn't have the same message as what the Bible teaches us," said Mrs. Bergthold, who objects to what she said was the movie's undercurrent of "nature worship."
Asked how he would explain a ban on seeing Disney classics like "Bambi" to, say, a 5-year-old, Rodney Schell, the minister for children at the Park Cities Baptist Church in Dallas, said: "That's not a 5-year-old's decision. As a parent, that's my decision."
Several Southern Baptist parents said they were concerned that Disney's policies helped legitimize homosexuality. "The key thing is communicating that we feel this is wrong," Mr. Bergthold said. "Censuring will do that." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (96%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (96%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (96%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (96%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (96%); WALT DISNEY PARKS & RESORTS (53%); SOUTHERN BAPTIST CONVENTION (84%); SOUTHERN BAPTIST CONVENTION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOUTHERN BAPTIST CONVENTION (84%); SOUTHERN BAPTIST CONVENTION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); TENNESSEE, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (93%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); FAMILY (90%); RELIGION (90%); BIBLE & CHRISTIAN TEXTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (75%); DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIPS (73%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (69%); HEALTH INSURANCE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 1996



311 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 861 words

HEADLINE: 'Out-of-Work' Dole Starts What He Calls 'the Real Campaign'

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

DATELINE: OVERLAND PARK, Kan., June 12

 BODY:
Bob Dole commenced another campaign today, this one to sever the ties to the city he has called home for 35 years -- Washington -- and to run for President as an out-of-work American. This, Mr. Dole announced today, begins "the real campaign."
"I think sometimes, as I've said to my colleagues, we need to go out and listen to America," Mr. Dole told business leaders at a luncheon in Toledo, Ohio. "And now that I'm free from the United States Senate, I'm going to do a lot of listening to Americans. And that's what's going to happen in the real campaign." 
 "I am out of Washington," Mr. Dole declared.
From the moment he climbed the steps to his campaign plane in Washington this morning, Mr. Dole signaled his departure from a political environment that his aides had reluctantly concluded had been toxic to his Presidential candidacy. He jauntily pointed out to his wife, Elizabeth, that the plane's name, painted in blue to the left of the forward door, had been changed overnight from Leader's Ship to Citizen's Ship.
In Toledo, Mr. Dole was introduced by Gov. George V. Voinovich as Citizen Dole. At the end of a speech that stretched to 50 minutes and went far beyond the text, Mr. Dole plunged uncharacteristically into the crowd, a move that aides pointed out to reporters.
In addition, his three-day, eight-city trip was promoted as a trip to "the Heartland," as proclaimed on a blue-and-white banner draped behind Mr. Dole at an outdoor rally this afternoon in this Kansas City suburb.
Still, there were signs that Mr. Dole was adjusting to his sudden change from his life as a legislator for 35 years. He spent the morning in the front of the plane telephoning former colleagues in the Senate, keeping up with Trent Lott's victory to succeed him as majority leader. Mr. Dole, who had dabbled with campaigning tie-less after he first announced his retirement, today appeared, comfortably and without fuss, in business attire.
And while he at first joked about his new-found predicament -- "I'm going around the country to see where they have the best unemployment benefits," he said -- he turned poignant as he contemplated his new station on life, on a day where he was returning to his home state.
"My father told me that you can only sweep the walk and empty the garbage so many times a day in retirement," Mr. Dole said. "And there is sort of an empty feeling. I called my office this morning, and I got a recording. Said nobody's here."
Mr. Dole paused and grinned at his stilled audience. "I knew I wasn't there. But that chapter of my life is over, and another one has opened," he said.
Mr. Dole suggested here that he now shared a bond with other Americans who had lost their jobs or were fearful of losing their jobs, hinting that there might be unexpected political gain in his unemployment. "I told one reporter that I had a feel now for how the people who leave their jobs voluntarily or involuntarily feel," he said.
Mr. Dole inaugurated the new phase of the campaign with a combination of the muscular stump speech he had presented over the past two weeks and the less structured, more improvisational speaking style for which he is better known. "Holy Toledo!" Mr. Dole said in Ohio after taking the podium to applause.
Mr. Dole argued that the contest with Mr. Clinton was a fight "between the great liberal pretender and the party of principle." Mr. Dole continued developing the themes he had offered in recent weeks to contrast himself with Mr. Clinton, arguing that he was more experienced, truthful and conservative.
He noted that Mr. Clinton last week proposed a tax credit to cover some college tuition costs. There are "some phrases you should always be skeptical of," Mr. Dole said.
"The check is in the mail," he said. "I'll start my diet in the morning. Let's do lunch sometime. And how about this one: 'I'm Bill Clinton. I'm running for re-election and I'm going to cut your taxes.' "
With an eye to the Chamber of Commerce audience in Toledo, Mr. Dole sought to turn a persistent criticism of the Republican-controlled Congress he had just departed into an asset. "They say we're too business-oriented," he said. "But we want you to make a profit. We want to reduce some of the regulations. We want to reduce your capital gains rate."
But over all, Mr. Dole tried to keep his first day as a candidate from becoming too serious. When he came to the reporters' section of his plane to report the results of the Senate leadership contest back in Washington ("We're trying to keep you informed of late-breaking news."), he backed off when he was swarmed by reporters with tape recorders and note pads. Asked if he had any criticism of the Administration's policy in Bosnia, Mr. Dole said: "No, not right now. This is going to be a happy day."
And Mr. Dole suggested that he did not have much more in mind for the immediate days ahead beyond the tour of country-music halls in Branson, Mo., tonight and a paddle-boat ride down the Ohio River in Louisville, Ky., on Thursday.
"We're trying to get good pictures," Mr. Dole said aboard his plane this morning. "Don't worry very much about what I say."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOLEDO, OH, USA (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); OHIO, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); TOLEDO, OH, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (50%); 

PERSON: TRENT LOTT (57%); GEORGE VOINOVICH (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 1996



312 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 222 words

HEADLINE: Consumers Gain Zero In Credit-Card Ruling

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Contrary to your June 6 editorial, allowing each state to limit the fees that banks may impose for a breach of contract, as distinct from the agreed-upon interest rate, focuses competition on the most important cost of credit: the advertised rate. 
 Such limits prevent banks from hiding the cost of credit in back-end fees disclosed only in the fine print. Without those limits, consumer comparison shopping becomes impossible, because banks do not compete on the basis that their back-end penalties are lower than another bank's.
The issue before the Supreme Court was whether a late fee, which does not vary based on the number of days and the amount of the late payment, is an "interest rate." The Supreme Court has held that it is.
If the Court had adopted the same meaning of interest rate that even your business section uses, Citibank would have had to compete on the same terms as other lenders in California rather than hiding its credit cost in delinquency charges.
Consumer organizations and more than 20 state attorneys general filed briefs supporting the cardholders in the Supreme Court. They recognize that the decision cannot be good for consumers.
 
MICHAEL D. DONOVAN
MICHAEL P. MALAKOFF
Pittsburgh, June 11, 1996
 
The writers represented the cardholders in the Court case.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: CGP (LSE) (56%); C (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CREDIT CARDS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (90%); LITIGATION (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (77%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (74%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); BREACH OF CONTRACT (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (69%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL P MALAKOFF PITTSBURGH (80%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 1996



313 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1768 words

HEADLINE: Sticker Shock: Car Buyers Miss Haggling Ritual

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: KANSAS CITY, Mo.

 BODY:
Mark R. Smith was following the hottest trend in the auto industry two years ago when he plastered low, fixed prices on the cars and trucks at his family's Ford dealership here and banned haggling by his sales staff.
But the result was not what the auto executives in Detroit or the high-priced dealership consultants had predicted. For every customer who came in eager to dispense with the traditional, time-consuming and often distasteful dickering over the sticker price, there were four or five more who insisted on trying to knock several hundred dollars off the price. When the salespeople refused to budge, the customers stalked off. 
 So Mr. Smith abandoned fixed prices on his new cars last winter. The dickering resumed and the dealership quickly captured a bigger share of sales in the Kansas City market. "They've improved enough that we're not thinking of going back" to fixed prices, Mr. Smith said.
One of the most trumpeted trends in automobile retailing in years, the spread of fixed-price, "no haggle" new-car dealerships during the early 1990's, is now quietly in decline, according to dealers, auto makers and consultants. Despite all the complaints from car buyers about haggling with dealers, it turns out that many people actually enjoy bargaining and fear that they will pay too much if they don't do so. Dealers, on the other hand, found that setting fixed prices backfired when rival dealers nearby ruthlessly undercut them to capture sales.
"A bunch of us thought people would be willing to pay an extra hundred bucks" for the convenience of fixed prices, said John B. T. Campbell, a Saturn dealer in Santa Ana, Calif., who recently sold his fixed-price Ford and Mazda dealerships. "We found that didn't prove to be the case."
Fixed-price dealers do slightly better in rural areas, where there are few dealers nearby to undercut them. The consensus of Chrysler dealers, said Robert J. Eaton, the chairman and chief executive of the Chrysler Corporation, is that "one price works better when you don't have dealerships selling the same product quite close" together.
Close to 2,000 of the 23,000 new-car dealerships in the United States had one-price strategies in 1994, but only 1,000 to 1,200 still do, according to Mark Rikess, a consultant based in Los Angeles who works with fixed-price dealerships. Surveys by the Dohring Company, a market research company in Glendale, Calif., have found that the proportion of Americans preferring dealers who negotiate prices has climbed sharply over the last three years.
"Automotive consumers need to feel that they get a good deal when they purchase a vehicle, and, for most, the only way they feel that they can get a good deal is through negotiation," a new report by Dohring concludes. "Thus, the trend is toward more buyers preferring to negotiate their vehicle purchases and, while one-price selling will likely not disappear, it will remain the preference of a decreasing minority of car buyers."
A surprising number of customers at dealerships here actually say that they do not trust no-dicker stickers. "I'd much rather negotiate -- I feel like I'd get a better deal," Marilyn A. Murdock said as she shopped recently at Platte City Ford, just north of Kansas City, for a replacement for her 1985 Cadillac Fleetwood. "I need a low-end car; I don't want to pay a lot of money."
Though Saturn, a division of the General Motors Corporation, still requires fixed-price selling by all of its dealers, the withering of the trend at other car lines has disappointed some auto executives. Auto makers are barred by law from owning dealerships, and the business practices at some traditional dealerships have long dismayed auto executives, who fear that customers with bad experiences will go to another company for their next car or truck.
John F. Smith Jr., G.M.'s chairman and chief executive, predicted in early 1994 that fixed-price dealers would bring credibility to the industry. "Right now, the pricing can be all over the lot, low price to high price," he said at the time. "The customer's uncertain and can be scared by the process."
But Chevrolet, G.M.'s biggest car line, has found that many dealers tried fixed prices for only a few weeks before switching back. Even among dealers who tried fixed prices for six months, considered the minimum period necessary for a serious test, at least half have switched back, said Ronald F. Sobrero, Chevrolet's general sales and service manager.
G.M. is now pinning its hopes on what it calls value pricing, which involves heavily advertised vehicles laden with popular option packages that are offered at discounts. The discount shaves the profit a dealer can expect on a car in return for the promise of greater sales. While the slimmer margin leaves less room to dicker, dealers and shoppers are free to haggle on a final price.
Dealers who engage in fixed-price selling, on the other hand, set their prices below the recommended prices from the manufacturers. The size of the discount depends on the popularity of the model, and no bargaining is allowed.
Some advocates of fixed-price selling contend that other trends in auto retailing are making it less important. A fifth of all new cars are being leased, and many customers do not try to bargain on lease rates even though it may be possible. Car buying services are negotiating prices for many customers, taking away some of the stress of the process. And a growing number of car buyers are checking pricing guides for information to determine how much a dealer paid for a car, limiting the dealer's ability to charge a large markup.
"I have to believe the trend is toward a less negotiated deal," with a narrower range of prices that dealers quote for the same car, said Doris Ehlers, a partner at J. D. Power & Associates, the consulting firm, which publishes reports on car quality.
Mr. Rikess, the consultant to fixed-price dealers, said that set prices might come back into fashion if auto makers promoted the idea or if a sales slump left many dealers willing to experiment again. Indeed, while "no haggle" pricing had been around for years, it spread during the 1991-92 sales downturn.
But too many dealers underestimated the difficulty of abandoning negotiated prices, Mr. Rikess said. The move requires a completely new or retrained staff that is willing to shift its energies to wooing customers with detailed explanations of the features of new cars and trucks instead of haggling over prices, he said.
The decision by Mr. Smith, the Ford dealer here, to switch back to negotiated prices on new cars "just typifies how difficult it is" to make fixed prices stick, Mr. Rikess said, adding, "It's like if J. C. Penney got up one morning and tried to be Nordstrom."
True fixed-price dealerships are dwindling, particularly in cities, where they compete with dealers willing to negotiate the price of the same car, said George E. Hoffer, an economist at Virginia Commonwealth University who specializes in auto dealerships.
The negotiated-price dealers can charge high prices to unsophisticated buyers -- "hitting a home run," in dealer parlance -- while cutting prices to the bone for aggressive bargainers who compare prices at several dealerships. Fixed-price dealers try to maintain their profit margins by charging roughly the average of what the unsophisticated buyers and the aggressive bargainers pay.
The problem is that aggressive buyers often scribble down the prices at fixed-price dealerships and then wangle slightly better deals elsewhere. So the fixed-price dealers are stuck with selling cars to people who are too busy to shop widely and to unsophisticated buyers who might have been willing to pay more.
John B. Cates, the general manager of seven fixed-price dealerships in central Virginia, said that competing dealers had made a habit of driving by his dealerships at night and copying down the prices visible on the windshields, so as to undercut them consistently by $100 or so. The dealerships had to stop posting the prices as a result, he said, choosing instead to give sales agents a list of fixed prices that customers must request one at a time.
Buyers at Mr. Cates's dealerships pay slightly more, on average, than buyers at traditional dealerships. Mr. Cates said he had tried to make up the difference by improving the quality of his dealerships' warranties and service work and by emphasizing the ease of buying a car or truck at fixed prices.
"You end up with the people who value their time, and the service after the sale, over a couple hundred dollars," Mr. Cates said. Affluent buyers of expensive cars are among the few people who tell market researchers that fixed-price dealerships are clearly preferable, apparently because of a willingness to spend more money to avoid the hassles of negotiating with traditional dealers.
But over all, the Dohring Company found that 89 percent of car buyers heading for fixed-price dealers planned to take the quoted prices to negotiated-price dealers in the hope of striking a better deal.
Fixed-price transactions remain relatively popular for used cars. New entrants in the used-car market, like the Car Max chain, a unit of Circuit City Stores Inc., have generally adopted fixed-price sales policies. And even some dealers who have abandoned fixed prices for new cars, like Mr. Smith, the Ford dealer, have kept them for used cars.
The difference is that customers cannot easily take a price quote from a fixed-price used-car dealership and go to a traditional dealer for a better bargain, because no two used cars are exactly alike. "The cars are different; the mileage varies," Mr. Smith said.
Some dealers say fixed-price selling still has several advantages, even for new cars: Training and personnel costs are lower, as are advertising expenses.
Traditional dealerships require larger staffs to handle the hours of dickering with customers, Mr. Campbell, the Saturn dealer, said. And the hard bargainers who work in such dealerships also tend to be less willing to stay in one job for a long time, so that dealers are constantly having to pay for the training of new salespeople.
But for now, the surge of interest several years ago in fixed-price selling seems to have fizzled. Still, a few fixed-price dealers, like Daniel F. Ladd at Courtesy Chevrolet here, say that the advertisements they ran when they switched to fixed prices may make it hard for them to go back to traditional negotiations.
"We didn't call all the other dealers crooks," Mr. Ladd said, "but we poked fun at them."

GRAPHIC: Photo: After experimenting with fixed prices for new cars and trucks at his family's Ford dealership in Kansas City, Mo., Mark R. Smith began haggling on prices again. The dealership quickly captureed a bigger share of sales in its market.
 
Chart: "Final Offer?"
Car buyers' distrust of "no-haggle" dealerships has prompted a swift retreat from the fixed-price strategy. From its peak less than two years ago, the number of no-haggle dealers by one estimate has already fallen by as much as 50 percent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (85%); F (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (85%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available NEW CAR DEALERS (91%); SALES FORCE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); TRENDS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (89%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); PRODUCT PRICING (78%); RETAIL SALES (77%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (70%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (63%); 

PERSON: JOHN CAMPBELL (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 1996



314 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 654 words

HEADLINE: Real Estate;
A development of mansions -- around a Nicklaus golf course -- rises in Westchester estate country.

BYLINE: By Tracie Rozhon 

 BODY:
WHEN Tokio Kasuga looked for a huge property close to New York City to develop, it was the height of the real estate boom. By the time the right place -- for a championship golf course surrounded by mansions -- was found, a recession had set in.
Mr. Kasuga, who died in 1994, and his son, Masahiko, paid $46 million in 1990 for a 400-acre site in the Purchase section of the town of Harrison in Westchester County. Last week, the property they named Purchase Estates was ringing with the sound of hammers and electric saws. 
 The project is moving ahead: The 18-hole golf course, designed by Jack Nicklaus, is to open this summer and four houses of 7,500 square feet are being built on speculation at $2.45 million each.
Eight of the 11 lots in the first phase of the 73-lot development have been sold, all to builders, for prices ranging from $650,000 for 1.9 acres with road and corner frontage to $1 million for 1.6 acres on a cul-de-sac with views in winter. The houses under way are designed in what may be called the "grandiose" style.
The builder of three of the houses, Chris Demetriades of Demetriades Developers Inc., said he had put up close to 100 such houses in Scarsdale, Rye, Purchase and elsewhere in Westchester County -- all of them speculatively. He said he preferred that approach to custom building because he could build exactly what he wanted, "with no aggravation."
"You like it, you buy it," he said. "You don't like it, you don't buy it." Mr. Demetriades said he had built about 60 houses in Purchase, all in the $2 million range.
The three Demetriades houses rising at Purchase Estates are designed by Nadler Philopena of Mount Kisco, N.Y. The one that is furthest along has a multitude of dormers with turreted two-story bays.
Purchase Estates has strict guidelines spelling out such things as acceptable setbacks and building massing. Chain link fences -- unless they are around a tennis court -- are not acceptable. Stone walls cannot be over 4 feet high. "There shall be no religious icons, no elaborate holiday or festival displays such as flashing lights" and "no overbearing, offensive, eccentric, discordant or overly large sculptures on display," the guidelines say.
A panel will screen designs for houses, and there is a list of architects whose work is thought to be generally acceptable, although selection from the list is not mandated, according to Billie B. Prizio, a sales agent with Julia B. Fee Real Estate, who is the sales director for Purchase Estates.
Robert Cox, chief financial officer for Hickory Pine Associates, the owner-developer, said the site had once been part of a working farm owned by a family named Pforzheimer. While part of the land had been sold off, the company was able to buy the 400 acres from the Pforzheimer heirs and another seller.
Hickory Pine is an offshoot of Green Stamp America, a company controlled by the Kasuga family. Hickory Pine bought the combined property six years ago. "We knew things weren't rosy for real estate," Mr. Cox continued. "But traditionally, the high end hasn't been hit as hard as the rest of the market and it was something we wanted to do."
"We didn't build anything for a while," Mr. Cox said. A land-use consultant was hired and embarked on a round of environmental approvals: from the town, the state and the Army Corps of Engineers.
Of the 400 acres, about 80 are classified as wetlands -- "I'd prefer you didn't use the word 'swamp,' " Mr. Cox said. Although the wetlands are indiscernible for most of the year, the land is carpeted with moisture-loving wildflowers and will remain untouched. The developer received final approvals in September 1993.
Buyers of the Purchase Estates houses become members of a homeowners association, and pay dues that average $2,200 a year, not including golf fees. The golf course, known as the Country Club of Purchase, is recruiting members. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: PURCHASE ESTATES (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: PURCHASE ESTATES (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PURCHASE (NY); UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: GOLF; HOUSING GOLF (91%); REAL ESTATE (91%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (90%); SCULPTURE (76%); TENNIS (72%); SPORTS (72%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (64%); EXECUTIVES (60%); 

PERSON: ROZHON, TRACIE ROBERT G COX (72%); TOKIO KASUGA (65%); JACK NICKLAUS (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 1996



315 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 409 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Retreats Against Yen And Mark in Light Trading

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
The dollar dropped against most leading currencies yesterday, weakening after the German central bank left interest rates unchanged and a trade dispute between the United States and Japan intensified over photographic film.
But traders said volume was light, exaggerating the impact of currency movements. Many noted that the dollar's recent strength had made it vulnerable to a selloff and that the dollar's longer-term trend was up. 
 "Basically, what happened today was more of an excuse to sell the dollar," said Seth Cohen, a director of foreign exchange trading at Merrill Lynch & Company in New York.
In late trading in New York yesterday, the dollar stood at 108.75 Japanese yen, down from 109.05 yen on Wednesday. The dollar traded at 1.5267 German marks, down from 1.5325. The British pound fell to $1.5347 from $1.5355.
The catalyst for dollar weakness came from the Bundesbank, which did not lower short-term interest rates as some currency traders had expected during a regular meeting of its policy-making committee.
There has been resilient speculation that the Bundesbank must lower rates to stimulate Germany's economy. When it took no action, traders who had gambled on a lower mark bought the currency instead, pushing the dollar lower.
Further dollar selling came after the Clinton Administration said it would file a broad trade complaint against Japan with the World Trade Organization, contending that Tokyo had colluded with Fuji Photo Film to block film sales by Eastman Kodak and other foreign companies.
Although the decision had been expected and was mild compared with previous actions by Washington in trade disputes with Japan, the tone of the announcement worried some currency traders. United States trade officials said they would press their cause even if the trade organization ruled in Japan's favor. Ira Shapiro, a deputy United States trade representative, said that the Americans had an array of options to wage such a struggle.
"He said, 'If we can't fix things this way, we're going to do something else,' " said Liz Goldberg, a vice president of foreign exchange trading at the New York branch of Germany's Hypo bank. "That was interepreted as an exchange-rate measure."
Other traders said the trade dispute was a pretext to sell on the dollar's most recent gains. They noted that Japan's economy remained fragile, which would keep Japanese interest rates low and the yen weak. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%); EASTMAN KODAK CO (58%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (54%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (54%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (95%); US DOLLAR (92%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TRADE DISPUTES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); BRITISH POUND (73%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (73%); GERMAN MARK (73%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 1996



316 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 29; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 678 words

HEADLINE: In America;
Nike's Bad Neighborhood

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT 

 BODY:
The State Department, in its latest human rights survey, said of Indonesia:
"The Government continued to commit serious human rights abuses. . . . Reports of extrajudicial killings, disappearances and torture of those in custody by security forces increased. Reports of arbitrary arrests and detentions and the use of excessive violence (including deadly force) in dealing with suspected criminals or perceived troublemakers continued. Prison conditions remained harsh and security forces regularly violated citizens' right to privacy." 
 Welcome to Nike country. Of all the places on the planet, the world's largest sneaker company chose the human rights sinkhole of Indonesia as the spot where most of its footwear would be made. Atrocities, including the Government-sponsored murder of thousands of innocent civilians, can easily be overlooked if there is a large enough labor force willing to work for next to nothing.
There is no need to dwell on this. That is why God made advertising campaigns. We can avoid the bitter reality of Indonesia and concentrate on the magnificent image of Michael Jordan soaring, twisting, driving, flying . . . or Andre Agassi hitting a tennis ball with such authority and power it leaves the racquet like a rocket . . .
Nike can thrill us, amuse us, fill us with good feelings. We don't have to succumb to downers like the following excerpt from a 1994 Amnesty International report about killings in Aceh, a province in which the Indonesian Government has been fighting armed rebels:
"Some 2,000 civilians, including children and the very elderly, were killed by Indonesian soldiers in or near the province of Aceh between 1989 and 1993. Some died in public executions; others were killed secretly and their often mutilated bodies were left in public places. Scores of the dead were dumped in mass graves."
No need to dwell on that. Nothing to do with Nike, after all. Or with Reebok, Adidas, Converse or any other sneaker outfits doing business in Indonesia.
Except that it does.
Nike and the other companies would like to distance themselves from the grotesque activities of the Suharto regime. But they cannot. They benefit both directly and indirectly from the systematic oppression of the Indonesian people. The Government cites the need for stability and security (in the interest of economic development) as a justification for its murderous policies, and then turns a welcoming face to the multinationals.
The response of the multinationals? We don't want to know about the rough stuff, but we're with you.
According to the State Department survey, "The Government continued to impose severe limitations on freedom of speech, press, assembly and association." And, in a policy critical to Nike and the other corporations that are drawn to Indonesia like flies to garbage, the Government continued to suppress the development of "a truly free trade union movement."
Nike is the most vulnerable to criticism of the athletic footwear corporations because it is the biggest, the most visible and by far the most hypocritical. No amount of charitable contributions or of idealized commercial images can hide the fact that Indonesia is Nike's kind of place. The exploitation of cheap Asian labor has been a focus of its top executive, Philip Knight, for more than three decades.
While working toward his M.B.A. at Stanford in the early 1960's, Mr. Knight wrote a paper on the profit potential of manufacturing athletic shoes in Asia. By the mid-80's Nike (co-founded by Mr. Knight) was no longer making shoes in the United States. It was dealing with independent contractors in countries like South Korea. And when workers there began organizing and winning wage hikes, Nike was taking off for places like Indonesia and China, where the crackdowns on labor are swift and effective and the pay is suitably pathetic.
Nike executives know exactly what is going on in Indonesia. They are not bothered by the cries of the oppressed. It suits them. Each cry is a signal that their investment is paying off.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed 

TICKER: NKE (NYSE) (87%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS316210 FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING (87%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (87%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (87%); SIC3149 FOOTWEAR, EXCEPT RUBBER, NEC (87%); SIC3021 RUBBER & PLASTICS FOOTWEAR (87%); SIC2339 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' OUTERWEAR, NEC (87%); SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (87%); 

COUNTRY: INDONESIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: NIKE INC NIKE INC (87%); AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL (54%); AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NIKE INC AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL (54%); AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDONESIA; INDONESIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: SHOES AND BOOTS; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; SNEAKERS HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (91%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TORTURE (90%); FOOTWEAR (89%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (86%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); FREEDOM OF ASSEMBLY & ASSOCIATION (78%); MURDER (78%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); ARRESTS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); TENNIS (74%); SPORTS (74%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (72%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); LABOR UNIONS (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (54%); 

PERSON: HERBERT, BOB; KNIGHT, PHILIP H MICHAEL JORDAN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 1996



317 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 630 words

HEADLINE: Le Mai, 56, Dies; Vietnam's Voice in Relations With the U.S.

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS 

DATELINE: BANGKOK, Thailand, June 13

 BODY:
Le Mai, Vietnam's Deputy Foreign Minister, who for many years was his country's voice in its edgy postwar relationship with the United States, died of a heart attack on Wednesday, the Foreign Ministry said today. He was 56.
A junior member of the Paris negotiating team that secured America's withdrawal from Vietnam in 1973 and a chief architect of Hanoi's more recent campaign for diplomatic relations with Washington, Mr. Mai was fond of reminding Americans that "Vietnam is a country, not only a war." 
 Mr. Mai, who had two previous heart attacks, was stricken at home and died later at a hospital, The Associated Press reported from Hanoi, quoting the Foreign Ministry.
Mr. Mai, a highly visible figure in the ministry for many years and Deputy Minister since 1990, was a member of the Communist Party Central Committee, the nation's chief policy-making body, and had been seen as a possible successor to Foreign Minister Nguyen Manh Cam.
His long association with the United States -- beginning with meetings in Hanoi and Canada with antiwar activists during the war -- had also led to an expectation that he might become his country's first ambassador to Washington.
Fluent in English, Mr. Mai traveled often to the United States in his country's long postwar campaign to end economic sanctions and then to establish full diplomatic relations with Washington, a goal it achieved last year.
In a statement today, the United States State Department praised Mr. Mai for his "instrumental role" in "the ongoing process of normalizing the relationship between the United States and Vietnam." The statement called his death untimely and tragic, and said his contribution to bilateral ties will be missed. Mr. Mai was "a highly regarded diplomat and friend to many Americans," the statement said.
In his many contacts with Americans, Mr. Mai was an aggressive promoter of Vietnam's interests but also exemplified its pragmatism in putting past enmities aside.
"If we nursed all of our grudges with all of the powers that we have fought against, we wouldn't have relations with anyone," he said last year.
He argued that Vietnam's Communist Party was a home-grown nationalist movement immune from the collapse of Communism throughout much of the world. The Communist system meets an Asian need for unity and consensus, he said.
And he rejected American criticisms of Vietnam's human rights record, saying, "Foreigners who come here to press their ideas about human rights on Vietnam are not welcome."
"The United States considers itself a model for the world, imposing its way of living and thinking on other nations," he said in 1994. "They are always reminding the Vietnamese people they are dealing with a superior power. Sometimes we feel the United States doesn't treat us on an equal footing."
Le Mai was born in 1940 in the central coastal city of Hue and first worked as a journalist. At 25 he was sent for three years to China, during that country's Cultural Revolution, as a representative of the National Liberation Front, the South Vietnamese Communist political organization.
After North Vietnam's victory in 1975 and the reunification of the country, Mr. Mai worked in the American Department of the Foreign Ministry. From 1980 to 1984 he was deputy and then director of the ministry's Press Department, in which role he escorted some of the first groups of American journalists to visit postwar Vietnam.
He was Assistant Foreign Minister from 1984 to 1986 and was Ambassador to Thailand during a politically sensitive period from 1986 to 1989, while Vietnamese troops occupied neighboring Cambodia.
After his promotion to Deputy Foreign Minister, he was named to the Central Committee in 1994.
He is survived by his wife and two children.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Le Mai (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); VIET NAM (99%); VIETNAM (94%); THAILAND (79%); 

CITY: HANOI, VIETNAM (94%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (71%); 

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (56%); FOREIGN MINISTRY (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: FOREIGN MINISTRY (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIETNAM; UNITED STATES (99%); VIET NAM (99%); VIETNAM (94%); THAILAND (79%); HANOI, VIETNAM (94%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (71%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (97%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (94%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (91%); DEATHS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); VIETNAM WAR (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS (74%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (50%); 

PERSON: MAI, LE (MIN); MYDANS, SETH LE MAI (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 1996



318 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1663 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS: Trade Threats? Say Ho-Hum;
Chinese in a Boomtown Busy Making Money

BYLINE: By SETH FAISON 

DATELINE: WENZHOU, China

 BODY:
To Wu Bangdong, a garment manufacturer in this booming coastal city, the danger that the United States and China will impose trade sanctions on each other seems a distant worry.
A ubiquitous make-money-any-way-you-can mentality drives nimble garment companies like Mr. Wu's to make decisions with speed and flexibility, shifting products and markets with little hesitation. Lately, domestic sales in China have grown more rapidly than any export market. 
 "We don't really care about sanctions," said Mr. Wu, who at 33 is general manager of the fast-growing George Garment Group. The company sold $30 million in suits, shirts and neckties last year and plans to sell $40 million this year. "Demand is growing so much faster within China," he said, where city dwellers have taken a fancy to dressing up for work and for Sunday strolls. "We have already decided to concentrate on the domestic market."
Facing a June 17 deadline, trade negotiators in Beijing and Washington are in a final round of brinkmanship over China's inability to control the piracy of American software, movies and musical recordings. If they fail to agree, $2 billion in sanctions will be imposed in each direction. But the indifference of factory managers like Mr. Wu, many of whose garments are in categories that America has threatened with sanctions, is a measure of how economically irrelevant, and arguably misconceived, such measures can be.
Despite solemn warnings from Washington that its $2 billion in new tariffs, the largest in United States history, will take a nasty bite out of China's economic growth, higher tariffs will actually affect just a small part of China's $48.5 billion in exports to the United States, let alone the nation's tens of billions in additional exports worldwide.
"In terms of the overall economy, the effect would be minimal," said Nicholas Kwan, senior economist at Merrill Lynch in Hong Kong. "Sanctions would hardly affect 1.5 percent of China's trade. That's really nothing dramatic."
Arguing that China has been lax in enforcing a landmark agreement on intellectual property rights reached in February 1995, the United States trade representative's office announced last month that it would increase tariffs on textiles, garments like those stitched together by Mr. Wu's factory, electrical goods like telephones and sporting goods like water skis and surfboards.
The sanctions are intended as a political stick to encourage Chinese leaders to get serious about the widespread piracy of American music, movies and software, since there is virtually no way to punish the pirates directly.
[Charlene Barshefsky, the acting United States trade representative, flew to Beijing on Thursday amid indications that a Chinese crackdown on pirate software factories might prompt the United States to drop its sanction threat. "We hope the U.S. side will take note that the Chinese side has made tremendous effort," a spokesman for the Chinese Foreign Ministry said in Beijing.]
In laying out the proposed sanctions, Ms. Barshefsky had said the list of items selected was designed to minimize the impact on American consumers. Popular merchandise from China, like footwear -- $6.1 billion worth was imported last year -- was omitted.
Textiles and garments were also chosen, United States officials said, because most of those factories are in southern China, where compact disk pirates operate, as if taxing one group would somehow increase pressure on the other.
A number of exporters of textiles and garments and electrical goods will obviously be hurt, and some possibly put out of business by the new tariffs. Economists in the Chinese Government have even warned that 500,000 textile industry jobs could be lost, though no one really knows.
Of course, trade sanctions can also create unintended results. Winston Lord, Assistant Secretary of State for East Asian and Pacific Affairs, complained that Japanese and European companies were taking advantage of an anti-American mood in Beijing to win contracts that might go to American companies. Such cases are actually quite rare, though United States and Chinese officials often have their own political reasons for talking about them.
Yet here on the coast of southern China, in a city of three million where hundreds of garment factories have sprung up in old wheat fields, the consensus among many Chinese business leaders is that the threatened sanctions would have a minimal overall impact.
Some businessmen go further, saying that United States trade policy is arrogant and muddled, if Washington thinks it can hurt China's economy without damaging the benefits it derives from the $60 billion trade relationship between the two nations.
"Trade goes in two directions," said Chen Qingsheng, chairman of Lianyi Touring Goods, which shipped $1.5 million of sporting goods, or one-fourth of its total sales, to the United States last year. "These sanctions only stop a small part. It's not like they're revoking most-favored-nation status," referring to the preferential trade relationship that China now enjoys with the United States.
To Mr. Chen, and perhaps to anyone as far outside the Beltway as China, the rationale behind the Clinton Administration's trade action looks a bit murky.
Most-favored-nation status, originally designed to encourage Communist governments to allow freer emigration, is likely to be renewed for China -- a country that still restricts travel overseas -- principally because a significant jump in tariffs would be unacceptable to American businesses and consumers used to buying competitively priced garments, footwear, toys and electrical goods from China.
Yet at the same time, lesser trade sanctions are being threatened because of China's widespread piracy of intellectual property rights, an area the Chinese Government says it is actively working to control, if only with mixed results so far.
"I don't really understand the American Government," said Mr. Chen, whose conversation was continually interrupted by calls on the two telephones on his office desk and the mobile phone in his lap. "This approach doesn't make any sense. China and America need each other in the long run."
Despite his own reliance on exports to the United States, Mr. Chen said he was not worried because he expected a resolution to emerge from the Beijing trade talks.
Like many Chinese businessmen, he sees the negotiations over piracy as little more than a colorful charade, following the same script as in previous years, with accusations and counteraccusations by officials on each side who finally smile and shake hands when a last-minute agreement is struck.
Pressed about how he would cope with sanctions, Mr. Chen said that he would go through a few months of adjustment, shifting some production to nonsanctioned items and channeling merchandise to other foreign countries.
Many American companies with operations in China have objected to the threat of sanctions, worried about damage to the overall business climate. More specific concerns are voiced by American importers who already have contracts to buy items on the sanction list, like buyers for large department store chains. Such companies have paid for orders months in advance and will have to pay the new duties if sanctions are enacted.
"Nobody expects these sanctions to be long term, so we are carrying the new cost, while Chinese exporters aren't affected at all," said Jeffrey J. Macho, managing director in North Asia for Sears, Roebuck & Company, which buys millions of dollars of garments in China. "It's the reverse of what's intended."
Some American importers have already stopped orders for Chinese goods, United States officials have said, for fear that shipments in early June could be hit with new duties when they arrive in an American port after June 17, if there is no accord by then.
Other American companies would feel the blow of the $2 billion in retaliatory sanctions -- mainly on food products -- that China threatened after the United States trade representative's office formally published its list in Washington on May 15. The Chinese Government also warned that going ahead with sanctions would limit the access of American companies to China's market.
Although no exporter will say so publicly, one solution to higher American tariffs is to ship sanctioned items through a third country. Chinese garment makers who have contended for years with American quotas have already learned how to send almost completed trousers to Hong Kong or Latin America or even Mongolia, for example, where they get a final button or zipper stitched on before being shipped off to the United States. In that way, China is not listed as the country of export.
Here in Wenzhou, for decades an impoverished area, there is a self-reliance that makes for a robust economy. Ma Jinlong, vice director of the Wenzhou Economic Reseach Center, said that Wenzhou's annual growth rate averaged 27.1 percent over the last four years. The city has attracted nearly 800,000 laborers from the surrounding countryside during its tremendous expansion.
"With that kind of growth, sanctions would not be much of a shock here," said Mr. Ma, sipping tea in a noisy downtown restuarant. "A few sectors will be affected, though even they will find other markets. But it seems like there are a lot of American consumers enjoying Chinese-made goods. They lose, too, if sanctions come."
As for businessmen, they seem more eager to talk about investments than sanctions. "Do you know any American investors who would like to come to Wenzhou?" asked Chen Min, the general manager of the Jindingzhen Clothing Company, a $30-million-a-year manufacturer, who wants to expand rapidly so he can open stores in every major Chinese city. "We need extra capital."
Mr. Chen says he has no reservations about cooperating with American businesses. "I like Americans," Mr. Chen said. "They have lots of money."

GRAPHIC: Photos: In his showroom in Wenzhou, China, Chen Qingsheng, chairman of Lianyi Touring Goods, shipped one fourth of his total output to the United states last year. "China and America need each other in the long run," he said, adding that he expects sanctions to be averted.; Workers assemble thongs in Lianyi's factory. The United States exempted footwear and other popular items from its sanction threat. (Seth Faison/The New York Times)
 
Graph: "What's At Stake" shows products imported from China and type of goods that would be affected by the sanctions. (Source: National Trade Data Bank)
 
Map of China highlighting Wenzhou. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (58%); MER (NYSE) (58%); 8675 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); HONG KONG (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (88%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); HONG KONG (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%); BEIJING, CHINA (88%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; CUSTOMS (TARIFF); INDUSTRIAL ESPIONAGE AND PIRACY; COMPUTER SOFTWARE; COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; RECORDINGS (VIDEO); RECORDINGS (AUDIO); MUSIC ; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; MOTION PICTURES EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (91%); APPAREL MFG (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); MARITIME PIRACY (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (87%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); TEXTILES (73%); CITY LIFE (73%); CITIES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); INDUSTRIAL ESPIONAGE (71%); SOFTWARE PIRACY (71%); TRENDS (71%); MUSIC (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (66%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (66%); ESPIONAGE (65%); WATERSKIING (60%); 

PERSON: FAISON, SETH

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 1996



319 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 14, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 927 words

HEADLINE: Senate Clears Way for Vote On Third Term For Greenspan

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 13

 BODY:
Senate leaders broke the logjam holding up the confirmation of the Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, to a third term today, with Republicans agreeing to Democratic requests for an extended debate on monetary policy over several days before the confirmation vote next Thursday.
Within hours of the agreement, Senator Tom Harkin of Iowa, the Democrat whose demands for a debate have held up Mr. Greenspan's confirmation, began making his case on the Senate floor that an excessive focus by Mr. Greenspan on reducing inflation was keeping the economy from growing to its full potential. 
 But even as the Senate undertook its most extensive arguments to date over the Fed chairman's record, both Republican and Democratic leaders said they expected Mr. Greenspan to win easy confirmation.
President Clinton renominated Mr. Greenspan to the job in February, and the Administration has remained firmly behind the nomination despite opposition from a few Democrats, led by Mr. Harkin. The Fed chairman's term expired in March, and he has been serving in an acting capacity since then. His new four-year term begins when he is confirmed.
The agreement also unfreezes the nominations of two other appointees to the seven-member Fed Board of Governors -- Alice M. Rivlin, the White House budget chief, whom Mr. Clinton named to be the central bank's vice chairman, and Laurence H. Meyer, a St. Louis economist. Both are expected to win confirmation, although some Republicans have criticized Ms. Rivlin in recent days for what they said were misleading statements to Congress about Mr. Clinton's proposed budget.
Senator Christopher S. Bond, a Republican of Missouri, said he wanted to ask Ms. Rivlin how the Administration could make public proposed long-term cuts in spending programs even as it "quietly tells political interest groups we're not going to make the cuts."
Responding to Mr. Bond, a White House official said that while President Clinton might shift spending between programs in future years, he would retain his commitment to reaching a balanced budget by 2002, and that the budget fight should not affect Ms. Rivlin's nomination to the Fed.
"We are confident that the Senate will confirm all the President's three nominees for the Federal Reserve, and we will work with Congress to answer any questions they may have," the official said.
The agreement to proceed with the debate and separate recorded votes for each of the nominees was worked out early today between the new Senate majority leader, Trent Lott of Mississippi, and the Senate minority leader, Thomas A. Daschle of South Dakota. The Republicans had previously been unwilling to grant Mr. Harkin's demand for three days of debate, and were happy to have the Democrats fighting among themselves over the nominations. But there was increasing concern within the Administration and in the Senate that further delay could unsettle the financial markets, leading to higher interest rates.
"I hope we can have a good back and forth among those who believe we ought to have a much more aggressive monetary policy than we do," Senator Daschle said. "Once the Greenspan nomination is gone, we may not have that chance again for some time."
Mr. Harkin's argument that the Fed under Mr. Greenspan has taken its war against inflation too far has little support among economists. But it has been welcomed by some industrialists, who feel that high interest rates are cramping growth rates and that Mr. Greenspan does not appreciate how few upward pressures on prices the economy faces in an era of global competition.
"This debate about Chairman Greenspan's policies and their impact on the economy, about how we can get our economy to grow faster, about how we can create jobs and raise incomes, zeroes in on the most important issues we face," Mr. Harkin said.
Mr. Harkin said that Mr. Greenspan's "almost obsessive" concern with inflation had led him to misread the state of the economy and had "stifled economic growth and the income of average Americans."
Mr. Harkin said there was still some risk of inflation. But he said that unless the Fed was willing to "take a chance" on higher growth rates, the nation would never get a chance to see how fast the economy can expand without igniting inflation.
Defending Mr. Greenspan, Senator Charles Grassley of Iowa, a Republican, said the Fed chairman "has been pretty good at bringing confidence" to the financial system, and that the real economic debate should not be over monetary policy, but over balancing the budget.
"We ought to be putting our energy in this body not so much in fighting the reappointment of Chairman Greenspan, but in being more fiscally responsible," he said.
Mr. Greenspan was in Sweden today giving a speech on banking regulation. He has long defended his focus on reducing inflation as the best way to give the economy a stable foundation for growth. Mr. Greenspan has always said that he has no preconceived notion of how fast the economy can grow, and that he tries to stamp out inflation before it takes root by watching carefully for early warning signals of rising wages and prices.
With the economy growing at a robust pace this quarter and unemployment low, many economists expect Mr. Greenspan to push the Fed to raise interest rates in July or August. Mr. Clinton, clearly concerned that a rate increase could slow the economy heading into the Presidential election, said last week that the Fed should not raise rates if there is an absence of any signs of inflation. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (58%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IOWA, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; CREDIT; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (70%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (70%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN); HARKIN, TOM (SEN); RIVLIN, ALICE M (DIR); MEYER, LAURENCE H ALAN GREENSPAN (93%); TOM HARKIN (90%); BILL CLINTON (90%); TOM DASCHLE (79%); TRENT LOTT (59%); KIT BOND (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 1996



320 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 15; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 571 words

HEADLINE: Bonds Stage Sharp Rally On New Data

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Bonds rallied sharply yesterday, for the first time in a week, following data that suggested the economy was not growing at a fast enough pace to accelerate inflation and prompt an immediate Fed response.
The rally was prompted by Government reports showing a weaker-than-expected rise in retail sales and by an increase in initial jobless claims. 
 The price of the 30-year Treasury bond rose 23/32 , to 865/32 . The bond's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 7.13 percent, from 7.19 percent on Wednesday and nearly back down to where it was when the week started.
Buying was encourged by the retail sales report, which showed a gain of eight-tenths of 1 percent in May. Many economists had been expecting an increase of 1 percent. And excluding auto sales, the report was much weaker, leaving an increase of just three-tenths of 1 percent.
Margo Evashevski, a fixed-income analyst with MMS International in San Francisco, said the market rebounded because a strong retail sales report had already been priced into bonds. "It got a little confusing today," Ms. Evashevski said, "since there were some large April revisions in the retail report. In fact, we might have gotten a bigger rally out of the report had it not been for the revisions."
She said the market's recent sensitivity to labor data because of concern about wage pressures building made the rise in jobless claims a positive for the market.
The Labor Department said yeterday that initial claims for state unemployment benefits for the week ended June 8 rose by 6,000, to 360,000, from 354,000 the previous week.
"But as far as today's data is concerned, it did not alter market's expectation that the Federal Reserve will eventually raise short-term interest rates," Ms. Evashevski said.
Donald Fine, chief market analyst at Chase Asset Management, agreed that the two reports heartened the market.
"But a 0.8 percent jump in May retail sales on the heels of an upwardly revised drop of only 0.1 percent in April is most certainly not weak," Mr. Fine noted. "In fact, all categories showed gains except food stores, restaurants and bars, and unless the country has embarked on a permanent national diet, these food related components are likely to reverse in the upcoming months."
Mr. Fine noted that report showed strength in the sales of durable goods, including autos and housing-related products, suggesting that the rise in interest rates this year has yet to depress consumer spending in many important areas.
"Indeed, with the recently released payroll numbers indicating sustained employment growth that is likely above the Fed's comfort zone, with a slowly rising trend in the C.P.I. that is still not threatening but at the same time not as benign as many had thought, and consumer spending still forging ahead, the market's concept of a Fed tightening in the foreseeable future remains firmly in place," Mr. Fine said.
Lawrence J. Waldman, managing partner of the Long Island office of KPMG Peat Marwick, said the economy was continuing to expand, but that it was giving off mixed signals. That confusion paralyzed the market, he said.
Analysts said the market was also heartened as the Senate yesterday broke up the logjam that had been holding up the confirmation of Alan Greenspan, as chairman of the Federal Reserve. A vote on his third term as Fed chairman is set for next Thursday.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Tax-Exempt Yields" shows average weekly yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds. (Source: The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES BONDS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (89%); BOND MARKETS (79%); PUBLIC DEBT (79%); TREASURY SECURITIES (79%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); TRENDS (78%); DURABLE GOODS (78%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); RESTAURANTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (76%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (74%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (67%); INTEREST RATES (67%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT DONALD FINE (82%); MARGO EVASHEVSKI (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 1996



321 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 14, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 866 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Indicts Arizona Governor on Fraud and Extortion Charges

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr. 

DATELINE: PHOENIX, June 13

 BODY:
Gov. Fife Symington, whose multimillion-dollar commercial real estate dealings have been under Justice Department investigation for the last five years, was indicted today by a Federal grand jury on 23 counts of fraud and extortion.
The Governor, a 50-year-old conservative Republican who is in bankruptcy, was accused of repeatedly making false statements about his net worth to financial institutions in order to obtain or renegotiate the loans with which he built a dozen commercial developments in Phoenix in the booming mid-1980's. 
 He also was charged with trying to use financial and political pressure to force union pension funds to release him from a $10 million loan obligation.
And he was charged with lying under oath during bankruptcy proceedings flowing from the collapse of his real estate empire in the recession that hit the Southwest in the late 1980's and early 1990's.
"He misrepresented himself," said Nora M. Manella, the United States Attorney who directed the investigation, in releasing the 39-page indictment, handed up by the grand jury early this afternoon.
The Governor, a descendant of a long and wealthy line of blueblood industrialists and public servants, immediately denied any wrongdoing, saying in a statement read at the capitol that the Federal Government "has accused me of criminal conduct I never committed or even contemplated."
"I am proud of my work and the properties that I developed," he said. "I never did any work in a spirit of deception. One day a jury will find me innocent." He refused to take questions.
While the indictment was not unexpected, given that the investigation had been public knowledge for at least five years, it nevertheless seemed certain to shake both the people of Arizona and the government here in Phoenix.
Likewise, it seemed likely that the Governor's standing in the polls, already bouncing on the bottom, would fall even further and that calls for his resignation, heard periodically in the past, would increase.
It has been less than a decade since another Arizona Governor, Evan Mecham, was indicted while in office. He eventually beat the charges -- that he accepted an illegal campaign loan -- but not before he was impeached by the state legislature and driven from office.
Two weeks ago, in Arkansas, Gov. Jim Guy Tucker was convicted of charges growing out of the Whitewater investigation. Mr. Tucker, a Democrat, resigned from office to pursue an appeal.
Ms. Manella said that because of variables in Federal sentencing guidelines and presentencing reports, it would be impossible to say how many years, if any, Mr. Symington might serve or be fined if convicted on one or more of the 23 charges.
Under Federal law, Mr. Symington will be arraigned in the next 10 days.
"We will not be arresting the Governor," Ms. Manella said.
Because Federal officials were aware of the impact today's indictment would have on the state, she said, the Justice Department decided to take its time with the investigation, studying more than a million financial documents and interviewing several hundred witnesses.
"We were maniacally careful," she said.
Most of the real estate dealings referred to in the indictment took place before the Governor was elected in early 1991. But some, including those involving the pension funds, took place after he took office.
According to the indictment, Mr. Symington sought approval of millions of dollars in loans between mid-1986 and mid-1991 by submitting at least eight sets of false statements about his personal worth to various banks, pension funds and investment advisers.
"He created different versions of a personal financial statement that had the same 'as of' date but which contained different net worths," the indictment says. The personal financial statements "materially overstated assets, materially understated liabilities and materially overstated defendant's net worth," it says.
At one point, the indictment says, Mr. Symington was putting his net worth at about $12 million, when in fact he was almost $24 million in debt.
Mr. Symington made the false representations and omissions of facts, the indictment says "to create the false and misleading impression that he was a successful real estate developer with substantial financial resources available to him, and for the purpose of influencing lenders in their decisions to provide millions of dollars in construction and permanent loans and to extend loans and lines of credit."
As for the extortion charge, the indictment says Mr. Symington represented to the unions that had lent one of his developments $10 million that he would "take or withold official action" that might do them economic harm if they did not ease the terms of the loan.
Specifically, the indictment charges, Mr. Symington threatened to "steer away" tenants and prospective tenants, including Arizona State University, from rental properties controlled by the unions.
The indictment also says he stated in bankruptcy proceedings that he had $400,000 in equity in one piece of property and $1 million in equity in another when, in fact, the value in both instances was "substantially less." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: JUSTICE DEPARTMENT

ORGANIZATION: JUSTICE DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA; UNITED STATES (94%); ARIZONA, USA (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; EXTORTION AND BLACKMAIL; ETHICS; REAL ESTATE EXTORTION (92%); REAL ESTATE (91%); GRAND JURY (91%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); INDICTMENTS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); MISCONDUCT (78%); ETHICS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); SENTENCING (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); JURY TRIALS (77%); POLITICS (77%); CIVIL SERVICES (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); CRIMINAL FINES (75%); LAWYERS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); RESIGNATIONS (66%); POLLS & SURVEYS (66%); SENTENCING GUIDELINES (65%); IMPEACHMENT (61%); 

PERSON: AYRES, B DRUMMOND JR; SYMINGTON, FIFE (GOV) NORA M MANELLA (60%); JIM GUY TUCKER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 1996



322 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 517 words

HEADLINE: Retail Sales Up 0.8% in May But Were Below Expectations

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 13

 BODY:
Retail sales rose eight-tenths of 1 percent in May, the third advance in four months, the Government reported today, partly because of an increase in auto sales.
Some analysts doubt the pace can be sustained. 
 "Consumer debt is now at a record 20.8 percent of income, and borrowing is slowing," economists at Merrill Lynch & Company told the investment firm's clients. "Credit-card delinquencies and personal bankruptcies are rising."
They also said temporary forces that increased spending in recent months -- a boom in mortgage refinancing, capital gains, early tax refunds -- were receding. As a result, the Merrill Lynch economists said, "we expect spending to slow in the second half."
Indeed, the eight-tenths of 1 percent increase in May was below the 1 percent that economists had expected. And excluding auto sales, the May increase was just three-tenths of 1 percent.
There are indications that job growth may already be moderating. The Labor Department said today that new claims for jobless benefits rose last week for a second week.
But the Commerce Department reported today that consumers remained active in May, when an unexpected 348,000 new jobs were created, increasing retail sales to a seasonally adjusted $205.5 billion from $203.9 billion a month earlier. Retail sales represent about one-third of the nation's economic activity.
The Commerce report also showed April sales were down just one-tenth of 1 percent, despite a 3.8 percent drop in motor vehicles. The department originally estimated that April sales fell three-tenths of 1 percent.
Sales in May were 5.5 percent above those a year earlier.
Auto sales, which account for about one-fourth of all sales, rebounded in May with a 2.1 percent increase.
Reflecting a strong housing market, sales of furniture and other home furnishings were up 1.6 percent. Purchases of building materials, hardware and garden supplies jumped 2.5 percent.
Over all, sales rose 1.9 percent on durable goods -- items expected to last more than three years -- erasing a 1.8 percent loss a month earlier.
Nondurable goods sales were unchanged in May after rising 1 percent a month earlier.
Department stores posted a 1.2 percent increase in sales on top of a 1.4 percent gain in April. Sales at apparel stores were up one-tenth of 1 percent and at drugstores nine-tenths of 1 percent. Receipts at gasoline stations rose four-tenths of 1 percent, but analysts said that increase was partly a result of rising prices.
Sales at grocery stores dropped five-tenths of 1 percent and at restaurants and bars eight-tenths of 1 percent.
The Labor Department report said new claims for unemployment insurance rose by 6,000 last week to a seasonally adjusted 360,000, highest since 372,000 in the week ended April 20. Claims had risen by 9,000 a week earlier.
As a result, the four-week moving average rose by 2,000, to 351,000, also the second consecutive increase after falling steadily from 394,250 at the end of March. Many analysts consider the less-volative four-week average a more accurate measure of labor conditions.

GRAPHIC: Graph shows total retail sales from January 1995 to May 1996. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (84%); MER (NYSE) (84%); 8675 (TSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SALES; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; UNITED STATES ECONOMY RETAIL SALES (94%); SALES FIGURES (92%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); PERSONAL DEBT (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (88%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (88%); RESTAURANTS (79%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); DURABLE GOODS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); CONSUMER LENDING (77%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (75%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (74%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (74%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); EMPLOYMENT (73%); JOB CREATION (72%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (70%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (62%); GAS STATIONS (61%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (55%); MORTGAGE LOANS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 1996



323 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1012 words

HEADLINE: Turkey Ponders Its Shift in Fortunes

BYLINE: By CELESTINE BOHLEN 

DATELINE: ISTANBUL, Turkey, June 12

 BODY:
When the Foreign Minister of Kyrgyzstan met with her Turkish counterpart at a recent international gathering, she asked him a question so painful and so blunt that it made front-page news in Turkey.
"When we got our independence, you gave us inspiration," said Rosa Otunbaeva, the minister from Kyrgyzstan, in Central Asia. "Turkey was our horizon. When we looked at Turkey, we thought we would one day be like you." 
 And then with tears in her eyes, she blurted out, "What has happened to you?"
This emotional conversation, retold to the newspaper Hurriyet by Turkey's Foreign Minister, Emre Gonensay, captured a mood shared by many Turks these days as they try to understand what has gone wrong with their Government, their politics and their ambitions to be a major player in a trouble-prone region.
Fehmi Koru, a newspaper columnist, recalled a 1993 speech by former President Turgut Ozal: "He said that Turkey in 10 years would be one of the 15 major countries in the world. Now if anyone heard that argument, they would just laugh. People have lost that confidence in themselves."
If three years ago Turkey seemed the model of a Western-looking, secular state that could lead the way for the Muslim republics of the former Soviet Union, its image today is quite different.
An ugly political stalemate has paralyzed important domestic initiatives, further damaging an economy already hit with double-digit inflation; a harsh war against a Kurdish insurrection in the southeast is no closer to an end, and Turkey's relations with Greece and now with Arab states have hit new lows.
"A lot of Western capitals are looking at Turkey with amazement and anxiety, wondering how seriously to take its crisis," said a Western diplomat. "But Turkey is a country that cannot afford not to be taken seriously."
It has been nine months now since Turkey had an effective government, a period that has been punctuated by two resignations, one round of elections and a cycle of back-room negotiations that have gone on so long that they have now begun to repeat themselves.
The crisis began last fall when Prime Minister Tansu Ciller, an American-educated economist, resigned after the collapse of her ruling coalition. In elections in December, an Islamic party took the lead for the first time in the history of the 73-year-old Turkish republic, throwing down a challenge so daunting that it has effectively paralyzed Turkey's fractured political center.
Now after the collapse of another weak government, Necmettin Erbakan, the leader of the Islamic Welfare Party, is once again coaxing his opponents into a partnership that each one, at some point in the past, has denounced as a dangerous precedent for Turkey's secular state.
This time he comes to the table with an even stronger political hand: recent municipal by-elections showed the Welfare Party getting more than 33 percent of the vote, compared with the 21.6 percent it won in the December national election. But his best card is the dismal performance of Turkey's two main center-right politicians -- Mrs. Ciller and Mesut Yilmaz, her foe whose three-month-old Government finally sank last week.
This performance, coupled with three continuing investigations into Mrs. Ciller's personal finances, has only reinforced widespread disgust with Turkey's mainstream political parties and increased the popularity of the Welfare Party.
As the political crisis drags on, the establishment's fear of the Welfare Party is slowly ebbing. Business leaders have signaled a new willingness to consider a government that includes the Welfare Party, and even the powerful Turkish military, which vigorously opposes any erosion of the secular state, has sent at least one conciliatory message.
But there are still deep doubts about the Welfare Party among Turkey's Westernized elite, doubts that put their democratic ideals squarely in conflict with their dedication to secularism.
"If the Welfare Party becomes a coalition partner, as a democrat I have to respect it, but it could be very painful," said a journalist who asked not to be identified. "It would be very sad after 73 years to surrender the Turkish republic to an Islamic party."
Political experts differ about the Welfare Party's long-term ambitions, and its ability, within a coalition government, to change Turkey's position as a staunch member of the Western alliance. Mr. Erbakan's own views offer little clue since they are constantly changing: in a recent interview in a Turkish newspaper he said he would not oppose Turkey's continued membership in NATO, or even its recent customs union agreement with the European Union, a different stance from the one he struck during his campaign in December.
But he has been consistently critical of Turkey's recently signed military pact with Israel. For many Muslims inside and outside Turkey, the five-year agreement with Israel is an act of betrayal and a symptom of policies that push Turkey away from the Islamic world toward an unsympathetic West.
Few doubt that the Welfare Party's political influence is on the rise, whether they make it into this government or wait for new elections to improve their standing in Parliament.
"Any solution without the Welfare Party will not live long, and will only strengthen the Welfare Party," said Erol Yarar, president of Musiad, a Muslim business association that represents 2,200 small and medium-sized companies, many of them Welfare Party backers. "Islamic issues are already being recognized by all parties, and you can say that Islamic issues will become more pronounced."
But there are some who fear that it will take Turkey's pro-Western establishment too long to come to terms with a changing political reality, wasting time the country can ill afford.
"We have lost many things in the last year, and if we cannot form a stable government now, we will suffer gravely," said Mr. Koru. "It is up to the establishment to find a way out of the situation. If they do not, they will have failed, and they will have to accept that fact."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Necmettin Erbakan, leader of Turkey's surging Islamic party. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: TURKEY (98%); KYRGYZSTAN (94%); CENTRAL ASIA (92%); ASIA (92%); GREECE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: ISTANBUL, TURKEY (79%); 

COMPANY: ISLAMIC WELFARE PARTY (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: ISLAMIC WELFARE PARTY (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TURKEY; TURKEY (98%); KYRGYZSTAN (94%); CENTRAL ASIA (92%); ASIA (92%); GREECE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ISLAM INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); POLITICS (90%); RELIGION (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); WRITERS (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); CHURCH & STATE (66%); RESIGNATIONS (61%); 

PERSON: BOHLEN, CELESTINE; CILLER, TANSU; ERBAKAN, NECMETTIN

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 1996



324 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 14, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 5; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 561 words

HEADLINE: Colombia's Leader, Cleared by Congress, Still Isn't in the Clear

BYLINE: By DIANA JEAN SCHEMO 

DATELINE: BOGOTA, Colombia, June 13

 BODY:
Although Congress has cleared President Ernesto Samper of charges that Cali drug dealers financed his election, the Colombian leader faces an uncertain future. The threat of impeachment has been lifted, but calls for his resignation remain.
The 111-to-43 vote late Wednesday night supported the 45-year-old President by a greater margin than expected. But rather than strengthening his hand, it underscored the gap between opinions in Congress and among the public. Polls show that a majority of Colombians believe the President is guilty, though they divide evenly on whether he should step down. 
 With Colombians complaining of a lack of depth in the investigation, the congressional debate appears to have done little to help them lay to rest their doubts about Mr. Samper.
"We're in the same place we were three months ago, or six months ago, or even on the day after the 1994 elections," said Juan Tokatlian, a political scientist at the National University here. "The crisis continues."
The President is expected to turn his efforts toward extending the congressional vote of confidence into a broad social one.
In a televised address tonight, he called Wednesday "one of the best days in these times" and praised the congressional investigation as thorough and unbiased. "Colombians can sleep in peace tonight knowing that they have an honest President," he said.
He pledged to propose tighter laws against money laundering, to increase penalties for organized crime and to promote state financing of election campaigns.
Leading business and industrial groups, facing forecasts of an impending recession, said today that despite his congressional backing, Mr. Samper lacked the "conditions of governability," meaning political legitimacy and support.
Business and civic leaders held anti-Samper meetings in Colombia's major business centers that drew unexpectedly large crowds. They pledged to bring citizens' complaints against congressional representatives who decided against passing the charges on to the Senate.
The Supreme Court here ruled recently that deputies who relied on political expediency, rather than the evidence, to judge Mr. Samper could be prosecuted for "neglect of duty," though the court did not say how the court would make such a determination.
The debate, during which 76 representatives spoke, cleared Mr. Samper of charges that included illicit enrichment, fraud, falsification of documents and obstruction of justice in connection with some $6.1 million that his election campaign was said to have solicited from Cali drug dealers.
In addition to its enduring turmoil on the domestic front, Colombia also faces a further souring of relations with the United States.
The State Department spokesman, Nicholas Burns, said the decision by the Colombian Congress "leaves unanswered many questions regarding pervasive narcotrafficker influence on Colombia's institutions," adding, "It will not resolve the resultant crisis of confidence."
In March, the United States placed Colombia on a list of nations that failed to cooperate fully in fighting fight drug trafficking.
In the weeks leading up to the vote on Wednesday, American officials said they were considering sanctions against Colombia that could include revoking preferential trade tariffs or landing rights for Colombian planes. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: COLOMBIA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (79%); 

COMPANY: COLOMBIAN CONGRESS (88%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLOMBIAN CONGRESS (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: COLOMBIA; CALI (COLOMBIA); COLOMBIA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; ELECTIONS ELECTIONS (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); POLITICS (78%); ORGANIZED CRIME (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); RESIGNATIONS (77%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (75%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (74%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (69%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (65%); MONEY LAUNDERING (64%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (61%); 

PERSON: SCHEMO, DIANA JEAN; SAMPER, ERNESTO (PRES) ERNESTO SAMPER (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 1996



325 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 529 words

HEADLINE: Trade Group Will Decide Kodak Case

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 13

 BODY:
As expected, United States trade officials said today that they would file three complaints with the World Trade Organization contending that the Japanese Government had colluded with the Fuji Photo Film Company to exclude film made by the Eastman Kodak Company and other foreign producers.
"Our comprehensive investigation of the Japanese film market has shown that the Government of Japan built, supported and tolerated a market structure that thwarts foreign competition, and in which exclusionary business practices are commonplace," a deputy United States trade representative, Ira S. Shapiro, said. 
 By going to the World Trade Organization, the United States will forgo, for the moment, using the threat of trade sanctions, a weapon that has been sharply criticized by other countries in previous trade disputes between Washington and Tokyo.
Today's announcement sets in motion a 60-day period of consultations between the United States and Japan mediated by the Geneva-based trade organization before the actual filing of the complaints. On Wednesday, United States trade officials suggested that Japan could change its mind during that period.
"What you are seeing the U.S. Government do today is they're using several tools or strategies to force the Government of Japan to negotiate" on this issue, said Charles Smith, Kodak's director of corporate media affairs.
The action does not go as far as Kodak had sought. The company, the leading American film manufacturer, wanted Washington to threaten sanctions against Japan, fearing that a complaint could be tied up at the trade organization indefinitely.
Over the last few months, however, when it became clear that the United States favored taking the dispute to the international trade group, Kodak backed away from this stance and welcomed any action.
"We got a positive determination that the Government of Japan has acted unreasonably and tolerated unfair practices for decades," Mr. Smith said. "We are happy with the total strategy being employed."
Shares of Kodak rose $1.50 today, to $79.125, on the New York Stock Exchange. Fuji American depository receipts, traded on Nasdaq, rose 25 cents, to $30.75.
A lawyer for Fuji, Bill Barringer, said of the move: "We are displeased because we believe the facts presented don't justify W.T.O. action; it justifies doing nothing. However, it's an alternative we have said is acceptable. We will prevail if there is neutral fact-finding."
Kodak contends that Fuji, in collusion with the Japanese Government, blocked access to the Japanese film market through price controls, illegal rebates and intimidation. Fuji says that there is no collusion and that Kodak has full access to the Japanese photo film market.
Japan's film and photographic paper market is valued at $2.8 billion annually. Kodak estimates that the barriers in this market have cost it at least $5.6 billion in revenue since 1975.
Kodak has a 10 percent share of Japan's photo film market with sales last year of more than $1 billion. Fuji has approximately the same share of the United States market, while each company has a 70 percent share of its home market. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: 4901 (TSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3861 PHOTOGRAPHIC EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (96%); 

STATE: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (58%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

COMPANY: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION; FUJI PHOTO FILM CO; EASTMAN KODAK CO EASTMAN KODAK CO (94%); FUJIFILM HOLDINGS CORP (93%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (93%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION; FUJI PHOTO FILM CO; EASTMAN KODAK CO WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (93%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (96%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (58%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

SUBJECT: PHOTOGRAPHY; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); PHOTOGRAPHIC CHEMICALS & SUPPLIES MFG (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); TRADE DISPUTES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (78%); AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (78%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); PULP & PAPER MARKETS (73%); PAPER & PACKAGING (72%); LITIGATION (67%); PRICE INCREASES (66%); 

PERSON: CHARLES SMITH (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 1996



326 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 484 words

HEADLINE: Few Big Ripples Are Seen For the Global Economy

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
When a huge international financial institution like the Sumitomo Corporation announces that one of its traders has cost the company $1.8 billion in trading losses, Americans naturally ask how might this affect them. The answer seems to be that the impact will be negligible.
This is the third time in less than 18 months that a rogue trader has cost his employer $1 billion or more, and apart from the astonishment, the first two losses failed to leave much of a dent. A major British bank collapsed and various individuals were hurt, but national economies moved on basically unscathed. 
 "I don't believe this will have any noticeable affect on the United States economy," said Martin Bailey, a member of President Clinton's Council of Economic Advisers.
Sumitomo announced late yesterday that unauthorized trades over a 10-year period by a former copper trader, Yasuo Hamanaka, had cost the company $1.8 billion. Sumitomo owns businesses around the world, including banks in the United States that lend money to corporations, but do not engage in retail banking.
"There can always be a panicky reaction to anything named Sumitomo," said Alan Blinder, a Princeton University economist, referring to the bank's huge size, "but that would be irrational."
Copper prices fell after Sumitomo made its announcement, and that drop might have resulted in trading losses for some commodity dealers who held copper contracts. But copper prices have been falling for a while, and the latest drop only exacerbated this trend.
The main effect of Sumitomo's losses, if there is any at all, might be to undercut public confidence in financial institutions, said Joel Prakken of Lawrence H. Meyer & Associates in St. Louis, an economic consulting and forecasting firm.
Sumitomo's failure to detect the trading losses sooner might prompt some Americans to wonder how well their local financial institutions handle oversight. That concern, in the unlikely event that it arises, might translate into temporary drops in the stock prices of some banks, or slightly higher interest rates for money they seek to borrow.
But Sumitomo is only the latest billion-dollar-plus loss for a major institution. Nicholas W. Leeson, a trader based in Singapore for Barings P.L.C., left the venerable British bank short by $1.3 billion in February 1995. The bank was forced to sell itself to the ING Group of The Netherlands, and the British economy was unaffected. Toshihide Iguchi, who worked for Daiwa Bank Ltd. in New York, left his employer short $1.1 billion, Daiwa disclosed last October, with no noticeable effect on the economy or the financial markets.
"Your first inclination is to say, 'My goodness, how could one individual have control over so much?' " Mr. Prakken said. "But traders regularly take big positions, and $1.8 billion is not very much in the huge flow of money through the world's markets."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Billion-Dollar Debacles" lists financial disasters with red ink running to 10 figures. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8053 (TSE) (91%); INGA (BIT) (58%); INGA (AMS) (58%); ING (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS423830 INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (91%); SIC5084 INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (91%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (80%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (58%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); SINGAPORE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (77%); NETHERLANDS (51%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SUMITOMO CORP SUMITOMO CORP (91%); DAIWA BANK LTD (80%); BARINGS PLC (63%); ING GROEP NV (58%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (56%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (56%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (55%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUMITOMO CORP COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (56%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (56%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (55%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); SINGAPORE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (77%); NETHERLANDS (51%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COPPER, BRASS AND BRONZE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING COPPER MARKETS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BANK FAILURES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); FUTURES (78%); RETAIL BANKING (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); TRENDS (69%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS BILL CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 1996



327 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1056 words

HEADLINE: Dallas Opening Southwest's First Rail Transit

BYLINE: By ALLEN R. MYERSON 

DATELINE: DALLAS, June 13

 BODY:
After decades of feuds and false starts in an automobile-addicted state that remains the hub of the world's petroleum industry, Dallas plans to introduce the first modern rail transit line in the Southwest on Friday.
The Dallas system, planned back when rail transit was seen as a nostrum for every urban problem, makes a late debut, with other cities sometimes disenchanted with the returns on their huge investments. 
 While some Dallasites hope their fellows will climb aboard and leave more highway space for them, few can see themselves abandoning their cars or trucks.
"It's probably a waste of money," said Paul Nadelman, a stockbroker who was among those learning to dodge trains on practice runs along a transit mall downtown. "It's kind of neat to see the trains go back and forth, but Dallas isn't New York," he said. And he, for one, needs his car to see clients, he said.
The carless, however, say the train will save them from some of the circuitous transfers they have to make on buses. "I'm so excited," said Ayesha El-Amin, waiting at a combination bus and train stop in the Oak Cliff area south of downtown to begin her long commute to Richardson, a northern suburb. "Once it gets going, people will appreciate it more."
At $860 million for a 20-mile line expected to attract only about 7,000 new transit riders, plus 26,000 switching from buses, critics love to calculate how many BMW's each of those new riders would receive if the money were divided among them.
The 11.2-mile section that Dallas Area Rapid Transit, or DART, is opening this week includes the downtown transit mall, paved with bricks, and two branches into mostly black and Hispanic neighborhoods south of downtown. Politicians from these areas challenged earlier plans for concentrating the rail system in white neighborhoods to the north that have more traffic tie-ups but lower proportions of transit riders.
Along the transit mall today, the light rail cars -- which look like sleek, youthful trolley cars back from a stay at the health spa -- glided past with a whirr and a few clicks instead of the screech and clatter of older systems. They brazenly passed in front of Thanksgiving Tower, where once, reputedly, oil barons like J. R. Ewing, and still various Hunt brothers hatch their plans for feeding the nation's craving for gasoline and oil.
Even in rush hour, trains will be three cars long. Off-peak, they will be shorter. Train tickets, with free bus transfers, are one dollar.
Dallas's transit plans went in for some weight reduction after a 1988 referendum, when voters rejected a high-capacity New York-style system with a downtown subway. The DART Lite plan that followed had only enough money for the transit mall downtown.
Today, transit police tried to keep trains, traffic and pedestrians safely separate. They blew their whistles, waved their arms and dressed down jay-walkers and traffic violators in tones otherwise reserved for serial murderers caught in the act. "I've been driving this road for a hundred years, making this left turn," complained one motorist who was pulled over after cutting across the tracks.
"Well, now you make this left turn and you're going to get killed," the officer shot back.
Not to worry, Mayor Ron Kirk said in an interview. "We'll learn," he said. "We're not the cultural or educational wasteland that some back East think we are. Most of us can recognize foreign objects on wheels that are larger than Chevrolet Suburbans. If we can operate heavy farm machinery, I assure you we can co-exist with trains."
The Dallas Morning News has helped out with daily "DART Smarts," or tips for novice straphangers, including the crucial differences between buses and trains. "The trains stop at every station," read one of the tips. "So unlike with DART buses, there is no need to signal the train operator."
Dallas joins St. Louis, Sacramento, Denver and Los Angeles in embracing rail projects over recent years to deal with problems like pollution, traffic congestion and decaying downtowns. The Clinton Administration has raised annual transit financing by more than a third, to about $5 billion, with tentative backing for a new light rail line through northern New Jersey.
"Why?" asked Transportation Secretary Federico F. Pena, stuck in traffic coming into Dallas tonight from the airport. "The evidence is what's happening to me right now. People have realized you need other options besides the automobile."
But many academics, citing projects like the one in Los Angeles, say the trains have had a poor record of bringing urban revivals or attracting as many riders as expected.
"It's an 1890's idea and it's an 1890's technology," from the era before cars and urban sprawl, said Peter Gordon, associate dean of the University of Southern California School of Urban and Regional Planning. "To think this is the kind of thing we ought to be building now as cities are expanding and spreading out is crazy."
In Dallas, home to many of the nation's largest developers, real-estate interests have been consistent rail transit supporters. But downtown Dallas still has one of the highest office vacancy rates in the nation, with few signs that the yellow, white and black trains converging there will bring more tenants. Neither have speculators snapped up land around the rail stations as they still tend to do along new highways.
Houston has repeatedly considered but backed away from rail projects, relying instead on bus and car-pool lanes along the highways. Austin is toying with a plan for economical diesel trains only.
Dallas, aided by a 1 percent sales tax for mass transit that voters approved in 1983, plans to keep building. All 20 miles of the first phase, including a branch extending to the north, are expected to be open by May next year. By 2010, Dallas and its suburbs plan to have 53 miles of light rail, 98 miles of bus and car-pool lanes and 37 miles of commuter rail lines, including links to Fort Worth and the Dallas-Forth Worth Airport. The total cost would be $4.1 billion.
Ultimately, said Mayor Kirk, Dallasites will emerge from their autos. "I am reasonably confident," he said, "that once the metro area gets a firsthand look at the efficiency of transit, the debate is going to be, "When do you get to my neighborhood?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: In a test run yesterday, one of Dallas's new rail cars waited at a downtown intersection for traffic and people to pass. The official opening of the $860 million Dallas Area Rapid Transit system is scheduled for today. (Associated Press)
 
Map: "A CLOSER LOOK: Dallas's New Rail System" a map of Dallas that shows the location of the present and future rail lines around the metropolitian area. (Dallas Area Rapid Transit) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: DALLAS RAPID TRANSIT DALLAS AREA RAPID TRANSIT INC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: DALLAS RAPID TRANSIT

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS (TEX); TEXAS; UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (94%); DALLAS, TX, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: TRANSIT SYSTEMS RAIL TRANSPORTATION (92%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); TRAINS (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (89%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (89%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (88%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (77%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (72%); TRAVEL TICKETS (72%); POLITICS (67%); REFERENDUMS (60%); VOTERS & VOTING (60%); 

PERSON: MYERSON, ALLEN R

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 1996



328 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 125 words

HEADLINE: No Need to Abandon German Economic Model

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Klaus Friedrich (Op-Ed, June 10) writes: "Social peace and order may be worth a lot. But are they worth the price of stagnation?" Given the German experience, the answer is yes. 
 It is far from obvious that German comity is sufficiently robust to survive the intensified conflict Mr. Friedrich prescribes. Germans, especially Easterners, are already angry because of the perceived collapse of social equity, and the conflict over immigrants is not confined to a skinhead fringe. To exacerbate these conflicts by promoting greater competition, more unequal income distribution and the capitalism that is pushing Russia back toward authoritarianism is too risky.
 
CRAIG H. APPEL
Cambridge, Mass., June 10, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; GERMANY (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: APPEL, CRAIG H; FRIEDRICH, KLAUS KLAUS FRIEDRICH (88%); OP-ED JUNE (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 1996



329 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 14, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 160 words

HEADLINE: Weighing Political Words and Political Action;
On Medicare Costs

 BODY:
To the Editor:
It is specious for Speaker Newt Gingrich to argue (letter, June 9) that the Republican Medicare proposal covers the costs of the program. He reaches this conclusion by using the Consumer Price Index to calculate the inflation rate for the program.
But the Congressional Budget Office recognizes that factors like advances in technology and improved services help cause medical costs to rise at a faster rate than than the overall price index would suggest. 
 The budget office projected last month that "over the next decade, Federal spending per enrollee in Medicare and Medicaid will increase at more that twice the rate of inflation, as measured by the consumer price index for all urban consumers."
While the G.O.P. plan provides for some per capita increases in the Medicare program, these increases fall far short of what is needed to preserve currently provided services.
 
WALTER C. FURST
Washington, June 10, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (58%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (58%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MEDICARE; HEALTH INSURANCE MEDICARE (94%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (88%); INFLATION (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (88%); HEALTH INSURANCE (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (87%); PUBLIC FINANCE (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); MEDICAID (57%); 

PERSON: FURST, WALTER C; GINGRICH, NEWT (SPEAKER) NEWT GINGRICH (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 1996



330 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 583 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Industrial Production and Business Inventories Rise

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 14

 BODY:
American industries increased production for a second consecutive month in May and businesses showed signs of rebuilding depleted inventories, a move that could mean even greater output and more jobs.
"The economy clearly has rebounded from its weakness last year," said Gary Thayer, an economist with A. G. Edwards & Sons in St. Louis. 
 The Federal Reserve reported today that output at the nation's factories, mines and utilities rose seven-tenths of 1 percent last month, the same increase as revised numbers showed for April. The Fed originally reported an increase of nine-tenths of 1 percent in April.
Many analysts had expected production to expand about five-tenths of 1 percent in May.
The advance was only the third so far in 1996 in the manufacturing sector, which has been struggling for most of a year.
There have been signs it may be shaking off its lethargy. Excluding the volatile transportation category, factory orders rose 1.9 percent in April -- the most in nearly two years and the third rise in four months.
The central bank also said that the nation's industries were operating at 83.2 percent of capacity in April, up from 82.9 percent a month earlier.
The rate suggested a lack of production bottlenecks that could cause shortages and higher prices.
But Elliott Platt, an economist with the Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette Securities Corporation in New York, contended that "despite the increase, capacity utilization remains a safe distance from any rate that may create manufacturing bottlenecks and ignite inflation."
In a separate report, the Commerce Department said that business inventories rose four-tenths of 1 percent in April after posting a decline of three-tenths of 1 percent in March, the first since December. They totaled a seasonally adjusted $984.1 billion, up from $980.1 billion in March.
The increase was in line with analyst expectations. Many believe that businesses, after shrinking overbuilt stockpiles in recent months, will begin rebuilding them to meet anticipated demand. If so, that would set the stage for greater production and possibly more jobs.
"We had several quarters of inventory correction and we are now at the point where the economy is doing better and businesses are feeling comfortable holding bigger stockpiles," Mr. Thayer of A. G. Edwards said.
Sales shot up 1 percent in April, the third straight advance, to $711.2 billion from $704.3 billion.
The inventory-to-sales ratio was 1.38, down from 1.39 in March and the lowest since 1.37 in December 1994. The ratio meant it would take 1.38 months to exhaust stockpiles at the April sales rate.
Factory inventories were unchanged in April while those at retail outlets edged up one-tenth of 1 percent. Wholesaler stockpiles rose 1.3 percent.
Sales by manufacturers shot up 1.7 percent and sales by wholesalers were up 1.1 percent. While retailers sales slipped one-tenth of 1 percent in April, the Government reported on Thursday that they rebounded eight-tenths of 1 percent a month later.
In its report, the Fed said production at the nation's utilities surged 3.1 percent, more than erasing a 1.8 percent loss in April as warmer weather caused many consumers to use air conditioners.
But excluding utilities, output still rose five-tenths of 1 percent.
Manufacturing output rose five-tenths of 1 percent, slower than April's 1.1 percent advance, which reflected a rebound from the losses during a strike at the General Motors Corporation in March.

GRAPHIC: Graphs show capacity utilization, industrial production, and inventory-sales ratio for 1995 and 1996. (Source: Federal Reserve Board, Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRODUCTION; INVENTORIES (ECONOMIC INDICATOR) MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INVENTORIES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (78%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); WHOLESALE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (76%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); RETAIL SALES (64%); RETAILERS (60%); 

PERSON: GARY THAYER (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 1996



331 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 348 words

HEADLINE: Bankruptcy Filing in Case of an Israeli Bank

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
An investor in a failed Israeli bank filed for personal bankruptcy in United States Bankruptcy Court in Los Angeles yesterday, listing more than $212 million in debts, much of it claimed by Israel.
The investor, Erwin Sussman, 70, was one of a number of foreign investors who helped capitalize the North American Bank Ltd. in 1977. Baruch C. Cohen, Mr. Sussman's lawyer, placed the size of Mr. Sussman's investment at $7 million. 
 The bank foundered in the aftermath of Israel's 1983 banking crisis, and was taken over by the Bank of Israel in August 1985.
The failure has prompted a rash of lawsuits and countersuits by the Israeli Government and by Mr. Sussman and the other foreign investors in the bank.
Among other things, the Israeli Government has contended that Mr. Sussman and the bank's other foreign directors were personally liable for North American's losses, even though the bank was managed by Israelis.
A number of prominent foreigners who invested in the bank were also named in the Israeli lawsuits, including David Goan of Switzerland, whose family is prominent in Jewish organizations; Joel Herzog, Mr. Goan's brother-in-law and the son of Chaim Herzog, a former President of Israel; Joseph Nakash, founder of the Jordache clothing empire, and Norman Allen, a wealthy investor from Birmingham, Mich. Mr. Sussman, a Swedish citizen, is a legal permanent resident of California.
Three Israeli lawsuits against Mr. Sussman are still outstanding, but have been put on hold and cannot proceed unless permission is granted by the bankruptcy court.
Mr. Cohen, Mr. Sussman's lawyer, said yesterday that the status of Israel's claims against the other defendants was not clear.
Israel is represented by the law firm of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom.
A meeting of Mr. Sussman's creditors is scheduled for July 17. If an objection to the bankruptcy filing is not filed within 60 days from that meeting, the debt in question will be discharged.
A telephone call to Douglas Adler, a Skadden, Arps attorney involved in the case, was not returned.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (85%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (85%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); 

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (95%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (58%); SWITZERLAND (56%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); GOA, INDIA (58%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NORTH AMERICAN BANK LTD; BANK OF ISRAEL SKADDEN ARPS SLATE MEAGHER & FLOM LLP (85%); BANK OF ISRAEL (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN BANK LTD; BANK OF ISRAEL

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL; ISRAEL (95%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (58%); SWITZERLAND (56%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); GOA, INDIA (58%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; BANKRUPTCIES INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (94%); BANK FAILURES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); PERSONAL DEBT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); LAWYERS (89%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); JEWS & JUDAISM (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N; SUSSMAN, ERWIN CHAIM HERZOG (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 1996



332 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1930 words

HEADLINE: A Sumitomo Loss Felt Round the World;
Principles Fall Victim To Practice

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK 

DATELINE: TOKYO, June 14

 BODY:
The business principles of the Sumitomo Corporation, framed and hung on the wall in many of the giant trading company's far-flung outposts, warn against speculation. "Under no circumstances," they state, should the company "pursue easy gains or act imprudently."
Yet in an announcement that roiled commodities markets, Sumitomo said Thursday that it expected to suffer a loss of $1.8 billion -- equivalent to almost 10 times last year's net profit -- from what were apparently highly speculative and imprudent trades made by one of its executives on the world copper market over 10 years. 
 The loss shocked Japan, not only because of its magnitude but also because it involved Sumitomo, one of the country's oldest and proudest companies and one that is considered the most conservatively managed of Japan's trading giants. Sumitomo is generally financially more solid than its rivals, more timid in venturing into new businesses and longer on bureaucracy.
"Sumitomo is ridiculously rigid in control," said a businessman who has spent his career at a rival trading company. "We are always laughing at Sumitomo. They are not a trading firm. They are like an administrative company, trying to control the entrepreneurial spirit."
Still, the announcement, coming less than a year after Daiwa Bank Ltd. disclosed a $1.1 billion loss caused by a rogue trader of United States Treasury bonds, is likely to raise anew questions about the adequacy of internal controls at Japanese companies, which often tend to place a great trust on individuals at the expense of formal checks and balances. At the same time, since published reports five years ago raised questions about Sumitomo's copper trading practices, regulators are certain to give close scrutiny to the company's contention that the huge losses went undetected for so long.
Questions might also arise about whether it is possible for anyone to adequately manage Japan's leading trading companies, which are the biggest companies in the world and have been diversifying in recent years into numerous businesses that have little connection to one another.
Sumitomo had revenues of more than $150 billion in the fiscal year that ended March 31. It has more than 200 operating units around the world and trades in thousands of products, from pork to pipe, and aerospace equipment to fertilizer. It also invests in areas as diverse as oil production in Vietnam, steel and solar-cell manufacturing in the United States and industrial park development in Indonesia.
"They know their business is spreading out," said Tomoyasu Kato, an analyst for the Nomura Research Institute, talking about the big trading companies. "They are now strengthening control and management."
Sumitomo executives have not disclosed much about the motives and mode of operation of Yasuo Hamana ka, the 48-year-old head of its copper trading operations, who it said incurred the losses through unauthorized trading. Mr. Hamanaka was dismissed on Thursday.
But there do seem to be striking similarities between the Sumitomo and Daiwa Bank incidents.
In both cases, the losses were attributed to essentially one rogue trader acting over a decade or more.
Sumitomo executives said at a news conference today that it appeared that Mr. Hamanaka had started his unauthorized speculation to cover losses he incurred trading for the company's account. This was the same motive attributed to Toshihide Iguchi, the trader of Treasury bonds who was held responsible for Daiwa Bank's loss.
Another striking similarity: Both Mr. Hamanaka and Mr. Iguchi apparently handled the processing needed to enter their trades on the company books, a job that ideally should be done by another person. Without this crucial check in the system, the two traders could cover up their actions by falsifying accounts.
And while most people are rotated frequently in Japanese companies, both Mr. Iguchi and Mr. Hamanaka, who traded copper for 15 years, stayed in their posts for a long time, developing expertise that seemingly made them indispensable and made it difficult for others to challenge their actions.
To be sure, Mr. Iguchi was a little-known executive in the New York outpost of the Osaka-based Daiwa. Mr. Hamanaka was known throughout the world among copper traders. He operated in a core business of Sumitomo in Tokyo and was a big enough star that Tomiichi Akiyama, the company president, took time to meet him some years ago.
Sumitomo informed authorities in the United States and Britain within days after Mr. Hamanaka is said to have confessed on June 5, although it said it had suspicions about him from early May. Daiwa took about 10 weeks to tell American regulators that it suspected a big loss from Mr. Iguchi's trading, incurring a wrath that led to its American operations being shut down. Earlier this year, Daiwa Bank pleaded guilty in New York to charges that it covered up the trading losses and it agreed to pay $340 million in fines.
Mr. Akiyama said at today's news conference that Sumitomo's copper division was audited frequently but that Mr. Hamanaka's trades were done off the books and the accounting falsified, so it was difficult to detect the unauthorized trades. But he said Sumitomo's systems of checks and balances would be reviewed.
"The incident is regrettable as it happened despite Sumitomo's principle of placing a priority on trust," he said.
Only last month Sumitomo was embarrassed when a subsidiary announced it had suffered a loss of more than $70 million from the forging of its prepaid magnetic cards used to play the gambling game of pachinko.
One executive at Sumitomo said both the speculative copper trading and the involvement in the mob-connected pachinko industry reflected an undesirable move away from core businesses. He said company employees could not fathom how the $1.8 billion loss was possible with all departments auditing themselves twice a year. "This should never happen at Sumitomo," he said.
Analysts said Sumitomo would be hurt but not crippled by the loss from the copper trading. The company has about $4 billion in unrealized gains from securities it holds and can sell some of them to cover the loss, they said.
Still, the loss will knock 27 percent off the shareholders' equity, said Kota Nakako, an analyst in Tokyo with SBC Warburg, and could make it more difficult for the company to invest in new businesses at a time when it is trying to diversify into such areas as cable television and satellite broadcasting. "The company's risk-taking ability will be reduced," he said.
Sumitomo's bond rating, the highest among the trading companies at Aa3 by Moody's, is also likely to fall.
Mr. Kato of Nomura Research said there is a chance the loss could grow because Sumitomo might still have large positions in the copper market and would probably be vulnerable if the metal's price declines further.
Mr. Hamanaka was sometimes called "Mr. 5 Percent," because Sumitomo controlled as much as 5 percent of the world trade in copper. Sumitomo, which is involved in copper mining as well, buys copper to supply to customers that use it to make wire, automobile equipment and other products.
It was to hedge its risks from these transactions that the company engaged in copper futures trading in London, a spokeswoman for Sumitomo said.
Copper is, in a sense, the core of Sumitomo, which is based in Osaka but also has a big headquarters in Tokyo. The trading house was started early in the 17th century by Masatomo Sumitomo, who learned a new technique for refining copper that allowed silver to be extracted, greatly increasing profits. In 1690, the company opened a copper mine that became the base of its business until the late 1800's, when the company began branching out into a conglomerate known as a zaibatsu.
During the American occupation of Japan following World War II, Sumitomo and the other zaibatsu, particularly Mitsubishi and Mitsui, were broken up and the influence of the founding families diminished.
The Sumitomo Corporation is still at the core of the Sumitomo Group, a loosely affiliated collection of several dozen companies, known as a keiretsu, whose members include Sumitomo Bank, the steelmaker Sumitomo Metal Industries and the electronics giant NEC.
But in recent years, the traditional trading role has been diminishing. Japan's big companies can now import and export on their own and no longer have need for a middleman.
To stay alive, the trading companies have diversified, investing in a host of businesses to become manufacturers as well as traders. They have also turned to helping foreign companies penetrate Japan's market.
Risk-averse Sumitomo has been slower to diversify than its competitors and is still heavily dependent on trading in metals and other materials. But in the last few years, it has become more aggressive.
It is in a joint venture with Tele-Communications Inc., the largest cable television operator in the United States, to develop cable television and programming services in Japan. It owns three minimills making steel in the United States.
In copper, it opened a big mine in Chile in 1994 in a joint venture with the Sumitomo Metal Mining Company and the Phelps Dodge Mining Company of the United States. It is developing a large copper and gold mine in Indonesia with Newmont Gold of the United States. It also has mining interests in Arizona.
 
At the Start, a Family Smelting Business
 Long before the trading of Yasuo Hamanaka turned the world's attention to the copper market, the history of the Sumitomo Corporation was being written. The conglomerate, which had revenues of $150 billion in its most recent fiscal year, dates to the 16th century.
 Masatomo Sumitomo, left, who lived from 1585 to 1652, is considered the spiritual founder of the Sumitomo Corporation.
 In his first career, as a Buddhist priest, Masatomo Sumitomo wrote about how to conduct commercial activity. In 1891, his writings, lower left, were used as the basis of the company's business principles.
 Article 1 explains the necessity of acting in good faith in order to maintain another party's trust. Article 2 urges that social trends be studied to meet social changes with active responses.
 And Article 3, which is posted at many Sumitomo outposts, advises against being attracted to easy profits or hastily drawn to the promise of profits before fully investigationg the commercial viability of business ventures.
 Sumitomo's history can be traced to the lzumiya copper business established in Kyoto in 1590 by Riemon Sogo, Masatomo Sumitomo's brother-in-law. Until the late 16th century, copper ore was exported with its silver intact. The Sumitomo family is credited with revolutionizing Japan's copper market by learning Western smelting techniques.
 The family business was moved to Osaka, and in 1690 the family opened the Besshi Copper Mine, which was still profitable up to ther early 20th century.
 In 1897, the House of Sumitomo established the Sumitomo Copper Rolling Works to manufacture bare copper wire and by 1900 the company was making insulated wire. As early as 909, Sumitomo was testing cables for telecommunications.
 Nowadays, Sumitomo has more than 200 operating units around the world and trades in thousands of products, from pork to pipe, and aerospace equipment to fertilizer.
 It also invests in areas as diverse as oil production in Vietnam, steel and solar-cell manufacturing in the United States and industrial park development in Indonesia.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Yasuo Hamanaka, the copper trader whom Sumitomo blames for compiling $1.8 billion in unauthorized trades. Article, page 34. (Reuters) (pg. 31); A detail from an illustration of Sumitomo's original copper refining process. (pg. 34)
 
Graph: "A Market Titan is Toppled" shows price of copper on the London Metal Exchange. (Source: Datastream)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8053 (TSE) (91%); 4307 (TSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS423830 INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (91%); SIC5084 INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (91%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (67%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (50%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (50%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (91%); INDONESIA (79%); VIET NAM (51%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (57%); 

COMPANY: SUMITOMO CORP SUMITOMO CORP (91%); DAIWA BANK LTD (67%); NOMURA RESEARCH INSTITUTE LTD (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUMITOMO CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (91%); INDONESIA (79%); VIET NAM (51%); TOKYO, JAPAN (57%); 

SUBJECT: COPPER, BRASS AND BRONZE; SECURITIES AND COMMODITIES VIOLATIONS; FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING COPPER INDUSTRY (89%); COPPER MARKETS (89%); METALS MARKETS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (78%); FUTURES (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (73%); BONDS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (65%); TREASURY SECURITIES (64%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (63%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (63%); PHOTOELECTRIC CELL MFG (60%); 

PERSON: POLLACK, ANDREW; HAMANAKA, YASUO TOSHIHIDE IGUCHI (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 1996



333 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 5; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 951 words

HEADLINE: Russian Campaign Ends but TV Films Are Telling Voters of Communist Horrors

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Saturday, June 15

 BODY:
After a frantic flurry of last-minute political ads, the Russian presidential campaign came to an abrupt halt at midnight on Friday.
Until the polls close on Sunday night, candidates are forbidden to make speeches or put up new posters, and all commercials on radio and television must be discontinued. 
 Instead, a weeklong anti-Communist television extravaganza will reach its peak. Television has been the biggest weapon in President Boris N. Yeltsin's campaign, and he is intent on squeezing his message into every last second of the air time he virtually controls.
"Burnt by the Sun," the harrowing 1995 Oscar-winning film by Nikita Mikhalkov about Stalin's terror, will be shown at 6 P.M. election eve on ORT, Russia's largest network.
Today's other TV highlights include "In Order to Survive," a 1992 thriller about the ties between organized crime and the Communist Party, on ORT. RTR, the second largest state-controlled network, will show "The Run," a movie based on Mikhail Bulgakov's novel about atrocities during the Revolution. NTV, the privately owned channel, will show a 1993 bleakly satirical film called "Stalin's Testament."
In contrast to the Communist horror movies, Mr. Yeltsin's own posters and television commercials radiate serenity and stability. But that optimism clashes with the mood of many viewers and an atmosphere of dark anxiety and alarm.
In recent days, a bomb went off in the Moscow subway, the Deputy Mayor of Moscow was wounded in an assassination attempt, and the Mayor of Zhukovsky, a small town near Moscow, was slain. With worries about other bombs and civil unrest, security all over Moscow is iron-tight.
The United States Embassy in Moscow issued a warning to American citizens to "avoid crowds" and "exercise caution," so as to not "inadvertently become caught up in a demonstration or other activity."
As they made their final pitches on Friday night, all the candidates stressed calm and quiet strength.
Gennadi A. Zyuganov, the Communist candidate, who has not bought any paid TV time, took advantage of his remaining free television time to reassure viewers that he will not take the country back to Soviet rule. In one ad, shown on the St. Petersburg channel, Mr. Zyuganov staged a mock interview in which he calmly answered questions about confiscating private property and reopening the gulag.
"They are just trying to scare people," he replied. "All those dachas and garden plots, people got them thanks to Soviet power. We're not going to take them away; we're going to try to lower rents."
A few minutes later, on ORT, the only network that reaches all across Russia, Mr. Zyuganov had a famous movie director make his final campaign pitch.
The director, Stanislav Gavarukhin, an ardent nationalist, spoke scornfully of the pop stars, actors and directors who have campaigned for Mr. Yeltsin. "They do it for the money," he said. "Shameless to use state money in this kind of campaign.
The Yeltsin campaign followed, with a reply by Mr. Mikhalkov, the film director, who spoke about the "dehumanization" under Communist rule while the screen flicked between images of Stalin and hysterical Soviet crowds.
The popularity of Aleksandr I. Lebed, a hero of the Afghan war and former general who is running as a law-and-order patriot, has been rising in the latest public opinion polls. On Friday night, he was shown walking across a verdant field and speaking sternly about the "bribery and corruption" that have undermined economic reform and placed a "criminal nomenklatura" in charge of the country.
General Lebed has been a harsh critic of Mr. Yeltsin, but behind the scenes he has been assiduously courted by the President's men, who are worried that the unpredictable ultranationalist Vladimir V. Zhirinovsky could make a deal with Mr. Zyuganov after the first round and hope to enlist General Lebed.
In his hometown, Yekaterinburg, on Friday night, Mr. Yeltsin hinted that General Lebed could someday be his political heir. He told reporters that his successor is among the current crop of rivals, and then recited a Lebed campaign slogan, "I know such a man."
Mr. Yeltsin also said that in his second term he would initiate a major Cabinet shuffle and fill his team with "new faces, fresh ideas."
Mr. Yeltsin's ad campaign, vignettes of ordinary older Russians talking about themselves through a montage of old sepia-tinted family portraits, culminated this week with the finale -- Mr. Yeltsin talking about his teen-age years and his courtship, against a backdrop of old pictures and sentimental music.
Some analysts suspect the Yeltsin campaign's all-out media blitz could backfire.
"Our research shows that people don't like it; they see it as burdensome," said Nugzar Betaneli, director of the Sociology of Parliamentarianism Institute, a public opinion research institute. His institute's latest polls suggest that Mr. Yeltsin's lead in the first round is narrowing, and that Mr. Zyuganov may pull ahead on election day.
Mr. Zyuganov has complained bitterly that Mr. Yeltsin's blanket coverage rivals the propaganda machine of the Brezhnev era. Some Communist leaders argue that the anti-Communist movie festival will hurt Mr. Yeltsin more than them.
"Such tactics will work only with those voters who cannot remember Soviet power," said Anatoly I. Lukyanov, the former chairman of the Soviet Parliament who is now the elder statesman of the Russian Communist Party.
"For the older generation, it will have a reverse effect," he said. "They associate Soviet power with the victory over fascism, the first space flight, electropower stations. They felt there was a great country at their backs."

GRAPHIC: Photos: In their final television appeals, the candidates in the Russian election took a low-keyed approach. One ad for President Boris N. Yeltsin showed him as a teen-ager, left. Gennadi A. Zyuganov, the Communist, staged a mock interview in which he promised not to return to Soviet rule.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTION ISSUES; TELEVISION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); MAYORS (89%); FILM (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (86%); ELECTIONS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (76%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (75%); FILM DIRECTORS (75%); HORROR FILMS (74%); RADIO ADVERTISING (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); POP & ROCK (72%); ASSASSINATION (71%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (70%); COMEDY FILMS (69%); RIOTS (65%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (63%); ORGANIZED CRIME (53%); 

PERSON: STANLEY, ALESSANDRA; YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES) BORIS N YELTSIN (92%); ALEKSANDR I LEBED (75%); GENNADI A ZYUGANOV (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 1996



334 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 41; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 367 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Rebounds on Bond Rally After Falling in Earlier Trading

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

 BODY:
The dollar rebounded from early declines yesterday as bond prices rallied after economic reports in the United States eased some concerns on inflation.
"The bond market came up, and people said, 'Fundamentally, there's nothing wrong with the dollar. Let's buy some cheap dollars,' " said Kevin Lawrie, manager of foreign exchange at the Mellon Bank. 
 The dollar often takes its cue from the Treasury market because international investors need dollars to buy United States bonds and other securities. Its sudden turnaround surprised some traders, and buoyed confidence that it would rise in coming days.
Bonds jumped after a Federal Reserve report on industrial production suggested that the economy was not expanding as fast as some traders had thought, reducing concerns that inflation would soon accelerate.
After falling sharply against the Japanese yen and German mark in Asian and European trading, the dollar ended higher against both currencies in late New York trading yesterday. The dollar was quoted at 109.12 yen, up from 108.75 yen on Thursday, and at 1.5272 marks, up from 1.5267 marks. The British pound rose to $1.5375 from $1.5347.
Earlier, the dollar slid as growing optimism that President Boris N. Yeltsin would finish first in tomorrow's election in Russia bolstered the German mark.
The prospect of political stability in Russia helps the mark because of the close economic ties between the two nations.
"There seems to be buying of marks ahead of the election based on the polls, though heaven knows how much you can trust Russian polls," said Richard Koss, currency strategist at MFR Inc., a money management and consulting firm.
The mark also benefited in early trading after a former British Chancellor of the Exchequer, Nigel Lawson, said, "The Bundesbank is horrified by the thought of Club Med countries being part of the single currency," Market News Service reported. Mr. Lawson, at a conference in Cannes, France, was referring to southern European nations.
Signs of turmoil in Europe's plan to adopt a single currency in 1999 help the mark because of concern that it will lose its status as Europe's linchpin currency if a single currency is formed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (58%); CU (PAR) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (53%); NAICS483114 COASTAL & GREAT LAKES PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (53%); NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (53%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (53%); SIC4481 DEEP SEA TRANSPORTATION OF PASSENGERS, EXCEPT BY FERRY (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (86%); FRANCE (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (58%); CLUB MEDITERRANEE SA (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (86%); FRANCE (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; GOVERNMENT BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY BOND MARKETS (92%); BONDS (92%); CURRENCIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GERMAN MARK (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); BRITISH POUND (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (50%); CONSULTING SERVICES (50%); 

PERSON: NIGEL LAWSON (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 1996



335 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 642 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Law Near to Require Children's Programming
A rule calling for television stations to broadcast three hours a week of educational programs for children became a virtual certainty as James Quello, one of the Federal Communications Commission members who had been blocking the legislation, said he would drop his opposition. Mr. Quello agreed to a compromise under which an absolute minimum of three hours might not be required, if stations could demonstrate that they had performed a public service for children that was roughly equivalent. [11.]
 
Industrial Production Rises Again
Output at the nation's factories, mines and utilities rose seven-tenths of 1 percent last month, a bigger increase than analysts had expected. The jump in production was the second straight, and businesses also showed signs of rebuilding depleted inventories, a move that could mean even greater output and more jobs. [Page 33.]
 
Bankruptcy Filing by Investor
An investor in a failed Israeli bank filed for bankruptcy, listing more than $212 million in debts, much of it claimed by Israel. The concern, North American Bank, foundered in the aftermath of Israel's 1983 banking crisis, prompting a rash of suits. [33.]

VW to Receive G.M. Complaint
In the continuing legal battle between General Motors and Volkswagen, the German auto maker agreed to receive a civil complaint filed in Detroit by G.M. VW denies the charges, which include industrial espionage, and is seeking to have the case transferred to a German court, where punitive damages are traditionally not awarded in civil cases. [32.]
 
Silver and Gold Prices Rise
The prices of silver and gold ended sharply higher in New York trading after an early tumble that was prompted by concerns over Sumitomo's losses in the copper market. [41.]

Bond Rally Continues
The prices of Treasury bonds rose for a second session. The yield on the 30-year bond, which moves inversely to the price, fell to 7.08 percent from 7.13 percent. [44.]
 
Ford said that its USL Capital subsidiary would auction almost $1 billion in municipal bonds as part of Ford's plan to shed its nonautomotive finance operations. [32.]

Another Drop For Blue Chips
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 8.50 points, the fifth consecutive drop, ending the week down 47.66 at 5,649.45. Technology shares fell as warnings about earnings unnerved investors, driving down the Nasdaq composite index by 12.47 points, or 1.02 percent, to 1,213.18. [32.]
 
Harassment Said to Continue
Federal officials investigating charges of sexual harassment at the American unit of the Swedish pharmaceutical giant Astra said that sexual abuse was continuing there. The company said the Government had submitted nothing to support the charges during a court hearing. [33.]
 
Bias Seen in Promotions
An official of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission has found that Texaco failed to promote some black employees because of their race. But Texaco said that the official did not consider the full scope of its promotion policies. [33.]

Volvo to Sell Pharmacia Shares
Volvo, the Swedish car maker, plans to cut its stake in Pharmacia & Upjohn, the pharmaceuticals giant, to 4.7 percent from 13.7 percent. [33.]
 
Goat: The Other Red Meat?
Consumption of goat meat is at an all-time high in New York City, largely because of immigrants from areas where it is a popular dish. A farmer in rural New York State, recognizing the potential profits, is urging others to start herds. [21.]
 
Concerns Over Wisconsin Plan
Four weeks after President Clinton endorsed Wisconsin's proposal to abolish welfare, Administration officials say they have doubts about some of its most important provisions. But the officials said they still believed that an agreement could be reached. [1.]

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 5,649.45 Down 8.50
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 7.08% Down 0.05
The Dollar -- 109.12 yen Up 0.37

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (91%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (68%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (84%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (84%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (91%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (68%); DETROIT, MI, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS BANK FAILURES (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); CHILDREN'S PROGRAMMING (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BONDS (89%); LEGISLATION (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (79%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (75%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (75%); AUTOMAKERS (75%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (75%); EMPLOYMENT (74%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); AUCTIONS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); DAMAGES (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); PUNITIVE DAMAGES (71%); COPPER INDUSTRY (71%); SILVER MARKETS (70%); CIVIL RIGHTS (70%); SEX OFFENSES (70%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (70%); GOLD MARKETS (70%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (70%); CRIMINAL HARASSMENT (70%); BOND MARKETS (69%); TREASURY SECURITIES (68%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (68%); COPPER MARKETS (64%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (64%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (63%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (60%); INDUSTRIAL ESPIONAGE (50%); ESPIONAGE (50%); 

PERSON: G M.COMPLAINT (61%); JAMES QUELLO (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 1996



336 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 44; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 465 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Prices Rise Again As Reports Help Ease Fears

BYLINE: By Reuters 

 BODY:
Treasury prices rose yesterday for a second consecutive session, encouraged again by a report suggesting that economic growth was moderate enough to restrain inflation.
A week ago, the bond market was roiled by an employment report showing unexpected strength. The report raised fears that the economy was growing at a pace fast enough to compel the Federal Reserve to raise short-term interest rates when its policy makers meet early next month. 
 But reports on Thursday, on retail sales, and yesterday, on industrial production, helped quell some of the fears.
"The employment shock is wearing off," said Ram Bhagavatula, chief financial economist at Citicorp Global Finance.
Patrick Dimick, Treasury market analyst at CS First Boston, agreed, saying, "The market traded as if it was less fearful of a Federal Reserve tightening."
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond rose 14/32 , to 8620/32 . The bond's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 7.08 percent, from 7.13 percent on Thursday, and down from the 13-month high of 7.19 percent on Wednesday. For the week, the yield was up 6 basis points -- or hundredths of a percentage point.
Prices of shorter-term maturities also rose, driving the yield on the 2-year note down 5 basis points, to 6.26 percent, and the yield on the 10-year note down 7 basis points, to 6.92 percent.
The market started off on weak yesterday amid uncertainty about the Russian elections and some concern about the effect of a huge trading loss in the copper market by the Sumitomo Corporation.
"That discomfort caused us to be down about half a point going into the Government's May industrial production report," said Waldo Best, senior economist at Barclays de Zoete Wedd Government Securities.
The Fed reported that industrial production rose seven-tenths of 1 percent in May, higher than previous expectations of five-tenths of 1 percent.
But capacity utilization, the portion of the nation's mines, utilities and factories employed in production registered 83.2 percent in May versus a revised 82.9 reading in April, the Fed said.
Many analysts say the Fed becomes concerned about inflation when the capacity utilization rate nears 84 to 85 percent.
As a result, the number was moderate enough to prompt some buying of bonds, traders said.
"This was not a number that meant the Fed would have to raise rates at its July meeting and it allowed some people to get more comfortable with the technical signals being sent that the market was oversold," Mr. Best said. The Federal Open Market Committee meets on July 2 and 3.
The short-covering rally that evolved let the market shrug off a stronger-than-expected final May report by the University of Michigan on consumer sentiment, he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); 8053 (TSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (66%); NAICS423830 INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (66%); SIC5084 INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (54%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT CITIGROUP INC (90%); SUMITOMO CORP (66%); BARCLAYS DE ZOETE WEDD SERVICES LTD (53%); BARCLAYS DE ZOETE WEDD INV MAN (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (54%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS BOND MARKETS (95%); BONDS (92%); PRICE INCREASES (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); MONETARY POLICY (76%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (76%); COPPER MARKETS (73%); INTEREST RATES (71%); COPPER INDUSTRY (71%); RETAIL SALES (56%); 

PERSON: WALDO BEST (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 1996



337 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 1996

SECTION: Section 6; Page 12; Column 3; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 956 words

HEADLINE: ON LANGUAGE;
The Hard Way

BYLINE: By William Safire 

 BODY:
MY INFORMAL job title in the Nixon Administration was Rejected Counsel. That's because, as a speech writer, I would occasionally put my head into the Oval Office to say: "Mr. President -- Do the popular thing! Take the easy way!" Mr. Nixon would ritualistically throw me out of the office, allowing me to submit a speech draft that would truthfully report: "Some of my aides have suggested that I do the popular thing, that I should take the easy way. But I have rejected such counsel."
This happy memory came to mind as I listened to Bob Dole's eloquent announcement of his departure from the Senate to devote all his time to his Presidential campaign. In that talk, he referred briefly to his difficult travail as a wounded veteran in relearning to walk: "I trust in the hard way, for little has come to me except in the hard way, which is good because we have a hard task ahead of us." Later he recalled times of discouragement: "I have been there before, I have done it the hard way and I will do it the hard way once again." At the conclusion, he reprised the theme: "For the American people have always known, through our long and trying history, that God has blessed the hard way." 
 I reached Dole after the speech to ask who wrote it. He was at first reluctant to say because he didn't want the anonymous volunteer to get in trouble with his employer, but when I explained that it would only help the writer's career, and that people now understand that public figures get professional writing help, the Senator replied that drafts had come from Mark Helprin, a novelist who contributes op-ed pieces to The Wall Street Journal.
After I reported the source of this welcome change from the stilted style of most previous Dole speeches, the modest Mr. Helprin found himself inundated with media calls and requests for bylined articles. The Wall Street Journal proudly took a full-page ad in other papers reprinting its contributor's piece about Dole, demonstrating what little trouble his political involvement got him in. Only Richard Cohen of The Washington Post, one of the few pundits who have not had the exhilarating and instructive experience of having written for a politician, grumped that getting outside help made the Dole remarks less authentic.
Well, then -- as a longtime derogator of "the easy way" -- what can I con-tribute to the rhetorical origin of Mr. Dole's the hard way?
As the New Deal was rooted in card playing, the hard way is derived from rolling dice. In Damon Runyon's 1931 book, "Guys and Dolls," a character familiar with the world of gambling is quoted: " 'Charley,' he says, 'do you make it the hard way?' " In shooting craps, the hard way means "the most difficult way": narrowing the ability to make an even-numbered point by requiring the two dice to come up with a pair of equal numbers totaling the point. For example, if eight is the point to be made the hard way, the combination of neither six-and-two nor five-and-three will do; the hard way calls for two fours. What makes it "harder" is that the odds of achieving the point that limited way are higher. By extension, the phrase to learn the hard way means "through bitter experience," and to come up the hard way means "primarily by one's own efforts."
In an interview with Newsweek, Helprin re- called Dole's words when making the decision to leave the Senate: "If I'm going to run for President, I'm going to have to run for President."
This "if-then" construction has long been used in the expression of determination and grit. Said the 19th-century political economist William Graham Sumner, "If you ever live in a country run by a committee, be on the committee." Said Gov. Huey Long of Louisiana to a group of young politicians, "If you want some ham, you got to go to the smokehouse." Said Napoleon Bonaparte to a hesitant general, "If you're going to take Vienna, take Vienna."

Gazillion
At a White House correspondents' dinner, President Clinton turned toward Al Franken, author of "Rush Limbaugh Is a Big Fat Idiot," and said admiringly, "He's made a gazillion dollars on that book."
The counting began with a mere zillion, coined in 1930, about the time a Mr. Zilch appeared in the satire magazine Ballyhoo. In zilch, as in a sense of zip, the Z referred to zero. Looking at the productive morpheme illion, Fred Cassidy of the Dictionary of American Regional English notes that "Z, as the last letter of the alphabet, suggests 'as far as you can go,' therefore zillion, the highest possible number or variety." (In the other direction lies zilch, lower than which you cannot go.)
The escalation of zillion to gazillion took place, in as early a citation as John Algeo of American Speech can find, in a Feb. 25, 1980, Tom Shales column in The Washington Post referring to "gazillionaire Ellis Ikehorn." Says Shales now: "Using a made-up word instead of 'rich man' established a mocking tone. I could have used zillionaire, but I thought that ga- in front sounded funny."
Gazillion is in the 1996 edition of the Random House Webster's Dictionary, where it is defined as "an extremely large, indeterminate number."
To search Shales's linguistic subconscious: whence the intensifier ga-? Sol Steinmetz of Random House says, "The ga- derives from the Scottish prefix ker-, as in kerplunk and kerflop." The Oxford English Dictionary noted that ker- was the first part of an onomatopoeic formation to imitate the sound of a heavy body falling, and gives the variant ca-. Sounds to me that ga- is the newest variant.
Archimedes estimated the number of sands necessary to fill the universe at 1 with 51 zeroes after it. Mathematicians today can estimate with an overtone of infinity: a gazillion grains.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (51%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (51%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (51%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US); CONGRESS (US) WALL STREET JOURNAL (53%); WASHINGTON POST CO (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US); CONGRESS (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: ENGLISH LANGUAGE; SPEECHES AND STATEMENTS US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); WRITERS (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM; DOLE, BOB; HELPRIN, MARK BOB DOLE (91%); MARK HELPRIN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1996



338 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 1996

SECTION: Section 6; Page 38; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 3034 words

HEADLINE: Keeping Secrets

BYLINE: By Maggie Scarf; Maggie Scarf is the author of "Intimate Worlds: Life Inside the Family" and is a senior fellow at the Bush Center in Child Development and Social Policy.

 BODY:
What happened to Linehan was no rare occurrence, for as managed-care organizations demand increasingly detailed justifications for medical treatment and file more and more data electronically, the cloak of confidentiality that once protected psychotherapy has become increasingly threadbare. A new bill, currently wending its way through Congress, represents the first comprehensive national effort to deal with this emerging problem. Introduced last November by Senators Robert F. Bennett, Republican of Utah, and Patrick Leahy, Democrat of Vermont, the Medical Records Confidentiality Act is intended, as Senator Bennett put it, to "create safeguards so that the folks who currently have access to your medical information cannot abuse it as it is being abused now."
The Bennett-Leahy bill would make it illegal for companies to use medical records to create marketing lists and would grant patients access to their medical records in states that do not already do so. But the question being debated among mental health professionals and patient advocates across the country is whether this bill will actually advance the cause of patient privacy or precipitate a confidentiality disaster.
WHAT HAPPENS BETWEEN THE PATIENT AND the therapist is singularly privileged. "A broken arm is usually not a secret, but an eating disorder or substance abuse problem often is one," says Dr. Herbert Pardes, a psychiatrist who is dean of the faculty of medicine at Columbia University and was director of the National Institute of Mental Health under the Carter and Reagan Administrations. "Obviously, there's a big difference between talking about how long it will take for an elbow fracture to mend, and talking with a patient about why all of his important relationships are failing, or about his alcohol problem or what the source of his or her sexual difficulties might be." 
 But at present it is unrealistic for people to assume that the raw and tender subjects they talk over with their therapists will go no further than the four walls of the consulting room. And many patients have become legitimately concerned about the possibility that the depression, suicide attempt, marital problem or alcoholism being discussed could return to haunt them in cyberspace. They are uncomfortably aware of the shadowy figures sitting in on their therapy sessions: the insurance administrator, the electronic file clerk, the case reviewer, other physicians within an H.M.O. -- even their own co-workers and supervisors.
For example, in a case documented by the National Coalition of Mental Health Professionals and Consumers in Commack, L.I., a patient filed a psychotherapy claim with the managed-care office of his self-insured employer. Shortly afterward, when the man applied for a promotion, it was denied. Not until much later did he learn, from a subsequent employer, that the reason he had been passed over was that he was the butt of so much office gossip and ridicule: some clerks in the company's insurance office were reading his therapist's reports and discussing all the spicy details of his private life.
In another instance, Mark Hudson, 37, who was at the time an employee of Blue Cross/Blue Shield of Massachusetts, realized that his own privacy was being compromised when, in the course of a computer training class, he called his medical record up on the screen. Hudson was startled to find himself staring at what he believed to be his confidential psychiatric file -- a record that included the amount and type of antidepressive medication he was taking at the time. "In that company," he says, "I can tell you unequivocally that patient confidentiality is not eroding -- it can't erode, because it's simply nonexistent."
"What you have to realize," he continues, "is that I could meet a woman at a party and decide that I'd like to know a bit more about her. I wouldn't even have to know her Social Security number; I could look her up by name. And if she's ever contacted Bay State Health Care" -- part of Blue Cross/Blue Shield -- "and asked about substance abuse counseling or whether abortion is covered, I, as an insider, can simply look through her medical record and say, 'Hmm, this is a person I am going to date, or am not going to date, because her record makes me think she's big trouble.' " Last August, two days after testifying for the plaintiffs in a class action suit brought against Bay State, Hudson was dismissed from his job.
The Linehan case was resolved somewhat differently. After she and several other patients went public with their complaints, the H.M.O. involved responded swiftly and responsibly. "We considered that a wake-up call," says Dr. Jennifer Leaning, medical director of the company's Health Centers Division. Within a matter of days, the H.M.O. had partitioned off all psychiatric files and put a lock on them, making them accessible only to mental health clinicians and selected medical staff members. Still, many privacy experts remain concerned about how secure such a lock on these or any other electronic files might be.
The very manner in which psychological services are now delivered is, moreover, causing problems not just for patients but for therapists as well. It is indeed raising the question of whom the clinician is actually working for -- the patient? The H.M.O.? The fee-for-service insurer? The employer-owned group insurance plan?
Consider a situation in which the therapist, in order to preserve patient confidentiality, refuses to disclose information to the third-party insurers. The case reviewer would probably decide that the patient's sessions cannot be approved without sufficient proof that psychotherapy is "medically necessary and appropriate." Result: the afflicted person, who may be under very real emotional duress, will not be able to get his mental health benefits.
The therapist is under pressure, too -- economic pressure -- to meet the third-party payer's demands for detailed patient information, or perhaps be dropped from the panel of mental health care providers. (The therapist has usually signed a contract stating that his services may be terminated at any time, without any reason given.) So to earn a living, and get their patients' sessions authorized, therapists are being forced to release information that under normal circumstances they would not.
As John Chiaramonte, a clinical social worker, describes the situation: "These days, you can't just put down the diagnosis -- say, 'depression.' No, you have to get very specific, to state that this woman is depressed because she's involved in a masochistic, self-destructive affair with her boss, or that this man has gotten depressed around a sexual dysfunction and hasn't been able to respond to his partner for the past few years."
Legally, there is no impediment to the therapist's release of such sensitive clinical material -- when an individual applies for insurance, he routinely signs a waiver allowing health care providers to share his medical information. Nevertheless, says Chiaramonte, who is vendorship chairman of the New York State Society for Clinical Social Work, "if patients realized how much personal information is actually being given out, I think that many of them would go ballistic. . . ." Then he adds glumly, "Sometimes I think they don't want to know, because they are in so much need, and they are suffering."
I N ALL FAIRNESS, THIRD-PARTY PAYERS ARE doing just that -- paying. In the ordinary course of events, an insurer's efforts to verify that requests for therapy are warranted are certainly legitimate. Third-party payers also have the right to maintain quality control -- to make sure that the therapists on their provider panel are offering appropriate, effective treatment.
But why is it that health care insurers and managers, who a mere decade ago required little confidential information beyond that contained in the patient's diagnosis, now insist upon becoming privy to so much potentially damaging personal material? Can't the third-party payer put a certain cap on the number of sessions to which a subscriber is entitled, and then simply use the clinician's diagnosis in order to authorize the patient's treatment?
I put this question to Dr. Saul Feldman, chief executive officer and chairman of U.S. Behavioral Health, an immense mental health care and substance abuse treatment management organization based in Emeryville, Calif., which provides services to more than 5.7 million people across the United States. He answered by saying that in his view the increased demand for detailed personal information is part and parcel of what first brought managed-care organizations into being -- the need for a sense of discipline and accountability, which was totally lacking in the mental health care field.
"What the managed behavioral health organizations see as their major responsibility," he told me, "is making sure that patients are getting the right amount of care in the right places, and that they are making progress. Managed care is itself a reaction to what had been going on for years -- people getting into outpatient therapy and literally spending years there, with no treatment goals and no concern about the resources being expended for the treatment."
Simply relying upon the clinician's diagnosis in order to authorize treatment (with an outside limit on the number of sessions permitted), Feldman says, is "an excessively rigid" approach to managing mental health care. "What we hope will happen, ideally -- and what is happening -- is that as clinicians begin to focus on cost-effective care, rather than care that's never-ending, their practice patterns will change."
Managed mental health care organizations like U.S. Behavioral Health insist upon relatively short-term, goal-focused therapy -- and they monitor the patient's treatment periodically along the way. "The things we want to clarify from the outset," Feldman explains, "are what goals the patient and therapist can agree to set for themselves, and how long reaching those goals is likely to take." Further down the road, care managers want to know how the treatment is progressing, and finally, at the end of the therapy, to make an overall assessment of whether those initial goals were achieved. "In brief," he says, "we're evolving from an emphasis on process to an emphasis on outcomes."
Not so, says Dr. Denise Nagel, a psychiatrist and president of the Coalition for Patient Rights of New England. In her opinion, third-party payers are in the process of managing psychotherapy right out of existence. Nagel takes the position that a better middle ground can and must be found between the insurer's need for documentation and the right of an individual in psychological pain to seek help without the threat of exposure. Laws can and should be written, Nagel says, to safeguard patient confidentiality in the face of insurers' ever-mounting demands for personal information and the headlong advance of computerized record-keeping. But a first and crucial order of business is, in her view, simply bringing these privacy issues into the forefront of our attention.
"One of the most powerful weapons we have is consumer awareness," she says. "People need to talk about this issue with their doctors. They need to talk about it with their health plans. . . . But by and large, they are not talking about these issues, or at least not making themselves heard."
CERTAINLY, NO ONE DISPUTES the fact that there is a need for clear-cut standards to control who may have access to sensitive, personal information, and how that information can be used. There is currently no Federal law that explicitly protects the confidentiality of medical records (although there is a measure protecting the confidentiality of video rental lists). And while a patchwork quilt of state-level regulations exists, the increasing electronic transfer of patient records across state lines has made such measures extremely difficult to disentangle, much less enforce.
The Bennett-Leahy bill is thus a welcome, well-intentioned first pass at establishing national standards, and it commands a good deal of enthusiastic support. One group, the Washington-based Center for Democracy and Technology, has been quite prominent in the continuing discussions of the proposed legislation. Janlori Goldman, the center's deputy director, said in testimony before the Senate Labor and Human Resources Committee that the legislation represents "the most comprehensive and strong privacy bill the Congress has yet considered in this area."
Still, the center (which styles itself as a public interest group) is heavily financed, to the tune of hundreds of thousands of dollars, by a number of large computer, databank and telecommunications corporations, including Microsoft, AT&T, Equifax, I.B.M. and TRW. So you wonder: are these giant companies truly interested in protecting our medical privacy or are they interested in legitimizing the release-for-profit of confidential patient information?
It is important to recognize that immense profits can be reaped from aggregated medical records, and a number of computer database companies (Equifax, the huge credit reporting agency, is in the forefront) are already moving forward to stake their claims to this highly marketable information. An advertising agency handling a pharmaceutical company's account, might, for example, be interested in knowing the ages and ethnic and economic backgrounds of the users of a certain antidepressant. Or an employer might want to know the medical and psychiatric status of a potential employee. And insurers could make use of detailed mental health records to exclude particularly vulnerable applicants from their pool. Once such information is on line and accessible, it can be obtained, for a price, at the touch of a button.
A stated purpose of the Bennett-Leahy bill is "to promote the efficiency and security of the health information infrastructure so that members of the health care community may more effectively exchange and transfer health information in a manner that will insure the confidentiality of personally identifiable health information." But the bill's many fierce opponents -- including privacy and consumer groups like the Justice Resource Health Law Institute, the National Coalition of Mental Health Professionals and Consumers, the Electronic Privacy Information Center and the Coalition for Patient Rights -- complain that the bill would facilitate the development of health care databases containing huge amounts of personal information. Those with access to this privileged patient information would include not only the database companies but also a newly created class of "health information trustees" -- insurers, universities, medical researchers, employers, police and courts, state and Federal agencies and others.
As Jay B. Cutler, special counsel to the American Psychiatric Association, has said, "It's hard to figure out who wouldn't qualify as a so-called health trustee." Indeed, the psychiatric association dubbed the bill the Medical Records Disclosure Act because it would make access to so much personal, identifiable patient data legal. As the association's president-elect, Dr. Herbert Sacks, has observed, "Establishing a new class of 'health trustees' is rather like designating a special group of 'trustworthy foxes' and inviting them to come and set up shop inside the henhouse."
Perhaps most unnerving of all is a provision on the last page of the draft currently in circulation stating that "a health information trustee, or an agent or contractor to such trustee, who makes a disclosure of protected health information about an individual that is permitted by this Act shall not be liable to the individual for such disclosure under common law." In short, should you suffer injury because your medical privacy has been violated, you won't have any legal recourse.
WHAT, THEN, IS TO BE DONE ABOUT WHAT Nagel calls the "hemorrhaging" of so much privileged personal data (or what USA Today labeled "data rape")? What seems evident is that the medical records confidentiality bill must be reworked to be what its name implies -- a measure intended to safeguard the privacy of patients' records.
In January, Massachusetts (in large part as a reaction to the turmoil generated by the debacle of the Harvard Community Health Plan) enacted a modest but precedent-setting piece of legislation. This new law specifically prohibits insurers from demanding detailed information about their subscribers' life situations and psychiatric status before granting them their mental health benefits. The legislation, however, covers only the state-mandated benefits -- a rather skimpy $500, which in Massachusetts pays for about six therapy sessions. A more reasonable figure might be $1,200, which would allow for 12 to 15 sessions.
Still, it is a fine step in the right direction -- and others must follow. First of all, we must strictly limit the amount of clinical data that third-party payers can require of therapists (under the new Massachusetts measure, insurers can demand no information other than the patient's name, diagnosis, and date and type of treatment until the $500 nondisclosure ceiling has been reached). Then we must establish mechanisms for providing a genuinely confidential review in cases where the insurer disputes the "medical necessity" of the treatment. We must require informed consent from patients before their medical information can be entered into a computerized network. And finally, we must prohibit the penalizing of doctors and patients who refuse to disclose unduly sensitive data or who do not want their medical information filed in data networks.
Most workers in the field of mental health agree that a failure to tackle these issues promptly and forthrightly will have a destructive impact on their profession. To be effective, psychotherapy must be based on an assumption of mutual respect and confidentiality. If there is a threat that your most intimate confidences may go on line, who would ever be crazy enough to confide in a therapist?

GRAPHIC: Photo: One on one: The traditional relationship between therapy patient and doctor. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JACK MANNING)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (54%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (54%); NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF MENTAL HEALTH (54%); NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF MENTAL HEALTH (54%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (54%); NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF MENTAL HEALTH (54%); NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF MENTAL HEALTH (54%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: MENTAL HEALTH AND DISORDERS; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; PRIVACY, RIGHT OF; DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION PSYCHIATRY (90%); MENTAL HEALTH (90%); PATIENT PRIVACY (90%); PSYCHOLOGY (90%); MEDICAL RECORDS (90%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); DEPRESSION (78%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (74%); EATING DISORDERS (73%); SEXUAL DYSFUNCTION (73%); BONE FRACTURES (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (64%); SELF INSURANCE (62%); SUICIDE (50%); 

PERSON: LEAHY, PATRICK J (SEN); BENNETT, ROBERT F (SEN); SCARF, MAGGIE ROBERT BENNETT (90%); JIMMY CARTER (56%); PATRICK LEAHY (56%); RONALD REAGAN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1996



339 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 1996

SECTION: Section 5; Page 3; Column 4; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 844 words

HEADLINE: TRAVEL ADVISORY;
CYBERSCOUT

BYLINE: By L.R. Shannon 

 BODY:

AIRLINE TICKETS
Sabre
http://www.amrcorp.com/sabrgrp
 I wanted to fly to Seattle the week after July 4. So I fired up the Sabre reservations system, the big flight data base used by travel professionals but accessible in easier on-line versions to the rest of us. This Sabre software went on line March 11.
First, I had to become a member, which does not cost anything. There was a form to fill out on the screen. You do not fill in a credit card number; that must be phoned or faxed to the company. 
 Then I was given six choices, one of them flights and prices, which promised "the lowest fares to anywhere." I entered the total number of passengers (2), the number aged 2 through 11 (0), and selected "low fare with restrictions."
On the next screen, I filled in that I wanted to leave from Newark for Seattle on July 8, a Monday, at around 10 A.M. and return Friday, July 12. I used only two segments of the form; there are six segments available for more complicated journeys.
Sabre found six choices of flights on five airlines leaving Newark on July 8 from 7:30 A.M. to 7:25 P.M. I selected Continental Flight 121, leaving at 8:15 A.M. arriving at Seattle, with breakfast and without stops, at 11:07 A.M. A new form gave me a choice of six return flights. I picked Continental again, mainly because it left at 12:15 P.M., with lunch and no stops. Then I was given a price of $2,828 for two round-trip tickets. Wow! Surely $2,828 was not the lowest fare available. A mouse click or two would have bought the ticket, but I backed out instead.
The whole process had taken about 50 minutes. Some of this time was in waiting for the Web, but, to be fair, some of it was occupied filling out the new-member form, which only has to be done once. Undoubtedly one would get better with practice.
Using my name and password, a travel agent of my acquaintance then sat at my computer and went into flights and prices. She knew that including a Saturday night stay in Seattle could bring the price down sharply. So she set the trip to start on Wednesday, July 10, and to end on Sunday, July 14. It was still Continental, still nonstop, but the total price was down to $920 for the two tickets. A further search found a Northwest flight, nonstop to Seattle, but a stop at Memphis on the way home, for $808.
This took her about 35 minutes. At the office, she said, with a direct connection to Sabre rather than a Web connection, it would have taken maybe five. Although I did not actually book the tickets, the next step was to supply such information as seat preferences and frequent-flyer status. The choices offered for receiving the tickets were by mail, buying directly from the airline or through a Sabre travel agent.
It should be emphasized that, although I picked a low fare with restrictions, I was never told what the restrictions were.
 
ECONOMY POINTERS
Shoestring Travel E-Zine
http://www.stratpub.com
 On the Internet, reading about travel is cheaper -- and simpler -- than booking a flight. Shoestring describes itself thus: "Information on how to travel on a limited budget. Contents are collected from E-mail sent by users and by entries selected from the travel newsgroups." Newsgroups are sites on the Internet, not the subsidiary Web, where people interested in a subject or pursuit exchange messages and information.
Eric S. Adler, the Shoestring proprietor, says the site is a "labor of love for me and is how I keep up with my hobby, traveling inexpensively."
A recent dip into the Travel E-Zine was more inspirational than informative. There was a short list of new Web sites of interest to the budget traveler, and a generic piece on documentation needed for foreign travel: passports, visas, proof of citizenship and tourist cards.. The "suggestion of the day" was to travel with well-used clothing, perhaps bought for the purpose at a thrift shop, and discard it during the trip, making more room in luggage for purchases. A list of available feature articles, somewhere between professional writing and letters from chatty friends, included: "A Bakery in Mexico City"; "Review of Bigworld Journal"; "Traveling on the Internet"; "British Columbia" and "Travel via Air Courier."
 
SWAPPING STORIES
Cyber Adventures
http://www.cyber-adv.com
Like the Travel E-zine, this is a Web site for exchanging tips rather than booking. According to the "welcome" screen, the accounts are by people who travel with laptop computers and send the stories into the Internet through local phone lines, at "cybercafes" or even via satellite. When I peeked in, there were 18 "strange but true travel stories" -- adventures and misadventures in Bulgaria, Warsaw, Bolivia, Paris, Russia and elsewhere. The account by a man returning from his honeymoon from the airport in Sofia, Bulgaria -- overcrowded airport, overbooked flight, unruly crowds -- might turn you into a dedicated armchair traveler. But if you, too, had a memorable experience in Sofia, you are welcome to add your comments. L.R. SHANNON

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (85%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (85%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (93%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (93%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS COMPUTERIZED RESERVATION SYSTEMS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); AIR FARES (90%); TRAVEL TICKETS (89%); TRAVEL AGENTS (79%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (77%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (71%); 

PERSON: SHANNON, L R

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1996



340 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 1996

SECTION: Section 2; Page 28; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 1954 words

HEADLINE: CLASSICAL MUSIC;
A New Era in the Care and Feeding of Artists

BYLINE: By BARBARA JEPSON; Barbara Jepson writes regularly about music for The Wall Street Journal.

 BODY:
IN THE SCRAPBOOK OF MEMORIES shared by members of the classical-music industry, the artist manager Harold Shaw shows up in many guises: a triumphant impresario announcing that the pianist Vladimir Horowitz would join his roster and return to the concert stage in 1974 after a five-year absence; a devoted advance man tending to the considerable needs of the soprano Jessye Norman, another client; an urbane fixture in concerts halls and backstage areas for more than 40 years, known for his signature bow ties and berets.
But as the chairman of a major classical-music talent agency, he was not known for dropping bombshells. So it was doubly surprising to his staff, artists and colleagues when he announced last year that Shaw Concerts and its sister operation, Shaw Attractions, would cease operations as of this month. Mr. Shaw made the decision in May 1995, after learning that one of his top associates, Bill Capone, was leaving with 13 of the firm's clients in tow. "Rebuilding a roster takes about 10 years," the 73-year-old Mr. Shaw said recently. "At my age, I'd rather have a lot less responsibility." 
 Mr. Capone's departure was the latest in a series of defections that have begun to alter the artist-management landscape. Moreover, the removal of Shaw Concerts as a major player in the business coincides with several trends that will affect classical audiences as the next wave of agents and presenters introduce innovative strategies for artist promotion and concert programming into a shrinking marketplace.
During its "golden years," Shaw Concerts had a roster that included not only Horowitz but also such legendary artists as Nathan Milstein, Henryk Szeryng, Jacqueline du Pre, Pierre Fournier, Andres Segovia and Dame Janet Baker. Mr. Shaw had worked with many of them as a young salesman for the impresario Sol Hurok before starting his own agency in 1969. By the 1980's, he had a staff of about 20, a roster of about 100 and the finesse to deal with setbacks in inimitable fashion. "Caring for Mr. Horowitz has requirements that exceed those of other artists," he told The New York Times when the pianist defected to the giant Columbia Artists Management in 1981, "and I think that . . . I have done my share for the public. It seems only fair to me now that some other agency take up that responsibility."
Mr. Shaw spent his earliest days in the music business on the road as an unsalaried employee of the National Concerts and Artists Corporation.
"I paid my own expenses," he said in a conversation at his office near Lincoln Center. "I traveled around the country on a Greyhound bus, from Alaska to Key West, Fla., because Hertz had not quite been invented." Once, stranded at a bus stop during a blizzard in Hesston, Kans., he burned concert flyers in his briefcase to keep warm.
After opening Shaw Concerts, he often put his own capital at risk, renting a concert hall and taking a portion of the box-office receipts. "He's the last individual impresario," said Thomas F. Parker, who worked for Shaw Concerts before starting his own firm in 1990. Indeed, Mr. Shaw projected a gentlemanly veneer underlined by his passion for theater and British painting as well as classical music.
"He came across as one of the old-time managers, versus the typical corporate suit," said Walter Pierce, a prominent concert presenter on the national scene.
Mr. Pierce, who stepped down this month as director of the Celebrity Series in Boston, is another example of the slow but inexorable changing of the guard in the classical-music business so aptly symbolized by Mr. Shaw's retirement. William Judd, whose clients during a career of more than 40 years included the pianists Rudolf Serkin and Earl Wild, died in 1987. The veteran managers Harry Beall and Ann Colbert retired in recent years. Ernest Fleischmann, who has been the executive director of the Los Angeles Philharmonic since 1968, recently announced plans to retire in 1997.
Although some old-timers -- Thea Dispeker, in her 90's; Herbert Barrett, in his 80's, and Mariedi Anders, in her 70's -- still actively run their own agencies, the coming years will undoubtedly bring leadership changes in their firms as well. Ms. Dispeker and Mr. Barrett have already arranged for top employees to continue their companies.
The closing of Shaw Concerts may also herald a gradual decline in the influence of medium-size firms. "What's happening in the artist-management business is the same as what's happening in the grocery or telephone business," said Peter Pastreich, the executive director of the San Francisco Symphony. "When we 'shop' for artists these days, we do most of our business with the giant companies or the boutiques."
ALTHOUGH BOUTIQUE agencies have proliferated of late, they are not a new phenomenon. "The artist-management industry began as a bunch of boutique managements that eventually amalgamated into companies like National Concerts and Artists Corporation and Columbia Artists," Mr. Pierce said.
A more recent example of this cycle is IMG Artists, which began in 1978 as a boutique agency in the basement of Charles Hamlen, now the director of Classical Action, which raises funds for AIDS programs. In 1984, Hamlen-Landau Management was acquired by the International Management Group, a mammoth sports marketing and management company. Today, IMG Artists has a star-studded roster of nearly 100 artists in North America and more than 175 artists and attractions in Europe. Using its parent company's resources, it can arrange tours for major orchestras, coordinate events with office staff in six cities and package or produce special concerts.
Whether any of the current boutiques will follow such a pattern remains to be seen. The recent surge in boutique operations reflects several interrelated developments: the success of small, exclusive agencies like Frank Solomon Associates or Shirley Kirshbaum & Associates, which attract and retain important artists; the advent of computers and fax machines, which make it easier to conduct business away from the high-priced center of the industry around West 57th Street, and dissatisfaction with internal policies at leading firms. (Columbia Artists, for example, ended its policy of awarding stock options to favored employees, and Shaw Concerts lacked a clear-cut plan of succession.)
Boutique managers like Ms. Kirshbaum and Herbert Breslin offer optional public relations services as well, and newer "hybrid" agencies employ the latest computer technology to advance their clients' careers. International Artists Group, founded by the former Columbia Artists agent Sean T. Bickerton, maintains a web site on the Internet and provides electronic press kits and artist rosters to presenters.
"In the past, the large agencies had tremendous power," Mr. Bickerton said. "Presenters often booked their entire series from a few large firms because it enabled them to get the superstars they wanted. Now, the big agencies no longer have the lockup with stars. If you represent Cecilia Bartoli, you don't need to be a giant." In fact, the mezzo-soprano Ms. Bartoli is managed by Jack Mastroianni, also formerly of Columbia Artists.
What's more, after a period of expansion from the mid-1960's through the mid-80's, the classical-music business has been contracting. Financing cutbacks, increased competition for the leisure dollar, and a new generation of listeners raised on MTV rather than music appreciation have taken an economic toll. "By and large, the market for classical music is not as robust as it once was," said Jane Moss, a vice president for programming at Lincoln Center. Events and artists who in the past would have sold out immediately sell out more slowly."
While opera audiences grew by 35 percent between 1982 and 1992, according to Opera America, other segments of the classical-music business have declined. The market share for classical recordings has diminished steadily since the mid 80's, and many universities have reduced the number of classical-music events they book annually.
These developments are mirrored in the membership of the Association of Performing Arts Presenters. From 1986 to 1992, it included anywhere from 1,050 to 1,142 presenters or supporting organizations; by 1995, the total had dropped to 884.
Such trends have engendered signficant changes in the way classical performers are presented. "We're becoming more community-oriented," said Kenneth Fischer, the director of the Musical Society of the University of Michigan at Ann Arbor, which is presenting about 60 concerts this season. "We used to be 'pedestal presenters.' It was enough to bring the great artists into our communities and present them well. Now presenters are taking responsibility for commissioning new work and educating our audiences, and we're asking much more of the artists. We'd like them to stick around, do a master class or post-performance chat. We think it's good for business."
On the managerial side, more agents are offering thematic projects, like Garrick Ohlsson's recent series of Chopin recitals and seminars at Alice Tully Hall, to attract presenters and audiences. They are also looking for innovative attractions with broad appeal, like "Stomp," an interactive theatrical piece with percussion, movement and visual comedy, presented by Columbia Artists. IMG Artists has been especially active in the packaging of celebrity artist collaborations.
"The pressure is on all of us in our business to be more imaginative not only in programming but in developing income opportunities for the artists and the agency," said Elizabeth Sobol, an associate director at IMG. "This is where the alchemy of the business is, not in trotting out the same repertoire over and over again."
Although the Shaw Concerts roster included theater and dance, it rarely partook of the avant-garde. Yet Mr. Shaw was prescient in discerning new business trends. He was among the first to focus on Japan as a potential market for classical music, drawing on contacts made in connection with the 1962 World's Fair in Seattle, for which he was the performing-arts director. Anticipating the more recent move toward worldwide representation, he opened a London office in the early 70's but could not sustain it.
Mr. Shaw's dry, understated wit could quickly turn sarcastic or condescending with staff members, but he was unflappable with artists. "He was the eye of a storm," said Mr. Parker. Twice he built up an extensive roster of vocalists, and twice associates left for potentially greener pastures at Columbia Artists, taking most of those singers with them.
In recent years, Mr. Shaw devoted most of his time to the career of Jessye Norman. He entrusted more responsibility to his senior executives, Mr. Capone and Hugh Kaylor, whom he named co-presidents in 1993. While employees had inquired about his eventual retirement plans on at least one occasion, Mr. Shaw said he was surprised by Mr. Capone's departure. After briefly considering other options, he decided to dismantle the firm's operations.
Mr. Kaylor, who opened his own company last September, has taken over the remaining engagements of Shaw Concerts. Mr. Shaw, who lives alone, said he planned to spend his winters near Palm Springs, Calif. and put his feet up. "While you're in this business," he explained "you're like a doctor on emergency call."
Mr. Shaw spent his final day of work packing boxes and attending to stray details. The last thing he did before turning in the key was remove the bold red letters that spelled his name on the door. "It was kind of a sad day," he acknowledged.
Mr. Kaylor took a broader view, saying, "It's the end of an era."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Harold Shaw, left, instructs Vladimir Horowitz in knotting a bow tie in 1974--The last impresario? (Cleveland Commercial Studios/Hastings Willinger Associates)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: KEY WEST, FL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA ARTISTS MANAGEMENT LLC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); KEY WEST, FL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (92%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (91%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (91%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); MUSIC (90%); TALENT AGENTS (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (73%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (68%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (60%); 

PERSON: JEPSON, BARBARA; SHAW, HAROLD; HOROWITZ, VLADIMIR VLADIMIR HOROWITZ (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1996



341 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 1996

SECTION: Section 2; Page 38; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 1153 words

HEADLINE: ARCHITECTURE VIEW;
In Chicago, A Tale of Lost Magnificence

BYLINE: By Paul Goldberger 

DATELINE: CHICAGO

 BODY:
DETROIT WOULD KILL TO have a street like North Michigan Avenue. St. Louis surely seethes with envy at its prosperity. Omaha must look at it as the epitome of urban sophistication and chic. So why does North Michigan Avenue strike me as profoundly depressing? Perhaps because it is the clearest sign anywhere in the country of the desperate measures American cities must take if they are to save themselves.
This is a great boulevard, one of the finest in any American city, its noblest stretch -- the Magnificent Mile -- running from the Chicago River to Lake Shore Drive. This part of North Michigan once was the province of Chicago's most elegant shops, most of which were set in handsome, medium-size commercial buildings of limestone and brick. A few apartment buildings, some hotels and a couple of office buildings joined to create one of those truly civilized boulevards whose buildings are individually distinctive yet have enough in common to make a coherent whole. 
 The architecture was neo-everything: classical, Renaissance, Art Deco, Georgian. The styles worked together because the building scale was similar and the architects' intention was to play not a solo but a part in the larger symphony of the street.
That attitude is as relevant to present-day Chicago as Mrs. O'Leary's cow. North Michigan is now a street of malls, and if you think that is an oxymoron, come see this parade of suburban architecture metastasizing into a new kind of urban form. For that is what North Michigan is now: a series of suburban shopping malls turned on end to become vertical urban malls, with high-rise towers plopped on top. They march, one after the other, down the avenue, now less a true urban street than a funnel to carry cars and taxis past the line of monoliths.
The roots of all this go back to two buildings, each a full generation old: the John Hancock Tower by Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, of 1969, a 1,1015-foot behemoth that brought gigantism to North Michigan; and Water Tower Place of 1976, by Loebl, Schlossman Dart & Hackl, a white-marble tower of 74 stories that contains a huge mall, a hotel and condominium tower and that marked the beginning of the mallification of the avenue.
Others followed, notably 900 North Michigan, by Kohn Pedersen Fox, a Water Tower Place knockoff made more elegant by a post-modern sheathing, and an immense tower with the pretentious name of One Magnificent Mile. The name as much as the architecture seemed a death knell for the old street: when you must advertise it so blatantly, the magnificence is surely over.
NOTHING EQUALED THE architectural importance of John Hancock, which, for all its unpleasant message to the street, was always a stunning object on the skyline. The buildings since then have merged Hancock's anti-urbanism with Water Tower Place's banality.
Now there are still more on the way: every time it seems as if the street is stabilizing, another project is announced, with another landmark building scheduled for demolition and another glitzy high-rise with a mall at its base taking its place. (Last year the news was 600 North Michigan, actually just a mall with movie theaters and no tower at all, but a complex that required the demolition of the Chicago Arts Club, with its famous Mies van der Rohe interior. Thus does Chicago care for its past.)
What kind of city do all these changes add up to? A new one -- more different from the old one than it might seem. It's not for nothing that I began by talking about Detroit; no one who cares about the future of cities has any right to deny the importance of the prosperity that the evolving North Michigan Avenue represents. People march up and down this street every day, buying things that almost everywhere else in America get bought in the suburbs . Yes, this is good. Yes, it is a lot better than an empty, abandoned street. North Michigan Avenue glistens, and only a fool would sneer.
But this is not the Chicago that was, or even the American city that was: this Chicago, for all its prosperity, should leave anyone who values urban form as we have known it deeply troubled. It is not just the malls, the sense of everything being indoors that is so disturbing; painful as it is to think of Chicagoans who had once browsed this great boulevard now shopping mainly around atriums, it's perhaps hard to blame them, the city's weather being what it is.
It's more that even the most sophisticated urban mall has a way of seeming suburban, a place too much like other places. Enter any one of these North Michigan Avenue malls and you could be almost anywhere. The stores are the same as the ones you see everywhere. The space seems the same. The merchandise looks the same. The food tastes the same. Even the tinkling piano keys intended to make us think we're in a cocktail lounge, not a shopping mall, sound the same. The special identity of this once-unique urban street is lost.
What is also troubling is the way North Michigan Avenue has been at the forefront of another trend in retailing, the movement toward vast, entertainment-oriented stores. Nike Town established one of its first beachheads here; so did the Sony Corporation with its Sony Gallery. These are sprawling places intended to sell by amusing us. We do not have to go to theme parks anymore; they will come to us. The theme park has taken over the urban streetscape.
Huge, granite-clad boxes, with stores at the bottom and rooms at the top: You can drive into almost any of them and avoid the street altogether. After all, what real appeal does the street have now? The fabric of North Michigan Avenue is gone. A handful of historic buildings remain -- the Water Tower, the one building that predates the Chicago Fire of 1871; the Fourth Presbyterian Church; the Art Deco 919 North Michigan Avenue (most recently the home of Playboy and originally the Palmolive Building).
But the truly special quality of North Michigan Avenue came not from buildings were extraordinary things in themselves, but from good buildings that together to create an extraordinary ensemble. It is that kind of building that is finished, gone or going fast, unable in today's economic climate to justify their continued existence.
For all of Chicago's generalized respect for architecture, there is no sympathy in its culture for the concept of "tout ensemble," as they say in New Orleans. The idea that the whole can be greater than the sum of the parts, that the greatness of a street or a city often comes from the cumulative total of its very good buildings fitting together, not just from a series of isolated landmarks, seems alien here.
The decline and fall of North Michigan Avenue represents, most of all, the loss in Chicago of the idea of the "tout ensemble." Too luxurious a concept for us today, by far, in an age when it is not only every man for himself; it is every building for itself, too.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Looking north on Michigan Avenue: Water Tower Place, far right; John Hancock Tower, second from right, and 900 North Michigan cutting the skyline at left. Inset: The towers of the Fourth Presbyterian Church are dwarfed by John Hancock Tower at center and Water Tower Place, right. (Todd Buchanan for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (52%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (91%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: SKIDMORE OWINGS & MERRILL LLP (52%); CHICAGO ARTS CLUB (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO ARTS CLUB (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO (ILL); UNITED STATES (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (91%); DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURE CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (74%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (74%); CONDOMINIUMS (71%); RETAILERS (69%); OFFICE PROPERTY (69%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (68%); HOTELS & MOTELS (68%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (68%); SUBURBS (64%); 

PERSON: GOLDBERGER, PAUL DAVID DAVIS (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1996



342 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 1996

SECTION: Section 7; Page 42; Column 3; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1119 words

HEADLINE: Look! Up in the Sky!

BYLINE: By Daniel Bluestone; Daniel Bluestone, who teaches architectural history and directs the historic preservation program at the University of Virginia, is the author of "Constructing Chicago."

 BODY:

RISE OF THE NEW YORK SKYSCRAPER, 1865-1913
By Sarah Bradford Landau and Carl W. Condit.
Illustrated. 478 pp. New Haven:
Yale University Press. $50.
New York skyscrapers appalled Henry James. Returning to the city in 1904 after an absence of two decades, James found that skyscrapers had "cruelly overtopped" the spire of Trinity Church and "usurped" the place of distinguished civic and religious buildings on the skyline. The cityscape symbolized profound and troubling changes in American culture, James wrote in "The American Scene." Rooted traditions had given way to the shallow pursuit of money, and it was evident in the landscape. "Crowned not only with no history, but no creditable possibility of time for history, and consecrated by no uses save the commercial at any cost," James wrote, skyscrapers were the "most piercing notes in that concert of the expansively professional into which your supreme sense of New York resolves itself." In "Rise of the New York Skyscraper, 1865-1913," Sarah Bradford Landau and Carl W. Condit explore new historical dimensions of the buildings that James saw as lacking a claim on history. 
 Skyscrapers multiplied the space available on a single parcel of land. Earlier in the 19th century, New York builders had experimented with multistoried buildings, but the energies of most stair climbers tended to give out at four to five stories and so did the buildings. The expansion of white-collar work, concentrated in a downtown hemmed in by water, encouraged higher buildings, and a system of unregulated development and a series of technological inventions made skyscrapers possible. Skyscraper technology and architectural design are the primary focus of Ms. Landau, a professor of art history at New York University, and Mr. Condit, professor emeritus of history and art history at Northwestern. Starting with the 1868 Equitable Building, mechanical elevators, which had been initially developed for hoisting freight in warehouses and factories, transported people to levels higher than they could comfortably climb. Henceforth, white-collar and managerial workers would place a premium on upper floors, with their expansive views and removal from the noise, dirt and distractions of the street.
Taller buildings with more floors created the problem of greater loads. Thicker masonry walls, more substantial foundations and piers could support these loads but significantly reduced interior space, especially at the valuable ground-story retail level. Builders looked to structural iron to reduce the size of walls and piers. Ms. Landau and Mr. Condit closely trace these changes, along with new methods of fireproof construction, wind bracing and systems of heating, ventilation, plumbing and lighting.
The classical orders and other historic styles were not easily adapted to the skyscraper's unprecedented scale. Modernists advocated an architecture that would express the spirit of the industrial age with its new structural systems and materials. Many architects avoided this challenge. Some gathered groups of floors into multistory arcades based on historical styles. Others divided skyscraper facades into distinct horizontal units with a variety of stylistic treatments. Such gestures irked modernists like Louis H. Sullivan, who argued for greater design clarity and uniformity. Mr. Condit's earlier writings on skyscrapers shared the modernist assumptions of such critics; the current book significantly modifies that position. In one of their most alluring arguments, Ms. Landau and Mr. Condit sympathetically interpret the layered form of many early New York skyscrapers as a reflection of subtle changes in wall thicknesses prescribed by the 1892 New York City building code.
This book curiously slights the subject of design method. Concentrating on product rather than process, the authors are relatively silent about what led architects, engineers and builders to use one structural system or elevator technology over another. The book's narrative structure often turns on notions of "evolution" and the "maturity" of skyscraper development, as if the buildings simply grew and then grew some more; missing is an account of what went into the choices made among competing possibilities in technology and style.
Ms. Landau and Mr. Condit present a formalist account of skyscraper technology and esthetics. Matters like the skyscraper's economic and urban context are taken up, but with less rigor and consistency. Above all, skyscrapers concentrated people, but the authors attend to this human element unevenly. There are several fine sections that examine the criticisms and fears provoked by skyscrapers. The authors also discuss certain buildings as projections of a magnate's ego or of a corporate image -- a Woolworth, a Singer, a Metropolitan Life -- but they inexplicably neglect the experience of people who worked in and around skyscrapers and whose sense of urbanity revolved around those buildings. The New York Produce Exchange, designed in 1881 by George B. Post, offers a case in point. Ms. Landau and Mr. Condit scrutinize the articulation of the facades and the innovative structure that supported interior walls and spanned an exchange floor measuring 215 feet by 134 feet. But readers will have to go elsewhere to learn what business New Yorkers transacted in this building and why members of the exchange, who formerly had conducted their business on the street, even occupied this new space. Similarly, in the account of the New York Cotton Exchange Building, people are present only by implication: the building's system of vented water closets and urinals are discussed in detail.
New York had many skyscraper enthusiasts. S. Parkes Cadman, the charismatic minister and leader of the city's ecumenical movement, presided over the dedication ceremony for the Woolworth Building. He dubbed it the "Cathedral of Commerce." President Woodrow Wilson personally activated all of the building's lights for the first time. The New York Times reviewed the building's design as a monument to the nickels and dimes of the people and the rags-to-riches success of Frank W. Woolworth. Indeed, religious, political and civic figures often viewed skyscrapers as dramatic cultural icons, yet they cared little whether buildings had portal-and-arch bracing or knee bracing or caisson foundations. These leaders nevertheless articulated sophisticated social and esthetic reactions to the skyscraper form. When future critics and historians take measure of these aspects of the history of New York skyscrapers, Ms. Landau and Mr. Condit's account of the technical details will provide one important point of departure.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: RISE OF THE NEW YORK SKYSCRAPER, 1865-1913 (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (91%); NAICS611310 COLLEGES, UNIVERSITIES & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (73%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (91%); YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS (58%); YALE UNIVERSITY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (73%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS; ARCHITECTURE; OFFICE BUILDINGS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); HISTORY (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); HVAC SYSTEMS (76%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (76%); ART HISTORY (74%); OFFICE PROPERTY (71%); RELIGION (71%); LITERATURE (68%); 

PERSON: LANDAU, SARAH BRADFORD; CONDIT, CARL; BLUESTONE, DANIEL CARL W CONDIT (95%); SARAH BRADFORD LANDAU (92%); HENRY JAMES (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1996



343 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 1996

SECTION: Section 7; Page 13; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 2374 words

HEADLINE: Travel

BYLINE: By William Grimes; William Grimes is an arts reporter for The New York Times.

 BODY:
Fiction writers accept the notion that they follow in the footsteps of their predecessors. For travel writers, however, the metaphor suggests a serious problem. The whole point of travel writing is -- or was -- to describe a place few people have visited before.
Until quite recently, the earth offered many such places, unworked mines whose fat, tempting seams promised treasures to any brave soul with a strong back and a pick. Airplane travel and the cheap package tour put an end to all that. Now Tashkent, Nairobi and Kuala Lumpur all lie within a day's reach of New York. As Kingsley Amis pointed out in a tart little essay, travel's democratic age has spoiled things for a certain breed of writer, "the sort who for decades had been getting away with calling Spain a harsh, bitter land" or with nattering on about "the civilization of the delicate olive at the other end of the Mediterranean." 
 What to do? Some writers, unwilling to surrender the bragging rights conferred by novelty, have resorted to the gimmick book, in which the traveler sets himself a bizarre challenge (like walking the whole 3,000-mile coast of Baja California) or maps out an arcane itinerary (visiting, say, every town in the United States named Springfield). Others simply retrace the route taken by earlier adventurers, betting that the contrast between old and new will pay dividends. And lots of them, playing the Peter Mayle card, simply plop down in a cute village and wait for funny people to do funny things.
Mike Tidwell, the author of THE PONDS OF KALAMBAYI: An African Sojourn (Lyons & Burford, paper, $16.95), did none of the above, with brilliant results. As a Peace Corps volunteer, Mr. Tidwell spent two years in the grasslands of south central Zaire trying to spread the profitable message of fish farming to some of the poorest villages on the continent. This book is the record of his experience.
Mr. Tidwell arrives in Kalambayi with high hopes and a good plan. He will teach the local farmers how to dig ponds and raise fish, which will provide them with a source of income and add protein to a diet that consists mainly of fufu, a bland, squishy bread made of powdered corn and manioc. His task is not easy. One villager, for example, is convinced that fish will stock the ponds naturally, since they come to earth in raindrops. Others suspect that the fishponds are a new way for the white man to exploit their labor.
Gradually, Mr. Tidwell makes headway. But the heart of the story lies in his growing understanding of the people and the place he has come to. He picks up a spear and hunts with the men, to their great amusement. He wriggles out of the invitation when a local chief, taking pity on Mr. Tidwell's bachelor existence, offers one of his daughters in marriage. He protests in vain when his fish farmers routinely give away as much as half their harvest to relatives. Tradition, he finds, takes precedence over the profit motive. After a while, he learns to adopt the share-and-share-alike philosophy of a people who never have enough.
With a keen eye, he picks up on the fine points of building and maintaining a mukishi, a kind of scarecrow with a distinctly African twist: "To keep its spirit alert and savage, Kayenda began pelting its face every day with whatever sludge happened to be on hand -- mud, rotten fruit, ashes, flour. The process was something of an art form. One day I watched him pour a bucket of water over the mukishi's head while telling it that its mother was a prostitute."
For the most part, Mr. Tidwell tells a tragic story. Poverty, disease and failure hang over his villages. In the rainy season, as the stores from the previous harvest dwindle, death haunts the land. Mr. Tidwell does not flinch from tales of misery, but he lived long enough and closely enough with the people to know the whole story, the little triumphs and daily satisfactions as well as the defeats. Readers will be cheering for those fishponds.
The British travel writer Jeremy Seal also knows his territory, in this case Turkey, where he taught English for several years and developed an obsession with the fez, the real protagonist of his first book, A FEZ OF THE HEART (Harvest/Harcourt Brace, paper, $14). Subtitled "Travels Around Turkey in Search of a Hat," it takes the reader on a convoluted itinerary and a historical journey driven by Mr. Seal's ultimately irritating belief that the soul of Turkey can be found in the fez, the national headgear that replaced the turban in 1826 and, upon the orders of Kemal Ataturk, was outlawed in 1925 as a symbol of Turkish backwardness.
The Turks are a patient people. They submit to Mr. Seal's barrage of questions about the fez, not high on their list of interests, with good grace. Perhaps they, like the reader, suspect the fez is just a pretext. Mr. Seal needed an excuse to wander around Turkey, the fez is it, and his Turkish hosts simply have to make the best of it.
The book is better than its premise. Mr. Seal writes well, although he has a tendency to get purplish, and his little historical essays, scattered throughout the book, are fascinating and thoroughly researched. When he takes off his fez, so to speak, Mr. Seal does best. Although he is poor at describing scenery, he has the British gift for seizing upon absurdities, awkward situations and the miseries of travel. His description of a wretched waiting room for the ferry at Lake Van sounds the note of misery with genuine feeling:
"It was not for the occasional irksome delay but for hard-core uncensored waiting of the type with which the dockworkers there were evidently intimate. They cast glazed expressions at a television film featuring a dubbed Burt Reynolds. The room was heavy with cigarette smoke, distinct layers of it so thick you could almost read in it the stratified geology of the room's recent history and figure out with a fair degree of accuracy who had smoked what, where and when."
In the end, despite the fez he drags around like a ball and chain, Mr. Seal manages to shape his odd encounters and erratic pit stops into a convincing likeness of modern Turkey.
Giles Whittell, an English journalist, also had an obsession. His focused on Stephen Graham, a Scottish reporter for The Times of London who traveled from the Caspian Sea to Siberia in 1914. Mr. Whittell decided to take the same journey, more or less, making his way from Volgograd across central Asia to the towering peaks of the Altai Mountains, where China, Kirghizstan, Mongolia and Siberia meet.
Readers in search of deep historical knowledge or a complex view of the former Soviet Union should look for another book. EXTREME CONTINENTAL: Blowing Hot and Cold Through Central Asia (Trafalgar Square, $35) offers neither, but it is fast moving, footloose, sharply observed and very funny. Mr. Whittell races from one destination to the next, faster than Chichikov in Gogol's "Dead Souls," with barely enough time to pause for a thumbnail description, at which he is adept.
"On the map, Tajikistan is all frantic shading," he writes. "Tajikistan is where the deserts leap into the air, break open into chasms, grow glaciers, sprout forests, gush waterfalls and terrorize lowlanders with yaks, yetis, palpitations and edemas." In a spare sentence, he summons up Chardzhou, a hellhole in Turkmenistan: "It consists of rows of sad naked apartment blocks rising square off the desert like a bar chart."
Mr. Whittell pretty much forgets about the intrepid Stephen Graham about five pages into the book, but he does his man proud in the end. Diffident but amazingly persistent, Mr. Whittell shows up at Baikonur, the once top-secret Soviet space installation, and talks his way in to watch a rocket launching. One aspect of the episode, however, illustrates the adventure-resistant nature of the modern world. He pays by Visa card.
Christopher Hunt also makes a lively travel companion, although his itinerary is daunting: the Ho Chi Minh Trail. It takes a few pages of SPARRING WITH CHARLIE: Motorbiking Down the Ho Chi Minh Trail (Anchor/Doubleday, paper, $12.95) to accept Mr. Hunt as a guide. Breezy and casual, he overplays his hand as a regular guy. It does not inspire confidence when he describes postwar Vietnam as "the New York Mets of international economics." But Mr. Hunt, whose father, Richard P. Hunt, was a television reporter in Vietnam during the war, knows a little more than he lets on, and as he pops and sputters his way down the trail on a Russian motorbike, with side excursions into Laos and Cambodia, he shows real pluck and determination.
He describes a country so poor it received foreign aid from Cuba, a country in which water buffalo cool themselves in rain-filled bomb craters. He does not encounter animosity, which shocks him. "I saw every permutation of amputee. No legs in wheelchair. No legs without wheelchair. Prosthetics. Crutches. One empty sleeve. Two empty sleeves. Nobody ever pointed an accusatory finger at me."
Still, Mr. Hunt knows that powerful feelings run beneath the surface, despite the national habit of reticence. As he tours a minefield, a guide tells him: "I came here with the U.S. veterans. They remembered their friends and they cried. Vietnamese veterans also come here. They also cry." For the younger generation, though, America means money and fun, and Mr. Hunt is its ambassador. At a museum in Ho Chi Minh City whose exhibits show the full horror of the war, four schoolgirls approach him, ask his name and huddle to plot their next move. They return to him and say, "Chris, America No. 1."
In a bygone age, travel writers pursued their journeys for simple reasons, and reprints of their books often make the best reading today -- they combine the romance of travel with the romance of the past, offering, in effect, two trips for the price of one. More than a century ago, Capt. Frederick Burnaby traveled the length of Turkey in the dead of winter to answer a single question: "Were the Turks," as he put it, "such awful scoundrels?" The question came up in response to lurid newspaper accounts of atrocities committed against Bulgarian Christians in 1876. Burnaby, a resolute Victorian adventurer, was determined to find out. ON HORSEBACK THROUGH ASIA MINOR (Oxford University, paper, $13.95), which was originally published in 1877, presents his answers.
In the course of his travels, Burnaby inquired into the tensions between Christians and Muslims -- and Armenians, Kurds and Turks -- showing admirable skepticism and fair-mindedness as he listened to each side plead its case. He kept his ears open for news about the political intrigues of the Russians and his eyes open to see what British troops might have to deal with if England were drawn into war on Turkish territory. He also described Turkish society and customs. Best of all, for the modern reader, he took great pleasure in retailing the doings of his rascally Turkish servant, Osman, and the extended sufferings of his manservant, Radford, a military version of Mr. Pickwick's servant, Sam Weller. Radford has a thoroughly English sense of how people should behave. The Turks, especially Osman, frustrate him at every turn.
Burnaby traveled as a soldier with a mission, but just as often the gentleman travelers of the late 19th century pursued whim and fancy. George Gissing, the author of such bleak urban novels as "New Grub Street," headed for Calabria in 1897 in pursuit of a classical vision. "I shall see the shores where once were Tarentum and Sybaris, Croton and Locri," he writes at the outset of his journey. "Every man has his intellectual desire; mine is to escape life as I know it and dream myself into that old world which was the imaginative delight of my boyhood."
First published in 1901, BY THE IONIAN SEA: Notes of a Ramble in Southern Italy (Marlboro/Northwestern University, paper, $13.95, available in July) is a beautiful and touching book, the record of a golden interlude in a short life filled with hardship and bitter disappointment. Modern readers, following his journey, may wonder wherein the pleasure lay. Gissing travels across tough terrain. He describes vile accommodations and unspeakable food. It is a bit sad to see him discover that the river Galaesus, described in rapturous terms by Horace, is a piddling stream bordered by dusty fields and a few olive trees. But Gissing emerges triumphant. It is characteristic that when laid low by malaria, he sees exquisitely colored, detailed visions of the Second Punic War.
The journey inspired by whim can never be repeated. A travel writer following in the footsteps of Gissing would fail because without the temperament there's no trip. Ditto for the 120-mile walking tour that Robert Louis Stevenson undertook in 1878 through one of the most rugged and remote regions of France, a ramble that provided the material for his classic book, published the following year, called TRAVELS WITH A DONKEY IN THE CEVENNES (Marlboro/Northwestern University, paper, $12.95, available in July).
Ninety percent of any traveler's problems can be traced to transportation. Just as Burnaby struggled with short-winded horses in Turkey a century ago, so Mr. Hunt tinkered constantly with his motorbike in the 1990's. Stevenson's cross to bear was Modestine, a placid, stubborn, manipulative donkey with a sweet face and a low cunning that he could never quite get the better of. She is one of the great characters in travel literature.
In the course of his 12-day trip, Stevenson finds his loathing turning to love. When it comes time to say goodbye, he does so with regret: "She was patient, elegant in form, the color of an ideal mouse, and inimitably small. Her faults were those of her race and sex; her virtues were her own."
Stevenson, who was just shy of 28 at the time of his trip, dashed off his book in a few months to earn a quick check. The casual approach suited him. With a light hand, he ranges far and wide, serving up odd encounters, random conversations, his own reflections on God and man, and the compelling trivia of travel: food, drink, sleep and, in his case, the ever-fresh challenge of getting Modestine to move. It is the best of all possible trips.

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: KENYA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (76%); SPAIN (76%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (50%); 

CITY: NAIROBI, KENYA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: KENYA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (76%); SPAIN (76%); CALIFORNIA, USA (50%); NAIROBI, KENYA (57%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS WRITERS (93%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); AQUACULTURE (86%); LITERATURE (79%); TOUR PACKAGES (73%); ANIMAL AQUACULTURE (68%); FINFISH FARMING (67%); VOLUNTEERS (50%); 

PERSON: GRIMES, WILLIAM KINGSLEY WILLIAM AMIS (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1996



344 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 1996

SECTION: Section 13LI; Page 15; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1274 words

HEADLINE: From a Hofstra Class Assignment to Her Novel

BYLINE: By MARJORIE KAUFMAN 

 BODY:
FOR Barbara Rogan, 45, a novelist in Farmingdale, the title of Thomas Wolfe's posthumous novel could have read: "You Can Go Home Again." After living for more than a decade in Israel, where she founded a successful literary agency, Ms. Rogan returned to her Long Island birthplace in 1985 to raise her family and pursue a career as a writer
"When I grew up here in the 60's, I thought Long Island was the most boring, pointless, suburban place to live," she said. "Now that I'm older, with kids, it makes sense. We love living here. I think I may even be the one that cheers loudest at my sons' soccer games." 
 Her latest novel, her fifth, "Rowing in Eden," (Simon & Schuster) the title taken from a line in an Emily Dickinson poem, has been optioned by Citadel, a television production company. The book was written as a response to a writing exercise she assigned to her adult fiction writing class at Hofstra University in 1994.
"I asked them to write five opening lines for a book," she said. "I often try out my own assignments. When I went home and wrote the line: Even though she'd asked for it, Sam Pollak could not help feeling guilty the day he killed his wife. I became so fascinated that I had to figure out what book would go with it."
Her novels have been translated into seven languages and have sold more successfully in Europe and Asia than in the United States Her last book, "A Heartbeat Away," set in a New York City emergency room and inspired by Jane Austen's "Pride and Prejudice," has sold 40,000 hard copy editions in Japan.
"My books seem to appeal more to a European sensibility." she said. "They usually have some political content or at least some emotive social awareness that comes from my living abroad for so many years. It could be that the books speak to them more than to Americans, but I live in hope."
Persistence, she said, is particularly necessary for a writer. Her early and only ambition was to become one. She grew up shy and solitary in Westbury, where she enjoyed horseback riding, but her world was in books.
"I remember sitting around the table Sunday mornings with my parents reading The New York Times. I was only 5," she said. "I used to walk to school reading. I thought the only point of having friends was to trade Nancy Drew books. By fourth grade, I had my first play produced in school, a parody of 'Oklahoma!' "
She chose a small liberal arts college for a basic education, St. John's College in Annapolis, Md., where she graduated from its campus in Santa Fe, N.M. She worked in publishing for a short time in New York before she emigrated to Israel at age 21. She had previously traveled there and fallen in love with the land. She intended to make it her home.
Day jobs supported her writing at night, and included work as a wrangler on a dude ranch in Galilee, and later as a nature ranger at a reserve in Ein Gedi near the Dead Sea. "It was a green lush area, nearby the same caves referred to in the Bible where King David is said to have hid from Saul," she said.
In Tel Aviv, the center of the arts and intellectual activity, she developed her own literary agency and represented American and European publishing houses for the sale of Hebrew language rights to books. She represented the publishers of many writers she still admires, like Alice Hoffman and Madeleine L'Engle.
" 'A Wrinkle in Time' was one of my favorite books as a child," she said. "I remember being so thrilled when that book crossed my desk as an agent." Her agency became one of the largest in Israel, responsible for 50 percent of the foreign rights. In 1980, she married Benjamin Kadishson, an Israeli jazz musician.
Her first novel, "Changing States," 1982, was published simultaneously in Israel, England and the United States and also coincided with the birth of her first son. The book was influenced, she said, by the many Holocaust survivors' stories that passed by her desk as a literary agent.
By 1983, Ms. Rogan decided to sell the agency to finally write full time. The arduous decision to leave Israel was a complex one, mainly owing to Israel's unstable economy, she said.
"My books are variable in style and content, heavily researched and generally don't rely as much on my own personal experiences, as they draw on the emotional underpinnings of experiences," Ms. Rogan said.
"Characters I write about seem to have suffered some kind of deep wound, or devastating loss and I am fascinated with those who are resilient enough to overcome it -- the survivors."
In "Rowing in Eden," Sam Pollak, a Jewish carpenter, marries the love of his life, Louise, a 30-something midwife. They live happily until she becomes terminally ill in a small fictional village called Old Wickham, based on Old Chatham, N.Y., where the Rogans have a second home. Sam, who lost his family as a child, in a tragic accident, knew the "only security is false security." During his marriage, he lived in a state of fear and paranoia: "What after all did they know of Eden? Two things only: it was perfect while it lasted and it didn't last long."
In writing and researching the book, Ms. Rogan called on the expertise of the staff at the Shaker Museum in Old Chatham for advice on carpentry, and for insight into arson and firefighting she gathered information from Old Chatham's fire chief, Dick Van Egghen.
To assist her in the moral and religious issues of euthanasia, she turned to Rabbi Robert Marcus of the Farmingdale Jewish Center, who also helped with biblical citations and Jewish protocol in the book. She said her view on doctor-assisted suicide, which she believes should be legalized, was changed as a result of writing the book.
"Sam does what many people would consider to be the right thing," she said. "He loves his wife who is suffering from terminal cancer more than anything in the world. He becomes her 'tool,' to help her die at her request. What I found out while writing the book is what a toll it took on him."
Ms. Rogan often employs a useful writing device when she tells a story. By using multiple points of view and interweaving their stories, she said it offered each more depth. Running parallel to Sam's tragic dilemma is the blight of Peter Quinn, a teen-age foster child who killed his father in self-defense. Both pay a terrible price, living out their lives suffering with their moral conscious for so-called "justifiable acts," she said. In the novel Peter says: "Isn't it strange, how you become the thing you did?"
The character of the defrocked Rabbi Haim Malachi appears first in the novel to recite kaddish ( a prayer for the dead) at Louise's funeral and arrives at pivotal moments throughout the book to add bits of wisdom and a touch of magical realism.
"He's kind of a Jackie Mason angel," Ms. Rogan said. Rabbi Malachi explains his appellation in the novel: "What is a defrocked rabbi? A rabbi what goes cold in the winter. A teacher who can't teach what he don't understand himself."
A similar kind of archetypical character often appear in various forms in her novels, which mostly end with some kind of positive reconciliation, she said.
Her next book, the first set on Long Island, is also her first thriller. "It has a female protagonist who is a writer; everyone will think this one is autobiographical,"she said.
Ms. Rogan appears to be rowing in her own kind of Eden. She's content "hunkering" down, tending to mothering and writing and "blending" into suburban life.
"I feel fortunate to be able to make a living at exactly what I want to do," she said. "I want to be a writer till I die, till I die."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TITLE: ROWING IN EDEN (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); ISRAEL (90%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (78%); 

STATE: NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MARYLAND USA (75%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ANNAPOLIS, MD, USA (75%); SANTA FE, NM, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (56%); HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY (55%); HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY (55%); HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); ISRAEL (90%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (78%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MARYLAND USA (75%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ANNAPOLIS, MD, USA (75%); SANTA FE, NM, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (92%); LITERATURE (90%); WRITERS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); ROWING (78%); CREATIVE WRITING (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (73%); LITERARY AGENTS (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (69%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (68%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (67%); SOCCER (54%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (53%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (53%); 

PERSON: ROGAN, BARBARA; KAUFMAN, MARJORIE THOMAS KENNERLY 'TOM' WOLFE JR (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1996



345 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 1996

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 1; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1497 words

HEADLINE: A Stratford Theater's Struggle to Stay Alive

BYLINE: By PEGGY MCCARTHY 

 BODY:
THE setting for this drama is a 14-acre, little-used state park overlooking the Housatonic River in Stratford. There are four boarded-up buildings on the land, one a former theater that once had an international reputation.
The main character is Louis S. Burke, a South African who co-produced and directed "Meet Me in St. Louis" on Broadway in 1989. He decided a decade ago, when he first saw the closed Shakespeare theater (with "rain dripping from the roof and bird droppings on the stage"), that "it was my destiny," he said. The plot concerns repeated, unsuccessful efforts to revive the theater, which opened in 1955 and has been dark since 1982, save for a short, 1989 summer season. In its heyday, theatrical greats, including Katharine Hepburn, performed there. 
 As the curtain rises, there is quiet on the stage of what is now called the Stratford Festival Theater. An announced summer production of "Twelfth Night" with James Earl Jones has been shelved.
Behind the scenes is Mr. Burke, who has spent most of his career in South Africa as an actor, director and producer, and who now spends much time in Connecticut telling people that he is a major player in the theater world. Mr. Burke was chosen last November as the preferred developer for the site after Gov. John G. Rowland decided to sell the property.
Negotiations for the purchase stopped for a couple of months while Mr. Burke was seeking a state lease to operate summer seasons this year and next in a temporary structure at the theater site, said Richard K. Clifford, chief of outdoor recreation for the State Department of Environmental Protection. The department, which has jurisdiction over the property, approved the lease in January under the condition that state building and fire code requirements be satisfied, Mr. Clifford said.
But, the lessees decided that meeting the codes for one production would be "financially unfeasible," said Louis D. Pietig, of Westport, a partner of Mr. Burke. He said that the last summer season in Stratford lost nearly $250,000. He said a summer season next year with several plays is a goal of Brickhill-Burke Productions, Mr. Burke's company.
Both state negotiators and Mr. Burke have said they want to resume negotiations soon. Mr. Clifford said he would seek establishment of a timetable "so it doesn't go on indefinitely."
Meanwhile, in the wings, choruses are forming.
There are supporters of Mr. Burke's efforts to resurrect the Shakespeare theater, including a booster group he formed called "Friends of Will," which has about 40 members and has attracted some 200 people to a clean-up of the theater grounds.
There are critics, like David Reed, a former marketing director of the theater and a losing contender to be preferred developer of the site.
And, there are skeptics, like Paul S. Timpanelli, president of the Bridgeport Regional Business Council. He says he wants to see the rebirth of the theater, but has growing doubts about it happening.
Mr. Timpanelli, a member of Mr. Burke's advisory board and its finance committee, said of the project, "I have concerns about whether or not it's real." He continued: "The most important thing that's given rise to these concerns is the absence of a solid financial plan with visible support and means of raising equity." Mr. Timpanelli explained that he and other board members asked for such information months ago and haven't received it.
"I love Louis Burke. He is absolutely magnificent. But, he's a theater guy, he's not a project management guy. What the team needs is an economic development person, a project management person, and a finance person to make the thing work," Mr. Timpanelli said.
Mr. Burke insisted that he has a team of financial backers and developers "involved in doing 300-million-dollar projects all across America, all across the world." He said "they've asked us not to announce their names" until after a purchase agreement is reached with the state.
"How do you think I have managed to keep this thing financed for five years? I've been working on this for five years. Who do you think has been paying for everything?" he asked, adding that he and his wife, the actress Joan Brickhill, "have been very successful" in theater for 35 years.
Meanwhile, Mr. Burke expressed concern about environmental problems he said exist in Selby's Pond in the vicinity of the theater, and from lead paint in the theater.
But, Mr. Clifford said, "as far as we know, there are no toxic materials on the state property."
Mr. Clifford maintained that the state does not own the pond and that the theater is not painted, but stained. He said if there is lead paint, it is in small areas like dressing rooms, which he said he did not consider a major obstacle. He pointed out, though, that there are environmental problems in nearby land that Mr. Burke plans to develop.
Mr. Burke was an unsuccesful bidder two years ago when the state selected a preferred developer to lease the property. That selection was scrapped last year after negotiations hadn't made progress and state officials decided to sell the land.
He was chosen preferred developer after bidding $1.5 million for the property. Mr. Reed had bid $1 million, and Stratford Upon the Housatonic, Inc., the preferred developer in the last go-round, bid one dollar, according to Mr. Clifford.
Mr. Clifford said, however, that the state was not obligated to accept Mr. Burke's bid and could seek another sum during negotiations. The state bought the property for $1 million in 1983 to save the theater from bankruptcy.
To help Mr. Burke, State Senator George L. Gunther, a Stratford Republican, proposed a $15 million state loan for the project, but the measure was not acted on by the legislature before it adjourned for the year.
Mr. Burke's $180 million plan calls for renovating the old Shakespeare theater and building two other theaters. It also includes development of 20 acres nearby with hotels, shops and restaurants.
Many officials and residents of Stratford have long been hoping for a resurrection of the theater, which had been a tourist attraction. Layoffs by Sikorsky Aircraft and a planned closing of Allied Signal's Stratford operation, have created a stronger thirst for such an economic boost.
"We feel we need to have some kind of alternate business structure here," said the Town Planner, David W. Killeen. "There are many people who feel very strongly the revitalized theater will play an important role in the future of this community."
But, there is also skepticism. The Stratford Town Manager, Mark S. Barnhart, said, "I think people would like to remain optimistic, but we have seen plans dashed so many times now, it's hard not to get a little discouraged by constant delays."
The Stratford Zoning Commission has approved a theater district. Under its rules, small inns would be permitted in the 300-property area in the Stratford Center Historic District, while hotels, restaurants and shops would be permitted in a nearby commercial area, Mr. Killeen said.
But the district's boundaries have not been drawn. Mr. Barnhart said "there's very little reason to move ahead and establish boundaries of a theater district, if there isn't a finalized theater. Let's be real."
Meanwhile, Mr. Burke is involved in several endeavors. They include a four-week theater workshop to take place at Stratford Academy, a public school, starting July 8; "Dangerous Illusions," a puppet and magic production with a drug abuse message for school children, and seeking affiliation with the nonprofit American National Theater and Academy to help bring credibility to a fund-raising effort for the Shakespeare theater reopening. Plans also include a Renaissance Fair proposed for July 27 on the theater grounds (which needs a special state permit) and readings of new plays undertaken in conjunction with Sacred Heart University in Fairfield.
Mr. Burke ran a theater in Johannesburg from 1974 through 1981. As an actor, he has played Shakespearean characters including Shylock, Iago and Macbeth. He is a member of the League of American Theaters and Producers and a Tony Awards voter.
He has named prominent theater people to his artistic advisory board including Paul Newman, Michael York, Stephanie Powers and James Earl Jones. And, he said his artistic directors are John Barton, founder of the Royal Shakespeare Theater Company in England, and Michael Langham, formerly director The Juilliard School's drama division.
"What more do I have to do, to prove who I am? I'm tired of having to prove myself to everybody who's trying to be a naysayer," Mr. Burke said.
Under state law, Mr. Burke would have three years from the time an agreement is reached with the state to put on a play. If he doesn't, the land will revert to the town. The law requires a 20-year commitment by the developer to use the site as a theater and produce at least one Shakespearean play a year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SOUTH AFRICA (90%); UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: STRATFORD (CONN); SOUTH AFRICA (90%); UNITED STATES (88%); CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER THEATER (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); THEATER & DRAMA (78%); STATE PARKS (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); PROPERTY LEASES (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); BUILDING & HOUSING CODES (77%); FESTIVALS (75%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (73%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (72%); FIRE PREVENTION & SAFETY (63%); 

PERSON: MCCARTHY, PEGGY; BURKE, LOUIS S BEN NELSON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1996



346 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 1996

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 1; Column 3; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: JERSEY;
At the Shore, Your T-Shirt Says It All

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY 

 BODY:
SARA GILLESPIE, 18 years old, held up a T-shirt from the bulging rack in a shop on the boardwalk in Wildwood. She and her best friend, Melissa Alvaro, had come for a few days to look for a summer job.
The shirt said, "Drink Till He's Cute." 
 Ms. Alvaro, 19, couldn't suppress a giggle, which she quickly covered with a frown. "Pathetic," she said.
Ms. Gillespie flipped through the hangers and found another. It said, in blurry letters: "I'm Not As Think As You Drunk I Am."
"Idiotic," Ms. Alvaro said dismisively.
"Can you imagine wearing anything like that?" Ms. Gillespie asked.
No, they could not. Off they strolled into the blazing sunlight, headed for an amusement pier up the boardwalk where a new $4 million wooden roller coaster with a 100-foot drop had just opened, to see if jobs were available. None were.
On many stretches of the Jersey shore, where public beaches are often blocked by property owners and economic classes are approaching a calcified level of segregation, the least welcome summer visitors are teen-agers and those in their early 20's. Routinely, you will hear words like "rowdies" and "be-boppers" tossed about to describe a generation of young people, not just the few who cause trouble.
As a result, the young people are actively welcomed only by the boardwalk towns, whose distinctive welcome signs are the T-shirt slogans that say as much about the towns as the kids who visit. So it was enlightening last week, for someone who still remembers being young once on the shore, to take a trip down the coast, visiting only the boardwalk towns.
Wildwood, unhappily, is a town where too many businesses and landlords have taken the profits over the years and run, leaving a deteriorating environment beyond the big amusement piers. Just north on the coast, though, is steadfastly respectable Ocean City, where the amusement rides are small, and the promenade is broad, lined with candy shops, toy stores, movie theaters, and even the occasional sushi bar.
Here the T-shirt slogans have an entirely different tone, like this one, on a tall young man: "Don't Wait For Your Ship To Come In. Swim Out to It." Or this, on a toddler: "If I Do Be Quiet, You'd Better Find Me." Or this, on a middle-aged father, in text designed to look like an entry in a dictionary: "College: A Bar With a $20,000 Cover Charge." Or this, worn by a young woman who looked like a college student: "It's Been Lovely, But I Have to Scream Now."
The boardwalk was invented in Atlantic City, but since the casinos came in the world-famous Atlantic City boardwalk has become as grubby as a street carnival. T-shirts here reflect the fact that few people under the legal gambling age of 21 give the town a second look. "I'm Retired and Spending My Children's Inheritance," one said.
In bar-crammed Seaside Heights, the message is both traditional and modern, reflecting the proximity to New York marketing experts of tens of thousands of potential young consumers on any summer weekend. While T-shirts still flap outside boardwalk shops with misogynistic wisecracks, the old mom-and-pop silkscreening shops responsible for the bawdy shirts are being pushed out these days by manufacturers with commercial tie-ins to corporate brands aimed at young people. The famous Bud Light commercials' "I Love You, Man" line is ubiquitous on T-shirts this year, for example. So are Absolut Vodka logos, and shirts with logos for Cheerios and Burger King.
Not that you see a lot of them beyond the store racks. "I wouldn't wear one of those ads unless they paid me to be a billboard," said one young man, taking his break from a summer job running a game booth, dragging on a cigarette under a huge electric Joe Camel sign.
At Point Pleasant Beach, the northernmost and smallest of the boardwalk towns, an 18-year-old named Kyle Schneider was reading a novel inside a beach-ticket booth. She has just finished her freshman year of college, and reclaimed the summer job she has had since high school.
"People think all boardwalk towns are rowdy, but that just isn't true anymore, except maybe for Wildwood -- where you don't even consider going at night," she said, shutting her book to watch joggers chug by. Behind her, a big red kite soared and plunged on wind currents above long, curling waves.
"T-shirts? You really don't see a lot of that here," she said.
But a little farther down the promenade, a girl on in-line skates glided by wearing a sweatshirt that had the message that finally seemed to capture the zeitgeist of the boardwalk summer of 1996.
"Whatever," it said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

CITY: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: T-SHIRTS (APPAREL); CHILDREN AND YOUTH; BEACHES; SLOGANS AND MOTTOES BEACHES (87%); SEASONAL WORKERS (77%); ADOLESCENTS (75%); CONFECTIONERY & NUT STORES (73%); HOBBY TOY & GAME STORES (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (72%); 

PERSON: SHARKEY, JOE SIR GEORGE YOUNG (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1996



347 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 1996

SECTION: Section 6; Page 6; Column 5; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 65 words

HEADLINE: THE BIRTH OF A REVOLUTIONARY CLASS

 BODY:
It's good that we elders have so much political clout. We need it to withstand attacks like "The Birth of a Revolutionary Class," by Lester C. Thurow (May 19). 
 I once fed my wage history into my computer and determined that the Government was giving me a return of just 3 1/2 percent on the joint contributions I and my employers had made.
 
DANIEL N. FISCHEL
Fort Lee, N.J.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; AGED

PERSON: THUROW, LESTER C; FISCHEL, DANIEL LESTER C THUROW (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1996



348 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 1996

SECTION: Section 6; Page 6; Column 6; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 101 words

HEADLINE: THE BIRTH OF A REVOLUTIONARY CLASS

 BODY:
Social Security and Medicare would not have had a breath of a chance to become law if it weren't for the fact that everyone who pays in is entitled to benefits. Recent changes in the tax laws are evidence of an increasing dichotomy between what one paid in taxes and receives in benefits. For the highly productive, and therefore well-compensated, middle class, Social Security and Medicare are becoming a bad deal. 
 If these entitlement programs are allowed to become just another way of soaking the rich, the support for them will gradually erode.
 
ANTHONY E. MAAS, M.D.
Mechanicsburg, Pa.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; AGED; SOCIAL SECURITY (US); MEDICARE SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (88%); LEGISLATION (88%); 

PERSON: MAAS, ANTHONY E (DR)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1996



349 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 1996

SECTION: Section 7; Page 11; Column 2; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: Shocklets of Recognition

BYLINE: By Susan Bolotin; Susan Bolotin is the assistant managing editor of Life magazine.

 BODY:

LEARNING TO DRIVE
By William Norwich.
214 pp. New York:
Atlantic Monthly Press. $22.
 New Yorkers are tripping over one another to get close enough to William Norwich to congratulate him on his first novel. Who will be first in position to whisper the question that tout le monde wants answered: Why did the perennially effusive gossip columnist for The New York Observer and editor at large for Vogue write a novel about a fashion magazine slave/tabloid columnist, if not to encourage the reader to fit fact to fantasy? But, then, this is one literary gamble (or is it more of a gambol?) that pays off. Just think of what it did for Truman Capote, Dominick Dunne, Tom Wolfe and Anonymous. 
 Here's the skinny: The fashion mag boss, Ines Spring, wears dark glasses indoors and favors Chanel. No need to hang out with Tina Brown -- or to know that the editor in question hails from the far side of the drink -- to recognize Vogue's always recognizable Anna Wintour. Or her boss, H. M. (If one pronounces S. I. Newhouse's name as Sy, does H. M. become Him? Or is it Hymn?) Let's leave this guessing game to Liz Smith!
 Anyway, back to the plot. Our hero, Julian Orr, who fiddles away his nights at launch parties for perfumes, his days in front of a computer screen, decides, at the age of 37, that he must learn to drive. He wants to visit his parents' graves in southeastern Connecticut, and his shrink has convinced him that hiring a car for a cemetery outing would be "too much of an 80's thing to do; too catered." Simply dying for company, he dragoons Ms. Spring-Wintour-Fall, who is also a vehicular neophyte. "Ines, we're going to learn to drive!" he tootles. "They'll have us at McCauley's."
 Ines takes to driving school like Kate Moss to ennui, but Julian, anxious, tormented by unresolved childhood issues, cannot get the hang of it. With his learner's permit about to expire like Blaine Trump, Patty Hearst Shaw, Caroline Herrera and Alfonse D'Amato after a late night at the Temple of Dendur, who should appear to play Fairy Godmother to his Cinderella? A McCauley's driving instructor named Hector, who, just that morning, had canceled his appointment to take Julian for his driving test, not caring one iota that Julian had already picked out the blue Armani!
 What would any self-respecting journalist do? Right: Julian threatens the driving school manager with negative press. And how would any media-savvy New Yorker respond, stuck between this Scylla of journalistic blackmail and that Charybdis of an uncooperative staff member? Right: he threatens Hector with unemployment. So Hector shows up. Too bad he loses it not long after, turning a trip to Sheepshead Bay into a Journey through Madness, Murder and Random Mayhem in the Outer Boroughs. (Tom Wolfe might be up for another tip of the hat about here.)
This part of "Learning to Drive" is quite a ride -- bewildering, and sometimes uncomfortably bumpy. Mr. Norwich writes: "Fatigued by my half-baked days, I went to bed early except for a brief spurt of energy during the Studio 54 disco days that left me exhausted, physically and financially, when the dancing feast moved to places like the Mudd Club and Area." Whew! Well, Andy Warhol wouldn't have cared if a sentence didn't parse.
 Scattered among the excess clauses, like Kennedys around Hyannisport, are charming set pieces about Julian's youth. The boy lived a melodramatic childhood (deaths, car crashes, drownings, homosexual seductions) with people who spent "almost perfectly speechless days" together. Julian's recollections of that time have an opaque quality -- did he never ask why his neurasthenic mother slept alone, while his father "rolled me in his arms" at night? -- but Mr. Norwich's descriptions have a sweetness that is very appealing.
 Indeed, what most comes through "Learning to Drive" is how appealing Mr. Norwich is. You want to like a gossip columnist whose self-esteem is such that he's constantly having his alter-ego gossip columnist apologize for being a gossip columnist. "I learned the column wasn't about writing -- no one cared about the writing -- it was about tabulating names." Really, there's no need to apologize. Just as there's no need to have a childhood friend ask of Julian, "If you're really a writer, why don't you write?"
 Simone de Beauvoir once said that female friends look to each other for "the affirmation of the universe they have in common." Gossip, when done without malice (or at least without overt hostility), serves the same purpose. Really, there's simply no need to apologize.

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: LEARNING TO DRIVE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (58%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (58%); CONNECTICUT, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (92%); WRITERS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); LITERATURE (90%); DRIVER EDUCATION (89%); JOURNALISM (78%); FASHION & APPAREL (76%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (73%); CEMETERIES (70%); PERFUMES & COLOGNES (64%); 

PERSON: NORWICH, WILLIAM; BOLOTIN, SUSAN KATE MOSS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1996



350 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 1996

SECTION: Section 9; Page 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1318 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/New Jersey;
Commercial Market at Midpoint: Holding Its Own

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

 BODY:
LATE last year, when AT&T announced it would lay off 6,000 workers in New Jersey and split into three companies, real estate executives feared that the state's largest employer would shed some of its 23 million square feet of space. But there appears to have been no great effect on the market.
For as much space as AT&T gave back in some buildings, it or one of its spinoffs took space in others, keeping the company's occupancy at a status quo, said Ritch Blasi, its spokesman. 
 In the last six months, in fact, the market has been left in a slightly better position as many tenants repeated the space-swapping pattern of AT&T in every segment of the state's commercial market. And indications are that the market will stay the course through the year, brokers and industry analysts say.
As a corollary, 1996 "is expected to be a reasonable if not a headline-grabbing growth year for New Jersey," said James W. Hughes, dean of the Edward J. Boustein School of Urban Policy and Planning at Rutgers University in New Brunswick.
A steady pace of leasing is whittling down available office space and nudging up rents, brokers say. They also say that small and midsize companies are the market's mainstay tenants as the supply of big blocks of space thins.
The squeezing of space has led to a trickle of speculative building after a six-year lull in some of the tightest markets, such as the Interstate 78/287 corridor. It has also forced tenants who bypassed weaker markets with significant vacancies, such as Piscataway in Middlesex County, to look to them again.
In the retail sector, where there have been bankruptcies of such discounters as Bradlees and Jamesway, new companies, like Target, are entering the scene. And with drugstores, supermarkets and movie theaters increasing their appetite for space the market has regained stability.
There is also new development, stoked mainly by big-box retailers, which continue to expand in the state. For instance, a 90,000-square-foot project for Toys "R" Us, Kids "R" Us and the new Babies "R" Us is under way in Elizabeth. Nearby, work has begun on a 1.2 million-square-foot outlet center; others are planned in Jackson Township and Carteret. Though the days of building regional malls seem over, some are expanding. One proposal would add 250,000 square feet to the Bridgewater Commons Mall.
"The climate is more upbeat than it was in January," said Matthew Harding, senior vice president at the Levine Management Corporation in North Plainfield. "Rents are stable and the vacancy rate remains flat at 6 percent." But the long-term retail outlook is uncertain, Mr. Harding added.
Ted Kraus, who runs a retail advisory firm in Mercerville, agreed. "What we're seeing now is a game of replacement, not growth," he said, "New stores will open. But they will rob customers from competitors and there will be some losers."
As for industrial property, a demand for modern warehouse and distribution space produced a spate of such projects for specific tenants. Most are around Exits 10 and 8A of the New Jersey Turnpike, and are being sought by firms expanding or consolidating from scattered sites to increase efficiency.
One is Volkswagen of America. It moved distribution operations from Orangeburg, N.Y., and the Washington area into a 320,000-square-foot distribution center just completed at the Centerpoint business park, straddling Monroe and South Brunswick in the 8A region.
Over all, industrial leasing slowed, and some markets, like the Meadowlands, saw space returned, especially in older buildings where some of it may never get leased, brokers say. But they insist that the lull in the market is temporary.
The space swapping will continue as will building activity, although more slowly, said John G. Orrico, senior vice president of the local offices of the Grubb & Ellis brokerage. The vacancy rate will stay at 9.7 percent, he said, adding, "It's a tight market."
While the office market remains the most active of all three sectors, concern lingers.
AT&T's breakup has so far had less harsh an effect on the market than expected. But that reshuffling, as well as continued downsizings and mergers -- particularly in the banking industry -- are sure to result in the return of space to the market and jobs losses.
"A decrease in jobs is still anticipated," said Mr. Blasi of AT&T. "And that will probably mean less office space."
Yet, Dr. Hughes of Rutgers said, companies have been downsizing for the last four years and there are 190,000 more jobs in the state now than in 1992, as companies with high growth rates pick up the slack. That is expected to continue this year, he said, adding that the state would gain as jobs as it did in 1995 -- 33,000 -- and possibly more.
That bodes well for the office market, "which has entered a period of modest but steady improvement," said S. Harold Appel, senior vice president and managing officer of CB Commercial's New Jersey offices.
The vacancy rate for the 11-county northern New Jersey market fell from 19.4 percent at the end of 1995 to 18.7 percent in the first quarter this quarter, the lowest this decade, according to the East Rutherford office of Cushman & Wakefield. "If all pending deals go through, it could slip below 18 percent by next month," said Donald P. Eisen, the brokerage's senior managing director.
With rents creeping up and concessions vanishing, there are hints of a switch to a landlord's market from one favoring the tenant, he said. Expanding companies, notably in the computer and communications industry, are helping the market.
Bay Networks, a maker of computer-networking equipment, expanded to 60,000 square feet in Parsippany in Morris County, among the strongest markets. The Interstate-287/78 corridor, wooed one of the few new arrivals, B.E.A Systems Inc., a computer software provider in Sunnyvale, Calif., which leased a 62,250-square-foot building in Bernards Township for its East Coast base.
ALSO stoking the activity are hospitals and health maintenance organizations, which "are increasingly prevalent players in the market," said Jonathan B. Shultz, president of the brokerage services group of the Woodbridge-based Schultz Organization. An example is the purchase of a 30,000-square-foot former bank headquarters in Long Branch by Modern Health Affiliates, a group of doctors from the Shore Medical Center in Neptune. The building will be used for outpatient care.
Cable operations also want to move to the state, said Norman B. Baker, senior managing director at the Edward S. Gordon offices in Saddle Brook. MSNBC, a venture of Microsoft and NBC, leased the 110,000-square-foot former Jamesway warehouse in Secaucus for its cable-news network. And Mr. Baker said four media companies were scouting space at Fort Lee Executive Park, which his firm represents.
The activity has left the market with a scarcity of large blocks of space. A few developers have responded with speculative projects. The Bellemead Development Corporation of Roseland is constructing a 207,727-square-foot building in Warren Township in Somerset County, which just landed Hoechst Celanese of Bridgewater as its single tenant. The new space will allow Hoechst to expand its operations.
Bellemead also plans to start a 107,000-square-foot speculative building this summer in Parsippany.
In Bridgewater, SJP Properties of Parsippany plans to start a 240,000-square-foot building this fall at the 118-acre Somerset Corporate Center, which is set at a four-way interchange of I-287, just south of I-78. "This is one of the tightest markets," said Steven J. Pozycki, SJP'S president. "And there are tenants looking for large blocks of space."
But these projects do not signal a full-scale return to the heady days of the mid-80's. "The market is moving to positive ground," Mr. Eisen of Cushman & Wakefield said. "Only it's moving slowly."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Drawing of Hoechst Celanese building, above, rising in Warren. Fort Lee Executive Park, where media companies have shown interest. (Richard Baehr)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: T (NYSE) (93%); ATTB (BRU) (93%); ATRP (PAR) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (52%); SIC5945 HOBBY, TOY, & GAME STORES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: TOYS 'R' US INC (52%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (55%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (55%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS; RENTING AND LEASING REAL ESTATE (91%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (74%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); CHILDREN (71%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (68%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (65%); RETAILERS (63%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%); 

PERSON: GARBARINE, RACHELLE

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1996



351 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 13; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1030 words

HEADLINE: VOICES: VIEWPOINT;
Beneficial Capitalism, R.I.P.

BYLINE: By ALEXEI BAYER; Alexei Bayer runs his own economic consulting firm, Kafan FX Information Services, in New York.

 BODY:
WHEN Russian voters go to the polls today, they may end up returning to power a regime that only five years ago they so joyously overthrew.
That Russians should pine for the past is understandable: they lost economic security enjoyed under Communism and are faced with collapsing social services, a widening gulf between the rich and the poor and a slew of other economic and social problems. 
 But Russians do not have a monopoly on nostalgia. While Americans, their cold war rivals, are enjoying the fruits of political victory, dissatisfaction with economic conditions in the United States is widespread as well. How did that happen?
Since the end of the cold war, the death of ideology has been repeatedly proclaimed. Indeed, as a basis for social organization, ideology is being replaced everywhere by economic efficiency and free-market principles. But Communism was not the only creed that went down in defeat. The West, too, had an ideology -- a capitalist ideology, as it were -- that also perished under the New World Order.
If the Communists win today, it will not be a victory for their old ideology. The creed's appeal is so limited that Gennadi Zyuganov, the Communist candidate, had to spice up his rhetoric with nationalism, anti-Semitism, support for private property and even tolerance for Christianity -- concepts that are not just alien to Marxism but directly inimical to it.
While there is no reason to mourn the death of Communism, that is not true for the capitalist ideology, which had its roots in the great battle of ideas that broke out after World War II. Based on Marxism, Soviet propaganda insisted that, as capitalism developed, workers would become progressively impoverished. Broad-based prosperity was impossible, it said, unless property was communized and workers themselves ran the machinery of the state.
The United States took upon itself to disprove these claims. Just as Communism had to be contained physically -- for example, in Greece, Iran and Korea -- it had to be defended on the ideological front. America had to demonstrate that capitalism provides a good life for workers and that standards of living in an open, democratic and capitalist system would surpass anything possible under a Communist regime. The system that emerged was meant to insure that increases in the common economic pie would be distributed widely among participants in the economic process. Owners of capital, management, government and employees would all get their fair share.
The system functioned remarkably smoothly, in part because postwar economic growth created an ever-expanding pie and in part because of faith in capitalist ideology, which quickly imbued all classes and united Democrats and Republicans in Congress and the White House. Trade unions, which in other countries often advocated radical change, were among the staunchest defenders of the American way. They gave management a free hand to run companies; in return, management let workers share the success.
The capitalist ideology reached its apogee in the 1960's, with the Great Society programs. President Johnson set out to prove that capitalism not only could improve the lot of workers but also eradicate poverty altogether. It was natural, therefore, that Johnson pursued the Vietnam War: a president who pushed the capitalist creed to its final frontier at home was determined to curb Communist expansion abroad.
Arising in response to the Soviet threat in the postwar decades, the Great Society was both the high noon of capitalism and the beginning of its twilight. In the late 1960's and 1970's, when the ideological threat of Communism began to recede, the capitalist ideology also went into decline. Statistics show that in the early 1970's, average household incomes in the United States started to stagnate and then fall; income distribution began to polarize. Remarkably, the onset of this trend coincided with President Nixon's first visits to Beijing and Moscow.
Factors usually blamed for declining average incomes and skewed income distribution -- inflation, the oil shock, technological change and the flight of jobs abroad -- are merely challenges thrown up by the economic system. The weakening of capitalist ideology, however, shaped our responses to those challenges. Over the past two decades, there were periods of economic growth as well as contraction. In good times and bad, owners of capital and upper management consistently benefited at the expense of wage earners.
In the 1980's, Brezhnevite stagnation in the Soviet Union was mirrored in the United States by an accelerating decline of the capitalist ideology. Although inflation fell and growth returned after 1982, economic gains were divided unevenly. The old myth, that rising productivity would lead to higher living standards, was shattered as mechanisms for a more equitable distribution of incomes were dismantled. Managerial commitment to employees waned. In recent years, the benefits of economic growth have gone entirely to owners of capital, senior managers and upper-income individuals; worse, wage earners continue to lose ground even as the overall economy expands.
In 1992, when the Soviet Union collapsed and political scientists declared victory for capitalism, what they failed to notice was that capitalism as it was known in the postwar period was also dead. Instead, the free market emerged triumphant.
True, the capitalist ideology owed its success to the free market that underpinned economic growth. But the free market alone could not have achieved the broad-based prosperity this country enjoyed in the 1950's and 1960's. It was not the case in the 19th century, when free-market forces advocated by the "Manchester school" liberals wreaked havoc with the living standards of the early industrial work force, nor is it happening now, when the return of an unfettered market is undermining the living standards of the working poor in the United States.
In retrospect, the capitalist ideology was a rare breed: it was benign and inclusive, and it aspired to provide a decent life for the largest possible number of people. Its passing should be mourned.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BYR (LSE) (59%); BRB (BRU) (59%); BRA (AMS) (59%); BR (APR) (59%); BAY (NYSE) (59%); BAY (FRA) (59%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (59%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE AND OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (59%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL AND RESIN MANUFACTURING (59%); SIC3089 PLASTICS PRODUCTS, NEC (59%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW WORLD LIBRARY (55%); NEW WORLD WINES (55%); NEW WORLD SOFTWARE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ELECTIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); RELIGION (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); POLITICS (78%); TRENDS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); LIVING STANDARDS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); WORLD WAR II (70%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (69%); LABOR UNIONS (63%); 

PERSON: BAYER, ALEXEI

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1996



352 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 1996

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 13; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 877 words

HEADLINE: ART REVIEW;
Gloves Embellished By Women's Visions

BYLINE: By WILLIAM ZIMMER 

DATELINE: SUMMIT

 BODY:
FRAN WILLNER and Lois Shapiro threw down the gauntlet to 70 female artists they knew. The two curators had come into possession of a motley collection of gloves belonging to someone who had acquired them over a lifetime and was about to enter a nursing home. They mailed off one glove to each of the artists, about 50 of them New Jerseyans, asking them to transform the gloves into art. The results are "The Glove Project" at the New Jersey Center for the Visual Arts.
The show is good-natured and warm-hearted, and more than a few of the submissions even pass muster as art. In their printed statement, the curators give themselves an out when they describe the glove recipients as being "of varied interests and talents." Artistic activity of this sort, in which a range of artists is given the same item to work with, is always revealing, for the way it tests imagination and invention. It's not surprising that some artists score higher than others. Hard work counts for a lot, too. 
 Viewers are met by Phoebe Frank's "Glovis Erectus," around which she has woven a whole mythology. Her creation is an extinct spotted creature that was able to self-procreate. Captured in a small glass-fronted box, it looks out with a wily expression. Not far away, Irene Steglitz shows some rebelliousness by rejecting the glove that was sent her; she fashioned an ersatz one out of paper. "The gloves were mailed out randomly," the curators write. "Many didn't like the glove they got."
Many proceeded just to embellish their gloves, covering them with glitter, baubles and, more prosaically, buttons. Several artists painted fingernails on their gloves or slipped on gaudy rings. In this regard, a drawback of the concept is revealed: an artist may have thought she was doing something singular and had no way of knowing that many others had come up with the same idea. (All 70 are on display.)
Gloves that work well have an edge to them, like the spindly daddy longlegs out of thin wire that Mary Olive Stone simply placed on her dark blue bequest. Not surprisingly, several cliches are illustrated, literally, among them "Bite Hand," by Meredith Turshen, a set of yellowing false teeth clamping down on the glove's fingers. Fortuitously, she was sent a white specimen, and the trickle of blood she stitched with red thread is very visible.
It's very likely that a punning title preceded the fabrication of a piece, and too many artists found it irresistible to rhyme "glove" with "love." A doll emphasizing a glove's splayed fingers by Gail Fishberg is "Lady Chatterley's Glover." More artists than did could have animated their gloves, showing them in arrested action; one who did so is Evelyn Simpson, who placed chopsticks correctly between two fingers for "I Think I've Got It."
Several artists saw a glove as a tree with the fingers as branches, but Shary Skoloff bent the fingers of her gloves so that they project outward, holding a nest with three eggs. She calls her creation "Nature's Promise." Some of the artists accomplished thorough transformations, as Diane Price did with "Quirky Whimsical Birdhouse." Perhaps her title includes too many adjectives, but she was economical in her method, inverting her glove to expose the finger holes and making one cavity the opening to the dwelling. She also bunched the body of the glove around a post and added a perch under the entry hole.
T HE most immediately winning pieces are gloves turned into animals. Two horses are in the group: Joelynn Trilling's rearing "Handhorse" and an elaborate Victorian rocking horse by Jaqui Jacobs, who made three fingers of a white glove into a stylized mane. The most impressive animal, seemingly accomplished through a process resembling origami, is the rooster by Renee Hayman, who folded the fingers of a brown glove to form a proud tail. Even the egregious puns constituting her title, "Hand-some Rooster Looking for His Chick," don't mar the simple artistry.
Several artists, dealt black gloves, knew how to bring out their inherent mysteriousness. Pulling out all the horrific stops, Ms. Shapiro calls her black glove with its splayed fingers and snake slithering between two of them "Out of the Crypt." Vicki Parker's "Between Two Worlds," an elaborate construction, is essentially two open cubes lined with religious symbols, actually features two black gloves; one clutches a cross, the other a totem pole. A working man's shiny, slick black glove abets Laurel Clark's aims. Adorned with objects related to American Indians, the glove, which looks as if it has emerged from water, is titled "Resurrection."
That title has something to do with the two works that make the most trenchant social comments. Clara Manheim added a syringe and some rubber tubing to her glove. The resulting "War of the 90's" is meant as a statement about AIDS. On the other hand, as it were, Nancy Wimmer affixed a packet containing her own red blood cells to her glove. Ms. Wimmer, who has recovered from a bone marrow transplant, titles her work "(B+) Be Positive."
 
THE GLOVE PROJECT
 New Jersey Center for Visual Arts
68 Elm Street, Summit
Through July 7. Hours: Mondays through Fridays, 10 A.M. to 5 P.M. and 7 to 9 P.M.; Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 4 P.M.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Looking at gloves, seeing horses: "Handhorse," above, by Jocelyn Trilling, and "Rocking T," by Jaqui Jacobs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: NEW JERSEY CENTER FOR VISUAL ARTS

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY CENTER FOR VISUAL ARTS

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: ART; REVIEWS; GLOVES ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); VISUAL ARTS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); 

PERSON: ZIMMER, WILLIAM LOIS SHAPIRO (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1996



353 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 1996

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 6; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 974 words

HEADLINE: ROAD AND RAIL;
The D.M.V. a Year Later: Cheaper? Better? Well, Yes and No

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN 

DATELINE: RUTHERFORD

 BODY:
Frank Baer thought it would take him an hour, tops, to get a new driver's license, giving him plenty of time go home to Secaucus and study for a computer final the next day at Dover Business College in Paramus. He was wrong by almost two hours.
"I should have brought my notes to study -- I've read all of the signs a hundred times," said Mr. Baer, 22, watching a line of people snake out the door here. "To me, the D.M.V. is still the D.M.V. It's a day." 
 The Division of Motor Vehicles was not supposed to be "still the D.M.V." after the state placed the last 25 of its original 48 offices under private management last July 8. By doing so, the state was expecting to save money and create a leaner, smarter, more efficient operation.
But almost a year later, there are no independent studies and little consensus about whether private management has done what it was supposed to do. Department officials say that privatization has saved the state more than $4 million, mostly through layoffs, with only a slight dip in the amount of work processed. But former and current employees say privatization has resulted only in union-busting and no service improvements.
The stakes are high, for the Department of Motor Vehicles will be scrutinized for years to come as the Whitman administration -- and other leaders around the country -- consider yielding more pieces of the public sector to private management.
"The state wants to make the D.M.V. look like it's working because they want privatization to work, and they want privatization to work because they've promised tax cuts," said Marc Holzer, a Rutgers University professor of public adminstration who is executive director of the National Center for Public Productivity. "But if people are turned off there, they're likely to take it out on the government."
The D.M.V. has long been an easy target. For years, the agency was essentially in private hands -- a collection of local offices run by politically connected contractors.
But in the 1980's, complaints about poor service and assertions of blatant patronage, as well as a scandal over the awarding of a computer contract, prompted Gov. Thomas H. Kean and his Attorney General, Cary Edwards, to take over many local offices.
In 1995, however, Governor Whitman announced that the state would return the 25 remaining state-run agencies to private control, making the D.M.V. the first state agency to be privatized in an effort to streamline government.
The switch meant the end of more than 337 union jobs -- a predominantly female and minority work force with an average annual salary of $24,000 -- in favor of private employees working at lower wages.
It also meant the closing of three offices, in Hamilton, Berlin and Paterson. (One was later added in Medford, bringing the current total to 46 statewide.)
It did not start out smoothly. Lines were still long. Temporary employees had to be hired because the non-unionized replacements were not adequately trained.
Even spin control went awry: after Governor Whitman hailed privatization as a success, the D.M.V.'s own spokesman contradicted her -- and then was dismissed the next day.
But since then, the situation seems to have stabilized, according to motor vehicles officials. While the number of employees has dropped by more than 20 percent, the agency reports, the number of items processed has dipped 8 percent, meaning that more work has been done with fewer people.
They say the dip can be explained in part by the fact that car sales have been off about 6 percent, and that more people are choosing to renew their registration by mail or through car dealerships.
"The agencies have been running quite well," said C. Richard Kamin, director of the Division of Motor Vehicles, adding that 90 percent of the letters he receives say the D.M.V. has been doing a good job.
"I'm answerable to the motorists, and our job is to provide the best job at the least cost. Unfortunately, there are some folks who lost their jobs, but those are the trade-offs."
But are those trade-offs too steep? That's the contention of the Communications Workers of America, which represents the unionized workers who were dismissed. Many had put in as many as nine years as state employees and fell just short of being vested in the state pension fund when the switch occurred.
More than 150 people had to register for unemployment compensation. Only 65 employees decided to stay on and take a 40 percent pay cut, according to Clare Pessolano, a union spokeswoman.
Those who did stay have noticed major changes. About 10 percent of the work force now consists of part-timers. Many are young, eager to please and gaining some recognition as more courteous than their predecessors.
But many are still so inexperienced that they refer the more complicated transactions to bigger offices like Lodi, Wayne or South Plainfield. And as many as 10 percent of the calls fielded by the D.M.V.'s phone center in Trenton come from their colleagues in the agencies -- something that virtually never happened before, according to one employee who used to work in a regional office and now works at the Trenton office. The agency said it had no way of knowing what percentage of calls originated from its own offices.
"You get a lot of complaints about the information people are given in the agencies, a lot, a lot, a lot," said the employee, who insisted on anonymity for fear of being dismissed.
Further changes being contemplated include plans to use devices similar to automatic-teller machines in kiosks in shopping centers that would allow customers to renew a license. The agency also hopes to test a "smart-card" technology that would furnish people with a photo identification card card packed with such personal data as fingerprints, signature and D.M.V. record.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "A CLOSER LOOK: Private Payrolls, Lower Costs" shows the costs for selected privatized offices of the Division of Motor Vehicles. (Source: Department of Transportation)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2899 CHEMICALS & CHEMICAL PREPARATIONS, NEC (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: MOTOR VEHICLES DIVISION (NJ) SA DAY MANUFACTURING CO (71%); DEPARTMENT OF MOTOR VEHICLES (96%); 

ORGANIZATION: MOTOR VEHICLES DIVISION (NJ) DEPARTMENT OF MOTOR VEHICLES (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: PRIVATIZATION PRIVATIZATION (90%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (87%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); GOVERNORS (74%); LABOR FORCE (73%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); FACTORY WORKERS (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); EXECUTIVES (68%); LAYOFFS (66%); CONTRACT AWARDS (65%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (60%); LAWYERS (50%); 

PERSON: CHEN, DAVID W

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1996



354 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 1996

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 6; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 195 words

HEADLINE: IN BRIEF;
A New Way to Keep Track Of New Jersey Stock Prices

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH 

 BODY:
Economists at Fairleigh Dickinson University have created an index of New Jersey stocks, comparing the 20 largest companies based here.
Maninder Singh, a research associate at the university's New York-New Jersey Economic Research Center, said the center would compile the F.D.U.-New Jersey 20 Stock Index once a week. The weekly closing price of each company's stock will be listed, he said. 
 "We were just interested in knowing how these companies were doing comparatively," Mr. Singh said. "It's a benchmark, mostly for our own purposes."
The index may eventually be published in New Jersey newspapers or shown on television news, he said. For now, the public may call the center at (201) 635-7999 for information.
The index will include Johnson & Johnson, Public Service Enterprise Group, Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea Co., First Fidelity Bancorporation, Merck & Company, American Home Products, Schering-Plough, Foster Wheeler, General Public Utilities, Allied Signal, Chubb, Toys "R" Us, Warner-Lambert, Secton Dickinson & Company, CPC International, Campbell Soup, Ingersoll-Rand Co, American Standard, Englehard and Union Camp. ABBY GOODNOUGH

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MRK (PAR) (83%); MRK (NYSE) (83%); JNJ (NYSE) (69%); IR (NYSE) (68%); PFZ (LSE) (56%); PFE (NYSE) (56%); PEG (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (83%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (69%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (69%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (69%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (69%); NAICS333912 AIR & GAS COMPRESSOR MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS333120 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (68%); SIC3562 BALL & ROLLER BEARINGS (68%); SIC3531 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (68%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (56%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (56%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (56%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (56%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (56%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (56%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (56%); NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (55%); SIC5945 HOBBY, TOY, & GAME STORES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: FAIRLEIGH DICKINSON UNIVERSITY MERCK & CO INC (83%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (69%); DICKINSON & CO (69%); GREAT ATLANTIC & PACIFIC TEA CO INC (69%); RED RIVER BANCSHARES INC (69%); INGERSOLL-RAND PLC (68%); PFIZER INC (56%); AMERICAN HOME PRODUCTS HOLDINGS PLC (56%); PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INC (56%); TOYS 'R' US INC (55%); FAIRLEIGH DICKINSON UNIVERSITY (94%); FAIRLEIGH DICKINSON UNIVERSITY (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: FAIRLEIGH DICKINSON UNIVERSITY FAIRLEIGH DICKINSON UNIVERSITY (94%); FAIRLEIGH DICKINSON UNIVERSITY (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); TEA (73%); BONDS (73%); 

PERSON: GOODNOUGH, ABBY

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1996



355 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 1996

SECTION: Section 13; Page 3; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 974 words

HEADLINE: MAKING IT WORK;
Greenpoint's Endangered Hampton

BYLINE: By MARK FRANCIS COHEN 

 BODY:
GREENPOINT, Brooklyn, is a river-front neighborhood, but the only way to reach the river is to get past a set of squat warehouses at the water's edge, climb through unsanctioned holes in a razor-wire fence and walk onto a crumbling, concrete-covered pier.
This is the India Street Pier, where the regulars -- local people of Polish, Italian and Puerto Rican descent -- sit on lawn chairs under a sun fixed in a building-free sky. Weekdays, a handful of regulars dot the pier; on the weekends, it is packed. Breezes from the water lap at hair, tickling sweaty scalps. Already, the regulars have turned a terra cotta color. 
 For people used to this industrial neighborhood with ever fewer amenities, the pier has long been their version of the Hamptons. "Nobody in Greenpoint has anything left," said Lorelei Bowman, 41, who is raising two children in the neighborhood and was raised here herself. "The movie theater left a few years ago. They took everything out. All we have is this pier."
And they are determined to hold on to it, however much it crumbles, however carefully the city tries to ward them off. But the truth is, its future is as unstable as the Fire Island shoreline.
The India Street Pier stretches about 10 car-lengths into the East River. It is tucked in between two other piers. One is a crumpled, burnt-out former furniture warehouse. The other is a sunken wharf that fell into the water almost 10 years ago.
Soon after that, the city put concrete blocks the size of stools at the entrance of the India Street Pier to stop people from driving on it. At night and during the winter, cars cluster at the blocks to take in the view of Manhattan's skyline. Teen-agers are known to descend on the lot in front of the pier, drink beer and break bottles. On the Fourth of July, the police keep the crowds at the pier's entrance to stare at the distant blazes of color across the river and their shimmering reflections in the water.
The pier is cracked, pitted and dangerous. Chunks of it are missing, making it look like a half-eaten piece of corn on the cob. The pier's wooden underbelly is rotting, and steel grates that once covered large square holes in its surface were stolen years ago by scrap-metal scavengers.
Last year, a razor-wire fence was built, completely eliminating entry to the pier. Residents said it was widely believed that the fence was built by Huxley Envelope, a company that occupied property next to the pier and wanted to stop people from littering the area. The fishermen and sun-seekers were shocked and saddened.
The fence was promptly cut through, but local folks were unnerved. That's when the Friends of India Street Pier came into being. Now, before a day of drinking beer, fishing for herring and bass, listening to music, playing cards, feeding geese and casually chatting, about 10 men and women sweep the area.
"I've been coming here forever," said one, Roxanne Hurrinus, 37, while swigging a can of Budweiser as a Billy Joel tune blared in the background. "It's in the neighborhood. It's a place to hang out without being bothered. It's carefree. It's the water."
William Studioso is the founder, organizer and general muse behind the Friends of India Street Pier. He is known to people in the neighborhood as Willie the Barber. He is the son of Charlie the Barber and has also been known as Bill the Nutman and Mr. Studioso the Inmate. ("You'd never remember Bill Studioso," he says. "Willie the Barber -- that you don't forget.")
Willie the Barber is 86 and robust, with black slicked-back hair, a pencil mustache and only three teeth. He wants the pier restored and outfitted with park benches and trees. For years, he went to the pier every day to relax and fish. Now, he also goes to make sure that the Department of Sanitation has removed the trash bags his group has filled -- and to make sure the limited access to the pier remains.
"I'm not educated," he said last week, dressed in a khaki shirt and a straw hat. "But I've had experience organizing. We're not going to take it lying down."
When he was 12, Willie began cutting hair at his father's neighborhood barbershop. Seventeen years later he opened his own shop, and in between he spent eight years in Sing Sing for robbery. He has been in the vending machine business, has sold wicker baskets and opened another local store, Bill's Nut House.
And despite the growing public hazard that the India Street Pier is becoming, Willie the Barber won't abandon it. He said withstanding prison life, mobsters and union bosses has taught him not to back away from a fight.
But it is not clear just who his organization's opponent is.
The city Sanitation and Economic Development agencies say that their records show the city owns the pier. A week of conversations with Paula Young, a spokeswoman at the city Department of General Services, failed to confirm that. At first, she said the city had sold the pier in June 1995 to Metropolitan Shipping and Warehousing. But Bill Randall, Metropolitan's India Street plant manager, said the company owns only the property adjacent to the pier, which it bought from Huxley. By the end of the week, after consulting the city's law, finance and real estate agencies, Ms. Young said simply: "Who owns it is unclear."
Who owns it doesn't matter to Mike Dziubak. He has been coming since he swam in the river between the piers as a boy. Now 43, he works at night, packing bread in a Queens bakery. During the day, he comes to the pier to socialize. He feeds the sea gulls stale bread from work.
"We need our own piece of turf where we can hang out," Mr. Dziubak said, while the wind stirred his sand-colored hair. "This is free. It's supposed to be for the public. We have no other place to go but the park, and that is for old ladies and the pigeons."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Fans of the India Street Pier take up their battle stations in the sun. Colleen Byrnes enjoying a perfect beach day, minus the beach. (Rebecca Cooney for The New York Times)
 
Map of Brooklyn highlighting India Street Pier

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: FRIENDS OF INDIA STREET PIER (ORGN)

ORGANIZATION: FRIENDS OF INDIA STREET PIER (ORGN)

GEOGRAPHIC: GREENPOINT (NYC); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: INDIA STREET PIER (NYC) THIS DAY IN HISTORY (67%); 

PERSON: COHEN, MARK FRANCIS; STUDIOSO, WILLIAM WILLIAM STUDIOSO (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1996



356 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 1996

SECTION: Section 13; Page 2; Column 5; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 631 words

HEADLINE: F.Y.I.

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK 

 BODY:

The Tree of Hope

 
Q. My mother grew up in Harlem and I vaguely remember her telling me something about a "Tree of Hope." Was it real? If so, where was it, and what was its significance?
 
A. The tree once grew on the center island of Seventh Avenue and 131st Street, across from the old Lafayette Theater, which for three decades after its construction in 1910 was the nation's leading black theater. Entertainers who had fallen on hard times performed in front of it, believing that the tree had power to bring good luck, says Marcella Thum in the "Hippocrene U.S.A. Guide to Black America" (Hippocrene, 1991). 
 The tree fell victim to urban renewal and was cut down. A second tree on the same site was donated by the tap dancer Bill (Bojangles) Robinson in the 1930's, and he had a brass plague embedded in the sidewalk with the inscription "The Original Tree of Hope Beloved by the People of Harlem -- You asked for a tree of hope so here it is, Best wishes," followed by his signature.
The second tree was also cut down, and was replaced by an interpretive sculpture by the artist Algernon Miller in 1972.
But the tree still serves as inspiration: Its stump remains a fixture on the stage of the Apollo Theater, at 215 West 125th Street, where would-be stars rub it for luck.
 
 
 
Restroom Ratings

 
Q. What's the story with the public restrooms in Central Park? They vary greatly in terms of, shall we say, their appeal. For instance, the restroom at 74th Street near the sailboat pond is horrible, while the one at the 93d Street tennis courts is pretty pleasant. Both are heavily trafficked, so I don't understand the different degrees of cleanliness.
 
A. Of the 19 public restrooms in Central Park, 15 are maintained by the Parks Department or the Central Park Conservancy, which send out cleanup crews each day to wash down the facilities.
The other four -- including the two you mentioned and those near Sheep Meadow, by 69th Street on the West Side, and the Loeb Boathouse at 72d Street and Fifth Avenue -- are supposed to be maintained by nearby concessionaires as part of their contracts with the Parks Department.
The Parks Department sends inspectors to these restrooms three times a week, says Bradley Tusk, a spokesman. If they are consistently dirty, the concessionaire's contract can be terminated.
But that rarely happens, Mr. Tusk says. Instead, the department generally decides not to renew the concessionaire's contract, which can run for one to four years.
The restroom at the sailboat pond is supposed to be cleaned by Liberty Products, which operates a snack stand there. Mr. Tusk says the concessionaire has been reprimanded more than once for not keeping it tidy.
Complaints about any of Central Park's bathrooms can be made by calling (800) 201-7275.

 
 
Accounting for Clerks

 
Q. What are the rules about when token clerks can count money? It always seems as if they do it at the worst times.
 
A. There's no clear-cut rule except that clerks have to tally everything before they leave. Joseph Burzo, the Transit Authority's assistant chief station officer, says most clerks count money throughout the day in order to have their books closed out by the time their shifts end. "Speaking from experience," Mr. Burzo said, "it's impossible to wait until the end of the shift and get out of the booth on time."
How much time token clerks have to do unobtrusive counting depends on the location of the station, the amount of traffic it receives and whether there's a one- or two-person booth (Mr. Burzo says there should always be two clerks on duty during rush hours).
It also depends on the clerk. "Some are speedy," Mr. Burzo said, "and others -- well, they're not." KATHRYN SHATTUCK

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Question

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: APOLLO THEATER FOUNDATION INC (54%); APOLLO THEATER FOUNDATION INC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: APOLLO THEATER FOUNDATION INC (54%); APOLLO THEATER FOUNDATION INC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); ISLANDS & REEFS (72%); DANCERS (71%); DANCE (71%); TENNIS (65%); SPORTS (65%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (64%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (56%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%); 

PERSON: JOSEPH BURZO (78%); HOPE BELOVED (74%); BRADLEY TUSK (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1996



357 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 11; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1822 words

HEADLINE: EARNING IT;
Divorced From the Job, Still Wedded to the Culture

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON 

DATELINE: AMHERST, N.H.

 BODY:
PEGGY CHOPP'S 30-member department at the Digital Equipment Corporation was eliminated over 18 months beginning in 1991. In a few swift flashes of the downsizing knife, traditions, office friendships and established relationships were severed and tossed aside.
But the underlying rhythms of that life have been harder to kill. Aside from the fact that Ms. Chopp doesn't work for Digital anymore, her new life bears a striking resemblance to her old one. Her boss is a former Deckie, as the company's workers call themselves. Her friends, with whom she socializes and even takes vacations, are almost all ex-Deckies. When a contract was bid to organize a trade show for her new company, she spoke up for an ex-Deckie colleague who has his own business. He got the job and used a roster of ex-Deckies to complete the work. 
 "The bond was just something that stayed with us and extended to our personal lives, then and today," Ms. Chopp said.
Corporate culture, with its invisible, immeasurable power to shape lives and communities, has always been a poorly understood force in business, management experts say. When it has been studied, it has largely been over whether a company's idiosyncratic totems and taboos were beneficial or detrimental to its bottom line.
But the story of life after Digital suggests something more complicated and powerful: that the mixture of values and assumptions that makes up a corporate culture may be capable of existing on its own beyond the life-support system in which it evolved, and that in this case at least, downsizing might have been an agent of that new creation.
"It's like a meta-corporation, an energy field," said Patrick Pierce, a former media communications consultant at Digital, who, like many former Digital workers, struggled through lists of metaphors trying to describe the community sense that has kept him connected to people in his 450-person department, which was shut in 1993. "There's a creative energy and an integrity and a commitment, though that's sort of a 19th-century word," Mr. Pierce said. "It's like a secular religion."
Though organizations have been formed or expanded for the former employees of many companies in recent years, like Xerox-ex or Out of the Blue, for former I.B.M. employees, the ex-Digital network is a different animal, in part because it is based on a paradox. Even some former employees acknowledge that the strong, distinctive culture that forged the bonds between people may also be part of what led to the company's troubles, which in turn forced the downsizing that scattered them.
"At I.B.M., the value was in the customer, so people focused outward," said George F. Colony, president of Forrester Research, which tracks high-technology companies. "At D.E.C., the internal mattered so much. It was a very political culture that placed a high value on people who could play the political game, the budget game, the meeting game. They spent their lives playing with each other. All this makes them very close."
Mr. Colony said he thought that the old Digital culture was bad for the company and for the high-technology economy outside Boston, in Maynard, Mass., where Digital is based. But he said he understood its lingering allure. There was an epic feel in the rise and fall of Digital, he said, that has transformed the company's history into almost a kind of mythology. "They flew so high and crashed so hard," Mr. Colony said. "Those are the moments and years that hold people together."
But there were also some more specific forces that helped foster a post-Digital society. The job reductions were large and compressed in time and place, concentrated heavily in northeastern Massachusetts and southern New Hampshire. In just five shattering years beginning in 1989, the company cut itself almost precisely in half, disgorging more than 60,000 people, an instant community the size of a small city.
Digital's technology reinforced a culture built around networking. The so-called matrix management system, which has since been eliminated by the company's new management, and Digital's early and enthusiastic embrace of E-mail made its work force deeply interconnected on the job. The matrix system, as it evolved at Digital, was essentially an overlapping series of circles, each of which was a semiautonomous business unit, but which also required the cooperation of other circles within the company to accomplish any goal. So being connected on the job made it feel natural and comforting to stay connected upon leaving.
Many former employees also encountered an anti-Digital prejudice, a presumption of arrogance or indolence or both, from prospective employers. That drove ex-Deckies together in self-defense.
"Being from D.E.C. is a black mark against you," said Frank J. Gianattasio, an ex-Deckie who runs a consulting firm from his home in Manchester, N.H. "You weren't into sell, sell, sell all the time. You were into doing something good." That image, Mr. Gianattasio said, has seemed distinctly out of step in the take-no-prisoners 1990's.
Least tangible, but perhaps most important, management experts say, was that Digital had, for lack of a better word, spirituality.
John P. Kotter, a professor of leadership at the Harvard Business School, said: "Virtually all companies that attain greatness have a mission that has meaning that goes beyond economics. If you want to say it bumps into spirituality, maybe that's right." Digital had a spiritual quality, Professor Kotter said, largely because of the leadership of the founder, Kenneth H. Olsen, an engineer who quoted St. Paul and whose management style Professor Kotter likened to that of an "18th-century preacher."
ONCE a corporate purpose has crossed the boundaries into the deeper realms of human experience, it doesn't go away, Professor Kotter said. "It can be like super glue, not just Scotch tape."
Evidence of Digital's glue can be found in a huge variety of places across the archipelago of high-technology boutiques, home-basement software companies and consulting firms that dot the economy of southern New Hampshire and the northeastern suburbs of Boston.
It lives on in Jan Bunker's living room here in Amherst. Ms. Bunker is the founder of The Digital Alumni, a three-year-old quarterly newsletter for and about life after Digital. The newsletter and its home page on the Internet offer a mix of job-search information, gossip and nostalgia, served up like any small-town publication, full of folksy portraits, boosterism and exclamation points. One recent issue featured a front-page interview with Mr. Olsen, under the headline, "A Conversation with Ken."
"Many people had a hard time transitioning from the Digital culture," said Marcia Donaldson, who edits the paper with Ms. Bunker and writes most of the articles. "The newsletter says: 'There is life out there, there is opportunity. Build on the best skills you got at Digital. And by the way, be flexible.' "
Another piece of the culture can be found in Fred Gould's barn in Plymouth, N.H., north of here in the central part of the state. Mr. Gould has created a small museum of company artifacts, old pictures, brochures and memorabilia culled over a long Digital career. He says, though, that his collection is nothing compared with some he has heard about.
An important piece exists in a sprawling former Digital building in Boxboro, Mass., now occupied by a company called Advanced Modular Solutions. Advanced Modular was founded by Mr. Olsen, after he was forced out of Digital in 1992 in a management shake-up. In the former Digital world, Mr. Olsen's ouster cemented his position forever as the voice of what was Digital and is no more. He has used the position like a bully pulpit.
"The culture of today, it's mean, it's cruel, it hurts," Mr. Olsen said in an interview in his office, during which an assistant continually interrupted to amplify his comments or chide him gently about being overly modest. "But everybody being that mean and cruel is going to get in trouble, and only the good ones will survive, the people who realize you have to be partners with your people."
Ron Glover, a spokesman for Digital, said the old Digital culture under Mr. Olsen was uniquely a product of a certain time and place. The new culture, which Mr. Glover said was still forming, borrows from that old world -- especially what he called the intellectual openness and spirited innovation -- but with increased accountability.
ANOTHER legacy of the old culture is the deep reservoir of emotion that Mr. Glover said allowed Digital to draw on its former employees to be a part of their web. But the ex-Digital web, which really seems more like a series of loose confederations, is as much about economics as emotions.
Communications Management International sits at the center of one such circle. The company, in Bedford, N.H., was founded by Eric G. Woods, a former media relations employee at Digital, who took his severance package and founded a new company that assembles teams of freelancers for each project it takes on. Seven of his 15 full-time employees are ex-Deckies, as well as about 10 percent of his freelancers. About 70 percent of his business last year came from contracts with his former employer, which has contracted out many formerly internal functions to ex-Deckies.
Mr. Woods does business with Ms. Chopp's company and with McGraw-Hill in New York, where a former Digital colleague, Bob Russell, is president of the construction information group. (Mr. Russell said that Mr. Woods got the work by open, competitive bidding, without favoritism.)
"I know more people now who were in the company than I did when I worked there," Mr. Woods said. "It's almost like we're a closer-knit group now that we've graduated."
But while many former Digital employees have done well, a vital element of the network's viability, they say, is that it has helped many people through times of serious pain. Not every job search has paid off.
Thom MacMahon said he had relied on a Digital connection to get a job, but he said it was really a last resort. He left the company in 1992 and now works for a four-person company, two of them former Digital employees, that sells pellet-fired heating stoves. He is still looking for another corporate job, but at age 60, he says, he has been a victim of age discrimination.
"All the interviews went well on the phone," he said. "Then you walk in the door and they see you're not 30 any more."
Fondness for what was does not mean blind adherence to the old ways. When Mr. Russell joined McGraw-Hill, for example, one of the first things he did was to rip out the matrix management structure then in place in his group. Mr. Russell said he had seen enough of it at Digital to know better.
"I was not going to be in matrix ever again," he said. "I believed it was not suitable for accountability in the 1990's."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Eric Woods, founder of a new company in Bedford, N.H., once worked at Digital Equipment. So did almost half of his employees. (Rodney Curtis for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (91%); FORR (NASDAQ) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (50%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: DIGITAL EQUIPMENT CORP HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (91%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: DIGITAL EQUIPMENT CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS LAYOFFS (90%); CORPORATE CULTURE (90%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); CONVENTION & TRADE SHOW PLANNING (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); RELIGION (60%); 

PERSON: JOHNSONN, KIRK PEGGY CHOPP (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1996



358 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2061 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING IT;
How to Make Money From Those Aging Baby Boomers

BYLINE: By VIRGINIA MUNGER KAHN 

 BODY:
BABY boomers -- the 78 million Americans born between 1946 and 1964 -- have been roiling the country since they started wriggling into the world half a century ago.
In the 1950's, the United States furiously built schools to educate them. In the 1960's and 70's, the country was rocked by their teen-age rebellion. And in the 1980's, their scramble for housing helped push real estate prices sky-high. 
 As they move through society in this way -- like a pig through a python -- the boomers' impact on Wall Street has been as powerful as their effect on everything else. From the baby-food companies that fed them in the 1950's to the retailers who clothed them in the consumption-crazed 1980's, boomers have driven many companies' earnings -- and their stock prices -- way up.
But it is precisely the size of the baby boom generation that makes basing an investment strategy on its projected habits so dicey. To bet on the baby boomers -- 31 percent of the population -- is like saying, "I want to buy stocks," said Patrick Adams, manager of the Kemper Growth Fund.
Compounding the trouble, many brokers -- who know the lure of a simple idea like generational investing -- are quick to recommend the approach and to gloss over the problems. But their advice has endless variations. Just buy financial stocks, they say. Health care stocks. Entertainment and travel stocks. Home improvement stocks. Nursing home stocks. Even the stocks of vitamin sellers and bike companies.
"It's kind of an open-ended subject," said Eric Miller, chief investment strategist at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette.
Still, if they move with caution, investors can profit handsomely from a baby boom approach. But to do so, they must understand the strategy's limits and exercise patience. And they must realize that success takes a lot more homework than just finding out where the fretful 40-somethings down the block are putting their children's college money.
LIKE other types of "theme" investing, the boomer angle can be a good first cut, leading investors in a lucrative direction. By scouting out a big growth area, they are more likely to find high-potential companies, said Michael Moe, director of growth strategy at Montgomery Securities.
The baby boom angle can also help investors uncover areas they may want to shun. Consider retailing. People accumulate goods in their mid-20's, said Richard Hokenson, the chief economist at Donaldson, Lufkin. But the number of Americans turning 25 peaked in 1986. "Retailing is a negative," he said.
Also on their way out: children's clothing and toys. "Toys 'R' Us isn't a growth company anymore," said William Dodge, strategist at Marvin & Palmer, a global investment manager based in Wilmington, Del. The peak year for the "baby echo," babies born to boomers, was 1990.
What sector is the best boomer play? Many money managers point to the investment industry.
The boomers are worried about both retirement and their children's college costs, the managers say, and that means heavy inflows of cash for Wall Street. Mr. Dodge notes that as the percentage of working people over age 35 waxes and wanes, so does the portion of household worth that is put into stocks and bonds. The last peak in the over-35 category occurred in the early 1960's -- just a few years before the last peak in household investment. Those investments plummeted in the 1970's, he said, but for some time they have been rising along with the decline in interest rates and the aging of the baby boomers, the youngest of whom will be 32 this year.
"I think this is one of the greatest financial events in my lifetime," Alfred Kugel, senior investment strategist at Stein Roe & Farnham, said about the boomer investment drive.
Such inflows may mean broad increases in general stock levels. "All boats will rise," Mr. Kugel said, suggesting that stock index funds would be a fine investment choice.
Most people are not just index investors, though, and that fact reveals the incompleteness of the baby boom angle. Getting the theme right means little if investors choose the wrong stock; they must also comb the field for the most promising companies. "Stock selection still is the key," said Mr. Moe.
Which Wall Street enterprises look strong to the analysts who play the boomer-as-investor card? Among the most frequently cited mutual-fund companies and brokerages are T. Rowe Price Associates, Franklin Resources, United Asset Management, Charles Schwab and Merrill Lynch.
Dean Eberling, senior financial-services analyst at Prudential Securities, particularly recommends United Asset Management. The company has bought several other mutual fund and institutional money management companies, and its cash flows are increasing. Also, United Asset's management has a good record of "investor friendly" actions like raising dividends and buying back stock, Mr. Eberling said.
Charles Schwab is another analysts' favorite. It's a "phenomenal innovator," said Ron Baron, president of the Baron Asset Fund. Schwab's Onesource network, for example, allows investors to buy no-load mutual funds from a variety of companies. Its revenues have grown 40 percent a year since 1987, Mr. Baron said, and is now garnering 10 percent of all mutual fund sales. By 1998, he added, Schwab's assets will have risen to $500 billion from $210 billion today.
In seeking to profit from the boomers' broad interest in Wall Street, however, do not take on needless risk by buying stock in companies that are overly dependent on one type of investment. A good example is John Nuveen & Company, whose tax-exempt fixed-income funds have struggled along with that market the last two years.
EVEN as they send money to Wall Street, baby boomers will sink cash into travel and entertainment, portfolio managers say. People between 45 and 54 have more discretionary income than any other age group, Mr. Dodge noted. And as their children head off to college and they themselves gear down on the job, they will have more time for fun.
Strong investments in this sector include casinos like Mirage Resorts and Circus Circus, as well as Carnival, the cruise and travel company, and American Express, which has many travel-related services.
Mirage and Circus Circus are particularly prized. They operate some of the best-known attractions in Las Vegas, Nev. -- from the lobby-lounging white tigers at the Mirage to the pyramid that houses Circus Circus's Luxor hotel and casino.
The two companies are the dominant players in the market. "They have the capital, the expertise and the management," Mr. Baron said. He figures that Mirage's earnings should double over the next three years and those of Circus Circus should do so in four.
Mr. Dodge would add to these fun-in-the-sun stocks such fun-on-the-couch equipment as big-screen televisions and satellite dishes. He likes durable goods retailers like Circuit City Stores and Sears, Roebuck.
Given boomers' cash, banking, insurance and credit-card companies also are good bets, said Robert Doll, director of equity investments at Oppenheimer Funds. "We're spending more money, and credit cards are a convenient way to do that," he said, adding that as household cash rises, so do bank deposits.
Mr. Doll likes First USA and Advanta -- the largest "pure plays" in the credit-card business, which also includes diversified giants like Citicorp and American Express. Nevertheless, First USA and Advanta both have good technology, which allows them to pursue profitable segments of the market, Mr. Doll said. Over the next five years, earnings at First USA are expected to grow by 20 percent a year, while such growth at Advanta is expected to be slightly lower.
But -- another caveat to baby boom plays, and theme investing in general -- investors must realize that it is not always an opportune time to buy boomer-related stocks. Financial stocks may be expensive now; they have soared as interest rates have fallen the last few years. Conversely, as Mr. Dodge notes, as the economy revs up and as talk of rising interest rates grows, bank stocks may face a rough road going forward. High rates, which depress the stock market generally, can hurt mutual funds and other firms in the investment industry, too.
The baby boom play is a long-term one, however, and investors who participate should know that. Even if they wait for a better price or for better industry prospects, stocks picked based on a long-term demographic trend can always go out of favor for long periods, Mr. Doll warned. Investors must be prepared to withstand bad times.
Another boomer strategy involves what Mr. Moe calls "Ponce de Leon" plays -- stocks of spas, vitamin sellers, sports equipment makers and other companies that help boomers hold on to their fading youth.
He especially favors Cannondale, a bicycle manufacturer that sells high-end products under its own name. Cannondale has strong earnings; they are expected to be up 22 percent in 1996 over last year.
Nature's Sunshine is another fitness bet, said Mr. Moe. A maker of vitamins and food supplements, it is the largest publicly traded concern in its field, and Mr. Moe expects its earnings to grow at a 25 percent annual clip the next three years.
Along with the forever-young stocks, some money managers say nursing homes and elderly living centers are boomer plays. But they are not; even the oldest boomers are just turning 50 this year. This means it is anyone's guess which companies will be the winners and losers down the road. The lesson: even in a long-term strategy, one can be premature.
It is very early to make senior-citizen plays for boomers, said William Newman, chief investment strategist at Phoenix Investment Counsel. "It really is more for their parents."
A less speculative boomer-related sector is personal security. As they age, people become more concerned about safety, and that is good news for private-prison companies, alarm makers and guard services.
In this sector Pierre Trinque, an analyst at Phoenix Duff & Phelps, particularly recommends the Corrections Corporation of America, which has a 50 percent share of the private-prison market. "Only 4 percent of the market has been privatized, so there is a huge opportunity going forward," he said. He also predicts that C.C.A. will have annual earnings growth of 40 percent to 50 percent over the next five years. This year's earnings are expected to be 74 percent higher than last year's.
Mr. Trinque also likes Youth Services International, another private-prison business that specializes in juvenile detention. The company is experienced and is considered the industry leader, Mr. Trinque said, with estimated long-term earnings growth of about 40 percent a year.
But before taking a seat on the boomer express, investors should consider why some managers and analysts refuse to ride altogether. Developing a theme like boomer stocks, and then seeking companies that fit the theme is "getting the cart before the horse," said Kemper's Mr. Adams. "Why not look at what's available first?"
That approach has led Mr. Adams to buy some stocks of companies that he would not have even considered under a boomer strategy -- Gap and Tommy Hilfiger, for example. "The retail group as a whole may not be good for the theme," he said, "but there are some great stocks."
And themes are often just labels, said Maria Crawford Scott, editor of the journal of the American Association of Individual Investors. Drug stocks have been promoted by brokers for years. The reasons have ranged from "the graying of America" to product innovation to health reform. "The themes change," Ms. Scott observed, "but the stocks remain the same."
PORTFOLIO managers also acknowledge that the baby boom theme has been sounded for some time. "The truth is, we were onto this years ago," Mr. Newman said. Thus, investors who use the strategy are taking a risk that the theme is already largely embedded in stock prices.
But Mr. Newman and others argue that the boomers' impact on stocks will be outsized and long-lasting.
"The best-known fact of the last 30 years is watching the baby boomers move through the economy," said Mr. Hokenson of Donaldson, Lukfin . "Yet, we continue to be surprised at the level of demand. The sector plays will go faster and further than people think."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "When Gray Means Green" shows industry sectors that may profit from the baby boomers. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TOY (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (53%); NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (50%); SIC5945 HOBBY, TOY, & GAME STORES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (58%); 

STATE: BIHAR, INDIA (58%); 

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (53%); TOYS 'R' US INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (58%); BIHAR, INDIA (58%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS BABY BOOMERS (95%); AGING TRENDS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); BABY FOODS INDUSTRY (79%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (79%); REAL ESTATE (77%); HOME PRICES (76%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (76%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (76%); BONDS (75%); COMPANY STRATEGY (74%); RETAILERS (73%); HOBBY TOY & GAME STORES (73%); TOYS & GAMES (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (72%); FOOD INDUSTRY (71%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (71%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (71%); HEALTH CARE (69%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (69%); AGING (69%); SECURITIES TRADING (66%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (64%); 

PERSON: KAHN, VIRGINIA MUNGER WILLIAM DODGE (56%); MICHAEL MOE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1996



359 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 15; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 1540 words

HEADLINE: Let Russia Be Russian

BYLINE: By James H. Billington; James H. Billington is the Librarian of Congress.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
As Russians prepare for the first time in their history to choose their head of state by popular vote, the outside world anxiously wonders if they will elect a president who will continue to reform and integrate Russia into the modern world. The answer lies in the deeper question of whether or not the Russians as a people have yet developed a sense of their national identity that will support peace abroad and accountability at home.
In the five years since the overthrow of Communism, there have been important changes in Russia that none of the candidates would probably be able to reverse. But the most powerful ideological development has been not a growing belief in free markets and representative government, but a resurgence of Russian nationalism. 
 Whoever finally ignites the popular patriotic imagination will give power the legitimacy it now lacks in Russia. Boris Yeltsin, by launching and continuing the carnage in Chechnya, has essentially been trying to wrap himself in a nationalist banner. Even the most reformist and least nationalistic of the major candidates, Grigory Yavlinsky, who opposes the war in Chechnya, has been (like Mr. Yeltsin) courting an alliance with Gen. Aleksandr Lebed, who led a renegade effort to defend Russian interests against the Republic of Moldova.
Many young reformers, like the head of the original Russian constitutional commission, Oleg Rumyan tsev, have long since become militant nationalists.
Gennadi Zyuganov has now become the leading challenger to Russia's reform path largely because he has developed a coherent nationalistic ideology. Without this new source of appeal, his lackluster personality and aging Communist organization would never have attracted the level of support he has gained. Whether or not Mr. Zyuganov wins in the elections today, he has energized the authoritarian alternative to democracy with the elixir of nationalism.
He seeks to restore not so much Communism as Soviet power, which he sees as the flower and fulfillment of all Russian history. He often quotes the last line of a poem by an obscure writer, Boris Primerov, called "A Prayer": "God have mercy on us during our time of troubles. God return Soviet power to us!"
Nationalism for Mr. Zyuganov is essentially defined by three new words that barely existed before this tremendous surge of nationalism since the collapse of Communism: russkost (Russian-ness); gosudarstvennost (governmentalism), and derzhavniki (men of power).
Russian-ness means for Mr. Zyuganov a belief in collectivist values and an almost pagan idealization of rural life. It also means a belief in the Russian church as a force for discipline (more Orthodox than Christian) and in the great, didactic Russian literary traditions of the 19th and early 20th centuries as an antidote to Western decadence.
Governmentalism means the belief in an authoritarian central government led by one person. The current difficulties are seen not as growing pains, but as a periodic Russian "time of troubles," at the end of which a strong ruler must reassert Russian-ness as an alternative to prevailing trends in the Western world. The new Romanov dynasty of czars rose to do this after the Poles captured Moscow in the early 17th century, and Lenin did it after Russia was ravaged in World War I.
Most interesting and original in the new lexicon that the old Communists have adopted is the concept of "men of power." Not just the army, but Russia's greatest saints and writers are seen as derzhavniki. In his election pamphlet "I Am Russian by Blood and Spirit," Mr. Zyuganov asserts that "all our great classical writers were derzhavniki."
Recognizing the decline in Russia's military power, the new nationalists do not in the short term advocate new imperial conquest so much as the establishment of an "ethnocracy." They seek an ethnic purity that requires the "cleansing" of foreign elements from within Russia, reuniting with the Slavic Republics of Belarus and Ukraine, and some kind of protective relationship with the 25 million ethnic Russians now living in other areas of the former Soviet Union.
Because this new nationalism is racially exclusionist at its core -- openly proclaiming the need for "great people" to reclaim control of power from the crafty "small people" who get in their way -- any authoritarian nationalist restoration in Russia would probably feel a greater sense of solidarity with the ethnically homogeneous regimes of East Asia than with Western Europe or America.
"Eurasianism" is the currently fashionable concept. Indeed, authoritarian Russian nationalism has finally found a credible external enemy in Western determination to expand NATO eastward at this crucial point in Russian history.
Can there be a positive form of Russian nationalism to counter the negative version that Mr. Zyuganov is preaching and others are flirting with today? No mistake has been greater in the West than to assume that the only alternative to Russia's largely authoritarian history and identity must be a total conversion to Western democracy and market economics.
Having already adopted many forms of democracy and much of the substance of a market economy, this new Russia is nevertheless haunted by a "vacuum of belief" since the collapse of Communism. Paradoxically, peaceful integration into the Western world may never be secured until Russia is at peace with a more affirmative sense of itself. Now when the map has been totally changed, the outlines are nonetheless emerging of a new, more positive concept of a distinctive Russian identity.
The great scholar of Russian culture, the 89-year-old Dmitri Likhachev, has reminded his countrymen that Russia has always had a more heterogeneous population and more pluralism in its history than has been generally assumed. The new urban middle class welcomes a less ethnocentric Russia, and there is little popular sympathy for ethnic scapegoating. In a recent poll of 2,000 Russians that asked which of 10 groups were responsible for the present economic crisis in Russia, the lowest number (9 percent) blamed the Jews.
There are outlines of a positive nationalism in the writings of young historians who are discovering local variety, the forgotten republican traditions of Novgorod and other early Russian cities and the improvisational skills of Russians during earlier reform periods. Russia's military history is properly seen as one of heroic defense rather than imperial conquest.
Several trends in the last five years suggest the positive contours of a healthy Russian nationalism compatible with, and conducive to, democracy.
For one, there is a genuine religious revival among the new generation. The martyrdom of all religious faith under the world's first atheistic political system has provided new heroes and fresh converts for most major religious faiths. The still dominant Orthodox Church is rapidly developing parishes, often assuming some of the collapsing state's educational burdens. Religion is increasingly seen even by nonbelievers as a spur to the re-establishment of an internal moral compass that will help the people move beyond the current spasm of crime and corruption.
Even more important is the rediscovered concept of "togetherness," or sobornost. The Russian word sobor means ingathering, community and cathedral. The 19th-century Slavophiles contrasted Eastern communalism with Western individualism. The West itself now seems to be newly interested in volunteerism and the rediscovery of "a village" as something needed to nourish people caught between impersonal distant power and individual isolation.
For decades, the stubborn persistence in Russia of faith and family provided a protective shield against the totalitarian state and kept alive a different perspective on life. Many Russian communities today are working together to restore a church, to found a new enterprise or to assume responsibility for an otherwise languishing school or hospital.
Despite the radically different nature of American and Russian societies, Russia may well be approximating the broad outlines of the American formula for making democracy viable on a continental scale for a multi-ethnic people: a common language, religious faith as the moral underpinning for society and the ability to tackle problems locally on an often unforgiving natural frontier.
By adding a distinctive Russian sense of community to their reform program, Russians may at last be overcoming their traditional historic split between Slavophiles and Westernizers. The still rising tide of negative nationalism may in the near future produce a "Pinochet interlude" or even a violent and unpredictable dictatorship. This could even happen through the electoral process. After all, Hitler rose to power legally.
But in the long run, a more positive Russian nationalism compatible with democracy seems more likely to prevail. We in the West generally did not believe that the Russians themselves would ever overthrow Communism. We should not now assume that the Russians have some genetic predisposition to produce another threatening form of nationalism -- no matter what emerges next in its continuing "time of troubles."

GRAPHIC: Drawings.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (85%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (77%); LITERATURE (66%); WRITERS (61%); 

PERSON: BILLINGTON, JAMES H BORIS YELTSIN (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1996



360 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2693 words

HEADLINE: EARNING IT;
Paid by the Widget, and Proud

BYLINE: By PETER PASSELL 

 BODY:
HOUR after hour, scarcely pausing between tasks, Mike Darrah sweeps up shards of broken glass from the repair-shop floor in Olympia, Wash., hoists heavy replacement windshields onto car frames and wrestles them into position, then painstakingly seals the rims. Mr. Darrah, a 24-year-old employee of Safelite Glass, a windshield manufacturing and repair company, cannot afford to stop, because he is working on the piece-rate system.
A grim reminder that sweatshop capitalism is alive, if not well, in America? A Dickensian vision of where the work force, cowed by corporate downsizing, is heading? 
 Hardly. Mr. Darrah is a willing -- make that enthusiastic -- participant in Safelite's "performance pay plan," an experiment in linking wages to productivity. When he started as a glass installer in 1994, he earned $7.50 an hour and could expect to peak at about $12 once he mastered the craft. This year, under the incentive system, he is averaging $800 for a 40-hour week, or $20 an hour. "I'd rather skip the coffee and get paid," he said.
What is good for Mr. Darrah has Safelite managers dancing in the aisles. According to Edward Lazear, a Stanford Business School economist who received free rein to track Safelite's transition to piecework from traditional wage-and-benefits compensation, the hourly output of glass installers rose 41 percent over the 18-month phase-in, with the company adding more than half the gain to its bottom line. Absenteeism, the bane of a business that lives or dies on its ability to deliver timely, high-quality service, has been cut sharply.
Safelite, privately held and based in Columbus, Ohio, is not the first American company to rediscover the virtue of paying according to output. Lincoln Electric, a Cleveland-based publicly traded producer of welding equipment, has long been committed to that principle, and with spectacular success. And Nucor, a publicly traded company in Charlotte, N.C., that revolutionized the way the steel industry does business, can also boast of awesome productivity -- and profitability -- linked to pay-for-performance incentives.
With such shining examples to recommend the practice, the $64 billion question is why the pressure of competition and management's inclination to tinker have not led more employers to try it. Roughly 15 percent of the labor force now has a portion of its pay connected to individual productivity, but most piecework is concentrated in a handful of low-paying industries -- notably apparel -- or is confined to sales personnel, individual contractors and other workers who, one way or another, see themselves as separate from shop floor workers.
ONE reason is probably fear of the unknown, although the experience of Safelite and others could become a road map for some companies thinking about making the switch -- and a warning to others against even trying. "The performance pay plan won't work for every company," cautioned Garen K. Staglin, Safelite's chief executive.
For one thing, Mr. Staglin said, work incentives are not enough; businesses must also have a capacity to track individual performance, and that typically comes only with highly computerized operations. For many tradition-bound companies, he added, altering course "requires a fundamental change in the business culture."
Besides, argued Charles Brown, a labor economist at the University of Michigan, employers can just as easily use hourly pay to reward performance by giving raises or promotions to the go-getters and demoting or dismissing the lazy and incompetent. The task for managers, he said, is to structure pay to maximize productivity without lowering product quality.
Payment by the piece remains a rarity in part because it is associated in the popular mind with turn-of-the-century sweatshops, where workers toiled at repetitive tasks for 12 hours or more a day without health insurance or other benefits.
"In 1890," said Claudia Goldin, an economist at Harvard University, "40 percent of the female labor force was in piecework" in mostly unskilled jobs, with little hope of getting training for better ones.
But negative historical connotations aside, both management and labor often resist the pay-for-performance concept. George P. Baker of the Harvard Business School said supervisors disliked policing their subordinates because it forced them to play the heavy and required extra work. And unions generally oppose piecework, he said, "because it is easier to maintain solidarity among workers who think they are all in the same boat."
Workers who are unable or unwilling to excel on the job have an obvious interest in keeping a pay system that does not differentiate between the coasters and the Stakhanovites. "The great puzzle," Mr. Brown said, is why the ablest and most diligent workers rarely press for an incentive system that rewards their efforts.
Daniel Hamermesh, an economist at the University of Texas, thinks he knows the answer. "The fear is that employers will ratchet up their demands," he said, "once they find out how much the best workers can produce."
According to Mr. Baker, that is not without reason. "Most managers have a lot of difficulty sharing the fruits of higher productivity," he said.
LINCOLN ELECTRIC is perhaps the best-known example of a company that has succeeded in bringing piecework into a modern industrial setting. Since 1914, the base pay for its production workers -- now 2,000 of them at four American plants) has been proportional to output. Since 1933, moreover, all Lincoln employees have received year-end bonuses linked to a combination of individual merit ratings and the company's profitability.
The success of this incentive structure has been staggering: both productivity and average pay at the company are two to three times the industry norm.
Several policies have helped Lincoln achieve these results, Mr. Baker said. The company goes to great lengths to measure output accurately and to tie piecework rates to objective standards of effort and difficulty. Workers etch their names on the equipment they make and must fix defects without pay. And perhaps most important, Lincoln has never yielded to the temptation to ratchet down pay as workers increase productivity. Piecework rates are rarely changed; they are reduced only when the company introduces new technology that makes the work inherently easier.
And yet, the Lincoln experience does not necessarily prove that the piecework approach is superior. Indeed, said Robert Gibbons, an economist at Cornell University's Johnson School of Management, the company has developed a kind of hybrid system of new-style financial incentives and old-style rewards for doing the boss's bidding.
Piece-rate pay alone is "too blunt an instrument" to meet all the company's needs, and management knows it, Mr. Gibbons said. Hence, while Lincoln is famous for piecework, almost half of a worker's pay typically comes from the year-end bonus, largely determined by supervisors' subjective rating of performance. That way, Mr. Gibbons noted, "when the boss wants you to help train a worker rather than work on your own machine, he has some leverage."
NUCOR shares Lincoln's aversion to ratcheting down workers' compensation and hogging the benefits for itself. And, like Lincoln, both its productivity and pay are the envy of the industry. But Nucor has introduced some twists of its own.
Productivity is measured by the performance of teams, typically handfuls of workers who operate a machine or oversee a step in production. The workers receive an hourly base wage that is just half the pay for comparable work in unionized steel mills. Incentive pay, often twice the base wage, is tied to how much a team exceeds average industry productivity. But individual workers forfeit their bonuses if they are late for work or miss more than a minimal number of days for any reason. And everyone bears a share of the cost of lost production when machines break down or are temporarily idled after accidents.
Nucor's managers operate in as Darwinian an environment as the workers, leaving no room for grumbling about a double standard. And the steelmaker's mills are all in smaller cities of the South and West, where unions are weak and the company sees the work ethic as strong.
Both Lincoln and Nucor developed their pay-incentive programs with much forethought. By contrast, said Mr. Lazear of the Stanford Business School, Safelite's adoption of the system "was almost an accident, the byproduct of the company's efforts to reposition itself within the auto glass replacement market."
Safelite was part of the Lear Siegler Corporation, an industrial conglomerate that Forstmann Little, the New York investment firm, bought in 1987 in a $2.1 billion leveraged buyout. The other pieces of Lear Siegler were sold off to reduce debt, but Forstmann Little kept Safelite and installed new managers to transform the company into what Nick Forstmann, a general partner, called "a solution to the insurance companies' problem."
Broken glass is the bane of auto insurers because the cost of processing claims can add 30 percent to a $300 repair bill -- and often generates ill will among policyholders caught in a bureaucratic maze. Mr. Staglin, the chief executive hired by Forstmann Little to run Safelite, offered to provide insurers with "seamless service" for straightforward claims by handling everything from answering the phone to scheduling and making repairs at the policyholder's convenience.
Safelite built an elaborate information system that allowed it to tap into insurance-company data; handle the logistics of its glass factories, warehouses and 550-plus repair shops, and follow the progress of the tens of thousands of jobs in the pipeline.
Once the system was in place and virtually all routine accounting tasks were centralized, it was easy to track the work of the company's 1,500 installers. And John F. Barlow, Safelite's president and chief operating officer, saw the potential for solving some of the company's labor-efficiency problems.
The company's turnover was exceptionally high by the standards of American business -- if not the $2 billion glass installation industry -- forcing big expenditures on training and supervision. Most significantly, the company culture apparently did not discourage slackers. "Safelite had its own kind of glass ceiling," Mr. Barlow joked. "No more than three glass repairs per installer a day." His proposed solution: piecework with a safety net.
Under the plan, installers receive $19 to $23 for replacement jobs in the shop or at owners' homes, and about half that for multiple jobs in the lots of rental car companies. They can also make commissions for selling auto parts to customers -- from $1 for windshield wipers to 10 percent of the invoice for an alarm system.
Workers' pay never falls below a guaranteed floor. But in a typical month, said Bill Rapp, the Safelite treasurer, two-thirds of the workers earn more than the minimum, and in the long run, almost all do.
Indeed, if an installer clings to the safety net for long, "it is treated as a management problem," Mr. Rapp said.
Jim Rush, an installer for six years, is just the kind of employee Safelite hopes to recruit and keep with the performance pay plan. Before the transition, he was paid $27,500 a year to manage a small Safelite store in Columbus and help with installations. He still manages the shop, but Safelite's centralized computer operations have eliminated much of the burden. He is now paid a flat $10,000 for management and is free to take on as many installations as he can handle at the regular piece rate.
"I've got my own way of doing things, and it works," Mr. Rush said. He estimated that he would clear nearly $50,000 this year without working much overtime.
Mr. Rush's productivity rate is hardly unique at the company. Its highest-paid installer made $58,000 last year, and 216 of the 928 installers without management responsibilities earned more than $30,000. On average, installers made about 15 percent more than their guaranteed minimum. And at least in Mr. Rush's experience, the system has not undermined morale. "It's bred a healthy sense of competition," he said.
In an as-yet-unpublished study of Safelite's transition, Mr. Lazear found that the 41 percent increase in daily installment work could be divided into two parts. A bit more than half the gain was attributable to increased productivity from existing workers, and the remainder to the departure of less-motivated workers and their replacement by eager beavers.
SICK days decreased by 61 percent, mostly because the workers who chose to stay with Safelite were in better health. Piece rates initially raised worker turnover, potentially a serious problem in an industry in which the rate can be 50 percent to 60 percent annually. But Mr. Lazear found that the least-productive workers were most likely to leave and the most-productive workers were most likely to stay.
Mr. Lazear also calculated that about 60 percent of the company's gain from increased productivity had gone toward lowering its per-unit cost of production, thus increasing the profit margin. But Safelite has pledged not to squeeze the workers -- and Mr. Lazear said that was a crucial concession. "Trust is critical in making the plan work," he said.
So is quality control. Safelite has created an elaborate system for policing the installers and rewarding careful work. When an installation is flawed and requires follow-up service, the installer must cover the cost from his own pocket. After jobs are completed, the company surveys 1 of every 10 customers by phone, and each installer gets a monthly report on his performance. Those with high ratings are eligible for cash bonuses.
According to Jim Clark, director of physical-damage claims at Safeco Insurance, one of Safelite's biggest customers, this combination of carrot and stick is working well. Before the performance pay system, he noted, the percentage of Safeco claimants who pronounced themselves "very satisfied" with Safelite's service was in the mid-80's. Today it is in the mid-90's.
TODAY Safelite, tomorrow the world? Mr. Staglin, the company's chief executive, does not see his formula as necessarily applying to other corporations. If the change accomplishes what their managers hope, he said, it could lead to job cuts -- and, quite likely, lower morale -- unless the business is growing rapidly. He also said a good piecework system made more demands on managers and worked best in a lean, flexible organization that emphasized open communication up and down the chain of command. "I don't want more than four layers of management between me and the customer," he said.
Still, the Safelite story is intriguing for the possibilities. The company has found that piecework is compatible with the needs of a service business that can ill afford to offend customers. Moreover, Safelite has overcome daunting problems of quality control by using modern information technology. "Computers made it possible," agreed Mr. Staglin -- and they may just make it possible in other businesses that could never track worker productivity in the age of time clocks and ledger books.
 
Firing Up The Workers
 A compensation system that rewards individual employees for higher productivity may not succeed at all companies. Here are some possible conditions for making the system work:
 
The production method should consist of distinct, repetitive tasks whose performance can be credited to individuals or teams.
 
The employer must make a commitment to share the rewards of any increased productivity with workers.
 
The workers must be not only competent but, even more important, eager to link their pay to productivity.
 
The company should have a realistic hope expanding sales, so that higher productivity does not lead to morale-destroying layoffs.
 
Managers must be accessible and hands-on, prepared to intervene to maintain high morale on the shop floor and willing to accept advice from workders on how to make them more efficient.

GRAPHIC: Photos: In a modern variation on the old idea of piecework, the pay of Mike Darrah is linked to his productivity at Safelite Glass, the windshield manufacturing and repair company. (Larry Davis for The New York Times) (pg. 1); Sewing clothing in 1920: To bring piecework into the 1990's, companies use computers to track productivity. (pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NUE (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS331513 STEEL FOUNDRIES (EXCEPT INVESTMENT) (52%); NAICS331221 ROLLED STEEL SHAPE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS331111 IRON & STEEL MILLS (52%); SIC3316 COLD-ROLLED STEEL SHEET, STRIP & BARS (52%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: OLYMPIA, WA, USA (92%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: SAFELITE GLASS (CO) NUCOR CORP (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: SAFELITE GLASS (CO)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); OLYMPIA, WA, USA (92%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; PRODUCTIVITY; WAGES AND SALARIES; ABSENTEEISM WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); PRODUCTIVITY (89%); MERIT PAY (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); GLAZING CONTRACTORS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE GLASS MFG (77%); EMPLOYEE INCENTIVES (77%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (76%); WELDING & SOLDERING EQUIPMENT MFG (76%); GARMENT WORKERS (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); WORK WEEK (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (66%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER ED LAZEAR (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1996



361 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 3195 words

HEADLINE: A Widow's Pique

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER 

 BODY:
Milio Azcarraga Milmo usually travels with an entourage befitting the most powerful media mogul in Mexico. With his baronial bearing and distinctive appearance -- a stripe of white hair bisects his jet-black mane -- Mr. Azcarraga lives up to his nickname, "El Tigre."
On a bright, cold morning in January, however, Mr. Azcarraga turned up alone at the home of Mary Anselmo in Greenwich, Conn. And on that day at least, the tiger acted more like a tabby. 
 Mr. Azcarraga had known Mrs. Anselmo and her late husband, Rene V. Anselmo, over four turbulent decades. Through his company, Grupo Televisa S.A., he had backed Mr. Anselmo's bold effort to break into the satellite business. Now, though, Mr. Azcarraga wanted Mrs. Anselmo to sell her husband's creation, PanAmSat, which had become the world's largest private satellite network, so he could liquidate his investment.
After a brief, subdued conversation in front of a crackling fireplace, Mrs. Anselmo acquiesced. She has been in agony ever since.
"I'm not sure Rene would have approved," Mrs. Amselmo said in an interview at her home, an elegant chateau modeled on the Petit Trianon at Versailles. "I think he would have thought this was precipitate."
Indeed, the 66-year-old widow's reluctant decision has set off an emotionally charged drama involving her family, Mr. Azcarraga and PanAmSat's 188 employees. Behind everything hovers her late husband, a charismatic but combative man who seemed to spy an enemy behind every satellite dish. Though Mr. Anselmo died of heart failure in September at 69, his tangled legacy looms large over the family and the family business.
So great were his passions and so fierce his feuds that Mr. Anselmo still seems to be pulling strings from the peaceful grotto behind his home where he is buried.
"Rene was a fighter and a scrapper," said Mark Fowler, who, as chairman of the Federal Communications Commission under President Ronald Reagan, helped Mr. Anselmo pierce the monopoly in satellites. "He was crazy like a fox."
Mrs. Anselmo has retained Morgan, Stanley & Company to solicit offers for PanAmSat. People familiar with the process said Morgan had already attracted a blue-chip list of potential buyers: Hughes Electronics, General Electric, Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation, Loral, Lockheed Martin, and SES, a European satellite company. Morgan hopes to present a menu of options to the family in mid-July.
With its necklace of four satellites that float in stationary orbit 22,300 miles above the equator and beam channels like CNN, HBO, and MTV to more than 100 countries, PanAmSat is a crown jewel in the rarefied world of global satellite networks. It now has a market capitalization of $2.9 billion, and several investment bankers estimate that it could command a price between $3 billion and $4 billion.
Mrs. Anselmo, however, frets that a new owner may sunder the close-knit team of sales executives and engineers that her husband gathered around him in the 12 tumultuous years that he built PanAmSat from a far-fetched concept into a public company that trades at a gravity-defying multiple of 25 times 1995 revenues.
Prominent among these executives is Frederick A. Landman, president and chief executive, who began working for Mr. Anselmo fresh out of college in 1973 and married his only daughter, Pier, four years later. Mr. Landman, 48, and Pier Anselmo were recently divorced, but he retains close ties to Mary Anselmo. The couple have two daughters, Rissa and Chloe.
"My husband was very paternalistic, and I've inherited that," said Mrs. Anselmo, whose sad eyes and weary tone bespeak a woman struggling with the pressures of settling her husband's estate. "It makes this really tough."
If Mrs. Anselmo does not receive an attractive offer for PanAmSat, she has the option of doing a secondary stock offering instead. Under the company's shareholder structure, she is all but guaranteed to have the final say on any deal. And if Televisa tries to sell its stake without her consent, the stock would lose its special PanAmSat voting rights.
But a stock offering would raise less money than an outright sale. That may not suit Televisa, which needs to fix a balance sheet battered by the collapse of the Mexican peso in 1995. Televisa's $200 million investment in PanAmSat now has a market value of $1.17 billion.
Although Televisa recently raised $700 million through a private debt placement, the company has not wavered from its desire to cash out of PanAmSat. "The refinancing does not in any way change our position," said Guillermo Caneda White, chief financial officer of Televisa and Mr. Azcarraga's principal representative on the PanAmSat board.
Though Mrs. Anselmo says she, too, wants a premium price for PanAmSat, an attractive offer clearly means more than cold cash. She said she would also like to honor the memory of her husband.
And that's where things get sticky. Mr. Anselmo, the son of a Massachusetts postal superintendent of Italian descent, served as a young Marine tail-gunner in World War II. Throughout his life, he relished a good fight and nursed old grudges -- against competitors, suppliers, partners, even his neighbors in Greenwich. "When I get mad, I just never give up," he said in a 1990 interview.
Now, the battles Mr. Anselmo fought during his life could ensnare the sale of PanAmSat after his death.
For example, Hughes is perhaps the most logical buyer. The company is starting a direct-to-home satellite service in Latin America that could be folded into a rival Latin American service being started by PanAmSat, Televisa and several media companies. Hughes is also no stranger to PanAmSat; it built three of its satellites.
The catch? Hughes deeply offended Mr. Anselmo when it opted to go head-to-head with PanAmSat and Televisa in Latin America. He told Hughes executives he would never buy another satellite from them and promptly switched his contract to Loral.
The bitterness persists. Shortly after her husband's death, Mrs. Anselmo got a condolence letter from C. Michael Armstrong, the chairman of Hughes. After expressing his regrets, however, Mr. Armstrong segued into business -- offering to buy the company if Mrs. Anselmo put it up for sale. "It was a clumsy move," she said.
Reverge C. Anselmo, her 33-year-old son, who used to work for PanAmSat and is now one of its five directors, is more frank. "We don't like Hughes," he said. "They betrayed my dad, and they betrayed Azcarraga."
A spokesman for Hughes declined to comment on Mr. Armstrong's letter or on whether Hughes planned to bid for PanAmSat. One top Hughes executive, who declined to be identified, acknowledged that "it makes for a strained relationship when your satellite manufacturer is also competing with you as an operator." But he added that Mr. Anselmo's past clashes with the company would not influence its decision to bid.
NOTHING dramatizes the late Mr. Anselmo's mix of vision and vitriol more than his roller-coaster relationship with Mr. Azcarraga.
The two men met in Mexico in 1954, where Mr. Anselmo settled after graduating from the Great Books program at the University of Chicago in 1951. Mr. Anselmo was directing theatrical productions while Mr. Azcarraga was dabbling as a theatrical financier. Mrs. Anselmo, who married Mr. Anselmo soon after he moved to Mexico, remembers the young Mr. Azcarraga as a "playboy," though she said he worked hard and had the drive of a locomotive.
Mr. Azcarraga prodded his father to recruit Mr. Anselmo to build a television network that would cater to the mushrooming Hispanic population in the United States. The company he created, Spanish International Network, eventually strung together more than 300 affiliates. Together, Mr. Azcarraga and Mr. Anselmo also acquired five stations.
In 1985, though, the F.C.C. refused to renew the station licenses after ruling that their foreign parent company, Televisa, exercised too much control over them. Over Mr. Anselmo's strident objections, the younger Mr. Azcarraga agreed to sell the stations and the network. Mr. Anselmo pocketed $80 million, but he broke off relations with the younger Mr. Azcarraga.
From broadcasting, it was a small leap for Mr. Anselmo to satellites. His debut as a satellite executive has already passed into lore -- as celebrated in this tight-knit industry as Ted Turner's risky foray into round-the-clock news is among cable programmers.
In 1988, Mr. Anselmo gambled the bulk of his fortune, more than $60 million, to buy a used satellite and launch it with inadequate insurance and no clients on an unproven Ariane rocket. A three-pack-a-day smoker, Mr. Anselmo missed the launching in French Guiana because he was in Greenwich recovering from quintuple bypass surgery.
While Mr. Anselmo scrambled to sign up clients -- his first coup was a contract to transmit CNN to Latin America -- he waged an epic and victorious battle against Intelsat, a consortium owned by more than 100 governments that dominated the global satellite business.
President Reagan had declared in 1984 that private operators ought to be allowed to compete with Intelsat in global satellite communications. But Intelsat lobbied long and furiously, both at home and abroad, to keep PanAmSat out of the business. Mr. Anselmo retaliated with a blizzard of letters to F.C.C. officials and lawmakers that lampooned Intelsat's monopoly with humor that sometimes bordered on the scatological.
"We were all amused to read those letters," said Mr. Fowler. "They were either the product of a very clever mind or a very demented one."
Alfred C. Sikes, one of Mr. Fowler's successors as F.C.C. chairman, said there was a method to the madness. "Discussing satellite policy is like watching paint dry. He took it out of the abstract."
In Congressional testimony, Mr. Anselmo played to the hilt the role of scrappy underdog. Bernard L. Schwartz, the chairman of Loral, recalls sitting next to Mr. Anselmo at a 1994 House hearing. Asked what he thought of a treaty restricting overseas satellite transmission, Mr. Anselmo ripped up a piece of paper with a flourish.
Mr. Anselmo created a cartoon dog named Spot as a mascot for his crusade. Spot was usually pictured lifting his hind leg -- a less-than-subtle metaphor for Mr. Anselmo's contempt for monopolies. Spot showed up in letters, newspaper advertisements, even emblazoned on the nose cone of the Ariane rockets that carried PanAmSat's satellites aloft. Even today, the company's stock trades on Nasdaq under the symbol SPOT.
Emboldened by his early success, Mr. Anselmo agreed to pay $721 million in 1991 to build, insure, and launch three more satellites. After a fruitless search for investors, Mr. Anselmo went back to Mr. Azcarraga with an offer to sell Televisa 50 percent of PanAmSat for $200 million. Despite the six-year rupture in their friendship, Mr. Azcarraga agreed.
With Mr. Azcarraga's money in his pocket, Mr. Anselmo set off on a wild ride to turn PanAmSat, which then had one satellite, into a global network able to sign up a wide array of clients and beam their programming virtually anywhere in the world. Over the next three years, Mr. Anselmo kept expanding despite a failed satellite launching, an initial public offering that was pulled at the last minute and ever-worsening health problems that led to another major operation in 1994.
By the time of Mr. Anselmo's death -- the day before the company's shares began trading on Nasdaq -- PanAmSat had become a genuinely global player. The company had expanded beyond its core clientele of American cable networks to sign up foreign broadcasters like China Central Television, Doordarshan of India, and NHK of Japan.
"They came at a time when there was no good alternative," said Robert M. Zitter, the senior vice president of technology operations at HBO. "And they developed a system that meets the needs of the television market." HBO leases capacity on three PanAmSat satellites to beam its channel to Latin America, Asia, and, soon, India.
In 1995, PanAmSat's revenue rose to $116.1 million, almost twice the $63.7 million it recorded in 1994. More than half of last year's revenue, $66.1 million, is operating cash flow -- money the company can theoretically reinvest in the business. In the first quarter of 1996, PanAmSat's results continued to soar: revenues hit $50.4 million, while cash flow jumped to $36.6 million.
PanAmSat's horizon is not completely cloud-free. With the explosion of satellite communications, private companies are sprouting here and abroad to challenge its cozy franchise. And Mr. Anselmo's pell-mell expansion saddled the company with $575 million in long-term debt.
But Andrew Hornick, a media and communications analyst at Citicorp Securities Inc., said the debt load was manageable because the company would generate a reliable flow of revenue from long-term contracts worth a total of $3.2 billion. Once airborne, he pointed out, satellites are inexpensive to maintain.
These unusual economics -- large starting costs offset by low operating expenses and lofty margins -- have made PanAmSat's stock buoyant. After going public in September at $17, the company's shares slipped briefly and then rose to a high of $33.25 in April. Since then, they have settled in the high 20's; on Friday, the company's stock closed at $29.
PanAmSat's four satellites already reach 98 percent of the world's population. But Mr. Landman, the chief executive, said PanAmSat intends to launch two more satellites next year and a third by 1998 to expand its capacity to carry TV programming, plus some telephone and data traffic. When finished, PanAmSat will have eight satellites aloft -- four over the Atlantic and two each over the Pacific and Indian oceans.
WHILE Mr. Landman talks excitedly about these plans, his mood darkens when the conversation switches to a potential sale. Like other senior executives, Mr. Landman owes his career to Mr. Anselmo. While Mr. Landman's seven million shares are worth $203 million, there is no other job he wants aside from running his former father-in-law's company.
"This has been a very emotional time for me," he said, "Rene Anselmo was my mentor in every sense of the word."
For Mrs. Anselmo, the potential payoff from a sale is even greater. But so, too, is the emotional strain of worrying about employees like Mr. Landman. The Anselmo family together controls a 40.5 percent stake in PanAmSat, which is worth $1.17 billion, and elects three of the company's five directors. Although Televisa also owns 40.5 percent, it elects only two directors. And in the event of a split among the Anselmos, Mrs. Anselmo alone gets to cast the tie-breaking vote.
Two of Mrs. Anselmo's three children -- Pier and Rayce, a son who has worked in television and lives in California -- profess not to be interested in the business. But Reverge Anselmo, who attended the decisive meeting with Mr. Azcarraga in Greenwich, is keen on diversifying his family's holdings.
"My family has a lot of talent, and there are a lot of other things we could do," Reverge Anselmo said in an interview from his home in Capitan, N.M. "Let's get our noses out of the solar panels for a while."
Reverge Anselmo worked as a sales executive for PanAmSat in Miami for several years, and Mrs. Anselmo said her husband harbored hopes that he would make a career in the family business. But Mr. Anselmo quit abruptly 18 months ago, after clashing with Mr. Landman, then his brother-in-law. Though Mrs. Anselmo said her husband was chagrined, he was not willing to side with his son over Mr. Landman.
"It was a case of the heir apparent coming up against the heir," said Mrs. Anselmo with palpable regret.
Mr. Anselmo is now completing a novel that grew out of his experience as a Marine in Beirut during the 1982 terrorist bombing.
Edward J. Landau, Mrs. Anselmo's lawyer, is also gently prodding her to consider a sale. "No matter how good a company is, to have 95 percent of your net worth in one stock is not a good thing," he said.
People familiar with the process said that at least one company, Loral, had made a preliminary offer for PanAmSat and had indicated it might negotiate. As Mrs. Anselmo watches the players maneuver, she is doing her best to soothe the fears of PanAmSat's employees. After saying she would consider a sale, Mrs. Anselmo reassured employees in a conference call that she would try to take care of them.
In a rare break from her husband's practices, she threw a companywide Christmas party last December at her home, which employees jokingly refer to as the "big house." (Rene Anselmo always hated Christmas parties, according to employees.)
"A lot of us viewed Rene as a father figure," said Lourdes Saralegui, a 34-year-old executive vice president, who joined PanAmSat only 12 years ago as a temporary secretary. "Now, Mary is taking on the role of a maternal figure."
That's no easy task. Just as Katharine Graham struggled to take the reins of the Washington Post and Loida Lewis grappled with the job of running TLC Beatrice International after the deaths of their husbands, Mary Anselmo has found it daunting to step into the breach. "My mother has never had anything other than being Mrs. Anselmo," Reverge Anselmo said.
Smoking one cigarette after another just as her husband had done, Mrs. Anselmo said the other day that she had rarely been involved in her husband's business and that she knows precious little about satellites. Asked how she was handling all the pressure, she responded, "Not too well, obviously."
For example, she expressed surprise in the interview that Morgan Stanley, PanAmSat's financial adviser, was also playing a big role in Televisa's efforts to raise some quick cash. Given her ambivalence about a sale, some of Morgan Stanley's rivals say the bank may be wearing too many hats.
Yet Mr. Landman said Mrs. Anselmo was being too modest. They said she kept well-informed about the financial mechanics. "Don't let her fool you with the I-don't-know-anything-about-business line," he said. And Mrs. Anselmo has continued her vocation: the upkeep of her chateau in suburbia. The Anselmos bought the house in 1967, and she and her husband supervised a never-ending series of landscaping and construction projects dreamed up by Mr. Anselmo.
MR. ANSELMO'S drive to beautify his surroundings extended beyond his front gates. For years, he paid to plant thousands of daffodils and tulips along North Street, where his house is located. In 1990, he was arrested for spray painting over a neighbor's "For Sale" sign that he contended was unsightly. The town later dropped the charges.
Soft-spoken and gracious, Mrs. Anselmo would not use such ham-handed tactics. But she is starting to put her own imprint on the house that Rene built. Mrs. Anselmo just bought the six acres adjoining her 12-acre lot to prevent anyone from building a house there. She said she would like to build a pond and a pavilion on her expanded grounds.
It's the skies -- and the satellites that rove silently through them -- that Mary Anselmo may not have as much control over.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Emilio Azcarraga Milmo, above left, known as El Tigre, backed Rene V. Anselmo's move into the satellite business. Mr. Azcarraga has persuaded Mr. Anselmo's widow, Mary, to sell the business. (Gwendolyn Stewart) (pg. 1); Frederick A. Landman, chief executive, in PanAmSat's conference room with models of rockets and satellites. Along with Mary Anselmo, he is troubled by plans for a sale.; The peaceful grotto where Rene V. Anselmo is buried, behind his stately home. (Chris Maynard for The New York Times) (pg. 14); Rene V. Anselmo, who paid for tulips and daffodils to beautify Greenwich, Conn., was arrested in 1990 for spray painting over real estate signs he considered unsightly, but the charges were dropped. (Stephen Castagneto for The New York Times) (pg. 15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TV (NYSE) (84%); TLEVISA (BMV) (84%); NWS (NASDAQ) (80%); NWS (ASX) (80%); MS (NYSE) (63%); LMT (NYSE) (58%); GNE (PAR) (51%); GEC (LSE) (51%); GE (SWX) (51%); GE (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (84%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (84%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (80%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (80%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (63%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (63%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); EQUATOR (51%); 

COMPANY: PANAMSAT GRUPO TELEVISA SA (84%); NEWS CORP (80%); MORGAN STANLEY INTERNATIONAL LTD (63%); MORGAN STANLEY (63%); LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (58%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: PANAMSAT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); EQUATOR (51%); 

SUBJECT: SATELLITE INDUSTRY (90%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (88%); FAMILY COMPANIES (75%); INVESTMENT BANKING (73%); INTERVIEWS (71%); APPROVALS (67%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (67%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (61%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (60%); 

PERSON: LANDLER, MARK; ANSELMO, RENE V; ANSELMO, MARY; AZCARRAGA MILMO, EMILIO MARY ANSELMO (93%); RONALD REAGAN (50%); KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1996



362 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 950 words

HEADLINE: DIARY

BYLINE: By HUBERT B. HERRING 

 BODY:

SPENDING
 
And the Poor Get Plastic
The economy's on a roll, all sorts of jobs are being created, inflation's tamed -- so why didn't you pay that credit-card bill? O.K., not all of you, but a lot of you aren't even paying that bare minimum that keeps credit revolving and that sky-high interest mounting. In fact, as reported last week, credit card delinquencies are at their highest level since the recession year of 1981. What's going on? The answer, as one theory has it, is not a pleasant one: The rich get richer and the poor get bills they can't pay. Yes, the economy's overall numbers are good, but those at the top, gleeful at rising stock prices, are pulling up the averages. Those on the downhill side of the great divide are trying to live on plastic.
 
TRADE
 
Blasting U.S. Cuba Policy
The United States has this thing about Cuba. Maybe we just can't shake the fear that Fidel Castro is going to invade and eat our babies. Or maybe it's pride -- we just can't stand this society, right over our back fence, that refuses to sing the American tune. If it didn't have to get wet, the F.B.I. would probably put on its little ear radios, surround the island, and wait grimly for Mr. Castro to come out. Canada and Mexico, though, don't seem to fear for their babies, for last week they both lashed out at the American law that would penalize foreign companies that trade with Cuba. Canada, in fact, has passed a law banning its companies from complying with the American law. So now all eyes are on July 15, the date when President Clinton must decide whether the law will start being enforced on Aug. 1.
 
CAR DEALERS
 
No Haggling? Un-American!
Imagine buying a candy bar and, instead of just shelling out 60 cents, telling the clerk, "I know the store paid 40 for this, so I'll give you 48 -- 6 for overhead, 2 for profit." (Imagine, too, the irritation of those behind you in line.) Absurd, yes, but that's the way Americans like to buy cars -- dickering and calculating has evolved into a bizarre national sport, with masters of this game proudly draining precious weeks from their lives to whittle that last $50 off a deal. Some foolhardy souls dared to tamper with this sacred rite, offering "no haggle" prices. (There's a price and you pay it? Positively un-American!) For a time the idea looked promising. But car buyers, it seems, have to haggle: of 23,000 new-car dealers nationwide, 2,000 had fixed prices two years ago, but that's down closer to 1,000 now. And that chocolate bar? Not a penny more than 51!
 
BOOKSTORES
 
Megabook Triumphant
For a few years, it was the Little Bookstore That Could. After a mammoth Barnes & Noble plopped itself down nearby, Shakespeare & Company at 81st and Broadway in Manhattan hung on valiantly even as other independents gave up. But a core of loyal customers could prop it up only so long when readers could walk a block or so and find every book imaginable, often at 20 to 30 percent off, with easy chairs and a coffee bar thrown in. Not to mention that street vendors have turned that stretch of Broadway into one long bookstore. Last week, after 15 years, Shakespeare & Company said it would close that store, though it has others in the city. It's "a big loss," said Toni Morrison, "melancholy and outrageous." One sad reader, normally a Barnes & Noble shopper, said he "bought three books out of guilt." With the price of books these days, guilt fits in precious few budgets.
 
THE INTERNET
 
Phone? TV? No, Chaos!
There's this new monster in town, and no one can quite figure out what it is. Is the Internet more like a telephone, or a TV, or a newspaper, or what? And, semantics aside -- this is the sticky part -- where does it fit into the whole free-speech puzzle? The Government tried to turn it into a beast it could tame, creating a law aimed at controlling indecent material (though it was never clear how that taming would be accomplished). But last week a Federal court resoundingly hit the delete key on that law, calling the Internet "the most participatory marketplace of mass speech" ever seen. It's made of "chaos" that should be celebrated, one judge wrote. And some observers, struggling to put a name to the beast, called it "unique" and "the telephone writ large."
 
KICKING THE CAR
All Aboard, Mr. Ewing!
Not many years ago, the question was, Who shot J.R.? But the question in Dallas today is, Will J.R. ever ride a commuter train? And a burning question it is, for Texans, perhaps even more than other Americans, just love to burn up the local cash crop -- petroleum -- to move themselves around. But last week a most un-Texan sight appeared in Dallas: the first stage of a 20-mile, $860 million rail transit line. The next step: getting people to use it, which may be tough considering the advanced case of automobile addiction. Dallas's mayor is "reasonably confident" that the efficiency of the line will eventually bring people around. But who said being addicted to cars is reasonable?
 
MIXED VALUES
 
What Is a Disney Family?
It's odd how the same term, "family values," can be applied to beliefs at the violent extremes of today's testy society. Walt Disney, a family-friendly outfit if ever there was one, defined "family" broadly last year, extending health benefits to workers' gay partners. But last week, also waving the "family" banner, the Southern Baptist Convention voted to censure Disney for that policy and even threatened a boycott. It's "cut and dried in the Bible" that homosexuality is a sin, said one Southern Baptist, while another, a minister, defended Disney, saying his church should be "more Christ-like in this regard."

GRAPHIC: Graph shows the percentage of credit-card-accounts that were overdue at the end of each month, 1980-1996. (Source: American Bankers Association)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); CANADA (92%); MEXICO (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

COMPANY: SHAKESPEARE & CO (55%); AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (59%); AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (59%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (54%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (59%); AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (59%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (54%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); CANADA (92%); MEXICO (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY PUBLIC POLICY (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); JOB CREATION (73%); LEGISLATION (72%); PRICE INCREASES (68%); NEW CAR DEALERS (62%); 

PERSON: HERRING, HUBERT B FIDEL CASTRO (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1996



363 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 134 words

HEADLINE: MARKET TIMING

 BODY:

MONDAY
 
The Newspaper Association of America continues, through Wednesday, its technical exposition and conference in Las Vegas, Nev.
 
TUESDAY
 
The Commerce Department reports on housing starts for May. In April, it reported, they rose 5.9 percent.
 
The Labor Department gives its revised report on nonfarm productivity. It had previously said productivity rose 2.6 percent in the first quarter.
 
The American Petroleum Institute issues its weekly report on the nation's petroleum stocks.
 
THURSDAY
 
The Labor Department gives its weekly report on initial claims for unemployment benefits.
 
The Commerce Department reports on the nation's trade deficit for April. In March, it stood at $8.9 billion.
 
The Federal Reserve reports on the weekly money supply table.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

INDUSTRY: SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEVADA, USA (92%); 

CITY: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NEWSPAPER ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (57%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (57%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEVADA, USA (92%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); PRODUCTIVITY (90%); HOUSING STARTS (88%); REAL ESTATE (88%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (88%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (88%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (88%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (87%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (86%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (86%); MONEY SUPPLY (84%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (83%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1996



364 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 1996

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 15; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 315 words

HEADLINE: State's Garbage Strategy Is Ripe for Overturning

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Theodore Schwartz's essay "What a Waste" (Soapbox, June 2) ignores some important facts in support of the dubious proposition that New Jersey's cities and towns should submit to the state's "flow control" strategy for garbage disposal. 
 First, the strategy, as embodied in the state's solid waste law, violates the United States Constitution, which prohibits individual states from hoarding an article of commerce -- in this case, garbage -- to the exclusion of other states.
Second, Mr. Schwartz suggests that flow control is economical. In fact, the system has resulted in the highest disposal rates in the nation. In 1975, disposal costs amounted to a few dollars a ton. Today, they average more than $100 a ton, which is used to feed the bureaucratic monoliths called county utility authorities.
Small wonder that the Mayors Task Force Against Flow Control was formed to bring some rationality to a system that has utterly destroyed any notion of competition.The task force numbers 240 strong, including mayors from 7 of the largest 10 cities. It believes that mayors must be able to contract with the most cost-effective yet environmentally sound vendors they can find. In some instances, communities can save hundreds of thousands of dollars with the stroke of a pen, simply by dealing directly with the same vendors the county authorities deal with now.
The argument that without flow control we risk the type of turmoil experienced 25 years ago overlooks advances in environmental enforcement over that period, as well as the empirical evidence in other states. And the suggestion that mayors are too unsophisticated or myopic to understand this issue is insulting to the men and women who serve their communities and, quite simply, absurd.
 
RONALD S. BERGAMINI
Glen Rock
 
The writer is a lawyer with Riccardelli & Hoonhout in Montclair.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (89%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); COUNTIES (73%); WRITERS (73%); SOLID WASTE REGULATION (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (66%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (53%); 

PERSON: BERGAMINI, RONALD S; SCHWARTZ, THEODORE THEODORE A SCHWARTZ (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1996



365 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1051 words

HEADLINE: Finding the Arms Factories;
Iraq Isn't Doing So Well at Hide and Seek

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS

 BODY:
CAN Iraq really hide a nuclear, biological or chemical arsenal, however skillfully it can run and duck? The answer seems to be: Not anymore, or not for long. Between a skillful human intelligence operation and an unparalleled inventory of high-tech snooping and testing devices from air sniffers to a U-2 spy plane, the Iraqis seem to have little room for maneuver beyond obstruction.
When the war in the Persian Gulf had ended and the world had to decide how to deal with Saddam Hussein, the United Nations Security Council set out the rules: Resolution 687, adopted on April 3, 1991, demanded the elimination of all Iraqi weapons of mass destruction and of Iraq's ability to make more. Otherwise, Iraq would continue to live under economic sanctions so severe it was hard to see how Saddam Hussein could stay in power. 
 But Mr. Hussein turned out to be more stubborn in testing and defying the U.N. -- and more resilient in power -- than anyone had guessed he could be. The United Nations prepared the most sophisticated and comprehensive technological and human monitoring system ever imposed on a country. But it took Iraq more than two years to agree to allow it to be installed, and it was another two years before the system was up and running. Iraq has periodically harassed inspectors by threatening them or denying them documents and access, while trying to cut diplomatic deals with sympathetic nations behind the backs of the United Nations Special Commission, the oversight body created to watch Baghdad.
And last week, even as the United Nations was preparing to let Iraq sell limited quantities of oil to ease the effects of sanctions on its civilians, a new crisis flared: Iraq put whole installations off limits to missile specialists on the ground of national security. This prompted a warning from the Security Council that the whole 1991 cease-fire agreement could be in jeopardy.
 
 
 
How It Works
 The commission, with about 100 people based in Iraq and visits from specialist teams, has spun a net of monitoring devices over much of the country, working in tandem with the International Atomic Energy Agency, which has its own systems for tracking nuclear material. The Special Commission looks for chemical and biological weapons, missile delivery systems and any suspicious manufacturing process that might be turned to arms production.
"The concept of monitoring is a web of systems because we realized that any individual element or component can be fooled," said Charles Duelfer, an American who is deputy chairman of the commission (the chairman is Rolf Ekeus of Sweden). "But we believe that the overall collection of elements does provide a fair amount of confidence that we will be able to detect efforts by Iraq to reconstitute its programs. We have designed our monitoring system based on sites we want to be attentive to."
"We also monitor imports and exports of materials to Iraq, and that's a key feature at this point," he said. "This will allow us to keep track of the development of industry in Iraq to allow us to understand where the end users are. And if our inspectors happen across an item that is not declared, we have the authority to confiscate and destroy it."
More than 200 sites in Iraq have been identified for close monitoring. Experts in Baghdad -- and at U.N. headquarters in New York -- can monitor them by video. "We also make house calls," Mr. Duelfer said. The experts work with equipment supplied by the United States, Germany and other technologically advanced nations.
Every six months, Iraq must provide the commission's office in Baghdad with details of any changes in the sites and account for all the personnel, materials and activities there. Experts talk regularly to site managers.
Sensors are installed at many locations. These include air-sampling devices to detect any chemical traces in the atmosphere. This insures that secret production of banned materials cannot take place at night or in an obscured area.
The video monitoring system employs more than 130 cameras deployed around the country to provide instantaneous transmission and taped records. The center in Baghdad can call up a site and turn on a camera at any time. The tamper-resistant cameras are connected to the center through microwave radio links under international control.
The team in Baghdad has the use of an American U-2 spy plane to survey broad areas and identify changes on the terrain -- new construction or changes in structures than may have been missed at ground level. There is also a helicopter detachment, whose aircraft ferry inspectors around Iraq and conduct lower-level aerial inspections. An airborne photographic team provides very detailed imagery -- showing, for example, piping around a building or bunkers in the earth. From time to time, the helicopters are equipped with ground-penetrating radar for special probes.
On the ground, inspectors carry video and still cameras, making images that can be gone over again and again for possibly forgotten or overlooked details. Atomic experts use water testing equipment to look for traces of nuclear material. Now and then, they install gamma ray detectors on helicopters and go on patrol.
The use of people on the ground has never been a minor part of this unprecedented and intrusive operation, and Mr. Ekeus has been a master at accumulating scraps of information from many foreign and Iraqi sources with which to confront the Iraqi Government or catch it in a falsehood.
And the freedom of movement for specialist inspectors remains very important. "There are very few people in the world who could walk through a factory and be able to identify Scud missile parts or biological weapons parts," Mr. Duelfer said. "There is a special expertise that is required." (Last week Iraq suggested that it might open some barred sites to, of all people, diplomats. The idea was rejected as absurd.)
With all the resources available, Mr. Duelfer said, the question remains: "How do you know you are capturing everything?" There is, he says, a pretty clear answer: "Of course we don't. But we are constantly on the lookout for new sites, new facilities. A lot of anomalies would show up. At least over time there is a high probability that we would detect them."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The U.N. radio mast in Baghdad.; A sampler for monitoring air content.; Photo surveillence is common. (Photographs by Henry Arvidsson/UNSCOM)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: IRAQ (95%); GULF STATES (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (88%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; IRAQ (95%); GULF STATES (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (88%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%); 

SUBJECT: ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; ATOMIC WEAPONS; CHEMICAL WARFARE; BIOLOGICAL WARFARE; INTELLIGENCE SERVICES CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (78%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); SURVEILLANCE & RECONNAISSANCE AIRCRAFT (77%); ESPIONAGE (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (75%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (71%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA SADDAM HUSSEIN (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1996



366 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1058 words

HEADLINE: The Nation;
A Carrot and Stick For Parenthood

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME 

 BODY:
PRESIDENT CLINTON is calling for curfew laws and a computer chip and rating system that would prevent children from watching TV programs their parents find objectionable. The Christian Coalition and some conservatives are advocating laws asserting the rights of parents to raise their children as they see fit at the same time other conservatives are pushing laws holding parents responsible for children go astray.
Like the old adage about war being too important to leave to the generals, parenting is now viewed as too important to leave to the parents. 
 The approaches may differ. But most experts agree that the posturing and proposals over parental rights and parental responsibility reflect an extraordinary ferment about society's views on parenting that is driven by interrelated economic, social and political trends.
"Families are extremely fragile right now," said Theda Skocpol, a professor of government and sociology at Harvard University, "and I think that leads to all kinds of tensions as to who's responsible for children and whether children are being adequately socialized. The bills about parental rights and parental responsibilities are spreading now because conservatives have been emboldened by the victories in the 1994 election, but they speak to broad social worries about the formation of families and their ability to control their fate and to control their children."
Whether parenting was once the preserve of utterly stable, firm-but-loving Ozzie and Harriet Nelsons and June and Ward Cleavers is open to question, but the signs of strain are numbingly familiar.
 
Litany of Woes
The divorce rate is high. Violence is common in many schools. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention released a study last week of 105 violent school-associated deaths from July 1, 1992, to June 30, 1994. Of those, 85 were homicides and 20 were suicides. In a recent New York Times/CBS News Poll, 72 percent of the respondents said parents should be held legally accountable for crimes committed by their school-age children.
Family issues increasingly are becoming legal ones. A jury last month convicted Susan and Anthony Provenzino of St. Clair Shores, Mich., of violating a city ordinance that requires parents "to exercise reasonable parental control" over children under 18 after their son repeatedly defied his parents in public, smoked marijuana and stole $3,500 from the church the family attends. The Provenzinos were fined $100 each and ordered to pay $1,000 each in court costs.
In recent years, half the states have written or toughened laws making parents liable for their children's actions. Numerous communities have passed similar statues.
At the same time, many religious right and conservative groups are promoting so-called parental rights laws, including a bill pending in Congress that would make it illegal for schools or government agencies to act contrary to the wishes of parents in areas like counseling and sex education.
To some critics, the two trends are contradictory.
"What we have now is two movements which are in complete conflict with one another," said Daniel Katz, legislative counsel for the American Civil Liberties Union. "The irony is that if they are both enacted, the parental rights laws could be used to overturn the parental responsibility laws."
Many conservatives deny there is a contradiction. "Both of these approaches assume one thing -- that parenting is extremely important, that parents have the right of parenting certainly but also the responsibility to fulfill those rights," said Jeffrey Bell, president of Of the People, a national group lobbying for parental responsibility laws. "If they fail, there are cases when the government has to step in and do some semblance of active parenting in place of the parent."
Barbara Bennett Woodhouse, an expert on family and constitutional law at the University of Pennsylvania, said that in other times of social change, the same issues and contradictions played out over issues like mandatory schooling or child labor laws.
"The battleground is shifting, but the battles are similar to ones we've seen in the past, the 1920's, for instance," Ms. Woodhouse said. "They all involve this necessity to come out with some kind of public-private partnership in raising children so that the family as a traditional institution maintains its strength and vitality but somehow fits into a larger democratic society."
Experts cited multiple explanations for the upsurge in parenting legislation. One is simply political. With conservatives in ascendance, their solutions -- even conflicting ones -- are proliferating. Poll-conscious Democrats like Mr. Clinton are getting in on the act, but most of the impetus is coming from the right.
 
The Search for Causes
"Conservative advocacy groups, some of them tied to the Christian Coalition, others around family concerns of various kinds are there, the organizations are there, the funds are there," Ms. Skocpol said. "They're all looking for causes to take up so they can give a concrete manifestation of the general program."
Yet everyone agrees that real social problems are inflicting family distress. Different experts cite the pressures caused when both parents must work, which often leaves children home alone. Violent crime among youngsters has reached epidemic proportions. Homes headed by single parents have increased dramatically, as has the number of children born out of wedlock.
Some experts on families doubt whether the parental rights or parental responsibility laws are realistic responses to family issues.
"The parental responsibility statutes are not going to be effective in controlling crime, and the parental responsibility laws will allow a small but vocal band of parents to thwart programs that have proven effective in preventing social problems such as teen pregnancy, the spread of H.I.V. and sexually transmitted diseases," said Mark Soler, President of the Youth Law Center, a legal organization involved with juvenile justice issues.
But he agreed with Mr. Bell that such laws reflected a positive and renewed focus on what it takes to be an effective parent.
"I think there's a wide consensus," Mr. Bell said, "even when people disagree about the specifics, on the need to reactivate parents in some way."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The push for laws on parental responsbility and rights reflects fears about fragile families. New York City students on a break. (Carrie Boretz for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (56%); CHRISTIAN COALITION (84%); CHRISTIAN COALITION (84%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHRISTIAN COALITION (84%); CHRISTIAN COALITION (84%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CHILDREN AND YOUTH PARENTING (93%); PARENTAL DUTIES & RIGHTS (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); CHILDREN (90%); FAMILY (90%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (89%); FAMILY LAW (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); CURFEW (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); RELIGION (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); SOCIOLOGY (74%); FINES & PENALTIES (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); HOMICIDE (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); NEWS BRIEFS (67%); COURT COST FINES (66%); JURY TRIALS (66%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (66%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (66%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (66%); CRIMINAL FINES (66%); ORDINANCES (65%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (65%); SEX EDUCATION (64%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (64%); SUICIDE (64%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (64%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (63%); CANNABIS (61%); 

PERSON: APPLEBOME, PETER BILL CLINTON (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1996



367 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 16, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 3; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1428 words

HEADLINE: Majority Rules;
But, Will Whites Vote for a Black?

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
ONCE again, four white Justices and one black Justice have ruled that legislative districts drawn to increase the representation of racial and ethnic minorities are unconstitutional if race was too dominant a factor in their design. And now that the Supreme Court's hostility to racial gerrymandering is clearer than ever, the country will soon have to face a practical question that all those legislative contortions were intended to avoid: will whites vote for black candidates? 
 The Court's 5-to-4 decision last week striking down three Congressional districts in Texas and one in North Carolina raises related questions: Are blacks and other minorities better off politically concentrated, or with their influence more spread around? Are there means other than redistricting that can insure black and Hispanic representation? But the more elemental question is whether black candidates can appeal to whites, and how much they will have to bend to do so.
 
 
 
Success Stories
 Those who cheered the Court's decision feel that blacks can and should reach beyond the confines of majority black districts. They point to an increasing number of black candidates in recent years who have won in elections where white voters made up the majority: L. Douglas Wilder as Governor of Virginia, Norman Rice as Mayor of Seattle, Carol Moseley-Braun as a Senator from Illinois and, in the House, Gary Franks of Connecticut and J.C. Watts of Oklahoma.
"It can happen," said Mr. Franks, who like Mr. Watts is a conservative Republican. "We have to show courage enough to run, raise the dollars and get your message out. But that's the same thing that any candidate has to do."
Conservatives like Mr. Franks say that one reason black candidates tend not to appeal to whites is that many are too liberal, and, having been able to run in predominantly black districts, have felt the need to make strong appeals to race. If black candidates have to move toward the center, these conservatives say, they will find greater acceptance among white voters.
"There are so few black candidates who will wade into the biracial waters," said Abigail Thernstrom, a scholar at the Manhattan Institute who specializes in voting rights. "If Colin Powell clones ran in majority white districts in the South, would they win? The answer is of course."
Traditional civil rights advocates and others on the left of the political spectrum are not so sure. They say focusing on the success of people like Mr. Franks or Mr. Wilder is wishful thinking with anecdotal evidence. In the early 1970's, they note, 2 percent of majority white state legislative districts in the 11 states of the old Confederacy were represented by black lawmakers. In the 1980's, the figure was 1 percent.
 
 
 
White Resistance
 "There is still a great deal of resistance to the election of black officials by whites in the country as a whole," said Chandler Davidson, a professor of sociology at Rice University who edited "The Quiet Revolution in the South: the Impact of the Voting Rights Act, 1965-1990" (Princeton University Press).
"If you look carefully," he said, "you will see that blacks are quite underrepresented in terms of their population in the North as well as the South. But the difference is only a matter of degree."
Thanks to reapportionment after the 1990 Census, in which many states purposefully carved out majority-black and majority-Hispanic districts, the number of blacks in Congress rose from 26 to 39 in 1992 and 41 in 1994. Only a few majority-white districts, notably the Republican districts that elected Mr. Franks and Mr. Watts, have sent black or Hispanic Representatives to Congress.
It may be apparent soon whether white voters will support the blacks elected in 1992 and 1994: the North Carolina and Texas districts invalidated last week must be redrawn, though it is not clear how soon that can be accomplished. The Court had already struck down Georgia's racially gerrymandered districts, and is going to review the new map --which leaves only one black-majority district -- next term. A similar case from Louisiana is also pending.
 
 
 
Conflict of Interests
 While many of those opposed to concentrating minority voters say whites will vote for centrist black candidates, the question arises whether that means these candidates sometimes have to betray the wishes of their black constituencies.
While black voters tend to be fairly conservative on issues like prayer in schools, gay rights and even school vouchers, public opinion surveys show that African-Americans remain one of the country's most liberal groups, especially on the large issues such as the role of government, tax policy and spending on domestic social programs.
Recent surveys conducted by the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies showed that while 75 percent of all voters believe the Government spends too little money on schools, 87 percent of blacks feel that way. Blacks also favor smaller tax cuts and place more trust in the Federal Government than do whites. And while 72 percent of the general population supports the death penalty, only 48 percent of blacks do.
Although redrawing electoral maps might force some movement toward the center by conservative white politicians as well, David Bositis, a senior fellow at the Joint Center, said most of the burden is on blacks.
"Why is it there are white leaders who can represent extreme positions within the white community and that's O.K.?" he said. "Why is it that black officials have to move to the center?"
And some of the black politicians who have built strong biracial constituencies were able to do so only after gaining the advantage of incumbency by winning in majority-black districts.
Mr. Wilder, for example, launched his career by winning a State Senate seat from a district in Richmond that was 60 percent black. The late Representative Barbara Jordan, whose profession of her dedication to the Constitution during the Nixon impeachment hearings stirred whites as well as blacks, twice was defeated in races for the Texas House of Representatives in majority white districts. She finally prevailed in a district that was predominantly black and Mexican-American.
Given the Court's antipathy toward the use of race in redistricting and the history of white reluctance to vote for black candidates, many people are wondering if there other ways at helping minorities elect representatives that mirror their views without packing blacks and Hispanics into majority-minority districts.
 
 
 
Other Ideas
 A few experts in voting rights law say that, rather than our current system of single-member Congressional districts that choose representatives under a winner-take-all system, there are other means to insure the political clout of minorities -- racial, religious, or even ideological ones. Some of these mechanisms include the creation of larger, multi-seat Congressional districts in which each voter has a number of votes that can be distributed among several candidates, or the use or preference voting, by which voters can rank voters in order of preference.
When Lani Guinier, a professor at the University of Pennsylvania Law School whose nomination as Assistant Attorney General for Civil Rights was withdrawn by President Clinton in 1993, put forward these ideas, she was denounced in some quarters as an anti-democratic radical. But a year later, another noted black wrote these words: "In principle, cumulative voting and other non-district-based methods of effecting proportional representation are simply more efficient and straightforward mechanisms for achieving what has already become our tacit objective: roughly proportional allocation of political power according to race."
The author of those words, in a Supreme Court opinion in a voting rights case, was Justice Clarence Thomas.
Surveying the wreckage of the concept of majority-minority districts in the wake of last week's Supreme Court ruling, and the continued existence of racially polarized voting, Ms. Guinier said it's time for new thinking in the area of minority voting rights.
"On some level these black districts are like the canaries that miners used to carry to tell them when the air in the mine is dangerous," she said. "They are alerting us to a problem with our democracy. The solution, to me, is not simply special rights for the canary. The canary is signaling a problem that we should all be listening to, all of us, without regard to whether we are yellow."

GRAPHIC: Photos: This is the shape of the 12th Congressional District in North Carolina, which the Supreme Court invalidated last week because race was the predominating factor in determining the borders. (pg. 1); Representative Melvin Watt, whose district in North Carolina must be reconfigured. (Associated Press) (pg. 4)
 
Graph: "Drawing the Line" shows the number of House members who are black, 1947-1995. (pg. 4)
 
Map of Texas and North Carolina highlighting districts involved in last week's Supreme Court redistricting decisions. (pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SUPREME COURT (US)

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; NORTH CAROLINA; TEXAS; UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; BLACKS; GERRYMANDERING; REAPPORTIONMENT ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); APPEALS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); REDISTRICTING (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); CONSERVATISM (88%); ETHNICITY (78%); ETHNIC GROUPS (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); LIBERALISM (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); 

PERSON: HOLMES, STEVEN A MELVIN L WATT (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1996



368 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 6; Column 4; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1067 words

HEADLINE: Corporate Greed, Meet The Maximum Wage

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

 BODY:
NOW that liberals have pushed a higher minimum wage onto Congress's agenda, some of these descendants of George McGovern are agitating for another idea to narrow the gap between haves and have-nots. It's called a maximum wage.
There's a moderate version that would limit executive salaries to, for example, 50 times what a company's lowest-paid worker earns -- last year C.E.O.'s at the largest 500 companies earned $4.06 million on average, or 197 times as much as the average worker. 
 There's also an extreme form that would bar any American -- be it Michael Jordan, Bolton, Eisner or Milken -- from earning more than, say, 25 times the minimum wage, which would mean a maximum of $212,500. Some radicals even advocate a maximum of $85,000 -- or 10 times the salary for a minimum-wage worker.
But the chance of passing a maximum wage these days is about the same as that of a snowball in Speaker Newt Gingrich's Georgia backyard barbecue.
 
Listen to Aristotle
The rich will no doubt howl that these proposals are anti-free enterprise and roundly un-American. But supporters claim a pedigree for their idea that reaches back to Franklin D. Roosevelt and, farther still, to Aristotle. President Roosevelt, concerned about war profiteering, proposed a maximum income of $25,000 in 1942 with a 100 percent tax on all income above that, but Congress shunned his idea. Aristotle wrote that no one should have more than five times the wealth of the poorest person. So there.
And advocates say a maximum wage just might catch fire at a time when politicians from Patrick J. Buchanan to Jesse Jackson have roused supporters by asserting that something is rotten when executive pay has soared while wages for the average American have stagnated. Such stratospheric compensation sticks in the craw, especially among those who have been downsized.
But Sam Pizzigati, a union publicist who is the chief proponent for the maximum wage, readily acknowledged that the notion was unlikely to take Mr. Gingrich's neo-revolutionaries by storm. "True, it's a bit meshuga in the current political climate," Mr. Pizzigati said, while also pointing out that the income tax was once considered a radical idea.
Mr. Pizzigati, who wrote "The Maximum Wage" (The Apex Press, 1992), said that a ratio linking the income of the rich to that of the poor would insure that a rising economic tide lifted all boats, and not just the yachts, as many economists say the current economic expansion has done. "You'd have a very interesting situation because for the first time the richest and most powerful people in the country would have a vested interest in raising the wages of the lowest paid," Mr. Pizzigati said.
A 50-to-1 ratio would mean that a $1-million-a-year corporate chairman who was eyeing a $200,000 salary increase would have a big incentive to raise the $20,000 salary of the company's lowest paid worker to $24,000. Under most maximum-wage proposals, the ceiling would include not just wages but also stock options, dividends, interest and capital gains.
"It's a statement of values, that there should be relationship between the top and bottom in an economy," said Representative Martin Sabo, a Minnesota Democrat who is the author of a bill, with 30 sponsors, that would bar companies from deducting that part of an executive's compensation that is more than 25 times that of the company's lowest paid worker. Senator Jeff Bingaman, a New Mexico Democrat, has called for awarding tax benefits to companies that hold executive compensation to under 50 times that of a company's lowest paid worker.
Fans of an unfettered free market like this idea as much as they like Karl Marx. "This is just another manifestation of the politics of envy," said William A. Niskanen, chairman of the Cato Institute and once President Reagan's chief economic adviser. "You can do all sorts of mischief with something like this. People who make these proposals have not begun to think through the problem of unintended consequences."
Those consequences would no doubt include more cheating on taxes, more maneuvering by executives to defer income until retirement and more deposits of paychecks in secret offshore accounts. The stock market might well head south because the wings of the rich would be clipped, and real estate values could plunge on the Upper East Side and in Beverly Hills. Then there's the specter of inflation because a maximum wage might heighten pressures to raise pay for low-paid workers.
With a ceiling on their income, Americans might feel less of an incentive to be the next Steve Jobs or Bill Gates, undermining America's role as the epicenter of innovation. Similarly, a maximum wage might encourage venture capitalists to venture offshore or close shop altogether. Zillion-dollar-a-year basketball stars might even lobby the N.B.A. to relocate outside the country.
There are economic arguments for income-equalizing too, of course. One is that greed can strangle a free market; to keep it healthy, the poor and middle class need enough money to sustain consumer demand.
But even some outspoken critics of high executive salaries argue against a maximum wage for fear it would hobble the economy. Greg Mueller, Mr. Buchanan's communications director, said, "He would be for using the bully pulpit to focus on people who get million-dollar bonuses while laying off thousands of people, but having the government getting involved in wage scales, I don't think he'd be for that."
Not to worry. Graef Crystal, an expert on executive compensation, said that even with a maximum wage, Americans would strive to excel and the economy could still prosper. "People will brave real danger to rise and become, say, a four-star general even though it doesn't mean tremendous pay," he said. "I can't believe Bill Gates and others would sit back and play tennis all day."
A ceiling on executive compensation "might not be such a bad idea," Mr. Crystal said, because shareholders have done little to restrict it. But there is a reason powerful institutional investors like Fidelity Investments and others are A.W.O.L. on this issue.
"The problem is these shareholders often have a conflict of interest," he said. "Why don't they do anything? Because their executives and fund managers make millions themselves. They're not about to criticize high pay lest attention be focused on them."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; MINIMUM WAGE; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION; EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT WAGES & SALARIES (92%); MINIMUM WAGE (92%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (89%); LIBERALISM (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POLITICS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); US PRESIDENTS (65%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (64%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (60%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN NEWT GINGRICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1996



369 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 566 words

HEADLINE: The Rebirth of a River

 BODY:
Every so often something happens to suggest that energetic citizen action and carefully drawn government regulation can turn a hopeless cause into a resounding success story. A case in point is the remarkable transformation of the Hudson River, documented last week in an authoritative two-part series by The Times's William Stevens and Andrew Revkin.
Only 30 years ago, this magnificent river was little more than a 350-mile sewer stretching from the Adirondacks to Manhattan's Battery, choked with untreated human waste, industrial chemicals and agricultural runoff. Today the Hudson pulses with life. True, many of its fish still carry contaminants and not all of its waters are swimmable. But the Hudson is no longer a stinking mess. Fish populations are healthier than they have been in years, while cities and towns that once turned their backs on the river are realizing that they can build a new economy around tourism and recreation. 
 All this is striking evidence that political leadership and an active citizenry can do wonders to atone for past indifference. As the series notes, there was no single magic bullet. But on the government side of the ledger, two initiatives deserve huge credit. One was Gov. Nelson Rockefeller's $1 billion Pure Water Bond Act in 1965, which underwrote modern sewage treatment plants along the riverbanks.
The second was the Federal Clean Water Act of 1972, which mandated tough controls on municipal and industrial waste and provided billions of dollars in Federal aid. House Republicans have passed a law that would weaken the act as part of their broad attack on the country's environmental statutes. If the Senate needs a good reason not to replicate the House's foolishness, it need only examine what the act has meant to the Hudson.
The 1960's and 70's also saw the birth of a powerful environmental movement dedicated to saving the river. The catalyst was the Consolidated Edison Company's 1963 proposal to build a hydroelectric plant on Storm King Mountain just south of Newburgh. Encouraged by success in the courts, a lively coalition of fishermen, naturalists, townsfolk and environmental groups was soon in full cry, thwarting power projects along the riverbanks and filing endless lawsuits to close leaking landfills.
Two historical economic trends -- the gradual decline in manufacturing along the river and the reforestation of abandoned farms in the watershed -- have also helped the river. But the Hudson is not home free. The fact that it is now so much more attractive than it was 30 years ago -- and thus a magnet for heavier recreational use and residential development -- could impose new burdens on the ecosystem. In this era of tight budgets, it may also be more difficult to find money for sewage treatment and other protective efforts.
Finally, there has been no resolution in the continuing controversy over whether to dredge the "hot spots" containing PCB's deposited years ago in the upper river by the General Electric Company. These are the chemicals that make an otherwise healthy and growing striped bass population generally unfit for human consumption.
Still, this river has come a long way. Further progress will require continued vigilance by those who have fought long to save it, careful planning by development-minded communities and a sense of stewardship from a new generation of politicians.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (53%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (53%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (53%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (53%); CITIZEN ACTION FUND (84%); CITIZEN ACTION FUND (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITIZEN ACTION FUND (84%); CITIZEN ACTION FUND (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HUDSON RIVER; UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; WATER; WATER POLLUTION WATER POLLUTION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); RIVERS (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (78%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (77%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (77%); NONPOINT SOURCE POLLUTION (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (77%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (77%); AGRICULTURAL POLLUTION (75%); WATER QUALITY (75%); REAL ESTATE (74%); BUDGETS (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (73%); BONDS (72%); MOUNTAINS (71%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (71%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (70%); LEGISLATION (70%); CHEMICALS (70%); LANDFILLS (70%); POWER PLANTS (70%); FISHES (70%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (70%); AGRICULTURE (70%); DAM & HYDROELECTRIC CONSTRUCTION (68%); CITY LIFE (68%); CITIES (68%); SUITS & CLAIMS (63%); LITIGATION (61%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (61%); REFORESTATION (60%); TRENDS (60%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (55%); 

PERSON: NELSON ALDRICH 'NELSON A' ROCKEFELLER (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1996



370 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 437 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Budget Cuts Imperil Remote Town's Lifeline

BYLINE: By JIM ROBBINS 

DATELINE: RED LODGE, Mont.

 BODY:
Much of the prosperity of this scenic mountain village depends on when the plows break through the giant snow drifts that block the Beartooth Scenic Highway.
A terminus of the road is here in this tourist town, and each year thousands of people come to drive the highway that Charles Kuralt, the CBS News correspondent, called "the most beautiful drive in America," and to leave their money behind at local businesses. 
 But with Federal budget cutbacks and unusually heavy snow this year, the town's economic lifeline just opened on Friday morning, two weeks later than usual. Many in this town are dismayed.
"People have come here from all over the world to go over that highway," said Angela Beaumont, general manager of the Pollard Hotel and a director of the Red Lodge Chamber of Commerce. "And they haven't been able to."
Visitors have not been able to traverse the highway this year because the Park Service, which plows the road -- even though it is a state highway outside the park -- cannot afford to pay overtime, and so the opening has gone slowly.
With the road closed, Ms. Beaumont estimates that business is off about 40 percent at the Pollard, a historic 36-room hotel.
The highway climbs 5,445 feet over the Beartooth Mountains. Much of the two-lane road is above 10,000 feet in altitude, and for most of the year is locked in snow and ice.
Even worse for the people in Red Lodge and Cooke City, on the southern end, is that the highway is becoming an unwanted stepchild.
The Park Service has always plowed 43 miles of the 67 miles of highway, including the toughest section with wind-packed 30-foot snow drifts, in part because it has the needed equipment.
But Yellowstone officials say that in the next few years budget cuts could well mean that the $175,000 plowing job will be left to the two states, Montana and Wyoming, which say they cannot afford to plow it, or the drifts will be left to melt on their own.
"If we're closing things in the park," said Tim Hudson, chief of maintenance for the park, "why are we doing things outside the park with money that hasn't been appropriated?" Two museums and a campground inside the park have been closed and personnel cut.
The road is expensive to maintain and needs millions of dollars in repairs. But with Federal money drying up, no one knows when that work will be done.
"If you take a year with snow like this it could be the first of August before it opens up," said Jean Farrell, owner of the Coffee Factory Roasters, in downtown Red Lodge.
"If that happened," said her husband, George, "this place would be a ghost town."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Heavy snow and Federal budget cutbacks forced a two-week delay in the reopening of the high-maintenance Beartooth Scenic Highway this year. (Jim Robbins for The New York Times)
 
Map of Montana and Wyoming highlighting Beartooth Scenic Highway.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (90%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MONTANA, USA (94%); WYOMING, USA (93%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL PARK SERVICE CBS NEWS DIVISION (58%); NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (59%); NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PARK SERVICE NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (59%); NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RED LODGE (MONT); BEARTOOTH SCENIC HIGHWAY; UNITED STATES; MONTANA; WYOMING; UNITED STATES (94%); MONTANA, USA (94%); WYOMING, USA (93%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (79%); 

SUBJECT: ROADS AND TRAFFIC; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); NATIONAL PARKS (78%); WEATHER (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); APPROPRIATIONS (77%); HOTEL STAFF (74%); CLOSINGS (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (66%); COFFEE (60%); OVERTIME (52%); 

PERSON: KURALT, CHARLES CHARLES BISHOP KURALT (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1996



371 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 16, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 16; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 697 words

HEADLINE: Senate Leadership Change Stalls Minimum-Wage Legislation

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 15

 BODY:
An increase in the Federal minimum wage, which seemed to be heading toward passage as recently as last month, has been thrown into jeopardy with the departure of Bob Dole from the Senate, senior Administration officials say.
Mr. Dole, who was the Republican leader before he left the Senate to focus on his Presidential campaign, opposed the Democrats' proposal to increase the minimum wage to $5.15 an hour from $4.25, but in late May he said he would be willing to move ahead with a vote. 
 The House approved the proposal on May 23 by a vote of 281 to 144, and if the measure had been brought to the Senate floor, it would almost certainly have been passed and signed into law by President Clinton. It would be the first increase in the minimum wage in six years.
But Mr. Dole never scheduled a vote. Now the bill's fate in the Senate rests with Trent Lott of Mississippi, the new majority leader who is an even bigger foe of the minimum-wage increase than Mr. Dole.
Mr. Lott said this week that he was not sure when a vote on the minimum wage would come. But his top deputy in the new Republican hierarchy has voiced strong opposition to the measure, saying it would cost jobs. "I'm still not in favor of it," Senator Don Nickles of Oklahoma, the new majority whip, said in an interview on Thursday.
The Senate's top Democrat, Tom Daschle of South Dakota, has vowed to bottle up the Senate until it approves the wage increase. "We will again be offering minimum wage to every bill that comes before the Senate unless we have a guarantee or the assurance that this matter is resolved successfully," Senator Daschle said on Thursday.
Mr. Lott and Mr. Daschle met on Friday to discuss the minimum wage, health-care insurance and other legislative priorities, but they did not resolve their differences, aides said.
Some Republicans said the wage issue could hurt them in the Congressional and Presidential elections.
Administration officials said that the more conservative new Republican leadership in the Senate might not feel the same election-year pressures to to act on a minimum-wage increase as Mr. Dole.
"With Dole gone, it may be harder to pass," Labor Secretary Robert B. Reich said in an interview. "He has been under enormous pressure on the minimum-wage issue, as well as other economic issues. There's still a good chance of winning the day on this, but the political pressure to raise the minimum wage won't have the same focus as when a Presidential candidate is sitting there in the Senate leading his party."
Some Republicans say that blocking a vote on the popular wage increase could backfire on the party in the November elections.
"It already has hurt Republicans," Senator Arlen Specter, Republican of Pennsylvania, said in an interview. "We know ultimately there is going to be an increase. We have to be just a little more realistic as to where the issue is going and not try to make amends too late."
Supporters of the measure have the votes to win on the Senate floor. Eight Republicans voted with all 47 Democrats in late March to support ending debate on the wage question.
Some of the eight Republicans who voted with the Democrats on that procedural vote might not vote to raise the hourly wage. But at least four are on the record supporting the measure: Senators Alfonse M. D'Amato of New York, Mark O. Hatfield of Oregon, James M. Jeffords of Vermont and Mr. Specter.
If the Senate votes on the minimum-wage increase, lobbyists and lawmakers say, it will most likely come as part of an agreement brokered between Mr. Lott and Mr. Daschle. A deal might call for a vote on the minimum wage in exchange for a vote on bills that Republicans want and President Clinton does not, such as deep tax cuts for small businesses or a labor measure called the Team Act that would allow companies to form labor-management groups outside the collective bargaining process.
Small-business backers in the Senate are also likely to offer an amendment that would exempt some small businesses from paying any new minimum wage and from paying overtime to future employees. The House defeated this proposal by a vote of 229 to 196.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: SOUTH DAKOTA (79%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN OF PENNSYLVANIA (70%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN OF PENNSYLVANIA (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH DAKOTA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; MINIMUM WAGE; LAW AND LEGISLATION; WAGES AND SALARIES MINIMUM WAGE (94%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (90%); MINIMUM WAGE LAWS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%); 

PERSON: SCHMITT, ERIC; DOLE, BOB; DASCHLE, TOM (SEN); LOTT, TRENT (SEN) TRENT LOTT (89%); TOM DASCHLE (89%); BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1996



372 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1465 words

HEADLINE: Buses Again Trouble Civil Rights Veterans

BYLINE: By RICK BRAGG 

DATELINE: MONTGOMERY, Ala.

 BODY:
The tarnished silver buses that lumber along the avenues of this city are outdated, some of them 20 years old, but the cracked and faded seats are precious to many people. In Montgomery, where Rosa Parks made history by refusing to give her seat to a white passenger on Dec. 1, 1955, these buses are seen not only as a service but also as a civil right.
Johnnie Carr, who took part in the bus boycott here in 1955 and 1956, recalled, "I remember that I would be too proud to sit, so I would just stand" rather than face the indignity of having to give up her seat to a white passenger. "I stood all the way home, some days," she added. 
 Now 85, Mrs. Carr does not ride the bus anymore, yet every time she sees one rumble by she is reminded of the sacrifices it took to force the city to allow people like her to ride them with some dignity. Now, 40 years later, she and other aged civil rights veterans are battling the city again, to keep the buses running.
Across the South and around the nation, cities are trimming bus service or closing down public transportation systems. Elected officials have responded to sharp cuts in Federal financing precisely as feared by the people who ride buses, and instead of financing bus systems with local tax dollars, many city officials have decided to let riders -- usually poor, elderly, handicapped and often minority -- do without.
In Greenville, S.C., the city has done away with bus service entirely. In Birmingham, Ala., the bus system teeters at the edge of financial collapse. Here in Montgomery, service has been cut by more than half.
That means Kody Chester-DesRosiers, a 31-year-old single mother with a 9-year-old daughter, spends one-fourth of her $200 weekly take-home pay to get to work by taxi because the bus schedule does not match her work hours. Some weeks, "we have nothing in our refrigerator," Ms. Chester-DesRosiers said.
It means that Mary Powell, 53, had to drop out of a literacy program in which she was learning to read for the first time in her life.
It means that 27-year-old Anna Walker, nine months pregnant, has to walk two miles from the public health clinic to her home, because the buses run only one way.
It means that Frank Jackson, a 42-year-old laborer, has to quit work three hours early to catch the last bus home, because the taxi ride would cost him even more; that Dorothy Woods, a 51-year-old housekeeper, has to beg for a ride to work, smothering her pride, and that Mary Moore, 85, has lost what independence she had left and relies now on her daughter to get groceries.
"I feel awful," Mrs. Moore said about city officials' cutting bus service. "I could curse them out."
All around the city, elderly black women wait for hours at bus stops after spending their days cooking and cleaning for wealthy white families. One woman, her knees swollen by arthritis, said she had to walk two miles in the morning and two more every evening to catch the bus.
Some people have resorted to buying old cars they cannot afford, others paying neighbors to drive, but some have no way to travel except on buses, spending $1.50 each way.
"We came to see public transportation as part of life, something we earned," Mrs. Carr said. "It's just what the city should give its people."
To advocates who are trying to persuade the city to restore service, the Montgomery city government, long dominated by Mayor Emory Folmar, is either uncaring of the poor people who depend on buses or just hopelessly out of touch.
"Out of one side of their mouth, they're saying people should work," said Mrs. Carr, who has attended City Council meetings and helped organize protests. "But they're denying people the way to get to work."
Mr. Folmar, whose bid for governor in 1982 was thwarted in part because blacks voted for an old nemesis, George C. Wallace, rather than see the rigidly conservative Mr. Folmar in power, declined to comment.
But Councilman Charles W. Jinright, chairman of the Council's Transportation Committee, said that in a time of shrinking tax dollars, the city could not afford to "throw them away" on buses that benefit just 2,200 of the city's 190,000 people. The city's bus system is "like the horse and buggy," Mr. Jinright said.
"We have found that a lot of the time the poor people even feel like it's an insult to ride on public transportation because of the negative connotation attached to it," said Mr. Jinright, who owns an insurance and brokerage business in Montgomery.
Such thinking, riders and advocates say, is wrong because poor people need the buses. As Mrs. Moore said, "We can't get nowhere."
Montgomery, 42 percent black and 56 percent white, has a bus system like that of many around the country. The ridership here, mostly black, is shrinking, making the system an economic liability. And the nine-member City Council, with five whites and four blacks, lacks enough votes to continue all-day bus service if the service is losing money.
Paul Queen, general manager of the transit system, said Mr. Folmar instituted a "shared-pain" plan when Congress sheared aid for transit last year. In Montgomery, the hardship means that the bus system has dropped from a weekday schedule of 17 routes with 12 to 13 hours each day to 6 hours. There is virtually no weekend service.
"You get to a point where you say, 'Do I want to fund one more bus route or do I want to buy three more police cruisers?' " Mr. Queen said. "With crime rampant and people prisoners in their own homes, that's not a hard decision to make."
It seemed so to Ms. Powell, who grew up poor, working in the cotton and peanut fields, never learning to read. Last year she enrolled in a literacy and skills program, but after the bus schedules were cut, she dropped out. She could walk for miles and wait three hours on another bus, but she raises her 9-year-old granddaughter, Ashley, and has to rush home to care for her.
"I wanted to learn, and get me a good job," Ms. Powell said. It don't make no sense. They want us off the welfare, but. . . ."
Sister Leanne Sitter, a Catholic nun who is the program's executive director, said the participants "want to so badly" to learn to read. "They want to acquire some skills so they can go out and earn a living," Sister Sitter said. "But how can they do that if they can't get here?"
For Ms. Chester-DesRosiers, a secretary with take-home pay of $800 each month, the buses were a tool for building a solid life along with 9-year-old Jaanicia.
"I make $80 too much for food stamps," she said. Unable to afford a car, Ms. Chester-DesRosiers relied on the buses to get to work, to the doctor's office, to church. The cash she saved had provided little luxuries like a pizza or a movie for mother and daughter. But cab fares have robbed them of that.
"I've missed church twice" because of the expense, Ms. Chester-DesRosiers said. She had to take a job in a convenience store on weekends to meet her bills.
For others, the cuts in service have made it much harder to take care of themselves and their children. Many of the riders are young women who rely on welfare and the buses as essentials of life, or older people who, for one reason or another, have no family available to take care of them.
For Ms. Walker, the long walk home from the public health clinic makes her back ache, and the strain is bad for her pregnancy.
County health departments in the Southeast provide childhood immunizations, screenings for tuberculosis and other diseases, nutrition counseling, prenatal care, family planning, treatment of sexually transmitted diseases, and other medical services, all to people who cannot afford a doctor elsewhere.
The cuts in bus service, some health officials fear, have curtailed some preventive care.
"They're people trying to bring kids in for shots, people trying to keep prenatal appointments," said Dr. Laurie Dill, the Montgomery County Health Officer. "If you can't get there, there's an increased tendency to let it slide."
Although Dr. Dill said she was grateful for the money the health department gets from the city and county, any reduction in transportation creates a serious barrier to treating the county's poor.
To Mrs. Carr, who has been agitating for people less fortunate than herself for 40 years, "it's the children you worry most about." Last year, she was named "Citizen of the Year" by the local newspaper, The Montgomery Advertiser.
She said she had always hoped that as she grew old she would see the society around her become kinder, more generous, but from her perspective it had grown less feeling in the last few years.
"I could close my eyes and not see these things," Mrs. Carr said. "But I do. The Bible says, 'The poor you will have always.' "
In Montgomery, many of them will be walking.

GRAPHIC: Photo: As bus service has been reduced in Montgomery, Ala., and in other cities, long waits have become more common for riders. Reductions in Federal support for public transportation have led to the cutbacks. (Alan S. Weiner for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: ALABAMA, USA (93%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, SC, USA (54%); 

CITY: MONTGOMERY, AL, USA (92%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (79%); GREENVILLE, SC, USA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTGOMERY (ALA); SOUTHEASTERN STATES (US); UNITED STATES (93%); ALABAMA, USA (93%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, SC, USA (54%); MONTGOMERY, AL, USA (92%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (79%); GREENVILLE, SC, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: TRANSIT SYSTEMS; UNITED STATES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; HANDICAPPED; AGED; BUSES; BLACKS MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (91%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); CITIES (73%); BUDGETS (70%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (60%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (50%); SINGLE PARENTS (50%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%); 

PERSON: BRAGG, RICK JOHNNIE CARR (74%); MARY TYLER MOORE (65%); CHARLES W JINRIGHT (59%); EMORY FOLMAR (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1996



373 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 16, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1486 words

HEADLINE: SYSTEM GOVERNING ELECTION SPENDING FOUND IN SHAMBLES

BYLINE: By ADAM CLYMER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 15

 BODY:
The 22-year-old system of Federal limits on campaign donations and spending is falling apart because candidates, parties and unions have figured out how to get around the rules established by the Federal Election Commission, using First Amendment protections carved out by the Supreme Court.
The system invented after Watergate is almost as porous as its predecessors, and there are many examples: Bob Dole's gymnastics on the edge of the Presidential spending limit, the "issue advertisements" that both parties are running with their Presidential candidates' faces dominating the television screen, the "educational advertisements" that the A.F.L.-C.I.O. is buying with union dues and the soaring "soft money" contributions frequently from corporations or unions. 
 One goal of the 1974 Federal Election Campaign Act, and a weaker 1971 law, was full disclosure of campaign contributions, and that has worked well. That is especially true since 1991, when public disclosure of soft-money contributions began. They are donations that are exempt from most Federal rules and are funneled from national to state parties.
But the law was also intended to curb the impact of special-interest money, particularly after the discovery of the suitcases of cash the Nixon campaign had collected from corporations. That has failed.
"I don't know anybody who thinks the system works," said Don Fowler, national chairman of the Democratic Party.
Scholars, self-styled reformers and an occasional savvy politician speaking on condition of anonymity say the collapse of the system is encouraged by the certainty that Federal authorities will never act before an election is over, a fact that encourages taking chances.
"As one of my dear friends used to say," said a high-ranking national politician, " 'Remember, they hold the trials after the election.' "
But the frankest analysis of how little the laws inhibit current election practices was offered by Steve Rosenthal, political director of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.
Discussing the television advertisements that the organization is running to attack vulnerable House Republicans, he said, "If somebody handed me a magic wand and said there is no election law, I would do exactly what I am doing now."
The labor federation's advertisements censure Republicans for votes on the minimum wage and Medicare, but never use the words "vote for" or "vote against." That enables them to be treated as "educational," not "political." But, Mr. Rosenthal argues, that is a much more effective way of persuading a voter than just telling him or her what to do.
Experts offer various prescriptions to repair the system that they agree is sick.
Haley Barbour, the Republican national chairman, said, "Spending limits not only do not work, they have the perverse effect of making special interests more powerful and more influential" because they find ways around the rules and their unlimited donations have greater impact. He would retain reporting but abolish the limits on contributions -- $1,000 for individuals and $5,000 for political action committees -- and on spending -- $37 million through the conventions for Presidential candidates.
David Boren, president of the University of Oklahoma and for 12 years one of the Senate's most consistent advocates of new campaign laws, said he believed the "system is in total collapse." He said that if ordinary Americans were ever to have their faith restored in the idea that everyone's vote counted equally, the First Amendment should be amended to permit limits on campaign spending and to let Congress write laws to spell out what limits were needed.
Specifically, he would want limits not only on contributions and spending, but also on unlimited spending by rich candidates and curbs on so-called independent expenditures, spending by individuals or organizations without any contact with the candidate or party being financed.
A more moderate approach is urged by several scholars. David Magleby, a professor of political science at Brigham Young University, said the Presidential system could be improved by raising the spending limits for campaigns, which are adjusted for overall inflation but have not kept pace with the steeper rise in campaign costs.
Herbert E. Alexander, head of the Citizens Research Foundation at the University of Southern California, said the contribution limits, stuck at $1,000 since 1974, had become hopelessly out of date.
But some of the problems of this year's campaign are out of Congress's reach. Mr. Dole overspent largely by fighting off the independent candidacy of Steve Forbes, who spent as much of his own fortune as he wanted. In 1976 the Supreme Court said any attempt to limit what an individual could spend for himself violated the guarantee of free speech.
The Court has also said that advertisements have free-speech protection and has defined as issue ads almost anything that does not include phrases like "vote for" and "elect," or "vote against" and "defeat." By running such advertisements, the two national party committees can evade the $12 million limit on direct help to their candidates.
The loopholes these definitions have created even bemused Mr. Dole. Last week he was discussing Republican Party advertisements that the Republican National Committee is running showing his biography. Speaking to television executives, he said, "It's called 'generic.' It's not 'Bob Dole for President,' " he said. "It never says that I'm running for President, though I hope that's fairly obvious, since I'm the only one in the picture."
Lee Ann Elliott, chairwoman of the Federal Election Commission, defended such advertising, saying, "We have been begging people to listen. We have been begging people to talk about the issues. Now that it is happening, I don't see this as a bad thing." She said she thought attack advertisements were very useful because "the people look to the negative advertisements because they get information from them."
She took no stand on speeding up commission procedures to make it possible to deal, before Election Day, with the formal challenges to the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s activity -- of which polls show the majorities of union members disapprove -- or to the Dole's reliance on state parties to pay most of the costs of his events. "From a commissioner's point of view," she said, "that would be nice. But from a candidate's point of view, just in the heart of a campaign, to have to stop, review everything and answer that, makes it very, very difficult."
Fred Wertheimer, an architect of the 1974 law, disagrees and blames the Supreme Court for the loopholes in the laws, saying the Court's definitions of issue advocacy "provide a license to cheat" and the Justices were utterly out of touch, employing "a Mars concept when it comes to this issue advocacy stuff."
The Court is expected to rule soon on whether state parties can attack opponents in "issue advertisements" that do not count against spending limits. The National Republican Senatorial Committee is assuming the Court will allow that practice, counting its advertisements attacking Democrats as part of an unlimited get-out-the-vote account.
But Mr. Wertheimer blames Congress for blocking incremental changes, especially those to curb soft money. The parties collect vast sums, like the $1,583,228 that Philip Morris, the tobacco and food conglomerate, has given Republican committees since Jan. 1, 1995, or the $250,000 that Stanley Druckenmiller, a bond trader, gave the Republican National Committee on Aug. 30, 1994.
Mr. Wertheimer said, "What we are dealing with is not a constitutional question, it's a matter of political will."
Those huge contributions, now coming in at double the 1992 rate, are spent in those states where they would be legal. Prof. Michael Malbin of the State University of New York at Albany said they "raise all the issues that people were concerned about when they first looked at the system after Watergate."
Professor Magleby blamed the press, too, for not probing into the motivations for enormous contributions. He said sweeping changes were inevitable when the next disgrace caught public attention. "What is going to trigger this is going to be a scandal," he said. "It will happen. The only question is when."
 Scott Thomas, a member of the election commission, said he hoped the agency could serve as "that dog that keeps gnawing at the ankles," with the 1996 election enabling it to make the rules clearer in the future.
But Congress is the only entity that decides how much can be spent regulating it.
 Each year the staff of the election commission's general counsel's has to be cut, Mr. Thomas said.
 Soon post-election fines will become not just a "cost of doing business," he said, but "more in the nature of 'I don't even have to worry about any cost whatsoever because I probably won't get caught.' "

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bob Dole thanked supporters in Savannah who turned out on Friday for the Georgia Republicans' Flag Day celebration. His Presidential campaign is running up against Federal Election Commission spending limits. (Associated Press) (pg. 21)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAVANNAH, GA, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (91%); FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (91%); AFL-CIO (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (91%); FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (91%); AFL-CIO (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); SAVANNAH, GA, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; POLITICAL ADVERTISING; FINANCES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENTS; FREEDOM OF SPEECH CAMPAIGN FINANCE (92%); ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (90%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (90%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ELECTION LAW (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (86%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); MEDICARE (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); SUPREME COURTS (77%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (75%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%); MINIMUM WAGE (60%); 

PERSON: CLYMER, ADAM; DOLE, BOB; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) HALEY BARBOUR (57%); RICHARD NIXON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1996



374 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1405 words

HEADLINE: A Hartford Program to Put Fathers Back in the Family

BYLINE: By JONATHAN RABINOVITZ 

DATELINE: HARTFORD, June 15

 BODY:
A few weeks ago, when Benjamin Compton walked through the door of his apartment, his 2-year-old son dropped his toy, squealed "Daddy" and ran into his arms.
For many fathers, this would be a commonplace, if tender, ritual. But for Mr. Compton, a towering 22-year-old who was in prison during Benjamin Jr.'s birth, the moment meant much more. It was the first time his son had called him "Daddy." 
 "It felt good," Mr. Compton, a soft-spoken man, said Thursday, appearing almost embarrassed by his own affection. "Father's Day is going to be different this year."
The change can be credited to an unusual new program run by the Hartford Housing Authority, which Federal officials are seeing as a blueprint for a national model. Its goal is to reunite fathers with their families in the projects here, where about 85 percent of the households are headed by single mothers. Most are on welfare. The rest, like Mr. Compton's girlfriend, struggle to survive on low-paying jobs.
The three-month-old Family Reunification Program is still small -- only nine men -- but it represents a new way to move people from poverty to self-sufficiency. The program offers fathers $22-an-hour demolition and asbestos-abatement jobs at the projects, along with other incentives. In return, the fathers take their children off welfare, and, if possible, move in with their partners.
In a nutshell, the program seeks nothing less than restoring some traditional families in communities where they have almost ceased to exist. The Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development, Henry G. Cisneros, is encouraging housing authorities nationwide to develop their own versions. A similar and even larger program, aimed at the partners of pregnant women, is under way in Baltimore.
"We need to take steps to actively reconnect fathers with their families," Mr. Cisneros said. "When these fathers have established a bond with their sons and daughters, some deeply spiritual transformation occurs. They see the waste of guns and gangs and drugs, and they leave that life behind."
The Hartford program was the brainchild of John Wardlaw, the executive director of the Hartford Housing Authority, who was inspired to create the program after the Million Man March in Washington in October with its call for black men to be accountable for their actions. Not only has it been embraced by the Clinton Administration, but Gov. John G. Rowland's Republican administration has also supported it.
The Hartford program seems to solve the debate over welfare reform by agreeing with both sides. It subscribes to the liberal idea that people fall into poverty because of larger economic forces over which they have no control, forces the government can intervene to improve. It also accepts the conservative notion that individuals must take responsibility for their actions and that welfare has perpetuated dependency.
For instance, the program's founders realized that the housing policy of setting rent at 30 percent of a family's income discouraged fathers from moving back in, so in the program, when a father returns, the rent is frozen for 18 months.
Although the potential of this program, here and in other cities, turns on whether there are jobs to give, Mr. Wardlaw is confident that the program will grow. The Hartford Housing Authority, with 15,000 tenants, has at least $45 million to tear down units and rebuild, and it plans to require contractors to hire more of these fathers.
No one questions that it will be an uphill battle. Many fathers cannot even be found. Already one man has dropped out of the program, and others are likely to follow. The hard jobs could wear down even enthusiastic fathers. So could family life.
"A lot of them don't know how to be fathers yet," said Victor Rush, the program's administrator. "They're still learning."
Indeed, on Thursday afternoon, in a group interview, Mr. Compton and another program participant, Juan Ramos, compared notes about dressing their children. "It's scary," Mr. Compton said. "He's so little."
"You're worried you'll break something," Mr. Ramos chimed in. "But it's O.K. They're flexible."
"Not me," Mr. Compton insisted. "I'm not going to touch him."
Yet later that night, in his apartment at the Bowles Housing Project, Mr. Compton held his son, gave him a raspberry on the neck and squirted him with a water pistol. Then he plunked the child onto a rocking horse that he bought a few weeks ago, crying "Yee-hah" as Benjamin Jr. laughed.
Only a few months ago, the little boy clung to his mother's legs when his father entered the room, and cried if he tried to touch him. Mr. Compton, who then was living with his mother, was working at a warehouse at minimum wage, and the boy's mother, Tommicka Riley, feared that he might return to the drug dealing that had landed him in jail. "He was distancing himself because he wasn't able to do what he had to do," Ms. Riley said in a telephone interview. "Now, he's able to provide, and that makes any man feel bigger."
For Mr. Ramos, 37, who said he had spent years selling crack cocaine, the job is a step toward getting out of the Stowe Village projects and achieving the program's ultimate goal: home ownership.
Next month, for the first time since 1994, Christina Rodriguez, the 20-year-old mother of two of his children, will not get a welfare check. As required by the program, Mr. Ramos notified the welfare office of his new income shortly after starting his job in May and had his name added to his girlfriend's lease.
"I'm here to stay," he said late Thursday afternoon, as he waited for his girlfriend to call from the doctor's office, where his 8-month-old daughter was being checked for an ear infection. He fidgeted nervously in his chair and added: "It feels strange being here alone. I've gotten used to them being around." The phone rang and he jumped. "Is she O.K.?" he asked and looked relieved when told she just needed to take some medicine.
Mr. Ramos said that he would have moved in months ago, but that the job he had then -- as a maintenance man at an apartment -- paid only $7 an hour. That modest income would have disqualified his girlfriend and the children from receiving welfare. Although he tried to visit as often as he could, he worried that spending too much time there could draw the attention of the Housing Authority. "The system kept me away," he said. "This is the chance I've been waiting for."
Not everyone in the program has moved in with a partner -- the decision is left to the father and mother -- and in at least one case, a child remains in troubling conditions.
Jesus Benitez, who turns 19 in two weeks, offered no hope that he and the mother of Jesus Jr. could be reconciled. Earlier this month, he stopped by to pick up his son, whose second birthday was Tuesday, only to find that the state had taken custody. The mother's boyfriend had been accused of breaking the child's arm.
Mr. Benitez, a former member of the Los Solidos gang who has his street name, "Sycho," tattooed on his arm, broke into tears. He said he was determined to win custody of his son and bring him to the project apartment where Mr. Benitez lives with his mother.
Mr. Benitez had planned a special birthday for his son at a Chuck E. Cheese restaurant. On Thursday, the birthday present he had bought -- a battery-powered four-by-four truck that his son could ride -- sat on a shelf in Mr. Benitez's room. "This job has put me in a place where I can take care of my son," he said. "I was trying to do the things he wanted, let him have the fun I never had."
Fathers voluntarily enter the program. The criteria are that the father has children in the project and is ready to sign a contract pledging to strive to be a role model, to move his family off welfare once employed and to try to participate in his children's activities. It demands that he not use drugs and submit to regular drug tests. If a father fails to abide by the rules, he can lose his job.
Mr. Rush, the Hartford Housing Authority official, who is also an ordained minister, said he had been moved by the fathers' efforts in the last few months. To honor them, he had wanted to help celebrate what for most of them would be their first true Father's Day and throw a Sunday brunch for the group. Much to his surprise, the men turned him down. "They all wanted to be alone with their families," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: "The system kept me away," Juan Ramos, 37, said of welfare rules that made it difficult for him to move in with his two children. (pg. 1); Benjamin Compton, 22, playing with his 2-year-old son, Benjamin Jr., in a room recently decorated with a Chicago Bulls rug and blanket. A few weeks ago Benjamin Jr. called his father "Daddy" for the first time. (Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times) (pg. 28)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (74%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: CHICAGO BULLS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO BULLS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD (CONN); UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (74%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); WELFARE RECIPIENTS, EMPLOYMENT OF; FAMILIES AND FAMILY LIFE; HOUSING; PUBLIC HOUSING FAMILY (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); MEN (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); CHILDREN (77%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (74%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (72%); SINGLE PARENTS (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); CONSERVATISM (69%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (69%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (68%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (64%); LIBERALISM (62%); ASBESTOS (50%); ASBESTOS REMEDIATION (50%); CITIES (50%); 

PERSON: RABINOVITZ, JONATHAN HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1996



375 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 23; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1637 words

HEADLINE: Critics See Whitman Dismantling State's Tough Environment Policy

BYLINE: By JENNIFER PRESTON

DATELINE: TRENTON, N.J., June 15

 BODY:
When Gov. Christine Todd Whitman paddled down the Wading River in a canoe last June, she was joined by leaders of environmental groups who warmly praised her for responding quickly to their concerns.
But on a canoe trip this year, Governor Whitman was greeted by some of those same leaders, standing on a bridge, waving placards criticizing her policies. In recent weeks they have stepped up their attacks with a radio advertising campaign saying she is rolling back New Jersey's strong environmental protection measures. 
 Mrs. Whitman has taken a new approach to environmental issues. In keeping with her campaign promise to make New Jersey "more business friendly," she has proposed easing some of the regulations governing water quality, hazardous waste and solid waste. She has also recommended budget cuts at the Department of Environmental Protection, particularly among lawyers who prosecute offenses and the scientists who monitor air, water and soil.
Dozens of states, including New York, as well as the Clinton Administration, are trying to work more closely with the business community and environmentalists to reach consensus on setting and meeting standards for environmental quality. But many environmentalists here say that the Whitman administration is moving too quickly to relax the state's traditional tough stance. For the last 25 years, the state has had the nation's most stringent regulations and heaviest fines.
Voters are well aware of the stakes. New Jersey's economy has long been dominated by petroleum refining and pharmaceutical and chemical manufacturing that have operated close to densely populated residential areas and waterways. There are more Superfund sites here than in any other state, and 85 percent of the state's waterways remain unfishable or unswimmable.
Senior Whitman administration officials have expressed concern that the mounting criticism is beginning to resonate with voters. Democrats view the Whitman stance on the environment as one of the few areas where the popular, tax-cutting Republican Governor could be vulnerable in next year's gubernatorial campaign.
Governor Whitman acknowledges the power of the attacks. "Sure, they hurt, particularly because they are not true," she said in a recent interview. "The doomsday scenario that is being painted by the people putting out the ads is simply not an accurate portrayal of what is going to happen."
Mrs. Whitman says she is seeking to reduce burdensome regulations, arguing that the traditional approach of closely regulating what comes out of the discharge pipe and the smokestack is no longer effective. Instead, she says she is trying an approach similar to the one the Netherlands has used since 1988, in which government, environmental groups and industry agree on standards for air and water quality and land use. Then industry comes up with its own plan on how to meet those goals and monitors its own progress. Regulators would check the general results but not oversee every step in the process.
"We haven't sold out to business or the business community," Mrs. Whitman said. "Are we trying to get away from this game that says somebody always loses to win? Yes. We are trying to say that business is not the enemy of the environment, necessarily.
"Do we have an extra concern here? Absolutely. Do we have a responsibility to preserve what we have? Yes. And I believe that we are going to continue to do that but in a way that says you can have a clean environment and you can have a thriving economy that allows for jobs and growth because you simply have to have that."
Critics say the old ways work and the proposed changes are untested.
"She is changing the state's environmental policies in a very subtle manner," said Dolores A. Phillips, legislative director for the New Jersey Environmental Federation. "She is doing it behind the scenes in a way that is deceptive to the average New Jersey citizen, through changes in regulations and budget cuts."
Hal C. Bozarth, spokesman for the Chemical Industry Association of New Jersey, said that environmental groups fail to understand "the need for government to be smarter and more efficient and the compelling need for New Jersey to be competitive for manufacturing jobs.
"No one talks about lowering the standards," Mr. Bozarth said. "All we ever talk about is the process, streamlining it, making it less costly, and making us more competitive. We are more than willing to take the most stringent standards in the country for air and water, and comply with them. All we ask for is for a competitive regulatory structure that allows New Jersey to bring more jobs into the state."
Environmental leaders say that, in particular, they oppose proposed changes in New Jersey's regulations governing water quality. While all sides agree with the administration's plan to move toward a "watershed approach" -- managing all sources of pollution, such as runoff from a pesticide-laden farm, as well as industry discharges into the waterways -- environmental groups believe more has to be done to prepare a plan and detailed environmental standards for the waterways.
In the more than 1,500 pages of proposed changes in water regulations, the administration would allow more toxic substances to be discharged into the waterways. Heavy fines and penalties would be reduced. And sewage treatment plants automatically would be allowed to increase their discharges, within their permit levels, but without further study about what impact that would have on the waterways.
Governor Whitman denies that the changes in the water quality regulations would hurt the public's health. Administration officials say that 12 additional chemicals would be prohibited from being discharged into the waterways under the regulations. And the decision to allow more toxic pollutants into the waterways, they say, stems from the latest scientific data that allows the department to measure more accurately the pollutants while keeping within the parameters of cancer risks of one in a million.
"Obviously, I have relied on the department for the technical aspects of this," Mrs. Whitman said. "One of the reasons I extended the comment period for another 60 days is to allow for a longer opportunity to assess what's real here and what isn't. That is not something that we would allow to occur."
Another worrisome issue to environmentalists and some business leaders is proposed budget cuts at the department. The agency's budget has been cut by more than 20 percent in the last two years, and this year Mrs. Whitman proposes cutting 11 percent more. More than one-third of all of the 600 layoffs in state government are scheduled to hit the department.
Environmentalists worry that cuts will weaken the agency's ability to monitor and enforce existing state rules. Even business leaders are concerned about budget cuts, but their fear is that they will threaten the state's innovative approach to cutting government red tape. Mrs. Whitman has championed a program that issues a single, facility-wide permit to a company instead of dozens of individual permits as an example of the state's ability to protect the environment while giving industry more flexibility.
Much of the Governor's new approach can be seen in the budget cuts. Take, for example, the 30 percent cut this year in the number of lawyers designated to prosecute environmental offenses. The administration is cutting back on litigation in favor of resolving disputes with industry through mediation.
Governor Whitman contends that the state spent so much time in the court system battling industry that state regulations were not getting enforced, fines were not getting assessed, and bad environmental practices continued as both sides fought in court.
In a memo prepared for the Governor's office, the administration anticipated criticism over a proposed $2.7 million cut in the amount budgeted for permit reviews. The memo urges the Governor to stress "more efficient processing now," adding, "Alert: Both the business community and the environmental community will be distressed, feeling, respectively, that review time will lengthen and reviews will be less thorough."
Other proposed cuts, including reductions in pesticide programs, medical waste programs, and shutting down state laboratories and laying off scientists, have caused concern among some lawmakers. Seven Republican State Senators asked Mrs. Whitman to restore the budget cuts in a letter this week, saying the cuts undermined the agency's ability to safeguard the environment.
"If you take away the scientists who find the problems, then you can't find the problems," said Timothy P. Dillingham of the Sierra Club. "Then you don't have to devote resources to resolving them."
In New York, Gov. George E. Pataki has been the target of criticism for his environmental cuts, but sensing the political importance of the issue, he recently counterattacked by staging a statewide publicity campaign for a proposed $1.5 billion environmental bond act.
Last year, Governor Whitman supported a similar bond act providing $340 million to purchase land for conservation. In fact, in the first two years of her administration, she has received high marks for her record on land-use issues. She signed legislation putting $10 million aside to help purchase Sterling Forest. And on air quality, she supports a tough auto emissions law that the legislature sought to roll back.
In the latest environmental controversy, over dredging New York Harbor, Mrs. Whitman points out that she has not backed away from her position to refuse to allow the toxic dredge soils to be dumped into the ocean. "If I were solely interested in business and jobs," she said, "believe me, that's where the heaviest pressure is coming."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NETHERLANDS (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NETHERLANDS (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); BOATING & RAFTING (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (76%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (75%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (74%); SUPERFUND (73%); RADIO ADVERTISING (71%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (71%); HAZARDOUS MATERIALS REGULATION (69%); BUDGET CUTS (69%); BUDGETS (69%); PORT AUTHORITIES (69%); CHEMICALS (64%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (64%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (55%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (50%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1996



376 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 16, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 24; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 635 words

HEADLINE: Dole the Candidate Returns to State and Raises Funds

BYLINE: By JENNIFER PRESTON 

DATELINE: Edison, N.J., June 15

 BODY:
Signaling how important New Jersey is to his Presidential hopes, Bob Dole returned to the state tonight for the third time since Memorial Day to appear with Gov. Christine Todd Whitman at the state Republican Party's annual fund raiser.
Speaking to more than 3,200 of the state's most active and loyal Republicans, Mr. Dole said that Mrs. Whitman's gubernatorial win in 1993 was President Bill Clinton's first referendum in New Jersey. "My election in 1996 will be the last referendum on Bill Clinton," he said. 
 Mr. Dole, who had just ended a three-state tour through the Midwest and the South, also said that he was proud to have Mrs. Whitman on his team and that he expected to be campaigning in New Jersey every week until Nov. 5. "And we are going to carry New Jersey," he said.
Members of the audience, who paid $1,000 a plate to attend the dinner, interrupted Mr. Dole's 10-minute speech several times with applause. But he was also forced to speak over a loud din of conversation at the more than 300 tables that filled the New Jersey Convention and Exposition Center. After his remarks, he waded into the crowd for about 10 minutes, shaking hands and chatting with party regulars before departing for home in Washington.
In her introduction of Mr. Dole, Mrs. Whitman described him as a "good and honest man" who speaks with convictions. "The big issue in this Presidential election is not just the economy, stupid, but who will support the policies that will nourish economic growth," she said.
Mrs. Whitman said earlier this evening that the party had been very happy that Mr. Dole had decided to attend the fund raiser, which was expected to raise $4.3 million and is billed as the largest state party fund raiser in the nation. "Having Senator Dole, former Senator Dole, back in the state so soon, re-emphasizes the importance he puts on New Jersey," she said.
Mrs. Whitman, who supports abortion rights, has strongly supported Mr. Dole's promise to include a "a declaration of tolerance for divergent points of view" on abortion in the party's plank. Mrs. Whitman said she was hopeful that Mr. Dole's stance would end talk of a floor fight at the party's national convention in August.
On Memorial Day, Mr. Dole marched alongside Governor Whitman in a parade in Clifton and attended a picnic in Kenilworth. He returned just two weeks ago to campaign with Mrs. Whitman at the 25th annual Polish Heritage Festival in Holmdel, where he worked the crowds, who were chanting, "Every Pole is for Dole."
"He will be here more times than you can imagine," said Chuck Haytaian, the state Republican chairman.
Mr. Clinton has made four visits to the state, which he captured in 1992 with 43 percent of the vote.
The latest voter registration figures suggest why both Mr. Dole, the apparent Republican Presidential nominee, and Mr. Clinton have both been campaigning hard here.
Registered independent voters outnumber those registered in Democratic and Republican Parties combined, according to the latest figures. The number of independents is up nearly 20 percent since 1992, to 2.1 million from 1.7 million, according to the latest figures. The number of registered Republicans has risen more than 10 percent since 1992, to 844,034 from 765,631 in 1992. The number of registered Democrats has fallen over the same period, to 1 million from 1.1 million.
With so many registered independent voters, and as the state's politicians like to say, "independently minded" voters, campaign strategists view New Jersey as a bellwether. Since the 1920's, New Jersey has failed to pick the next President only twice.
The $4.3 million raised at tonight's dinner will be used to not only bolster Mr. Dole's chances in November but will also be poured into the races of Congressional candidates.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); MIDWEST USA (79%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); MIDWEST USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; FINANCES POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); FESTIVALS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); REFERENDUMS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); PARADES & MARCHES (70%); ABORTION (60%); 

PERSON: PRESTON, JENNIFER; DOLE, BOB; WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV) BILL CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1996



377 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 1996
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 9; Page 1; Column 2; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 3384 words

HEADLINE: As Battle Looms On Rent Law, Skirmishing Has Begun

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI 

 BODY:
IN their own modest ways, Barbara Thompson, a tenant, and Denis Gittens, a landlord, are at the center of an already brewing storm over whether a half-century of rent regulation in New York State will end -- or be significantly altered -- precisely one year from today.
Each fits the billboard image that contending sides in the debate choose to project. And yet, while neither fully reflects the constituency they supposedly represent, their struggles, and those of thousands like them on both sides of the rent-regulation divide, cannot be denied. 
 Mrs. Thompson lives in a fashionable building on the Upper East Side, but she is not one of those affluent Manhattanites whom landlords like to cite as having hogged $500-a-month, rent-regulated penthouses for decades. She is a pensioner who pays 42 percent of her fixed, modest income on rent.
Mr. Gittens also does not fit a caricature, that of the mustachioed, black-hatted landlord ordering the widow out; nor is he one of those headline-name developers who owns dozens of buildings with thousands of apartments -- and would benefit enormously from any further loosening of rent regulation. Mr. Gittens, a native of Grenada, has owned the 90-year-old, 14-unit apartment building at 1578 Union Street in Crown Heights, Brooklyn, for 10 years, and bends his back into much of his building's maintenance work just to break even.
It is in the name of Mrs. Thompson and Mr. Gittens and their like that tenant and landlord lobbyists have staked out their positions as the final year of the Rent Regulation Reform Act of 1993 begins to tick away.
Landlords will be pressing for a full phase-out of rent regulations or, at least, a lowering of the income and rent thresholds on so-called "luxury" decontrol, while tenants -- wary of a Republican in the Governor's mansion -- are gathering their forces.
Rent regulation is an issue that resonates throughout New York City, where 1.1 million of the state's 1.2 million regulated apartments are situated and a block of voters estimated at more than 2 million is directly affected. The controversy strikes dissonant chords in the classic debate over how much -- and, on the question of renewal, even whether -- government should counter free-market forces to protect certain essentials of a citizen's life. And this year the volume has been turned up by the Republican resurgence on both the national and state levels.
After much tumult and arm-twisting, the 1993 law renewed rent regulation until midnight on June 15, 1997, but included provisions that, among other things, allowed for the decontrol of "luxury" apartments for the first time since the late 1950's, and, for the first time ever, used tenant income as a determinant for deregulating an apartment.
Under the law's provisions, slightly modified by the New York City Council, apartments renting for $2,000 or more that became vacant after Oct. 1, 1994, would be decontrolled, as would occupied apartments with rents of $2,000 or more where the household income exceeded $250,000 in each of two consecutive years.
Having seen what they consider the first brick yanked out of the dike, tenant advocates have started to organize what they hope will be a large-scale campaign to block further erosion of that wall of protection.
On May 21, 80 buses carrying 2,500 renters from the city -- many of them decked out in pink and white painter's caps bearing the logo "I'm a Tenant and I Vote" -- arrived in Albany for a mass demonstration and to buttonhole legislators in their offices and hallways.
"Nobody knows what the landlords are cooking up," said Michael McKee of the New York State Tenants and Neighbors Coalition, which represents 137 tenant groups. "The real estate lobby has adopted a strategy of keeping things as quiet as possible downstate so they can catch us off-guard at 10 minutes of midnight on June 15, 1997, at which point it will be too late, which is why we are organizing now."
Mr. McKee, not one to mince words, pointed to the seismic shift in the political landscape since the renewal battle of 1992 and said, "We now have George Pataki instead of Mario Cuomo, and that's a big danger, and Joe Bruno as Senate Majority Leader."
Mr. Bruno, a Republican from Rensselaer County, "is Attila the Hun" on tenant issues, Mr. McKee asserted.
The landlords, too, have bared a few teeth. Members of the Community Housing Improvement Program, an association of about 2,500 city building owners, are raising funds for a television advertising campaign aimed at upstate cities in the fall and next spring. The campaign logo, a raging red apple with furrowed brow and jagged incisors, says: "Don't Let the Big Apple Take Another Bite Out of You! Stop Rent Regulation Now!"
"The problem," said R. Bonnie Haber, president of CHIP, "is that people who live in New York State are paying $30 million in taxes for the State Division of Housing and Community Renewal, and most of it is to administer New York City's rent regulations."
"We're talking about enabling a drug dealer to keep his apartment while serving time in jail, if they can get him to jail," Ms. Haber said, "because he wasn't found dealing drugs in the apartment."
THE clarion call to rent-regulation combat was sounded in a confidential memo by Governor Pataki's Transition Housing and Community Development Committee in December 1994, even before he was sworn into office. "The administration's goal," it said, "must be to dismantle a system that does not work by adopting decontrol of all rent-regulated apartments upon vacancy."
With that as the longterm goal, the report called for intermediate steps like "reducing the rent and income thresholds for decontrol of luxury apartments," elimination of regulation on buildings with less than 20 units and "legislation to require payment into escrow of legal rents by tenants contesting eviction." Mr. Pataki did not respond to several requests for an interview on whether he was still pressing for those goals; nor did Mr. Bruno respond to requests for an interview on the subject.
But Joseph Strasburg, president of the city's largest landlord advocacy group, the Rent Stabilization Association -- and the Governor's recent nominee to the boards of the State Housing Finance Agency and the State of New York Mortgage Agency -- said that, "at a minimum," landlords will be pushing for:
* Vacancy decontrol of all apartments so that "whenever a vacancy occurs the owner will be free to ask whatever the market will bear."
* Reduction of the existing income level for luxury decontrol from $250,000 "closer toward $100,000 a year" and of the current $2,000-a-month rent threshold to "something like $1,500."
* A gradual phase-out of all rent regulation.
"Because of broken promises," Mr. Strasburg said -- particularly the repeal of an earlier, and broader, vacancy-decontrol system after a three-year period in 1974 -- "a lot of developers don't trust government and there has been a movement of investment dollars out of the city to other geographical areas where there are no rent regulations."
Vacancy decontrol was lifted in 1974, he said, because then-Governor Malcolm Wilson, a Republican, "was running for re-election and wanted to curry favor with the voters." Tenant advocates, however, say the repeal took place because rents of many decontrolled apartments skyrocketed, and some landlords forced people to vacate by creating uninhabitable conditions.
"In order to encourage development dollars back to New York," Mr. Strasburg said, "the state must address the unfairness of the landlord-tenant relationship, which presently does not create a level playing field for the owners."
Asked if landlords would be pressing for complete deregulation at the sunset date next year, Mr. Strasburg said, "No comment."
The chairman of the Assembly Housing Committee, Vito J. Lopez, a Brooklyn Democrat, contended that deregulation would "economically ghettoize" the city and prove "politically suicidal" for Republicans.
"It would impact 2 to 3 million residents," he said, "and each of those people would be subject to rent increases and fear of removal from that apartment because they would lose their right to tenancy."
Both parties to the dispute paint portraits of hardship to illustrate their points. "Our members are mainly midsized owners of older, six-story elevator buildings, many in the outer boroughs," said Ms. Haber, the president of CHIP. "Because of rent regulation, people don't want to buy regulated buildings and people who own them don't want to invest money that they can't see a return on."
"The real estate lobby," Mr. McKee counters, "paints a picture of rent-regulated tenants which is distorted by concentrating on the very small number of high-income people living in rent-regulated apartments, when the typical regulated tenant is struggling to survive."
There are, to be sure, grand-scale landlords who would profit mightily from the termination of all rent regulation or a further lowering of the income and rent thresholds for decontrol of luxury apartments.
When asked what the impact of luxury decontrol on rents has been, the reaction of Samuel J. Himmelstein, a tenant lawyer, was: "Whew!"
Mr. Himmelstein's firm, Himmelstein, McConnell and Gribben, has handled 15 luxury decontrol cases, he said, "and I've seen rents jump from $2,000 to $6,000 and more."
Sherwin Belkin, a partner in Belkin, Burden, Wenig and Goldman, a law firm that represents many major landlords, pointed out that the longevity of the occupant and the size of the apartment are the "principal factors" determining the rent of a luxury-decontrolled apartment. "An apartment that has been occupied a long time but is a large, valuable apartment, may very well see a deregulated rent that is two or three or more times than the rent under regulation," Mr. Belkin said. "A small apartment that has had a significant turnover" -- and, therefore, several vacancy allowances -- "may not see a deregulated rent significantly above what the regulated tenant was paying."
While larger landlords and affluent tenants would, in dollar terms, be most affected by changes in the rent laws, the plight of those smaller owners and poorer tenants so often held up as symbols is undeniably grounded in hard reality.
Mrs. Thompson, for example, has lived in her rent-controlled, one-bedroom apartment on East 90th Street for 28 years. She retired from her job as a research librarian for a financial firm six years ago. Her fixed income from her pension and Social Security is $1,521 a month, or $18,252 a year. When she retired, Mrs. Thompson's rent was $423 a month; it is now $651.
"Don't make this sound pathetic," she said, "but you can't meet friends for lunch because you can't afford it. I used to have grand nieces and nephews come visit to show them the city, but that's impossible now. Just to get on the bus it's $1.50. I don't like using the phrase, 'I can't afford it,' so you just sort of withdraw."
MR. GITTENS is also squeezed. All 14 apartments in his Crown Heights building are rent stabilized. "I had one rent-control," Mr. Gittens said. "Thank God, I kissed them goodbye three years ago. They had a three-bedroom and were paying $186." Of the remaining tenants, one pays $685, another pays $587, and the rest are in the mid-$400 range.
For the last two years, the city's Rent Guidelines Board has set citywide increases for stabilized apartments at 2 percent for one-year leases and 4 percent for two-year leases. "If a big guy has an apartment that rents for $1,500 or more, that's a good increase for him," Mr. Gittens said. "But what is 3 or 4 percent of $400?
"Until I get an average of $500, it doesn't make sense," he said. "I'm at the breaking-even point."
The degree to which Mrs. Thompson and Mr. Gittens represent constituencies in the rent-regulation struggle is subject to debate and dueling studies.
There are 1,013,097 rent-stabilized apartments and 101,798 rent-controlled units in the city, according to the 1993 Housing and Vacancy Survey of the Department of Housing Preservation and Development. The survey, which is the latest available, said the city's vacancy rate had dropped to 3.44 percent in 1993 from 3.78 percent two years earlier, compared to a national vacancy rate of 7.6 percent in 1993. New York's rent regulations are, by statute, mandated when the vacancy rate is below 5 percent.
OF the 1.1 million regulated apartments, the survey said, 23.6 percent were in buildings, like Mr. Gittens's, with less than 20 units. At the same time, the median household income for all tenants in rent-stabilized apartments was $20,150, and it was $14,400 for households in rent-controlled units.
Peter D. Salins, a professor of urban affairs at Hunter College and co-author of "Scarcity by Design" (Harvard University Press, 1992), a condemnation of the rent-regulation system, said, "The worst thing is that it misallocates housing stock," by rewarding longterm tenancy and raising rents significantly each time an apartment changes hands.
"Affluent tenants are determined to stay in their apartments as long as possible," Dr. Salins said, "and if they don't they will sublet illegally or try to maintain their nominal tenure through misrepresentation."
But Andrew Scherer, a housing specialist at Legal Services for New York and author of "Residential Landlord-Tenant Law in New York" (Lawyers Cooperative Publishing, 1995), said Dr. Salins's "primary concern is that there are people who may not need the benefit of rent regulation who receive its protection. I would say the worst problem is that the system provides inadequate protection to those who need it most.
"He seems to maintain there's something wrong with a system that fosters longevity of tenure," Mr. Scherer said. "Enabling people to stay in their homes and communities is a valuable goal for public policy. And what is often overlooked is that rent regulation also provides protection to tenants so they cannot be evicted for arbitrary reasons."
Dr. Salins cited a report by Harvard University's Joint Center for Housing Studies that showed that, in 1987, affluent tenants in Manhattan's more fashionable neighborhoods paid rent of $368 to $432 less than they would on the free market, while market rents in the city's poorer neighborhoods averaged $9 less a month than those allowed under rent regulation. "And if we had this huge discrepancy in 1987, it can only have widened since then," Dr. Salins said.
Mr. Scherer pointed to the Housing and Vacancy Survey, which reported that households earning less than $20,000 pay approximately half of their income for rent and that 70 percent of households receiving public assistance pay rent in excess of their housing allowance. At the same time, middle-income tenants in regulated apartments also experienced increases in the percentage of their income devoted to rent, the survey said: from 20 percent in 1970 to 31 percent in 1993.
Miriam Thompson (no relation to Barbara Thompson on the Upper East Side) is one of the thousands of middle-class tenants who occupy the broad center of the rent-regulated spectrum. She pays 40 percent of her "low-40's" salary for rent.
The director of a worker's education project at Queens College, Mrs. Thompson is concerned about "downsizing," she said. "You know what's happening at CUNY."
A tenant in Kew Towers, a seven-story elevator building in Flushing, Queens, Mrs. Thompson said: "I have two children I'm putting through college. I'm caretaker for my parents. I'm divorced. This is all on me. To have rent eat up more of my income would just be a financial disaster."
But if the market were given free rein, said Mr. Strasburg of the Rent Stabilization Association, only fashionable neighborhoods in Manhattan, and certain other communities like Riverdale in the Bronx and Brooklyn Heights, would experience significant rent increases. "Our position is that there are many affordable units in Brooklyn and Queens," he said, "and that, with the ability of people to move around, if rent regulation was eliminated, more units would become available and rents would drop according to demand. The market does work."
Dr. Salins added: "One of the things that makes it so difficult for politicians to contemplate deregulation is the almost universal intuitive belief that deregulation will cause all rents, not just those of the affluent, to rise. Opponents of regulation like myself can only offer economic theory or the experience of other unregulated cities. Until we have a large, controlled experiment in the city, probably the case will not be persuasive enough."
THE end of rent regulation in cities like Boston, Brookline and Cambridge, Mass., has been "too recent to have generated data that would show the impact on rents," said Chester Hartman, a former professor of housing policy at Harvard and now president of the Poverty and Race Research Action Council in Washington. "But why else are landlords and their political supporters so avid to end controls?"
Rent increases under deregulation "will not be universal," Dr. Hartman said. "The low incomes of so many tenants will make it impossible to squeeze more out of them. But the result of ending regulation, beyond any doubt, will lead to thousands more poor tenants paying 50, 60, 70 percent of their income for housing."
Assemblyman Lopez said that deregulation would impact not only on the poor, but thousands of elderly and middle-class tenants who could not afford market-rate rents in upscale neighborhoods. "The landlords themselves have admitted that if they went to complete deregulation there would be a mass exodus of people who cannot afford Manhattan and other high-rental areas like Riverdale and Brooklyn Heights," Mr. Lopez said. "Right now you have integrated communities based on age and economics."
And, so, the battle lines have been drawn.
"This is not going to be decided on the merits," Mr. McKee said. "It's going to be decided on the relative strengths of the real estate industry versus the tenant movement. In a nutshell, they have the money, we have the votes."
There are, however, some slivers of ground for compromise. The tenants' coalition, Mr. McKee said, is prepared to propose a streamlining of the system so that rent-controlled apartments -- now subject to rent increases as well as fuel and labor pass-along charges -- would fall under the less-onerous annual increases ordered by the Rent Guidelines Board for stabilized apartments. And the coalition is proposing a formula under which small landlords could apply for hardship rent increases when they are not making a minimum return on their equity investment, including the value of work they do themselves.
"Sounds wonderful," said Mr. Strasburg of the landlords' group. "We'd be interested in seeing a written proposal and understanding what they are advocating. The devil is in the details."
 
The Two Faces of Rent Regulation
 Rent control applies to apartments in buildings constructed before Feb. 1, 1947, in which the tenant or an authorized successor has been in continuous occupancy since before June 30, 1971 -- the date when vacancy decontrol for rent-controlled apartments took effect. Rent-controlled tenants are subject to 7 1/2 percent rent increases in most years as well as fuel and labor cost pass-alongs that can result in actual annual rent increases of a maximum of 15 percent.
Rent stabilization, which went into effect in 1969, covers buildings constructed between 1947 and 1974, as well as formerly rent-controlled apartments in pre-1947 buildings that are added to the rent-stabilized category when the units becomes vacant. Some post-1973 buildings have also opted to become stabilized in return for tax abatements.
Stabilized apartments are subject to rent increases set annually by the Rent Guidelines Board, which is appointed by the Mayor. Over the last decade, stabilized rent increases have ranged from 6 percent for a one-year lease and 9 percent for a two-year lease in 1986, to 2 and 4 percent increases in each of the last two years. Increases of 5 and 7 percent have been proposed to go into effect Oct. 1, following a vote by the full board on June 24.

CORRECTION-DATE: June 23, 1996, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about the controversy surrounding renewal of New York State rent regulation laws misstated the date after which apartments renting for $2,000 or more a month were decontrolled upon vacancy. It was Oct. 1, 1993, not 1994.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Part of landlords' TV campaign planned for upstate. (David Jennings for The New York Times); Struggling Landlord Denis Gittens says that under rent regulation, he barely breaks even on 14-apartment Brooklyn building. Struggling Tenant Barbara Thompson, a retiree, says increases on her rent-controlled East Side apartment are squeezing her limited budget. A tenant rally in Albany last month. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times) (pg. 1); Vito J. Lopez, chairman of the Assembly Housing Committee, says deregulation would "economically ghettoize" New York City. (Dave Jennings for The New York Times) (pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; RENTING AND LEASING; RENT CONTROL RENT CONTROL (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LANDLORD & TENANT LAW (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (78%); LOBBYING (77%); GOVERNORS (77%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (73%); 

PERSON: GITTENS, DENIS; THOMPSON, BARBARA (TENANT); PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); HEVESI, DENNIS DENIS GITTENS (71%); BARBARA THOMPSON (65%); MICHAEL MCKEE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1996



378 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 1996
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 1; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1264 words

HEADLINE: Reality of G.M. Closing for Good Sets In

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER 

DATELINE: NORTH TARRYTOWN

 BODY:
ALL along Beekman Avenue here there are signs that these are the last days before General Motors shuts its doors for good.
The Catering Deli last week delivered the final Saturday lunch order to workers on the weekend shift. Badie Gergis, owner of the Off-Broadway Deli, announced that he would no longer be open 24 hours a day. 
Michael Rivera, an assembly-line worker, sadly bid goodbye to his friends at Corona's Luncheonette across the street from the plant. "I'm history," he told them.
Indeed, the 81-year history of General Motors in this river village will officially end on June 28 after the last Chevrolet Lumina minivan rolls off the plant's assembly line and the Detroit-based company leaves town. Nearly 2,100 employees will be displaced -- some forced by the plant closing into early retirement, others assigned to jobs in different places and some short-term workers simply let go.
In the workers' absence, some small businesses near the plant will suffer, and others are likely to close. As Neasy Corona, owner of Corona's Luncheonette, said, "Maybe we will survive this, maybe not."
Meanwhile, no firm plans for the future of the 97-acre riverfront site are in place, although re-use studies are under way. There is similar uncertainty about what lies under the ground after years of possible industrial contamination by General Motors, and that, too, must be resolved.
Yet Sean Treacy, the 39-year-old, part-time Mayor of this village, remains optimistic. "This is not another Flint, Mich., story," he asserted recently, referring to a well-publicized General Motors plant closing that left an entire region and its residents devastated. "There are many reasons for hope in our case."
When Mr. Treacy looks down the length of Beekman Avenue, as he is wont to do recently, he envisions the plant gone and in its place a residential and commercial area along the river, which he describes as "a kind of Sleepy Hollow Seaport."
He said he has heard "every kind of proposal for the property from the wacky to the serious." One company wanted to build a virtual-reality theme park where the plant now sits, and the Mohawk Indians suggested a gambling casino, he said.
But the Mayor and members of a task force appointed four years ago by then Gov. Mario M. Cuomo to study future options favor residential and commercial uses.
Before officials can move on to the next stage, however, the automaker must complete the shutdown here, which is part of "an accelerated consolidation and closing of selected plants in the United States and Canada to bring capacity in line with market demand," said Marsha Hall-Jenkins, a spokeswoman for the General Motors midsize and luxury-car group.
The company must complete an environmental evaluation of the site, which it first occupied in 1915 when it built 4,902 Chevrolets. (Last year, the automaker rolled 91,599 Chevrolet, Pontiac and Oldsmobile plastic-bodied minivans off the assembly line here.)
Besides the environmental review, Mr. Treacy said the automaker "must create a green field" -- in other words, it will have to demolish the 2.8 million-square-foot factory, which is equal to one-and-a-quarter World Trade Centers, and clean up any pollutants.
The village has passed its own Environmental Protection and Abandoned Industrial Property Reclamation Law, meant to prevent General Motors from leaving behind hazardous waste on the prime waterfront site.
The automaker had filed, but subsequently dropped, a lawsuit in Federal District Court in Manhattan seeking an injunction against the ordinance.
Charles A. Gargano, chairman and Commissioner of Empire State Development, New York State's umbrella organization for economic development, said his first order of business when he took over last year was to "patch up ill feelings" between the town and G.M.
"It had become an uneasy relationship, but it was time to move forward and accept the realities of G.M.'s departure," Mr. Gargano said.
Plans to close the assembly plant were announced four years ago, when 3,450 workers were employed here, and the shutdown was originally set for last year. But a reprieve was later granted because the minivans, which are manufactured at this plant, were selling well.
The closing is an especially bitter pill to swallow for residents and officials here because former Governor Cuomo, along with James McDonald, then president of General Motors, announced in 1987 a "historic private-public sector agreement" to bring a major automobile manufacturing project and jobs to this village of 8,000 people.
Mr. Cuomo said then that he was "all but guaranteeing these jobs for the rest of this century, jobs for the workers of today and perhaps for their sons and daughters as well."
Clearly, that has not turned out to be the case. Now the company is offering permanent, full-time employees a $60,000 severance payment and $16,000 in vouchers and cash toward a new car. It will also give the full-timers $1,000 a month for two years while they look for new jobs.
Also, many full-time workers at the Local 664 office have been offered employment in other General Motors plants. Manuel Serrano, a union representative who has worked at this plant for 19 years, has accepted a job on the assembly line at a plant in Doraville, Ga., and he will relocate there with his wife and two daughters.
But not all families will make the transition together, Mr. Serrano said, and some of his fellow workers will move to their new jobs alone, unable to persuade their wives to move so far away.
"More than just a plant closure," Mr. Serrano said, "this is turning out to be a breakup of lives."
Many older workers have also decided not to relocate. "I'm tired," 59-year-old Jaime Ortiz, said. "My whole body is tired. I don't have the energy to relocate." He said he would seek work as a painter or security guard near his home in the Bronx until he is 62, when his full retirement benefits are activated.
For those who choose not to relocate and for temporary workers who have not been offered a severance package or full-time work elsewhere, the county opened a federally financed job center last week in Tarrytown to help with the transition.
Kathleen D. Gulotta, a spokeswoman for County Executive Andrew P. O'Rourke's office, said the center would offer re-employment testing for the workers along with information on how to conduct a job search, write resumes and go on interviews.
The outlook is poor for workers who do not accept transfers, according to the State Department of Labor, which reported recently that there are few assembly-line jobs left in the state for transportation workers. Most full-time assembly-line employees at General Motors earn $18 to $20 an hour. Ms. Gullota said most workers would likely have to "look outside of the area" for employment.
Tomorrow, the Governor's Task Force will make public the findings of its reuse study. The $100,000 study, completed by Arthur Andersen Real Estate Services Group, will recommend a mixed use of homes, shops, a marina, public esplanade and light industry.
The state had recommended using the existing structures for another industry, Mr. Gargano said, adding that "we are not, however, going to dictate to the community what to do."
Back at the benefits office of the United Auto Workers here, Donald Carey struggled to keep up with the ringing telephones and address the workers' concerns. "They will go on," he said, referring to the officials who are orchestrating the closing and its aftermath. "But for us, it is the end of an era."

CORRECTION-DATE: June 30, 1996, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on June 16 with an article about the closing of the General Motors plant in North Tarrytown was published in error; it referred to a photograph obtained for the article but not published. The nearby location shown was Corona's Luncheonette, not the Catering Deli. The counterman was Pedro Sorie, not Bob Appell. Neasy Corona, not Margaret O'Brien, was seen in the background.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The only remaining sign that General Motors was in North Tarrytown; other signs have already been removed.; Bob Appell at Catering Deli and his wife, Margaret O'Brien, in background at the deli. Last week they delivered final Saturday lunch order to General Motors weekend shift workers. (Claire Yaffa for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (50%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); FLINT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CORP GENERAL MOTORS CO (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH TARRYTOWN (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (50%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); FLINT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) CLOSINGS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); MOTOR VEHICLES (88%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (86%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (74%); THEATER (72%); EARLY RETIREMENT (72%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (72%); CASINOS (63%); LUXURY GOODS (60%); HARBORS & PORTS (60%); VIRTUAL REALITY (50%); 

PERSON: BRENNER, ELSA SEAN TREACY (58%); MARIO M CUOMO (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1996



379 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 1996
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1290 words

HEADLINE: The World;
Tension With Japan Rises Alongside China's Star

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF 

DATELINE: TOKYO

 BODY:
WHEN the world's athletes converge on Atlanta for the Olympics this summer, there will be one person who Chinese fans fervently hope will lose, will humiliate herself, maybe even have a heart attack during play. She is Chire Koyama, Japan's table tennis champion, a strong contender for the gold medal. Her sin is that she was born Chinese but then moved to Japan, married a Japanese and joined the Japanese national team.
"Chinese all hate her," explained a Chinese woman living in Japan. "After, all, she married a Japanese." 
 The Chinese fury with Mrs. Koyama is not diminished by the fact that she has an excuse for going to Japan. She claims that when she served on the Chinese national team, her coach ordered her to lose a game in the 1987 world championships so that a teammate could advance to the finals. Instead, she beat the teammate, and her Chinese coaches reportedly punished her by refusing to allow her to compete in the 1988 Olympics. Still, when she began playing for Japan and defeating Chinese players, China's official newspapers denounced her as having been selfish in refusing to throw the match, and as having betrayed her motherland.
The venom underscores the antagonisms that bedevil the delicate relationship between China and Japan, neighbors with histories that have been intertwined for 2,000 years. These are the giants of East Asia, two points of a strategic triangle with America, and their relationship is central to continued stability in what is economically the most dynamic part of the world. Yet their shared past is more a source of division than of unity, and today distrust is growing rather than receding.
The distrust grew a bit more this month, after China ignored repeated Japanese warnings and conducted a nuclear test underneath its Western desert. Because of its memories of the atomic bombs at Hiroshima and Nagasaki, Japan is bitterly hostile to nuclear weapons, and so, perhaps too self-consciously, it interpreted the Chinese nuclear test as a direct insult.
"We are very disappointed," declared Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto as Japan lodged an official protest. In Japan's Parliament, there are growing voices for more than just words. More and more legislators complain that the Foreign Ministry officials are yowagoshi, roughly meaning spineless, and that politicians must intervene to teach China some respect. In particular, some politicians would like to curb Japan's huge loan program to China, while others urge a more aggressive Japanese assertion of ownership over disputed waters and territories. The Japanese Government has discouraged Japanese oil companies from exploring for potentially rich deposits of petroleum in waters between the two countries, but some politicians argue that there is no need to be so circumspect.
 
 
 
Hardening Toward Beijing
 "There's a growing attitude in Parliament that we need to take a tougher line toward China," said Kazuo Aichi, a former Cabinet member and prominent member of Parliament. "Whenever anything happens, the Japanese Government takes too gentle a position, and that's why this impatience is spreading in Parliament."
Yet Mr. Aichi, like almost every senior Japanese official, adds that "the relationship with China will be the major issue for Japan." It is difficult to have a conversation with a senior Japanese policy maker for more than about 30 minutes before the conversation turns to China, for there is a growing sense that Japan's long-term future is almost as dependent on decisions made in Beijing as in Tokyo. "For the last 100 years, our focus in foreign affairs has been on America," said one top official. "From now on, it will have to be China."
The concerns in Japan run the gamut: A civil war in China could send tens of millions of boat people fleeing to Japan; a continuing industrial revolution in China could raise global oil prices significantly and send acid rain and other pollutants across the sea to Japan; Chinese adventures against Taiwan or in the South China Sea could interfere with Japan's oil lifeline and cripple economies throughout Asia; an increasingly nationalistic China could seize Japanese islands and confront Japan militarily. In America, half a world away, China's rise seems awesome and exciting; in Japan, next door, it also seems awesome but a bit ominous as well.
 
 
 
Suspicion Is Mutual
 China, on the other hand, is equally suspicious of Japan. Chinese note that whatever its recent problems near its borders, historically China has not been particularly aggressive to its neighbors, while in this century Japan tried to colonize everyone in sight. Chinese officials often argue that America is being naive about Japanese militarism, and that Beijing and Washington should team up to contain Japan before it is too late. Chinese suspicions are reinforced because Japan always seems half-hearted about apologizing for the deaths of up to 20 million Chinese during World War II.
To be sure, for all the mistrust, Japanese companies have been thrilled by, and shrewd in exploiting, the Chinese market -- somewhat to the chagrin of the Americans, who would prefer allied solidarity in forcing China to respect trade accords. Japanese salesmen tend to serve longer tours in China than American counterparts, tend to speak better Chinese, tend to devote more efforts in smaller provincial cities, and, Americans sometimes complain, tend to sweeten deals by making generous "gifts" to Chinese officials. But even this interaction stirs Chinese resentment. Many Chinese say they would prefer to buy American products, and in 1986 Chinese university students demonstrated against what they called Japan's "economic imperialism."
Such tension belies the ways each side has enriched the other historically. Japan was the biggest beneficiary; it learned rice farming from China and much of its language consists of Chinese words. It is impossible for a Japanese to converse without using Chinese words, and Japanese culture benefited hugely from Chinese poetry and philosophy. "It is because of the Chinese that we are human beings," acknowledged a Japanese official. "From them we got writing and even civilization."
The Chinese are also indebted to Japan, for Chinese intellectuals traveled to Japan late in the 19th century and early in this century to study the ideas of the modern world. Indeed, most of the Chinese political vocabulary was imported from Japan, including the Chinese words for democracy, politics, economics, government.
These days, some Japanese can be patronizing, even contemptuous, of modern Chinese society. But they do not hate Chinese. In China, however, local people sometimes tell foreigners that the Chinese character "hen," or hatred, can be defined by "the feeling we Chinese have for the Japanese." Many Chinese are willing to let their children marry Americans, but a marriage with a Japanese can be a neighborhood scandal.
 
 
 
Looking to Washington
 The alarm about China's long-run intentions may be leading Japan to put a greater premium on its security relationship with the United States, since cooperation with America is politically and economically more feasible for Japan than building a first-class army of its own. Former Prime Minister Kiichi Miyazawa says bluntly that without the security partnership with Washington, Japan might fully rearm and acquire nuclear weapons. Yet like some other senior Japanese officials, Mr. Miyazawa is anxious that alarm about China could become self-fulfilling, by alienating and angering China into becoming just the disruptive force that some fear. "Let's not treat China as an enemy," Mr. Miyazawa said. "Let's try to engage China in dialogue."

CORRECTION-DATE: July 28, 1996, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on June 16 about troops on the Great Wall of China in 1937 misidentified them. They appear to be Chinese, not Japanese. Complaints from Japanese and other readers led to further research, which established that the photograph had been mislabeled in The Times's archives.

GRAPHIC: Photo: China remembers the horror of occupation by Japan. Here, Japanese troops march on the Great Wall in 1937.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (60%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (90%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (90%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); KYUSHU, JAPAN (73%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; CHINA; ; CHINA (99%); JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (90%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (90%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); KYUSHU, JAPAN (73%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (78%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-JAPAN; TENNIS, TABLE; OLYMPIC GAMES (1996) OLYMPICS (91%); ATHLETES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (65%); PRIME MINISTERS (61%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (60%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (60%); 

PERSON: KRISTOF, NICHOLAS D; KOYAMA, CHIRE

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1996



380 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 705 words

HEADLINE: Income Found to Predict Education Level Better Than Race

BYLINE: By WILLIAM H. HONAN 

 BODY:
A study that tracked 25,000 teen-agers over six years has found that family income counts more than race, ethnicity, sex or scores on achievement tests in determining the expectations and future education of the group.
The conclusion is one from a study by the National Opinion Research Center at the University of Chicago that focused on potential barriers to choice and access in higher education. 
 Although a variety of interpretations are possible, the head researcher said the findings indicated that adequate financial aid could give students from low-income families equal access to higher education.
The researcher, Allen Sanderson, also said the study showed that students may form their aspirations even before they reach high school.
In the national study, students were tracked from 1988, when they were eighth graders, to 1994, when many were college sophomores.
The study showed that 48 percent of those in the lowest income group attended two-year community colleges and only 37 percent in that group attended four-year institutions.
In contrast, 74 percent of those in the most affluent quarter of the group attended four-year schools and 23 percent in this group attended two-year institutions.
While the study's findings may not sound surprising, said Professor Sanderson, the senior study director for the center, "it's not bad to have science backing up common-sense conclusions."
He said he believed the study showed "that aspirations have solidified by the eighth grade."
"The evidence suggests that students coming from more privileged backgrounds, whether black or white, or male or female, have done uniformly well with their opportunities," Professor Sanderson said.
"The challenge for us as a society," he continued, "is to insure that a greater proportion of young people share those opportunities."
At least in theory, he said, financial aid could be used to help level the economic playing field to provide some of those opportunities.
In the study, eighth graders were asked how much they expected to be earning at the age of 30. Those in the highest income group said they expected on average to be earning almost $63,000 a year, while those in the lowest income group said they would earn an average of $46,000.
Differences along racial and ethnic lines were, once again, much less significant. In fact, blacks not of Hispanic origin on the average assumed that they would be earning about $67,000 at the age of 30, while whites not of Hispanic origin expected to be earning an average of about $53,000.
The study also offered indications about the group as a whole. Among them were these:
*In 1988, 66 percent of the eighth graders said they expected to earn at least a bachelor's degree, while 22 percent said they anticipated taking some form of post-secondary education.
*By 1994, nearly 63 percent had attended some sort of post-high-school education. Of those, about 57 percent attended a four-year institution, 36 percent attended a two-year institution and 7 percent participated in a trade or technical school for less than two years.
*More women than men reported in 1992 that they expected to obtain bachelor's degrees or higher degrees. Women also reported being more concerned than men about the prestige of the institution they chose.
*Asians and Pacific Islanders, more than members of any other racial or ethnic group, said they expected to earn bachelor's degrees or higher. And more of them than in any other group in the sample had graduated from high school and enrolled in postsecondary education by 1994.
*Hispanics, more frequently than any other group, enrolled in public two-year institutions.
*Blacks enrolled in private four-year colleges at rates comparable to Asians and whites.
Conducted under contract for the United States Department of Education, the National Opinion Research Center study employed a variety of methods to follow students who were relatively easy to keep in touch with while in high school but much less so once they scattered after graduation.
Polling techniques included self-administered questionnaires, computer-assisted telephone interviews and live field interviews and telephone interviews.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (88%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); ILLINOIS, USA (88%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; INCOME; FAMILIES AND FAMILY LIFE; FINANCES; RESEARCH; TESTS AND TESTING FAMILY (91%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); ADOLESCENTS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (77%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (77%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (77%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (75%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (66%); 

PERSON: HONAN, WILLIAM H ALLEN SANDERSON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1996



381 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 5; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 776 words

HEADLINE: Down to Wire For U.S. Talks With China

BYLINE: By SETH FAISON 

DATELINE: BEIJING, Monday, June 17

 BODY:
China and the United States reached the brink of a broad agreement early today on how to fight the piracy of music, movies and computer software, and negotiators appeared ready to call off $2 billion in trade sanctions that are scheduled to take effect later today.
The acting United States trade representative, Charlene Barshefsky, and China's deputy trade minister, Shi Guangsheng, remained at the negotiating table all morning. But officials on both sides said they were virtually certain to reach an agreement before the end of the day. 
 "An agreement between the two countries on the issue of intellectual property rights is likely," the New China News Agency said at midday.
An American official added: "We're going to get there. It's just a question of at what hour."
True to the brinksmanship that often characterizes trade negotiations, officials on both sides maintained tough-talking postures in public until the final day, and kept negotiating until early morning before breaking, then resuming again at midmorning. Ms. Barshefsky's plans to fly to Washington this morning were postponed.
"We are pressing up against a deadline, and the deadline will not be extended," Ms. Barshefsky told reporters as she left her hotel for the midmorning talks. She and other American officials were vague about when the deadline would pass, apparently to give themselves some discretion in the final hours of negotiations.
On Sunday morning, Ms. Barshefsky warned that "substantial additional progress is going to have to be made." Late in the afternoon she said, "We're still trying."
By evening, other American officials said that the end seemed to be near. Ms. Barshefsky would not have come to Beijing three days before the trade sanctions deadline, they said, if she did not feel she could bring the talks to a conclusion.
In February 1995, Ms. Barshefsky went to the brink of trade sanctions as she negotiated a landmark agreement on intellectual property rights. This year, the overriding issue is how to enforce it.
Officials said one area on which Ms. Barshefsky concentrated was how to verify that compact disk plants that were shut down did not simply reopen a few weeks later, or operate clandestinely at night, as some factories have done during the last year.
The Chinese side pledged to reregister every compact disk producer, to introduce stricter licensing procedures and to improve on-site supervision.
Until an agreement is reached and made public, however, it will remain unclear whether such efforts offer any hope of genuine improvement.
While officially opposed to intellectual property violations, China's central Government has seemed to lack the political will to sort through intricate webs of influence among local officials and military officers that often surround pirates in southern China. Enforcement is a touchy issue, since Chinese officials bristle when foreigners tell them how to conduct legal affairs.
During the last year, enforcement has been expanded, but it has largely been carried out by local officials who have often gone through the motions while leaving the real pirates unaffected.
The piracy of American copyrights and trademarks in China -- soap brands, fast food logos, even whole cars are copied -- is actually so common that it is impossible to quantify. American officials have focused on compact disk production precisely because it was a high-profile area that seemed quantifiable. But it is now evident that it can not be measured accurately either.
Negotiations over the number of compact disk factories China would have to close to satisfy the United States, some American officials concede, has become a somewhat irrelevant exercise. Other officials insist that it is still useful.
Washington has favored encouraging American music industry companies to enter joint ventures with Chinese compact disk plants. But it is unclear whether any reputable American music company would willingly enter a partnership with a company known to be pirating.
Blocking export of compact disks copied within China has also been an area of major concern to the Americans. Policing the border with Hong Kong, where many pirated disks are transported, is yet another problem.
Chinese officials have been reluctant to let it appear as if the protection of intellectual property rights had been forced on them and have tried to portray periodic crackdowns as unrelated to talks with the United States. But the issue has nurtured a growing recognition within China that it is a serious problem, and that the biggest victims are actually other Chinese companies. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (74%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; CUSTOMS (TARIFF); MUSIC; MOTION PICTURES; INDUSTRIAL ESPIONAGE AND PIRACY; COMPUTER SOFTWARE; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; RECORDINGS (AUDIO) INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (89%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (89%); INDUSTRIAL ESPIONAGE (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); MUSIC (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); ESPIONAGE (59%); 

PERSON: FAISON, SETH CHARLENE BARSHEFSKY (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1996



382 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 533 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Is Selling Only Bills This Week

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financings this week is confined to the bill market, beginning with today's regular weekly auction of three- and six-month bills, with a 52-week bill to be auctioned on Thursday.
By the close of the New York cash market on Friday, traders said, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 5.06 percent and a six-month bill was 5.26 percent, while the 52-week issue was 5.45 percent. 
 The following taxable and tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:
 
TAXABLE
 
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
ABN Amro Bank N.V., $750 million in subordinated notes due 2006, Aa-3/AA/--. Salomon Brothers.
Comerica Inc., $250 million of floating and fixed rate preferred. Merrill Lynch & Co. and Morgan Stanley & Co.
Fletcher Challenge Ltd., $350 million of debt securities in two parts, Baa-2/BBB/---. Merrill Lynch.
Michaels Stores Inc., $125 million of senior notes due in 2006, Ba-1/BB/--. CS First Boston.
Midland Bank P.L.C., $500 million of subordinated notes due 2006, A-1/A/--. HSB Securities and J. P. Morgan Securities.
Philippine Long Distance Telephone Co., $250 million of global bonds in two parts, with maturities in 2003 and 2006, Ba-2/BB/---. Citibank and Lehman Brothers.
 
Source: MCM CorporateWatch
Ratings: Moody's Investors Service/Standard & Poor's Corp./Duff & Phelps Credit.
 
TAX EXEMPT
 
MONDAY
 
 Shelby County, Tenn., $45 million of public improvement bonds. Competitive.
Shelby County, Tenn., $60 million of school bonds. Competitive.
 
TUESDAY
 
 Los Angeles Department of Airports, $123 million of revenue bonds for Ontario International Airport. Competitive.
Nashville and Davidson County, Tenn., $77 million of public improvement bonds. Competitive.
University of Maryland, $55 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
 
TAX EXEMPT
 
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
Alameda County, Calif., $100 million of tax and revenue anticipation notes. M. R. Beal & Co.
Allegheny County Hospital Development Authority, Pa., $51 million of revenue bonds for South Hills Health Systems. PNC Securities Corp.
Charlotte-Mecklenburg Hospital Authority, N.C., $130 million of health care revenue bonds. First Union Capital Markets Corp.
County of Los Angeles, $1.05 billion of tax and revenue anticipation notes. Bank of America.
Kent County Hospital Authority, Miss., $61.9 million of health care revenue bonds for the Butterworth Health System. Smith Barney.
Massachusetts Health and Education Facilities Authority, $80 million of revenue bonds for Bay State Medical Center. Merrill Lynch.
Massachusetts Water Pollution Control, $151 million of revenue bonds. Goldman, Sachs & Co.
Missouri Housing Development Commission, $59.1 million of single-family mortgage revenue bonds. George K. Baum & Co.
Philadelphia Hospital and Higher Education Facility, $52 million of revenue bonds for Pennsylvania Hospital. PNC Securities Corp.
Phoenix, $150 million of water revenue bonds for the Civic Improvement Corporation. Prudential Securities.
Tulsa Industrial Authority, Okla., $65 million of hospital revenue refunding bonds for a Hillcrest Medical Center project. J. P. Morgan Securities.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (84%); MS (NYSE) (83%); CMA (NYSE) (69%); PHI (NYSE) (67%); PNC (NYSE) (64%); BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%); JPM (NYSE) (56%); JPM (LSE) (56%); 8634 (TSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (85%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (85%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (85%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (84%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (70%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); NAICS321113 SAWMILLS (69%); SIC2421 SAWMILLS & PLANING MILLS, GENERAL (69%); NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (69%); SIC5945 HOBBY, TOY, & GAME STORES (69%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (69%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (69%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (68%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (67%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (67%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (67%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (66%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (66%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (56%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (55%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (55%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (67%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (66%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (85%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (84%); MORGAN STANLEY (83%); ABN AMRO BANK NV (70%); FLETCHER CHALLENGE LTD (69%); MICHAELS STORES INC (69%); COMERICA INC (69%); MORGAN STANLEY INTERNATIONAL LTD (69%); HSBC BANK PLC (68%); PHILIPPINE LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE CO (67%); STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (66%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (66%); PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (64%); M R BEAL & CO (63%); GEORGE K BAUM & CO (60%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (56%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (54%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (54%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (55%); TENNESSEE, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (55%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (67%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (66%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); DEBT NOTES (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BONDS (90%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX AUTHORITIES (89%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); HOSPITALS (87%); HEALTH CARE (84%); DEBT FINANCING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); INTEREST RATES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (72%); EDUCATION FUNDING (70%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (68%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (67%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (64%); SCHOOL BONDS (63%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (62%); AIRPORTS (62%); WATER POLLUTION (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1996



383 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1743 words

HEADLINE: 2 Neighboring Schools Are Worlds Apart in Facing Fiscal Woes

BYLINE: By LYNDA RICHARDSON 

 BODY:
Five blocks separate two very different public schools in New York City. One, Public School 9, has soared to popularity and academic success through the sweat equity of assertive middle-class parents. The other, P.S. 166, struggles with discouraging test scores, parental apathy and impoverished, low-achieving students.
In the success of one school and the difficulties of another lies a tale of how budget cuts have altered the fabric of the public schools, leaving a system in which fourth and fifth graders monitor kindergarten students in the schoolyard, a teacher pays $800 for her own copying machine and well-heeled parent groups serve as a kind of shadow government, buying everything from paper and glue to good teachers. 
 On paper, the two elementary schools on the Upper West Side are not that far apart financially. P.S. 9, on West 84th Street, with 755 students, receives $3,058 per child from the Federal, state and city governments. P.S. 166, on West 89th Street, with 552 students, receives $3,006 per child. But the ways in which they have responded to the budget cuts are worlds apart.
P.S. 9, one of the top-ranked schools in the city, lost the services of a music teacher for two days a week. But the Parent Teacher Association, which raises nearly $50,000 a year, was able to pay the salaries of two part-time teachers. When the school lost two remedial aides in reading and math, the P.T.A. hired a writing teacher to work with children and coach teachers. As class sizes crept up to 28 children in first grade, the P.T.A. supplied four assistant teachers to replace aides that were lost last year.
P.S. 166 on West 89th Street has had a different experience. Once a premier school, it has fallen academically and drawn a poorer population as prosperous families in the neighborhood have sent their children elsewhere.
As class sizes rose to as high as 35 children, teachers received no additional help. The school was forced to rescind a newspaper advertisement it had placed for an assistant principal because the position could not be financed. The school secretary, Beverly Prince, has taken on many of those administrative responsibilities, handling crises with parents and problems over teacher payrolls and benefits. With the schedules of school aides shortened by an hour a day, teachers fill their places . At P.S. 166, where many children are bused in from as far as Washington Heights, and nearly 87 percent of the students are at or below the poverty level, parental involvement is low.
"In the schools where children seem to do well, there seems to be active parent participation," said Ernestine Roach, a Community School Board member in District 3. "P.S. 9 parents come to all the school board meetings. They speak up. We haven't had that same type of parent participation, not just at 166, but the majority of schools in the district. The squeaky wheel gets the oil."
Two decades ago, the aggressive approach of the P.S. 9 parents was more widespread. After deep budget cuts forced the layoffs of thousands of teachers during the fiscal crisis of the 1970's, the angry reaction included huge teacher strikes, parent demonstrations and lawsuits. But in recent years, the cuts have become a more nagging and gradual presence. At P.S. 9, P.S. 166 and many other schools in the city, departing teachers, assistant principals and secretaries have not been replaced.
"It's not like closing a school or a hospital, but an erosion of resources," said Richard Halverson, the city's deputy comptroller of the budget and a former deputy schools chancellor. "It's the problem of attrition. It doesn't attract as much attention. In a way, it's harder to fight when a decline happens over a long period of time."
P.S. 9, with an economically and racially diverse student body, is ranked 28th in the city in reading scores and first in the district. Less than a decade ago, the school was in much the same shape as P.S. 166. But the school acquired several programs for gifted students, magnet programs that lured parents and teachers, who built them into significant attractions.
Recently, a plan to move a program for gifted and talented students from P.S. 9 this fall to P.S. 166, beginning with the kindergarten class, was temporarily derailed by angry parents at P.S. 9, who organized a campaign of letter writing, candlelight vigils and behind-the-scenes negotiations. In a compromise, P.S. 9 will retain its program for now and P.S. 166 will start its own program for the gifted and talented.
In other, often incalculable ways, the P.T.A. at P.S. 9 has been able to generate resources.
"You have schools that are empowered and you have schools that have no power at all," said Gerald Gliber, the school's P.T.A. president, who was just elected to the Community School Board. "Inequity is not an intentional thing. What we are talking about is people who are exposed by virtue of the lives they live, and they can't bear any guilt for what they do. I don't bear any guilt for knowing how to write a grant."
At a well-attended P.T.A. meeting recently, a motion was on the floor to spend $800 toward the hiring of a part-time art teacher. The parents also voted to buy a $750 drying rack for artwork. In all, the P.T.A. has provided $3,000 this year for the school's art budget. The finishing touches were also made for the annual spring fair last month, which raised $7,000 this year and is the school's single largest fund-raiser.
Through book sales, the parents raised $3,100 last year for the library. Though budget cuts closed an after-school program several years ago, the P.T.A. has started one of its own.
P.S. 9 is a hot school. Parent volunteers bustle in and out of the nondescript three-story building. Openings for teachers bring a flood of inquiries. There are hundreds of applications every year for a few dozen jobs as teachers of gifted kindergartners.
P.S. 166, meanwhile, has room to spare. About 200 children are bused in from overcrowded schools in Washington Heights to fill its classrooms. To try to restore the school to its former prominence, the building was picked for a $12 million renovation that has dragged on for four years, with disruptions of classes and jarring construction. The modernization will make the five-story building accessible to the handicapped, improve the electrical wiring and provide new computers.
A banner in the building exhorts children to "Reach for the Stars" and "Welcome to 166 Where We Read to Succeed," though reading scores have slipped. Last year, 38.3 percent of students could read at or above the national average, from 39.8 percent in 1994 and a high of 40.6 percent in 1993. The school ranks 422d in the city.
The P.T.A. president at P.S. 166, Elizabeth Hittenmark, said the organization raises $5,000 a year. She said she is lucky to get the five or six members on the executive board to attend meetings that are usually held once every several months. They work the telephones to drum up a turnout.
"It's going to take that personal touch," said Ms. Hittenmark, who has a second grader at the school. "You call them up and make them feel good about coming to the meeting. It gives them a feeling we're not a clique."
The school's principal, Jack Regan, who came to the school as a teacher in 1969 and was named principal in 1983, said parents are doing the best they can in hard times. The P.T.A. has bought a new computer for the library and a television set for a bilingual class.
"You're talking about very ordinary people with very ordinary jobs," Mr. Regan said. "Parents are supportive, but they struggle like everyone else."
Mr. Regan has been controversial. Some parents and teachers have complained that his dictatorial style is a chief reason the school has not done better, but Ms. Hittenmark credits his toughness with keeping the school from sinking further.
In some ways, the efforts of P.S. 9 and P.S. 166 to cope with dwindling resources were overshadowed in recent months by the controversy over the program for the gifted and talented, which brought charges of elitism and racism. Parents at P.S. 9 suspected that the plan to move their program was an attempt to improve P.S. 166 at the expense of P.S. 9. But James E. Mazza, superintendent of Community School District 3, said the program needed to be moved, one grade a year, because P.S. 9 is not accessible to the handicapped, and P.S. 166 will be soon.
But some parents and teachers at P.S. 166 questioned whether the objections of parents at P.S. 9 had more to do with not wanting their children to attend a school most of whose pupils are black or Hispanic. The P.S. 9 parents said that their program is divided almost in thirds among black, white and Hispanic or other minority children.
While the renovations and the new program give hope that P.S. 166 will reclaim its former stature, for now the school continues to struggle.
Budget cuts have kept Mr. Regan on his feet, in the schoolyard, in the cafeteria, and not the places he would like to be. "Something has to slide," he said. "You have to let go of something." He said the curriculum has probably suffered because he does not have more time to spend with teachers.
Budget cuts have meant that one teacher, Jacque Schneider, is doing kindergarten duty in the playground instead of holding an extra period of art class. She supervises as many as 100 kindergartners from 8 to 9 A.M., a job suited for a school aide if one was available. To make her job easier, Ms. Schneider has trained fifth and fourth graders to assist her.
"They are like my eyes in the back of my head," she said. "I talk to them about responsibility and how to deal with young children. If children are screaming with one another, I tell them to come to me."
The cuts have meant that Monica Pena, who teaches a bilingual class, has 33 fourth and fifth graders and no teacher aide in her classroom. There were 17 children in her class in the early 1980's. Like many teachers, she pays for paper, art supplies and books out of her own pocket. It amounts to about $100 every other month.
Ms. Pena said it is hard enough to grade assignments and make copies for 33 students, but the last straw came when she was told to limit the amount of copying on the school machine. She paid $800 for a copy machine, which is now in her living room.
"You start adding it up and it's overwhelming," she said.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: PARENT TEACHER ASSOCIATION (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING TEACHING & TEACHERS (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PARAEDUCATORS (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); CITIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); FAMILY (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); SCHOOL BOARDS (76%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (75%); PARENTING (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); RANKINGS (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); BUDGET CUTS (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (70%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (60%); 

PERSON: RICHARDSON, LYNDA

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1996



384 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 9; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1185 words

HEADLINE: Radio Is Trying to Court Youngsters and Advertisers

BYLINE: By BARNABY J. FEDER 

DATELINE: MINNEAPOLIS

 BODY:
Heather Hogan is a full-speed-ahead chatterbox of a 14-year-old who does not yet know what she wants to do for a career. But she already has the kind of corporate title many might envy.
Ms. Hogan is "vice president of fun" at the Children's Broadcasting Corporation here, as well as a popular part-time D.J. at WWTC-AM, the flagship station of the corporation's fledgling children's radio network. 
 The network, which the company calls Radio AAHS (as in oohs and aahs, get it?), stretches from KYAK, Anchorage, to WZKD, Orlando, Fla., and fills 70 percent of its day with music, including reggae, rock, country, classical, folk and jazz. The other 30 percent is filled with stories, jokes, call-in and quiz segments, interviews and child-oriented news.
"It's my job to suggest kid issues and what kids want," Ms. Hogan said.
The target audience for Radio AAHS is children 12 and younger. And while it seems to be drawing listeners -- last year it logged more than three million telephone calls, not to mention assorted E-mails and letters -- the tougher task is convincing advertisers and station owners that there really is a commercial niche for national radio programming aimed at young listeners.
So far, the company is not making money, and eight stations that tried the programming have dropped it.
"We were surprised and upset by the lack of response," said Carmen V. Nardone, whose WMXH-AM in Wilkes-Barre, Pa., broadcast Radio AAHS and other children's programming for three months, starting in July 1993. His station jumped to 15th from 39th in local rankings after switching back to an adult-oriented format, Mr. Nardone said.
No one doubts that the 49 million youths are a potent market many advertisers would love to reach. They spend $7.5 billion annually and influence another $130 billion in household purchases, according to James McNeal, a professor of marketing at Texas A & M University.
The prevailing wisdom, though, is that today's youngsters either ignore radio or listen to the rock stations of their older siblings. Advertisers direct about 70 percent of the more than $1 billion they spend trying to reach children on television and almost all the rest on magazines.
Ratings services like the Arbitron Company do not even track the listening habits of youngsters.
"Convincing a mature industry that there's a demand for something like this that they never believed existed is a big undertaking," conceded Christopher T. Dahl, founder and chief executive of the Children's Broadcasting Corporation.
But he has company. Kidstar Interactive Media Inc., based in Seattle, is trying to build a similar network from a flagship station in Seattle (KKDZ at 1250 AM). Kidstar says it hopes to be in the 10 largest markets by the end of the year.
Unlike Children's Broadcasting, which went public three years ago and now trades on Nasdaq, Kidstar is privately held. Its backers include: Vulcan Ventures Inc., an investment group for Paul Allen, the billionaire co-founder of the Microsoft Corporation; Bandai, the Japanese toy company that makes Mighty Morphin Power Rangers; the CSK Corporation, the largest shareholder in Sega; Benesse, a major Japanese publisher, and NTT America Inc., a unit of Nippon Telegraph and Telephone.
Kidstar says that it is more of a multimedia experience, with its magazines, on-line services and open phones making it "two-way radio." "We're both out there with machetes in the forest carving a new market for media buyers," said Julie Diamond, a spokeswoman.
At AAHS, Gary Landis, the company's executive vice president, is a 20-year network radio executive who was lured from Los Angeles in 1994 to enliven programming.
"There's a misperception that children's radio is Barney and Raffi, which we don't play," said Mr. Landis, who operates out of an office overrun with Gumby figures, toys and his young sons' art. His latest program: "What's Up With Evan Roberts?" is a quirky, call-in show broadcast Thursday evenings from the Woodmere, L.I., bedroom of 12-year-old Evan Roberts.
Children's Broadcasting reckons it is at least a year away from achieving its first profit. Last year it reported a net loss of more than $6 million and total revenue of $5.1 million. Some 42 percent of the revenue came from four small company-owned stations that have not switched to the Radio AAHS format.
But there have been encouraging developments. Its public offering three years ago found a solid market at $11.50 a share, though it closed Friday at $8.25. It managed to raise another $19.5 million in a secondary offering at $10 a share in February.
The Radio AAHS network has grown from WWTC to include six other company-owned stations and 20 affiliates that broadcast to about a third of the nation. That includes the recently acquired WJDM-AM, an Elizabeth, N.J., station that reaches much of the vital New York City market. The station operates at the 1530 and 1660 frequencies -- the latter is in the so-called expanded band that only newer radios are equipped to receive.
Most importantly, Children's Broadcasting has been able to form alliances with some entertainment heavyweights like the ABC Radio Network, the Walt Disney Company and Time Warner Inc.
Disney has given Radio AAHS the chance to broadcast weekend shows live from its theme parks and to develop other tie-ins. Time Warner's computers host the network's Internet site (www.radio-aahs.com). ABC provides audience research, advice in adding affiliates and a place in the inventory of programming that ABC offers national advertisers.
One major new advertiser on AAHS is the Southland Corporation, the Dallas-based parent of 7-Eleven stores. Southland's media buyer had turned Children's Broadcasting down after a presentation because it could not provide ratings numbers. But Marva Cathey, 7-Eleven's national advertising manager, approached the company on her own after learning about it and listening to the Dallas affiliate.
"It became obvious to me that if something was to develop, it had to be seen as an investment," said Ms. Cathey, who in April signed a one-year agreement providing 7-Eleven with on-air advertising space on the Radio AAHS Internet site, opportunities to plug into the network's interactive phone system, special joint promotions and several dozen live broadcasts from 7-Eleven stores around the nation.
"The kids' market is an economic time bomb waiting to explode for radio," William T. McClenaghan, senior vice president of research and development for ABC Radio Networks, said in a recent report.
Mr. McClenaghan's optimism is based in part on his assessment that almost half the nation's 5,000 AM radio stations are losing money and desperately seeking new formats. But that view may be out of date.
"Specialty formats like talk radio have made them more successful," said James Blackburn, a radio station broker in Alexandria, Va.
Mr. Dahl is working to cobble together a larger network of affiliates. "We need more than 50 or 60 percent of the national market to put us on the radar of national advertisers," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Heather Hogan, in foreground, a 14-year-old D.J. for WWTC-AM, is also "vice president of fun" for the Children's Broadcasting Corporation. (Steve Woit for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AAHS (NASDAQ) (73%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (73%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CHILDREN'S BROADCASTING CORP; RADIO AAHS (RADIO NETWORK); KIDSTAR INTERACTIVE MEDIA INC CHILDREN'S BROADCASTING CORP (73%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHILDREN'S BROADCASTING CORP; RADIO AAHS (RADIO NETWORK); KIDSTAR INTERACTIVE MEDIA INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (73%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RADIO; ADVERTISING; CHILDREN AND YOUTH CHILDREN'S PROGRAMMING (90%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); INTERACTIVE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (87%); INTERVIEWS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); RADIO ADVERTISING (76%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (76%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (76%); RADIO RATINGS & SHARES (75%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (74%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (73%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (72%); PUBLIC RADIO (71%); RADIO FORMATS (70%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (70%); JAZZ & BLUES (69%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%); 

PERSON: FEDER, BARNABY J HEATHER HOGAN (62%); EVAN ROBERTS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1996



385 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1129 words

HEADLINE: Big New Loss Makes Japan Look Inward

BYLINE: By SHERYL WuDUNN 

DATELINE: TOKYO, June 16

 BODY:
In the last several years, at least five Japanese companies have suffered huge losses from trading complex financial instruments, the most recent being the Sumitomo Corporation, which disclosed last week that a single copper trader had cost it $1.8 billion.
The stunning loss inevitably raised concern as to what other potential time bombs might be lying around on the balance sheets of Japanese companies. And amid the gleaming office towers here in Tokyo, many people are asking: Why Japan? 
 Among the answers they hear are that Japan's regulatory mechanisms have not kept pace with the country's extraordinary economic growth and that Japanese values tend to discourage investigatory disclosures.
"It's the Japanese mentality, the bureaucratic system that places more importance on harmony rather than reality," suggested Masao Miyamoto, a social psychologist and author of a best-selling critique of Japan called "Straitjacket Society."
His reasoning is that the Japanese are not so much more likely to make trading errors as they are less likely to uncover them before great damage has been done. And that happens, Mr. Miyamoto says, because institutions do not try to ferret out errors or rogue trading.
"If mistakes come out, if the group recognizes that the playing out of reality jeopardizes group harmony, they try to put a lid on it," Mr. Miyamoto adds.
While societal factors may play a significant role in the way corporations operate here, some experts say the various staggering losses are an offshoot of the decades of phenomenal economic growth in Japan since the end of World War II.
That growth built upon an archaic structure of regulations, business customs, a code of protection and weak controls that did not change sufficiently as the country's postwar economy began to bloom.
Some management consultants, scholars and executives say that while traders register losses everywhere in the world, in Japan accounting practices are outdated, risk-management systems are often vague, and auditing and control systems are not always strictly enforced.
Two huge losses have come to light in the last nine months alone. Toshihide Iguchi, a bond trader at the New York offices of Daiwa Bank, covered up $1.1 billion in losses absorbed over 11 years. As a result, Daiwa, one of the world's largest banks, was forced by regulators to get out of the banking business in the United States.
And now, Yasuo Hamanaka, a copper trader at Sumitomo, is accused of hiding losses of $1.8 billion from his superiors for a decade.
Many business people suggest that Japan's opaque and rudimentary accounting system does not exert sufficient discipline in bookkeeping. Assets, for example, are stated at their acquisition price rather than at their market value, as in the West -- no matter how long ago they were purchased or how much their value has increased.
That means that Daiwa Bank, Sumitomo and other companies can accumulate huge amounts of unstated profit over the years, even decades, in which they have held assets. So while the $1.8 billion copper-trading loss attributed to Mr. Hamanaka represented 10 times projected net profit for this fiscal year and 27 percent of the company's net worth, Sumitomo also has several billion dollars in cash and perhaps about $4 billion in unrealized gains from marketable securities and real estate assets, according to analysts.
While a market-value accounting system would not necessarily catch a trader who was falsifying trading slips outright, it does impose a kind of discipline.
"They have huge hidden assets and so they are always very generous in checking or controlling risk," Yushiro Ikuyo, a senior financial analyst at Smith Barney International, said about Japanese companies. "If the company did not have such hidden assets, then they would have to be very careful and cautious in their trading operations."
A rigid corporate hierarchy and inflexible compensation system also contribute to the problems, putting uncommon pressure on star performers to derive reward from reputation rather than salary.
Beyond that, loyalty to the company -- an aspect of the old Japanese practice of lifetime employment -- is deteriorating and, experts say, without the necessary checks and balances to replace it, relationships in companies are sometimes founded too much on trust and permissiveness.
"It's a village mentality," said Mikio Kawamura, a finance professor at Tama University. Anyone who proves successful is admired, and it is considered rude and a sign of jealousy to poke around and double-check whether the achievement is as solid as it seems, he said.
Professor Kawamura, who has had extensive experience in managing metals trading, said this sense of the village often clashes with the discipline required for maintaining good internal auditing systems.
While in many Japanese companies, there is supposed to be a firewall between the front office, which trades, and the back office, which processes the transactions, that wall is frequently not very high. The back-office and front-office workers are often friends. When a trader executes a purchase or sale, he sends the slip to the back office and his trading counterpart sends a confirmation slip, which should go directly to the back office.
"In Japanese companies, often that letter goes to the people who do the trades," Mr. Kawamura said. In the cases of Daiwa Bank's Mr. Iguchi and Sumitomo's Mr. Hamanaka, both were in charge of the trading as well as the accounting of their trades.
When a specialized trader becomes influential, like Mr. Hamanaka, he does not necessarily earn a fatter paycheck. Instead, he enhances his reputation, expands his territory, and others back away.
And the bosses are often generalists, moving from one department of a company to another, and rarely achieving a deep knowledge of the field they are managing. When their subordinates are stars, the checking systems can break down. In specialized markets like copper, it might be "very difficult" to check on a trader regarded as very successful, a senior Japanese executive said.
Yet some people here dispute the notion that Japan's trading losses are peculiar to their country.
"I am astonished that this happened at a company like Sumitomo," said Minoru Makihara, president of the Mitsubishi Corporation, one of Sumitomo's rivals. "This is not something due to Japanese culture."
But Haruo Shimada, an economics professor at Keio University, said that undiscovered catastrophes might well be lurking at other corporations. "This is an outgrowth of the huge success in Japan," he said. "The most dreadful thing is that I'm sure there are 200 other problems of this kind that are still implicit in Japanese companies."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Yasuo Hamanaka, the Sumitomo trader at the center of huge copper losses, in an undated file photo. (Associated Press) (pg. D4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8053 (TSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS423830 INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (91%); SIC5084 INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (91%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

COMPANY: SUMITOMO CORP SUMITOMO CORP (91%); NEW YORK (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUMITOMO CORP NEW YORK (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

SUBJECT: COPPER, BRASS AND BRONZE; BROKERS AND BROKERAGE FIRMS; STOCKS AND BONDS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS COMMODITIES BROKERS (90%); ACCOUNTING (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COPPER MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); BONDS (78%); AUDITS (77%); TRENDS (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); WORLD WAR II (71%); OFFICE PROPERTY (71%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (69%); WRITERS (68%); DEREGULATION (64%); CONSULTING SERVICES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); 

PERSON: WUDUNN, SHERYL CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); MASAO MIYAMOTO (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1996



386 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1086 words

HEADLINE: Budget Deal: Spending Cuts Overwhelmed by Rising Costs

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS 

 BODY:
Austerity never looked so good.
By the time they finished haggling over where to make more than $1 billion in spending cuts and whether to put off promised tax cuts, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and the Democrats of the City Council hammered out a budget last week that will spend at least $200 million more in the coming fiscal year than in this one. They also agreed, with much ado, to borrow $1.4 billion over the next four and a half years to repair New York City's decaying public schools, giving Mr. Giuliani, in particular, something to point to when his critics say he has not kept his new pledge to make children a priority. 
 This is a fiscal crunch?
In fact, it is. The outward robustness of the new budget -- adopted by the City Council last week with a mere 4 dissenting votes out of 51 cast -- only masks the underlying problems that have dogged the city throughout the 1990's and that Mr. Giuliani has yet to resolve after two and a half years in office.
The budget for the fiscal year that begins on July 1 now flirts with $33 billion, the largest ever and $1.5 billion more than the last one prepared under Mayor David N. Dinkins. Mr. Giuliani had to cut spending sharply in most of the city's departments -- for the third year in a row -- just to keep it from growing any larger.
And to pay for it, the Mayor had to ditch all but a few of his cherished tax cuts and to extend beyond December the city's temporary surcharge on the personal income tax -- something his senior aides had ridiculed as a tax increase only a few months ago.
He also had to rely heavily on one-time infusions of revenues, or "one shots," like the sale of the commercial license for WNYC, the television station the city has owned since 1962. The city's fiscal monitors abhor the idea, because next year the city will have to find some other way to raise the money or make other cuts.
That means that, short of an economic miracle, the seemingly endless cycle will continue -- billion-dollar budget gaps, cuts and a few feeble restorations, a general sense of gloom among advocates for myriad services -- as Mr. Giuliani enters his presumptive re-election campaign next year. In fact, the Council had barely gone home after this year's deal when the Mayor's budget director, Joseph J. Lhota, vowed that more cuts would come.
"It keeps going on and on," said Jeffrey L. Sommer, the first deputy director of the state's Financial Control Board, which put out an unusually strong critique of the budget just as the Mayor and the Council were negotiating in earnest. "They have not dealt with any of the underlying problems."
The problem is simple and little understood.
The city's expenses continue to rise faster than the Mayor and the City Council cut. And so overall spending keeps growing even as budget cuts further erode municipal services. (The city has not actually cut its budget in absolute terms since 1979, when it was still scrambling to rebound from the fiscal crisis.)
At the same time, the city's projected revenues -- from taxes, fees and state and Federal aid -- are rising more slowly than expenses and are expected to continue to do so as the city's economy trudges toward the end of the century.
If the city's finances were in order, its projected expenses would grow at roughly the same pace as its projected revenues. That is what is known as "structural balance." And it is that balance that the fiscal monitors say the Republican Mayor, like his Democratic predecessor, has not yet found. Mr. Giuliani has certainly cut, but he has yet to make fundamental changes that would reduce the growth of the city's costs to a level comparable to economic growth over the long run, the fiscal monitors and bond raters say.
Since taking office, for example, he has reduced the size of the city's payroll by about 20,000 workers, or nearly 9 percent. And yet, the cost of wages and benefits for the 200,000 or so that remain has continued to grow and will balloon in the years ahead when the recently negotiated raises kick in. That, essentially, explains how the new budget reduces the police force by 1,589 officers and yet trims the Police Department's overall budget only marginally.
"It's not that he's a big spender," said Raymond D. Horton, the president of the Citizens Budget Commission, an advocacy group supported by business leaders. "He's controlling expenditures but losing ground in the fight for structural balance."
The Mayor's aides argue that they have done all that they can, echoing the laments Mr. Dinkins made when the city's budgets began their unraveling after the boom years of the 1980's. Much of the city's problem, they say, is driven by the state and, to a lesser degree, the Federal Government. Among the fastest-growing parts of the city's budget, for example, is Medicaid. The city must by law pay a portion of Medicaid's cost and yet can do little directly to control its steady growth. (And the State Legislature has balked at Gov. George E. Pataki's efforts to try to control it.)
But it's not all out of the Mayor's hands. During his first year in office, Mr. Giuliani actually succeeded in cutting what is known as city spending, the portion of the budget that excludes state and Federal grants. In his second budget, however, city spending resumed its typical increase, and the new budget has it growing by $1 billion, as large an increase as those under Mr. Dinkins.
It is not entirely a coincidence that the new budget includes more than $1 billion in the one-time revenues that cover higher spending, but only for the time being, according to the Financial Control Board's report.
Without those one-shots, Mr. Giuliani and the Council would have had to make still deeper cuts in spending. Instead, the two sides bought some room to restore money for services like libraries, urban park rangers and preventive services for abandoned or neglected children.
And they pushed some costs into the future. The plan to borrow $1.4 billion for school repairs, for example, will add costs to budgets for the next three decades, rather than paying for it now, as the Council's Speaker, Peter F. Vallone, originally proposed.
To end the chronic gaps, the Mayor and Council would have to give up politically popular proposals like the one for schools. Or raise taxes. Or make still deeper cuts. Or all of the above. In other words, they would have to do what few politicians ever want to do -- and what the public would probably not accept.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CITY COUNCIL (79%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY COUNCIL (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; CITY COUNCILS; TAXATION CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); BUDGETS (92%); CITIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); TAX INCREASES (77%); INCOME TAX (77%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (77%); CHILDREN (75%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (62%); 

PERSON: MYERS, STEVEN LEE; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1996



387 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 17, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1134 words

HEADLINE: THE RUSSIAN VOTE: WASHINGTON;
Russia-Watchers in U.S. Feel Bipartisan Anxiety

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 16

 BODY:
Richard Nixon, who built his career on anti-Communism, maintained until the end of his life that America's most important relationship in the world was with Russia, no matter who ruled it or how, because it was the one country with the capacity to destroy the United States.
In a speech last year, Senator Bob Dole, now the Republican presidential candidate, recalled one of Mr. Nixon's last tours of the foreign-policy horizon. "The Soviets have lost the Cold War," Mr. Dole said Mr. Nixon had told him. "But the United States has not yet won it." 
 As Russians voted today in their first presidential election since the collapse of the Soviet Union, both Democrats and Republicans would agree with Mr. Nixon's assessment. A great deal is at stake in this election, including relations with the United States, which has become far more concerned than before with the policies of Boris N. Yeltsin's Government.
"The future of this country, Russia, is uncertain," said Strobe Talbott, Deputy Secretary of State and the main architect of President Clinton's Russia policy. "This Administration is ready for any conceivable outcome," he said protectively on Friday and again today, on the ABC News program "This Week with David Brinkley."
About 60 percent of the returns from today's vote indicate that Russians were setting up a stark choice: a runoff for the presidency between Mr. Yeltsin, who promises both stability and a softer continuation of market economic reform, and the Communist Party leader, Gennadi A. Zyuganov, who promises a return to great-power nationalism and tighter state control over the economy.
But while Republicans and Democrats have differences on relations with Russia and the newly independent countries of the former Soviet Union, those differences are now mostly of emphasis and degree. Since 1992, just after the collapse of the Soviet Union, fundamental policy has generally been bipartisan, beginning with President George Bush's efforts to promote stability and democracy in the chaotic new Russia by pouring in American emergency aid and then another $500 million for what he called the "Freedom Support Act."
Senators Sam Nunn of Georgia and Richard Lugar of Indiana, a conservative Democrat and a liberal Republican, led the way, starting a program of aid to Russia and the three other former Soviet republics with nuclear weapons to dismantle those weapons and to safely manage the nuclear materials extracted.
The Nunn-Lugar financing, representing about $1.2 billion through fiscal year 1995 ($612 million for Russia), is among the most prominent of the programs that from the end of 1991 through September 1995 has seen the United States obligate some $15 billion for Russia and the other newly independent states. Some $8.7 billion was in aid (of which Russia has received about $3 billion) and $6.3 billion in credits (of which Russia has received about $4 billion).
More than 30 Federal agencies run more than 130 programs in the former Soviet Union, and the United States has pushed the International Monetary Fund to grant Russia more than $17 billion in loans to promote economic restructuring and anti-inflationary budgets.
While Democrats -- and Mr. Dole -- criticized Mr. Bush for what they said was too much uncritical support and aid for Mikhail S. Gorbachev, then the Soviet leader, and his policies, Republicans -- including Mr. Dole -- have criticized Mr. Clinton the same way regarding Mr. Yeltsin.
Republicans have been more vocal than Mr. Clinton in criticizing Mr. Yeltsin's haphazard style of democracy, whether firing tank shells at Parliament in October 1993 or waging war in Chechnya. Many Republicans think that Mr. Clinton has tried too hard, and spent too much, in a badly organized effort to promote internal democratic and market change inside Russia, while worrying too little, especially in the first part of his term, about Eastern Europe and the former Soviet republics.
The Democrats had a more optimistic notion of "partnership" with an emerging, democratic Russia, leading the Republicans to charge the Clinton Administration with "clientitis" toward Mr. Yeltsin, trying to protect perceived Russian reformers willing to take American advice while hesitating to confront them on difficult issues like Chechnya or NATO expansion.
On Saturday, in a statement on the Russian elections, Mr. Dole urged the Clinton Administration to base its relations with Russia less on "any one individual" and more on "realism" about "our interests and our values" in the face of "troubling Russian behavior toward other independent states of the former Soviet Union." Mr. Dole charged that "our interests have been neglected" and he again urged the rapid expansion of NATO. But on the key issues of American foreign policy -- nuclear safety, nuclear disarmament, European security, the independence of Ukraine, the Baltics and other post-Soviet nations -- there is little real difference between the Clinton Administration and Mr. Dole.
Because of the Republican critique and Mr. Yeltsin's own move toward what he perceives as the nationalist Russian center, the Clinton Administration has shifted too. Its early idealism has been deflated by reality, domestic politics and a shrinking foreign-aid budget.
The days of big spending on Russia are long over. Priorities have shifted. Today, not counting the multilateral International Monetary Fund, Ukraine receives more direct American aid than Russia, which is getting only $160 million this year.
On Friday, Mr. Talbott listed American national interests in a way that Mr. Dole would generally support. The most important issues on which to judge a future relationship with Russia, Mr. Talbott said, are continued cooperation on nuclear disarmament; continued respect for Russia's new borders and the independence and territorial integrity of new, ex-Soviet states; continuing adherence to international treaties on everything from nuclear arms reduction to chemical weapons, and continued progress toward real democracy and market reform.
The expansion of NATO to Central and Eastern Europe, Mr. Talbott said, was another of those key American interests.
"The United States has a vital national interest in the political stability, the regional peace and the consolidation of democracy in those parts of Europe, and indeed those parts of the former Soviet Union, that used to be under Communist rule," he said.
Mr. Dole wants to expand NATO faster, but he has so far not committed himself to any specific policy that would clash with the Talbott list.
Both Republicans and Democrats are rooting against Mr. Zyuganov, the only candidate with a real chance to defeat Mr. Yeltsin. For the next few weeks, at least, that bit of fundamental bipartisanship should hold.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); GEORGIA (79%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (67%); AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (67%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); GEORGIA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); COLD WAR (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); LIBERALISM (76%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (68%); MILITARY WEAPONS (60%); 

PERSON: ERLANGER, STEVEN; NIXON, RICHARD MILHOUS (1913-94) RICHARD NIXON (91%); DICK LUGAR (79%); BILL CLINTON (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1996



388 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 294 words

HEADLINE: We All Stand to Lose in Orange County Fiasco

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Contrary to "Orange County: Hard Lesson in Safety of Municipal Debt" (Business Day, June 13), bankruptcy typically does reduce the payment of obligations. In most cases, only part of the obligation is ultimately repaid. 
 Moreover, Orange County bondholders are not getting "paid in full." In any bond agreement, interest and principal payments are promised on a strict time schedule. When that schedule is not met, the value of the bonds falls, and interest is lost because funds are unavailable for reinvestment.
The Orange County case represents the first instance in modern history when a municipality that had the ability to meet its obligations simply decided that it would try to avoid doing so, by making use of the bankruptcy laws and suing its investment bankers, accountants and others.
The contrast between Orange County and the New York City experience in the 1970's is meaningful. New York City was more burdened with taxation, had a deteriorating infrastructure and suffered from a long-term weakening in its economy.
Where the response in Orange County was to run for cover, in New York, government, business and labor leaders came together to avoid bankruptcy. There was never any temptation to avoid meeting the city's obligations, nor any temptation to work out the problem other than in cooperation with creditors.
If the result of Orange County is, as your article suggests, more involvement by the Securities and Exchange Commission and other regulators, more rules, more lawyers and litigation, investors may be protected from future Orange Counties. But we as a society will have lost.
 
THOMAS S. JOHNSON
Flushing, Queens, June 14, 1996
The writer is chairman and chief executive of the Greenpoint Bank.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

INDUSTRY: NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (53%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: GREENPOINT BANK (53%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ORANGE COUNTY (CALIF); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BANKRUPTCIES; GOVERNMENT BONDS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); BONDS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); SECURITIES LAW (75%); INVESTMENT BANKING (75%); LAWYERS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); WRITERS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (71%); LITIGATION (69%); SUITS & CLAIMS (69%); EXECUTIVES (66%); HISTORY (55%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, THOMAS S

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1996



389 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 18, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 708 words

HEADLINE: On My Mind;
$1 Billion Less, Please

BYLINE: By A. M. ROSENTHAL 

 BODY:
The time has come for Israel to do itself and the U.S. a major political favor -- volunteer to take less American economic aid, or none at all.
That strikes me as such a good idea that I wrote it three years ago. Israeli economists were beginning to talk about it quietly. I thought a column would give the idea a push with the Labor Government and it did -- right into oblivion. The reaction I got from Rabin-Peres people was that it was a typical piece of troublemaking for Labor from a voice of the right. 
Labor's refusal to act is Benjamin Netanyahu's opportunity, made to order for his beliefs and personality. Given the choice, the Prime Minister-designate would like to focus his leadership on his economic path for Israel -- rapid privatization of the economy, cutting the trade imbalance and deficit, selling land owned by government, reducing government and political involvement in business.
He won't have the luxury of focusing only on that kind of thing. Peace with security is why Israel elected him, and that will be his chief job. And from left to right are political and religious groups that count on government money; they like things as they are, only more so.
Some of his advisers say he has enough on his plate without passing up more than $1 billion a year. Others tell him that reducing or eliminating American aid fits in with his own goals of capitalist self-sufficiency -- so do it.
Israel gets about $3 billion a year from the U.S. About $1.8 is military -- loans to buy American weapons and technology. This money, and the special pipeline that goes with it, are essential to Israel. Alone, it would be hard for Israel, perhaps impossible, to compete with the scores of billions the Arab nations can spend on arms from all over the world, including Chinese missiles, and the weapons they buy from the U.S.
In an important sense, the military component of the U.S. package for Israel allows Washington to keep up its continuous flow of arms to the Arab nations. A militarily weak Israel surrounded by militarily strong Arab nations would be a security disaster for America. Without the Israeli ballast, American military credibility would sink fast in the Mideast.
About $1.2 billion of American aid is economic. It is a grant used by Israel to pay interest on past American military loans. In a way it is bookkeeping -- money from the U.S. to Israel and back to the U.S. But it is a very nice kind of bookkeeping for the borrower -- grants to pay interest on loans.
Mr. Netanyahu does not think the Israeli economy is as thriving as Labor likes to make out -- too much debt and regulation, per capita income nowhere near its potential. And the $10 billion in U.S.-guaranteed loans that Washington denied to a Likud Government but allowed for Labor is running out.
Still, the only reason to give or accept any economic handout is dire need, for a nation as for a person. Happily, Israel is not in that position anymore.
No country has done more for Israel than the United States -- good times, bad times. The best way to say thank you is to say it -- and then show you don't need it anymore. I spent Father's Day weekend at the home of a son and his wife in New Jersey. He bought me a steak dinner in a nice restaurant, gave me a computer lesson, whipped up a barbecue the next night and sent me home in a limousine. It was worth all that tuition and we both knew it.
For Israel, giving up the billion would be more than a political gesture and excellent public relations. It would -- or should -- free up that much more money for those who need it a lot more: poor countries, political prisoners, refugees. Or women abused by their own societies -- $1 billion spent fighting female genital mutilation could save millions of young women and girls, many not yet born, from that torture.
Maybe that would not happen. Maybe the money would just disappear into some American budget morass. Still, giving up that billion it could use, but does not vitally need, would be a pride for Israel, just fine for America and one more bond of respect between the two countries.
Going by his record and beliefs, I think Mr. Netanyahu will do this thing during his time in office. Early would be lovely.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL; ISRAEL (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN AID; PRIVATIZATION INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRIVATIZATION (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); TRENDS (77%); RELIGION (69%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (68%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, A M; NETANYAHU, BENJAMIN BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1996



390 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 504 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Japanese Trade Surplus Slows for an 18th Month

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: TOKYO, June 17

 BODY:
Japan's global trade surplus slowed in May for the 18th consecutive month, declining 61 percent, and the surplus with the United States narrowed 40 percent, the Finance Ministry said today.
Economists said the trade surplus would continue to decrease. But they said they expected the rate of decline to slow because the yen had weakened against the dollar and Japanese economic recovery had not yet built up much steam. 
 The Finance Ministry said the surplus fell to 231.69 billion yen, or $2.1 billion, last month from 586.99 billion yen in May 1995. Exports increased 14 percent, to 3.406 trillion yen, from 2.982 trillion yen a year earlier, and imports rose by nearly one-third, to 3.174 trillion yen from 2.395 trillion yen. However, Japanese traders in May still exported more than they imported.
The surplus with the United States, often a source of friction between the two countries, narrowed to 167.68 billion yen, or $1.5 billion, from 277.51 billion yen. Exports to the United States rose 11 percent, to 898.20 billion yen from 808.19 billion yen, while imports into Japan increased 38 percent, to 730.53 billion yen from 530.67 billion yen. The United States is Japan's biggest trading partner.
The dollar fell to a postwar low of 79.75 yen in April 1995. It has gained in stages since then, trading around 109 yen late today.
One reason for the declining surplus is that many Japanese manufacturers have shifted some of their production abroad, where costs are lower, thus reducing the amount of exports from Japan. Another is that imports into Japan have been growing as consumer spending recovers and manufacturers of electronic goods import larger quantities of microchip parts.
Still, economists expect a slowing in the rate at which the trade surplus is declining. With the yen's decrease in value against the dollar in recent months, the value of Japanese exports has risen. And although Japanese consumers are buying more goods, the persistently weak domestic recovery has restrained import growth to a degree, the economists said. Japanese companies are likely to try to earn more money from exports if the economy continues to recover slowly, they added.
As the yen weakens, the cost of Japanese exports declines in terms of other currencies, making the exports more attractive. At the same time, foreign sales denominated in other currencies translate into a greater number of yen, inflating the export figures.
And a weaker yen makes imports into Japan more expensive. A Government official said the yen's weakness had helped increase vehicle exports in May. In yen terms, they rose 8 percent -- the first increase in 18 months.
The volume of total exports rose seven-tenths of 1 percent in May, the first increase in four months.
Soichi Okuda, senior economist at Nippon Credit Bank, said, "The trade surplus is unlikely to show a year-on-year rise for the time being, but with the yen's weakness now established as a trend, it may stop falling at the current pace." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8304 (TSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (50%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (59%); 

COMPANY: AOZORA BANK LTD (50%); FINANCE MINISTRY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: FINANCE MINISTRY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); TOKYO, JAPAN (59%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (92%); CURRENCIES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); JAPANESE YEN (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); US DOLLAR (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (70%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (69%); PERSONAL FINANCE (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1996



391 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 471 words

HEADLINE: Goldman, Sachs Earnings Register a Strong Increase

BYLINE: By PETER TRUELL 

 BODY:
Heralding strong second-quarter earnings for Wall Street firms, Goldman, Sachs & Company earned $709 million before taxes for the three months that ended May 31 1996, John A. Thain, the firm's chief financial officer, said yesterday.
These earnings represent a 25.5 percent increase on the previous quarter ended Feb. 29, when Goldman made $565 million in profits before taxes, and are more than double earnings for the quarter a year earlier, when the firm made $346 million before taxes. 
 Wall Street firms, like Goldman, are benefiting hugely from relatively low interest rates and buoyant financial markets as the stock market continues at record levels. Later this week, Lehman Brothers will state its results, the first of the publicly traded Wall Street firms to report earnings for the most recent quarter.
Mr. Thain, who is based at the firm's London office, and other Goldman officials said the good second-quarter earnings, the firm's third best quarter ever, reflected broad strength across the company's various businesses, including the issue, sale and trading of equity and debt, as well as advice on company mergers, acquisitions and corporate finance. The firm's financial year ends on Nov. 30, meaning that the second quarter ends May 31.
Most of Goldman's 171 working partners who are based in New York City met yesterday afternoon at the firm's Manhattan headquarters for their monthly partners meeting to discuss the results. Goldman, which was founded in 1869 and is Wall Street's last big investment banking partnership, also has 110 limited partners who are former working partners who have retired from the firm. As a partnership, the firm states its results before taxes as each partner files individual taxes for his share in the company's profits. During the quarter, Goldman earned revenues of $1.67 billion and paid expenses of $961 million. So far in the first half of its financial year, Goldman has earned $1.27 billion from revenues of $3.13 billion.
The partnership's capital has also continued to grow and totaled about $5.2 billion at the end of the firm's second quarter, up from about $4.9 billion at the end of last year.
During its second quarter Goldman advised on several big mergers, including the Chase Manhattan Corporation's merger with the Chemical Banking Corporation, as well as Indosuez's merger with Credit Agricole. And Goldman, along with Salomon Inc., advised on Mexico's exchange of its Brady bonds to give that nation greater flexibility in managing its debt.
Goldman predicts good prospects for its major businesses. "The outlook is very strong," Mr. Thain said, referring to the firm's backlog of business in its major markets. The firm also expects to grow overseas, particuarly in fast-expanding Asian financial markets, he added. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); ACA (PAR) (51%); ACA (BIT) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (62%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (62%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS & CO GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (90%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); CITIGROUP GLOBAL MARKETS HOLDINGS INC (62%); CREDIT AGRICOLE SA (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: GOLDMAN SACHS & CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS COMPANY EARNINGS (95%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); MERGERS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); BONDS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (75%); LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (68%); INTEREST RATES (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); 

PERSON: TRUELL, PETER JOHN THAIN (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1996



392 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
After Orange County, MBIA's bond insurance is in demand.

BYLINE: By Sharon R. King 

 BODY:
FOR more than a year, shares of MBIA Inc. have been buoyed by expectations that the Orange County bankruptcy would be good for business. The stock rallied sharply after MBIA insured the California county's offering of nearly $900 million of new bonds this month. And yesterday, MBIA, the nation's largest insurer of municipal bonds, closed at a 52-week high of $79.875.
The Orange County deal garnered MBIA about $29.5 million in fees and brought new interest in the stock. Before the sale, a Salomon Brothers analyst, Caitlin F. Long, issued a "buy" recommendation, citing the prospects of heftier premiums on some of the bonds MBIA insures. 
 But others have a less sanguine view of the company's near-term prospects. An analyst at Merrill Lynch, Louise Costikyan, last week reinstated coverage of MBIA but gave it only a "neutral" rating. (She did rate the stock a "long-term buy" for value-seeking investors, however.)
Diversification has taken MBIA into money management for municipalities and insuring asset-backed and international securities. But MBIA still derives more than 80 percent of its revenues from municipal insurance -- guaranteeing the payment of principal and interest on bonds sold by state and local governments. The insurance gives the bonds the highest investment-grade rating of triple-A. It also reduces the borrowing costs of municipalities even after they pay the insurance premium.
"I think it will be a long time before these other areas rival the revenue and income impact that the municipal bond insurance has," said David Litvack, senior director of the financial guarantees group at Fitch Investors Service. "I think you'll have to temper the growth expectations."
Merrill Lynch foresees at best only modest growth in municipal bond issuance in 1996 and 1997, with no significant drop in interest rates to spur refinancings and put extra revenues into the company's coffers. MBIA earns a portion of its insurance premiums each year until a bond matures. But when a bond is refunded or retired early, MBIA gets all of those revenues at once.
Like most bond insurance companies, MBIA's stock price tends to track adjusted book value, trading in a range that runs from a 15 percent discount to a 35 percent premium to that figure, Ms. Costikyan said. Adjusted book value is a calculation of a company's liquidation value and takes into account the present value of future premiums. By this measure, MBIA is trading at a 5 percent premium, just below its historic average of 7 percent, Ms. Costikyan said. She would need to see a rise in the volume of new municipal issues or see the premium drop to a discount to raise her recommendation to a buy, she said.
In February, the market was offered 3.5 million shares of MBIA stock, an amount that included 2.86 million shares sold by the Aetna Life and Casualty Company, which had held about 3.8 million MBIA shares in its investment portfolio. The sale by Aetna was negotiated as part of the agreement by Travelers Inc. last November to buy Aetna's property and casualty insurance unit. As part of that deal, Aetna agreed to pare its $1 billion equity portfolio to about $400 million to accommodate a different investment philosophy at Travelers, which is more heavily skewed toward bonds than equity, said Keith Anderson, a spokesman for Travelers.
"We advised them in the way in which we wanted the equity portfolio structured," Mr. Anderson said. He declined to give any specific reasons why the MBIA stake was pared. The MBIA sale produced $200 million for Travelers.
Although MBIA has been able to increase its share of the insured market annually, it has done so at a price. In some instances the company charged lower premiums than competitors to snare business -- such as the recent Orange County deal. It has also foraged in the realm of double-A rated bonds, which are one rank below triple A and produce lower premiums than the typical insured bond, which is in the range of single-A to triple-B. And with the rate of growth in volume of newly issued municipal bonds waning and a surge in refundings unlikely, it seems doubtful to some analysts that the company will strongly outperform the market. Moreover, it has begun to insure unsecured corporate debt, a move out of its traditional business that has caused some uneasiness on Wall Street.
David H. Elliott, chairman of MBIA, counters that the company's diversification and growing share of the insured municipal bond market justify greater optimism. About 43 percent of new-issue municipal volume was insured in 1995, with MBIA dominating the market with a 42 percent share of the business, up from 40 percent in 1994. As for the foray into unsecured corporate debt, Mr. Elliott said the company was staying with high-quality issuers and short maturities.
Despite its record, the company faces increased competition in some of its new lines of business. For example, Ms. Costikyan of Merrill gives a "buy" rating to a competitor, Financial Security Assurance Inc., because it derives about 38 percent of its revenues from insuring asset-backed securites and its stock is trading at a discount to its adjusted book value of about 89 percent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: MBI (NYSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS525190 OTHER INSURANCE FUNDS (96%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (96%); SIC6351 SURETY INSURANCE (96%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: MBIA INC MBIA INC (96%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: MBIA INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BONDS; INSURANCE BOND ISSUES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (90%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (90%); BONDS (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); INSURANCE (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); PUBLIC ENTITY LIABILITY INSURANCE (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); INTEREST RATES (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%); 

PERSON: KING, SHARON R LOUISE COSTIKYAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1996



393 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 22; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 239 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Says Profits Rose in Quarter

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 17

 BODY:
Profits of manufacturers rose strongly at the beginning of 1996 after a weak finish in the closing quarter of 1995, the Commerce Department said today.
A quarterly survey of about 7,900 companies showed that profits rose to a seasonally adjusted 5.8 cents a dollar of sales from a revised 5 cents in the fourth quarter last year. 
 Manufacturers' profits after taxes in the first quarter were a seasonally adjusted $52.81 billion on net sales of $905.43 billion. That was 18 percent higher than fourth-quarter profits of $44.61 billion, when net sales were $895.49 billion.
Previously, the department said fourth-quarter profits averaged 5.1 cents a sales dollar. But it revised that downward.
Despite the solid increase in profits in the first quarter this year, they remained below levels a year earlier, when manufacturers had higher after-tax earnings of $53.70 billion on lower net sales of $868.03 billion.
Producers of both durable goods, like cars and refrigerators, and nondurable goods, like food and paper products, made higher profits in the first quarter this year than they did in the closing months of 1995.
Durables producers' profits after taxes were up to a seasonally adjusted $24.35 billion in the first quarter from $22.93 billion in the fourth quarter. Companies that make nondurable goods had profits of $28.45 billion in the first quarter, up from $21.68 billion in the fourth quarter.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PROFITS (INDUSTRY-WIDE); SALES COMPANY PROFITS (93%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (91%); AFTER TAX PROFIT (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); DURABLE GOODS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); PAPER & PACKAGING PRODUCTS (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1996



394 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 559 words

HEADLINE: THE RUSSIAN VOTE: IN WASHINGTON;
U.S. Officials Praise Outcome And Express Guarded Optimism

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 17

 BODY:
Heaping praise on Boris N. Yeltsin and congratulating him on a "strong showing" in the first round of Russia's presidential elections on Sunday, President Clinton today all but endorsed Mr. Yeltsin in his coming head-to-head contest with the Communist candidate, Gennadi A. Zyuganov.
The Clinton Administration has been careful not to formally anoint Mr. Yeltsin as America's choice, but officials were exultant today that the Communists had been beaten into second place, no matter how narrowly, and had been unable to expand their constituency beyond a third of the electorate. 
 American officials also expressed quiet confidence that, barring an unforeseen event, Mr. Yeltsin would be re-elected.
"The important result, despite the sheer fact of Yeltsin going ahead with this election and putting his future on the line, is that Zyuganov came second," a senior American official said today.
The United States Ambassador in Moscow, Thomas Pickering, was more explicit than most officials today, saying on ABC's "Good Morning America:" "I have felt for a long time that in a runoff between Mr. Zyuganov and Mr. Yeltsin, Mr. Yeltsin would continue to have the edge. I haven't changed that view."
Mr. Clinton congratulated Mr. Yeltsin for observing his Constitutional duty to hold an election. He said he looked forward to speaking to Mr. Yeltsin soon by telephone, saying: "I want to congratulate him on the election, not only on the strong showing that he made but also on the fact that he really supported the Constitution, he supported the institution of the electoral process, and the very fact that it occurred in such a vigorous fashion is, I think, a real credit to him."
The two men will meet later this month at an economic summit meeting in Lyons, France, where Mr. Yeltsin will, between voting rounds, bask in the approval of other world leaders, including some, like the German Chancellor, Helmut Kohl, who have endorsed him explicitly.
Mr. Clinton's presumed Republican opponent, Bob Dole, said today that "I should think Yeltsin would feel pretty good about it."
"At least the forces of democracy prevailed yesterday by a very narrow margin. We don't want to step backward," he said, then repeated his charge that Mr. Clinton is moving too slowly to expand NATO, saying: "We ought to move ahead with Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic. President Clinton is sort of dragging his feet."
Anders Aslund, an economist, Russian scholar and senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment, said that Mr. Zyuganov was unlikely to win much more than 40 percent of the vote in the runoff and that Mr. Yeltsin had already laid the groundwork for an endorsement by Aleksandr I. Lebed, the gruff former general who ran a solid third on a platform of order, civic morality and patriotism.
Mr. Aslund expected Mr. Yeltsin to move toward a more nationalist position between rounds to appeal to supporters of Mr. Lebed and of the nationalist Vladimir Zhirinovsky. Peter Reddaway of George Washington University agreed, but said he expects Mr. Yeltsin to move quite sharply to "a lot of nationalist and anti-Western rhetoric."
American officials today seemed unfazed by the prospect, saying that they expected Mr. Yeltsin to hold to anti-inflationary policies and a program of general cooperation with the United States and the West.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); 

STATE: RHONE-ALPES, FRANCE (53%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); LYON, FRANCE (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); RHONE-ALPES, FRANCE (53%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); LYON, FRANCE (53%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ELECTIONS ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTION LAW (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); APPROVALS (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (68%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (67%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES); ERLANGER, STEVEN BILL CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1996



395 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 22; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 350 words

HEADLINE: Abraham Rosen, 85, Harlem Store Owner, Dies

BYLINE: By DAVID STOUT 

 BODY:
Abraham Rosen, who founded a Harlem discount store that has survived recessions, fire and unrest among people of different heritage and skin color, died on Sunday at Holy Name Hospital in Teaneck, N.J. He was 85.
A resident of Fort Lee, N.J., Mr. Rosen came to the United States from Poland as a boy. He had been a merchant in Harlem since 1938, when he and his brothers, Sam and Irving, opened separate businesses in the neighborhood. 
 In 1961, Abraham Rosen founded Bargain World at 8 West 125th Street with about a dozen employees. Today, it has 40 to 50 employees selling "everything except clothes and food," in the words of his son, Arthur, of Bergen County, N.J., who now handles the business.
Until late last year, the hardest time for the Rosens and their business was probably the late fall of 1980, when an electrical fire gutted the store and the insurance turned out to be inadequate. Weeks later, father and son were mugged in front of the store. Abraham Rosen was pistol-whipped, and his son was shot.
In an interview last year, Arthur Rosen reminisced about rising, quite literally, from the ashes. "I had a burned-out building that the family owned in the middle of Harlem and a business that had supported us all these years," he said. "So we put it all back together again."
Abraham Rosen retired in 1983, his son said, but he still put in appearances in the Christmas shopping season. He was there last Christmas Eve, not long after a gunman walked into Freddy's, a clothing store a few doors away, shot four people and set a fire, killing eight people, including himself.
The day after the attack, which the police say was racially motivated, protesters stood in front of Bargain World -- like Freddy's, a white-owned store in a black neighborhood -- and promised to drive it out of the neighborhood.
But many other shoppers in Harlem stopped to greet his father and offer words of support, Arthur Rosen said yesterday.
Besides his son, Mr. Rosen is survived by his wife, Sheva; a daughter, Leta Gordon, of Bergen County, and four grandchildren.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: S A WHITE MARTINS (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); SHOOTINGS (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (78%); FIRES (78%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (77%); GRANDCHILDREN (76%); INTERVIEWS (66%); CHRISTMAS (64%); RACE & RACISM (62%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (50%); 

PERSON: ROSEN, ABRAHAM; STOUT, DAVID ABRAHAM ROSEN (95%); ARTHUR ROSEN (80%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1996



396 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 18, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 710 words

HEADLINE: Canada Warns U.S. on Law Penalizing Cuba Commerce

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH 

DATELINE: TORONTO, June 17

 BODY:
Canada threatened retaliatory measures today against a United States law that penalizes Canadian and other foreign companies doing business in Cuba.
Foreign Minister Lloyd Axworthy called his Government's action "the beginning of a chain reaction among other countries in developing a collective response" to the law, the Helms-Burton Act, which has been sharply criticized by American allies and other friendly nations since President Clinton signed it in March. 
 The move comes as Canada and Mexico, the United States' closest trading partners, have stepped up their opposition to the law, which, among other things, requires foreign companies to report any property they have in Cuba that was confiscated from American owners by the Government of Fidel Castro.
The law opens the way for such companies to be sued for compensation in United States courts.
Canada and Mexico also announced today that they would file a complaint against the Helms-Burton Act under the North American Free Trade Agreement.
They discussed the possibility of joint action when Mexico's President, Ernesto Zedillo, met with Prime Minister Jean Chretien last week. European and other Latin American nations are among those also stating their unhappiness with the American law.
Mr. Axworthy and International Trade Minister Arthur Eggleton said the Cabinet was introducing legislation to allow Canadian companies to countersue American companies in Canadian courts.
Many American companies have property in Canada and would thus be vulnerable to such countersuits. "This certainly provides a measure of confidence to Canadian business," Mr. Eggleton said to reporters.
Thomas d'Aquino, president of the Business Council on National Issues, which represents leading Canadian companies, called the response appropriate, adding that "they've done the best they could under the circumstances."
Sherritt International, a Canadian company that owns half of a nickel and cobalt mine in eastern Cuba along with the Castro Government, is among those that stands to be affected by the United States law. A New Orleans company, Freeport-McMoran Inc., says it owned the Sherritt property before the Cuban revolution in the late 1950's.
Mr. Axworthy and Mr. Eggleton said legislation would be introduced this fall ordering Canadians not to comply with the Helms-Burton Act. Under an amendment to a 1985 Canadian law, the Foreign Extraterritorial Measures Act, Canadians who do comply with Helms-Burton could face $10,000 fines, five years' imprisonment or both. Canadian officials pointed out that the maximum American fine under Helms-Burton provisions is $1 million.
The law also allows the United States to deny entry to senior executives of such companies, putting them in the same category as political militants or convicted felons.
Canada does not intend a response to the denial-of-entry sanction, and Mr. Eggleton said he would pursue the matter as a violation of the North American trade agreement -- in which Canada and Mexico are the United States' two partners.
Mr. Eggleton said he was requesting a high-level meeting of the North American Free Trade Agreement's governing body to take up his complaint that such denial of entry violated Chapter 16 of the accord, providing for access to member countries for business purposes.
The two Canadian Cabinet ministers indicated they hoped that their tough response today would deter a full trade war. "We do have the time over the summer to go through a period of consultations," Mr. Eggleton said. "I think the fact we put this legislation into effect will cause American companies to pause before taking action."
The Helms-Burton Act was introduced by Senator Jesse Helms of North Carolina and Representative Dan Burton of Indiana, both conservative Republicans. It was passed after the downing in February of two civilian aircraft flown by anti-Castro Cuban-Americans, and it includes a provision giving the President discretion to exempt nations from the sanctions if he concludes that such a step is in the national interest.
Mr. Axworthy and Mr. Eggleton said the Canadian legislation was being held back until the fall to give President Clinton a chance to use his discretionary authority. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MOS (NYSE) (64%); S (TSX) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325312 PHOSPHATIC FERTILIZER MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS212391 POTASH, SODA & BORATE MINERAL MINING (64%); NAICS212299 ALL OTHER METAL ORE MINING (58%); NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (58%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (58%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (58%); SIC1061 FERROALLOY ORES, EXCEPT VANADIUM (58%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); CUBA (96%); NORTH AMERICA (95%); MEXICO (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: ONTARIO, CANADA (79%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (79%); 

COMPANY: MOSAIC CO (64%); SHERRITT INTERNATIONAL CORP (58%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (83%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (83%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA; CANADA; MEXICO; CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); CUBA (96%); NORTH AMERICA (95%); MEXICO (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (79%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); LEGISLATION (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (75%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); FELONIES (68%); COBALT MINING (63%); NICKEL MINING (50%); FINES & PENALTIES (50%); 

PERSON: FARNSWORTH, CLYDE H; AXWORTHY, LLOYD (MIN) BILL CLINTON (72%); JEAN CHRETIEN (59%); FIDEL CASTRO (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1996



397 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: Average Car Price $20,000? Not Quite, It Seems.

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: DETROIT, June 17

 BODY:
When the Commerce Department calculated in late 1994 that the average price of a new car had broken the $20,000 level for the first time, the result was an immediate outcry over whether cars had become too expensive.
But now it turns out the numbers were wrong. The average price for all cars, including sharply discounted sales to rental car fleets and other larger purchasers, never reached $20,000. Even the average price of cars sold to individuals only briefly touched $20,000 in late 1994. And average car prices have actually drifted lower in the last year and a half, as makers have been raising prices less often and more buyers have been choosing cheaper cars. 
 Prices paid by individuals peaked at $20,247 in the third quarter of 1994 and have since slipped to $19,459, according to revised figures from the Commerce Department. The department recalculated its figures with much greater precision this year after protests from auto makers here, who were upset by the suggestion that they were pricing themselves out of the market.
When sales to fleets are included, the average car prices actually peaked in the third quarter of 1994 at $18,993 and have declined since then to $18,055 in the first quarter of this year, according to the new calculations. Headlines about car prices hitting an average of $20,000 began appearing at the start of 1995 and were based on sales that included fleets as well as to individuals.
The new Commerce Department calculations include manufacturers' rebates, along with discounts that auto makers offer to customers who buy packages of options. The department also began tracking sales of specific models -- drawing distinctions between the Ford Taurus GL and the higher-cost Taurus SHO midsize sedans, for example -- and made other refinements.
Auto industry officials who have noticed the change have welcomed it. "What it does show is that all the excitement about $20,000 was overblown," said Joel H. Pitcoff, a market analysis manager at the Ford Motor Company, the auto maker most criticized over the past year for raising prices.
But even if the average price of a car is not $20,000, the average price of all new vehicles is slightly more because of the growing popularity of sport utility vehicles, mini-vans and trucks. The average price for mini-vans, pickup trucks and sport utility vehicles is now about $22,000, and these vehicles now account for 42 percent of all new light vehicles sold in the United States.
The Commerce Department figures are also bad news for the auto industry to the extent they show the pressures on auto makers to cut prices. For example, the new figures show a 4.3 percent drop in average car prices since the third quarter of 1994 as Americans bought more sub-compacts and some luxury-car makers cut prices.
The Consumer Price Index, which is calculated separately by the Labor Department's Bureau of Labor Statistics, shows that prices for comparable cars have edged up over the last several years. But the rate of increase in new-car prices has slowed sharply, from 3.4 percent in 1994 to 1.4 percent in the 12 months ending last month, or half the rate of inflation in the overall economy.
Competition has become increasingly fierce over the last several years in the car market, which suffers from overcapacity as many buyers have switched to mini-vans, pickup trucks and sport utility vehicles. Japanese auto makers are now becoming even more aggressive in offering discounts or slashing base prices, as the falling yen has reduced their costs in dollar terms.
Gerald A. Donahoe, the Commerce Department's associate director for national income expenditures and wealth, said that the auto industry's complaints had prompted the agency to review its methods of calculating auto prices. But he insisted that auto industry pressure played no role in the agency's eventual decision to choose a new method for its calculations that happens to produce a result more pleasing to auto makers.
"I don't think there was any influence -- in fact, we would have liked to have gotten more help from them" with detailed sales information, Mr. Donahoe said. The Commerce Department did not refine its figures sooner mainly because of a lack of resources, he added.
Tod Reese, the Bureau of Labor Statistics' new vehicle analyst for the Consumer Price Index, said that his agency had long taken into account the manufacturers' rebates and other details that the Commerce Department is only now incorporating in its calculations. The Commerce Department's changes will have no effect on the reported rate of inflation, said Patrick C. Jackman, an economist at the bureau.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Rethinking Car Prices"
 When the Government calculated in late 1994 that, by its lights, the price of an average new car had crept above $20,000, the auto industry complained bitterly about how that figure was derived. Chart provides highlights of the changes the Commerce Department made to its estimating procedures since then. (pg. D4)
 
Graph: "Markdown" tracks Government estimates of the average price of a new car, calculated both by the former and the new method. Graph runs from 1980 through 1995. (Source: Commerce Department) (pg. D1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (85%); F (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT FORD MOTOR CO (85%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (89%); PRICE CUTTING (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); LUXURY GOODS (78%); SALES PLAN (76%); SALES REBATES (73%); MARKET RESEARCH (72%); SEDANS (72%); PICKUP TRUCKS (71%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (70%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1996



398 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1492 words

HEADLINE: The New Buzz: Growth Is Good;
Latest Strategy for Business Is a Positive Spin on Layoffs

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
What a difference a few months make. When they agreed to merge this spring, Bell Atlantic and Nynex pointedly passed up an opportunity to announce the elimination of 3,000 "overlapped" jobs. New markets would open for the merged company, they insisted, saving the workers from layoffs. "We think we will create enough new jobs to redeploy most of those 3,000 people," said Ivan G. Seidenberg, Nynex's chairman.
The emphasis -- and even the buzzwords -- are shifting. The rhetorical trumpeting of layoffs, as if they were a badge of honor, is disappearing. The negative publicity that descended on AT&T after it announced in January that it would eliminate 40,000 jobs was a turning point. Now, companies are choosing to highlight the potential for new hires down the road. Announcements are increasingly in the style of Bell Atlantic and Nynex, with their focus on growth to save jobs, and only a footnote-like nod of acknowledgment that the 3,000 workers might be laid off if the growth fails to materialize. 
 Rather than focus on shedding workers and lowering costs -- billed until now by companies like I.B.M., Sears, Roebuck and Xerox as the unpleasant but necessary means to the end of building sales by becoming more competitive and eventually adding jobs -- the rhetoric is changing to emphasize the end rather than the means. Corporate America, and the consultants who help executives devise both the strategy and the rhetoric that describes it, are softening their earlier, harsher language, with its stress on sacrifice and survival.
But while the words are changing, reality hasn't, at least not yet. American companies are still cutting jobs, if more sotto voce. "The pace of layoffs is way ahead of last year at this time," said John E. Challenger, president of Challenger, Gray & Christmas, a Chicago firm that tracks announcements of job cuts. They reached 230,350 through May, up 34 percent from the 171,924 in the corresponding period last year.
The shifting rhetoric is a reaction in part to the criticism leveled at AT&T, and in part to a political climate that has prompted candidates in this election year to lament downsizing. But the shift also reflects an economic reality: At many companies, surveys show, job cutting has failed to bring the promised growth and hiring. The new rhetoric is an attempt to deal with this shortcoming, in language if not in deed.
The new approach shows up at companies like Allied Signal Inc., the huge manufacturer. Allied has taken pains lately to make clear that for every job eliminated or worker laid off in a shrinking division, like auto parts, a job is added, and usually a worker is hired, in a growing one, like chemicals, plastics and fibers, a point unstated before. Conagra Inc., the food processor, while announcing in May that 6,500 workers would soon be laid off, noted that, in the words of Lynn Phares, a vice president, "Our employment has grown by 10,000 since 1992, and we aren't eliminating as many jobs as we've created."
SBC Communications Inc. and the Pacific Telesis Group, which announced a merger on April 1, made no mention of layoffs. Quite the contrary, their press release spoke of creating 1,000 jobs at the new headquarters location in California "over what otherwise would have been the case if the merger had not occurred."
The shift reflects a new mantra, still being developed by management consultants, for how to justify corporate reorganizations that still cost jobs. "The consulting industry is pushing growth much more than in the past," said William Matassoni, a partner at McKinsey & Company Inc., the consulting firm. "There was too much emphasis on let's cut back, let's get rid of people, and not enough on how to grow once companies become leaner and more efficient."
The new rhetoric features such jargon as "growing the revenue line," which means increasing sales so that jobs can be added as business expands. "Execute growth-capturing actions" appeared on many of the slides that Braxton Associates, a consulting arm of Deloitte & Touche, showed at a "growth conference" in Chicago in late April. And there is "corporate anorexia," increasingly used to mean too few employees left after layoffs to make growth possible.
Hoping to add to the repertoire, Michael Hammer, the consultant and best-selling author, is pushing, in a book to be published this month, a phrase that he recently coined: "the process-centered organization," meaning a company that coordinates each employee's task into a single process that "drives out costs and errors and promotes growth." Little attention is given to layoffs, although in his most famous book, "Re-engineering the Corporation," of which Mr. Hammer was the co-author, job-cutting was clearly an important tool.
Downsizing and the rhetoric that goes with it were born in the early 1980's, when John F. Welch Jr., the new chairman of the General Electric Company, began to revamp that huge, pacesetting company and in the process gave birth to the phenomenon that exists today. Its spread, from General Electric through corporate America, is really the story of how the nation's executives, struggling with inefficiencies and weak profits, collaborated with management consultants to create a strategy and a justifying story line.
The consultants spread the new concepts like bees in summer pollinating flower after flower. "I even think of myself as a bee," said William Dauphinais, who heads Price Waterhouse's consulting practice in the Northeast. "We are always aggressively selling our ideas, at seminars, in our writings, in client presentations." And gradually the downsizing announcements pollinated by consultants took on the uniformity of language evident today.
The goal of downsizing has always been growth. From the outset, the emphasis on cost-cutting and layoffs suggested that once a company became more efficient, new markets would be conquered, sales would expand and new hiring would occur. In the meantime, the cost-cutting would bring a quick spurt in profits, pleasing shareholders. Now, post-AT&T, the rhetoric skips over the cost-cutting and gets right to the growth.
But some mantras born in the 1980's remain as much a part of the lingo as ever, each still intended to give a positive spin to layoffs. "Managing your own career" came into vogue to describe, euphemistically, the job hopping that befell those laid off. "Lifetime employability" replaced job security, the message being that in the "new social contract," employers would give "flexible" workers enough training to qualify for other well-paying jobs, if they were laid off.
The shift in emphasis in describing downsizing is reflected in the changing language of Jeanette Zang, a partner at Towers Perrin, a consulting firm. In an interview last September, she insisted that companies must "come to grips with their labor costs." Shrinking staff and holding down wage costs, she counseled then, were prerequisites for the reorganization that would bring growth.
Now, drawing on the new phrases emerging from her business -- and helping to shape them -- she and others at Towers Perrin highlight reorganization, which means to bring growth by changing the way employees work, developing new marketing techniques and introducing new products, or at least new twists on old ones.
"Layoffs have got to be rational," Ms. Zang said. "You initially saw downsizing because companies were fat. They went from obese to losing weight, and many companies have to downsize more to become fit. But I do see corporate anorexia setting in, companies with too few employees, which is not going to benefit anyone. We are stressing that companies should pay more attention to growing the revenue line."
But if shedding workers is losing status, the growth fad might not last either. The robust expansion of the economy suggested by the new slogans probably is not likely, if only because it would raise fears of inflation and that would prompt the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates, thus slowing the economy. Without that robust growth, Lawrence A. Bossidy, chairman of Allied Signal, is not certain the new emphasis on trying to build revenue can stave off job cutting indefinitely.
Still, he has embraced the new language. Allied has shed nearly 10 percent of its work force since 1991, when Mr. Bossidy became chairman. But in the last two years, employment has remained steady at 77,500. Last October, Allied announced the elimination of 3,100 jobs in its auto parts division. No mention was made in the press release that new hires in chemicals, plastics and fibers were in fact offsetting these job cuts. Only lately has Mr. Bossidy made that point. "I have told our people that the only justification for cost-cutting is to get more business and add jobs," he said in an interview.
But if that business does not materialize, Mr. Bossidy suggests, then the head count could shrink again.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Companies took notice when AT&T was besieged with negative publicity after announcing in the second paragraph of a January 2 press release that it would elimate 40,000 jobs, above. Some more recent press releases, such as the one shown at right, from Conagra Inc., bury the job cuts rather than seeming to trumpet them to investors.
 
Chart: "Talking the Talk"
 Through most of the 1990s, the vocabularies of management consultants and their executive clients were littered with stern stock phrases that connoted shrinkage. Corporations were to become "lean and mean" through "re-engineering" and "downsizing." But that lexicon is quickly being replaced with a new set of buzzwords, as these recent samples suggest:
 
"If you cut too many people out, you lose the core capability that is necessary to grow the revenue line. You suffer from corporate anorexia." -- William Matassoni, partner, McKinsey & Company.
 
"Rethinking how you work let's you do a better job for your customer and or grow the revenue line. That is where most re-engineering is focused now and has been for 18 months or so." -- Michael Hammer, author of Re-Engineering the Corporation
 
"I do see corporate anorexia setting in, companies with too few employees, which is not going to benefit anyone. We are stressing that companies should pay more attention to the revenue line." -- Jeanette Zang, a partner at Towers Perrin. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CAG (NYSE) (80%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311999 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS FOOD MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS311710 SEAFOOD PRODUCT PREPARATION & PACKAGING (80%); NAICS311615 POULTRY PROCESSING (80%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (80%); SIC2092 PREPARED FRESH OR FROZEN FISH & SEAFOODS (80%); SIC2015 POULTRY SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (80%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (55%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: AT&T CORP CONAGRA FOODS INC (80%); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (55%); CHALLENGER GRAY & CHRISTMAS INC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: AT&T CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES LAYOFFS (91%); COMPANY STRATEGY (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); JOB CREATION (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (84%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (78%); MERGERS (78%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS IVAN SEIDENBERG (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1996



399 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: Dole Expresses His Confidence Of Healing Split on Abortion

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE 

DATELINE: WALNUT CREEK, Calif., June 17

 BODY:
Bob Dole said today that he was trying to heal the rifts on abortion within the Republican Party and that he expected his efforts to pay off.
"Piece of cake," Mr. Dole told reporters today on his campaign plane as he headed to California for his third visit since he wrapped up his party's Presidential nomination in March. 
 It was not entirely clear what he meant, but the suggestion was that he was making an effort to appease the abortion opponents whom he alienated last week with his proposal to include language signaling "tolerance" of abortion-rights advocates in the party platform.
"I know the press will be unhappy, but we'll work it out," Mr. Dole said. "You won't be able to write about it anymore."
Mr. Dole said he expected to meet on Friday with Representative Henry J. Hyde of Illinois, an influential abortion foe who is chairman of the party's platform committee. Mr. Hyde had threatened to quit as chairman last week after Mr. Dole surprised his staff -- and everyone else -- by saying that he would apply the language on "tolerance" to the party's plank on abortion but not to the entire platform.
This infuriated abortion opponents, who said they were being singled out as a liability to the party, and many threatened to do battle with him at the convention.
But Ralph Reed, executive director of the Christian Coalition, implied in a television interview on Sunday that he was meeting with the Dole campaign and expected to work out some sort of accord.
One option apparently being considered is to attach "tolerance" language to other issues, including trade, gun control and term limits, all of which have ignited fierce debate within the party.
But Mr. Dole's campaign believes he has benefited in polls from being perceived as "fighting for tolerance" against the right wing of his party, and so it was not clear how far Mr. Dole might go in trying to appease abortion foes.
Nonetheless, he seemed confident that something would calm the waters.
"We're going to have it all resolved before the convention," Mr. Dole told a local television reporter today at a refueling stop in Rockford, Ill.
Looking ahead to his three-day swing across California, he repeated how important the state was to his campaign.
"Big. Big. Fifty-four votes," he said, referring to the state's electoral prize, the largest in the country and central for both parties' campaign strategies.
"Having our convention there," Mr. Dole added. "A lot of time out there." He plans to return in early July to raise money and may meet with former President Ronald Reagan.
When Mr. Dole landed in Oakland and made his way to this upper-income suburb east of San Francisco, he left the abortion debate behind and delivered a harsh attack on President Clinton.
He told his audience of several hundred people standing in a park under the hot sun that Mr. Clinton had made great promises to the people of California but had waged "war" on the state.
Mr. Clinton, he said, had raised the gasoline tax, refused to help the state bear the costs of immigration and failed to put together a coherent policy on agriculture. But he leveled his most caustic charges against what he said was the President's failure to "maintain a strong military" and his opposition to a missile defense system that could be a boon to California's important defense industry.
"The Administration's hostility is like a Stinger missile aimed right at the heart of California," Mr. Dole said. "It's cost at least 130,000 jobs directly related to the defense industry and thousands and thousands or more are at risk."
Joseph Lockhart, press secretary for Mr. Clinton's re-election effort, responded by arguing that California's economy had improved under Mr. Clinton's leadership. He said that nearly 550,000 new jobs had been created over the last three years.
"Bill Clinton is waging war," Mr. Lockhart said, "but it's on the Republican recession that ravaged the California economy, and it's a war we're winning."
Mr. Clinton has visited the state two dozen times since his election. Poll Track, part of an electronic national political reference service that monitors media polling around the country, said in a report on June 5 that Mr. Clinton was leading Mr. Dole in California by 12 points. That is an improvement for Mr. Dole since March, when a poll by The Los Angeles Times put him 21 points behind the President.
At his speech today, Mr. Dole summed up the election contest. "On one side is this great pretender," he said referring to Mr. Clinton. "He talks right, governs left, and he talks to you as a friend in California while he's waged war on California the last three and a half years.
"In the other corner is this middleweight Bob Dole, who fights every day, every day, for common-sense values of growth, opportunity, family and freedom."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (58%); ROCKFORD, IL, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: CHRISTIAN COALITION (54%); CHRISTIAN COALITION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHRISTIAN COALITION (54%); CHRISTIAN COALITION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (58%); ROCKFORD, IL, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: ABORTION; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 ABORTION (94%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (86%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); TERM LIMITS (71%); GUN CONTROL (70%); EXECUTIVES (64%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (54%); 

PERSON: DOLE, BOB (SEN); SEELYE, KATHARINE Q RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1996



400 of 696 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 20; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 670 words

HEADLINE: Treasuries Continue To Advance

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Treasury prices rose for the third consecutive session yesterday as uncertainty mounted over whether the Federal Reserve would raise interest rates next month.
There is a growing view among market participants that the reaction to recent strong economic reports may have been overblown. 
 Indeed, there are even some who think that a bearish market would do much of the Fed's work in pushing interest rates higher and slowing down the economy. Still, most traders and analysts expect that the Fed will soon raise rates, the question is whether the rate increase will come when Fed policy makers meet early next month.
The price of the 30-year bond rose 8/32, to 86 28/32. The bond's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, slipped to 7.06 percent, from 7.08 percent on Friday.
With little economic news yesterday, Treasury prices stayed in a narrow trading range throughout the session, traders said. There was not much to provide investors with direction. In one economic report, the National Association of Builders yesterday said that its housing market index for June fell 2 points, to 61, from 63 in May. While the index was lower, the overall number still suggested strength.
The Treasury market also shrugged off higher oil prices on news that Iraq was refusing to admit United Nations inspectors for weapon production checks. Margo Evashevski, fixed-income analyst with MMS International, San Francisco, said she did not see this week's economic calendar as offering anything that could potentially alter the market's view of the economy.
Tomorrow, the Fed will release an assessment of current economic conditions, known as the beige book, On Thusrday the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia will release the results of its survey of regional business conditions. But Ms. Evashevski said the lack of important reports could give the market a chance to find solid footing. "The market's improvement late last week has helped settle some nerves," she said.
Donald H. Straszheim, chief economist at Merrill Lynch, said: "There is a new asymmetry that has developed in the bond markets with the current negative sentiment. Bonds will sell off on even hints of bad news, but they will rally only on hard evidence."
Hamilton Davis, a vice president of government trading at Everen Securities Inc., in Chicago, said a Knight Ridder news headline elevated prices in the afternoon, after it carried comments by unnamed Fed officials saying that despite pockets of wages and price pressures, inflation is surprisingly subdued.
"On a relatively quiet news day with the market having a slight bias towards higher prices, it gave the market a little fuel to close higher," he said.
"You're always a little suspicious of anonymous Fed stories," Mr. Hamilton said, "and they have to be taken with a grain of salt. But if it is true it calls into question where the Fed has adopted a unanimous bias toward tightening."
At the Treasury's weekly bill auction, which was down about $4 billion in size from last week's sale, rates were slightly lower than market expectations as investor demand appeared decent. Ahead of the auction the expectations were that rates would come in at 5.09 percent for a three month issue and 5.26 percent for a six-month bill.
Following are the results of yesterday's auction of new three- and six-month bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

 	 	 		3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Average Price	98.716	97.336	Discounted Rate	5.08%	5.27%	Coupon Yield	5.22%	5.49%	High Price	98.718	97.346	Discounted Rate	5.07%	5.25%	Coupon Yield	5.21%	5.47%	Low Price	98.713	97.336	Discounted Rate	5.09%	5.27%	Coupon Yield	5.23%	5.49%	Accepted at low price	7%	12%	Total applied for	$66,871,746	$54,649,932	Accepted	$13,587,526	$13,532,100	Noncompetitive	$1,466,342	$1,192,222	

Both issues are dated June 20,1996. The three-month bills mature on Sept. 19, 1996, and the six-month bills mature on Dec. 19, 1996.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "3-Month Treasury Bills" tracks average discounted rate, in percent at weekly auction, since mid-April. (Source: The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (58%); MER (NYSE) (58%); 8675 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (65%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (65%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (62%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (65%); EVEREN SECURITIES INC (62%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; IRAQ (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS BOND MARKETS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (71%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (71%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1996

 
